COUNTY CODE
of
MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
1998
Code current through:
Order 237, passed 7-9-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the County of Malheur County, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including Order 237, passed July 9, 2025. Ordinances of
the County adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code
to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
County office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 62, 4-4-1989
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE OFFICIAL CODE OF MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
    Whereas, the Malheur County Court since the creation of Malheur County in
1887 has by state law been delegated legislative power to enact and has enacted
many ordinances over matters of county concern; and
    Whereas, the Legislative Assembly in 1973 clarified the County Court's
legislative authority in ORS 203.035 by specifically providing that, with
limited and specified exceptions
      "(1) . . . the governing body . . . of a county may by ordinance exercise
authority within the county over matters of county concern, to the fullest
extent allowed by Constitutions and laws of the United States and of this state
. . .
      "(2) The power granted by this section is in addition to other grants of
power to counties, shall not be construed to limit or qualify any such grant
and shall be liberally construed, to the end that counties have all powers over
matters of county concern that it is possible for them to have under the
Constitution and laws of the United States and of this state." and
    Whereas, the County Court, in the interest of providing all persons with a
convenient access to all county ordinances of a general nature which are
currently applicable, in February 1987 directed Mrs. Patricia Sullivan, the
then very able County Counsel, to collect and correct the language of these
ordinances, to codify these ordinances into a proposed County Code of
Ordinances, and to professionally publish this code in a technically correct
and convenient format; and
    Whereas, this County Code of ordinances was published in February 1989 by
Sterling Codifiers, Inc., 35 West Commercial, Weiser, Idaho; and
    Whereas, this proposed County Code of ordinances has been carefully
reviewed and has been found to contain all county ordinances of a general
nature which are currently applicable, revised so as to correct all defects of
form and substance; and
    Whereas, the County Court now considers it important to adopt this proposed
County Code of ordinances as the official Code of the County of Malheur at the
earliest possible date;
    THE MALHEUR COUNTY COURT ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. The County Code of Malheur County, Oregon (1989), which contains the
compilation of all county ordinances of a general nature together with limited
substantive changes in those ordinances prepared by former Malheur County
Counsel Patricia Sullivan under the direction of the Malheur County Court and
which was published in February 1989 by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., of Weiser,
Idaho, is hereby adopted as the official Code of the County of Malheur and
shall be accepted in all courts as the Official Code and Law of the County as
enacted by the Malheur County Court. This compilation shall be known and cited
as the "Malheur County Code".
Section 2. There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the
loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the Malheur County Code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, three (3) copies
of which shall be maintained in the office of the County Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times during which this
office is regularly open.
Section 3. The fact that one or more provisions in a particular ordinance
included in the Malheur County Code have been deliberately eliminated by the
County Court shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of that ordinance. Ordinances of a special nature, such as tax
levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating ordinances and
annexation ordinances, are not intended to be included in the Malheur County
Code. These ordinances shall continue in full force and effect unless
specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the Malheur County Code.
Section 4. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change
or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of the Malheur County
Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper
with the Malheur County Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law
of Malheur County to be thereby misrepresented.
Section 5. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the Malheur
County Code are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
Section 6. This Ordinance being necessary for the immediate preservation of the
public peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist and this
Ordinance takes effect immediately upon the date of its adoption. (ORS 203.045
(9))
    This Ordinance passed and approved by the Malheur County Court on this 4th
day of April, 1989.
ATTEST:               MALHEUR COUNTY COURT
                      Maxwell T. Lieurance,
                      County Judge
Lois A. Palmer,
Recording Secretary   W.C. Hammack
                      County Commissioner

APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Walter F. Brown,      Don B. Cox,
County Counsel        County Commissioner
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1:   Title
1-1-2:   Acceptance
1-1-3:   Amendments
1-1-4:   Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the County Court, this County Code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official Code of the County of Malheur.
This County Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the MALHEUR COUNTY
CODE and it is hereby published by authority of the County Court and shall be
kept up to date as provided in Section
1-1-3  of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this County Code by title in any legal document. (1989 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The County Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the County of general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1989 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the County Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this County Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this County Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the County Code. (1989 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be a violation for any person to alter, change, replace or deface in
any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the meaning
of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may be
inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
County Court. The County Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk.
Any person having in his custody an official copy of the County Code shall make
every effort to maintain said Code in an up-to-date and efficient manner. He
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the County
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the County and shall be
returned to the office of the Clerk when directed to do so by order of the
County Court. (1989 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1:   Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2:   Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3:   Court Proceedings
1-2-4:   Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the County passed prior to the adoption of this
County Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this County
Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
County; and all special ordinances. (1989 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this County Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the County Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this County Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1989 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the County herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person or as waiving any right of the County under any
ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the adoption of this
County Code. (1989 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the County Court that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this County Code are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
County Code is declared unconstitutional or invalid by the valid judgment or
decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or
invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining sections, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases of this County Code. (1989 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1:   Construction Of Words
1-3-2:   Definitions, General
1-3-3:   Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this County Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this County Code by words importing the singular
number only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and
females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included;
provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section
of this County Code which contains any express provision excluding such
construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the County has been changed
in the content of this County Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the County's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1989 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
   CODE: The County Code of Malheur County, Oregon, and amendments thereto.
   COUNTY: The County of Malheur, State of Oregon.
   COUNTY COURT: The County Court for Malheur County; the governing body of the
County.
   EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a County employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the
County of Malheur".
   ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The County department responsible for
environmental sanitation efforts for the preservation of health and safety
standards for public facilities, the disposal of waste, and the control of
environmental pollution.
   FEE: A sum of money charged by the County for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The County department responsible for providing services
for the physical, mental and social well being of County residents, including
the prevention, detection and treatment of communicable diseases.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the County; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
   OAR: Oregon Administrative Rules.
   ORS: Oregon Revised Statutes.
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this Code.
   OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a County officer by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
County of Malheur".
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON: The term "person" includes:
   A.   Any public or private corporation, local, governmental unit, public
agency, individual, partnership, association, firm, trust, estate or any other
legal entity, contractor, subcontractor or combination thereof. For the
purposes of this Code, "person" also includes those residing in or conducting
business or activities in the incorporated or unincorporated areas of Malheur
County; and
   B.   The owner, title holder, contract seller, or contract buyer of the land
upon which the violation is occurring, is equally responsible for the violation
of County ordinances, as is the possessor of the land, user of the land, or the
person who is taking the action, conduct or omission which constitutes a
violation of any County ordinance.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   PLANNING COMMISSION: The Malheur County Planning Commission, with those
duties set forth in
Title 6, Chapter 11 of this Code.
   PLANNING DEPARTMENT: The Malheur County Planning Department administered by
the County Planning Director.
   STATE: The State of Oregon.
   STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (1989 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the County Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1989 Code)
CHAPTER 4
COUNTY OFFICERS
SECTION:
1-4-1:   Definitions
1-4-2:   Official Undertakings
1-4-3:   County Accountant
1-4-4:   County Treasurer To Be Tax Collector
1-4-5:   County Surveyor
1-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following are officers of the County, and shall have such meanings as
ascribed herein wherever they appear in this Code:
   A.   Administrative Officer: The County Administrative Officer performs the
functions of County Accountant as defined in ORS Chapter 210 and Section
1-4-3 of this Chapter and administrates the County budgetary, contracting,
purchasing, fiscal accounting and personnel functions.
   B.   Assessor: The County Assessor ascribes dollar value to real property
within the County and performs those duties set forth in ORS Chapters 204 and
308. The Assessor is an elected official.
   C.   Clerk: The County Clerk performs those duties set forth in ORS Chapter
205, including administration of the County's election, public recording,
archiving functions, and issuance of special licenses. The Clerk is an elected
official.
   D.   Commissioner: The County Commissioner serves as a member of the County
Court, with the same duties as the County Judge. There are two (2) elective
Commissioner positions.
   E.   Counsel: The County Counsel provides legal advice and assistance to the
County in civil matters, as defined by ORS 203.145.
   F.   County Judge: The County Judge acts as chair for the County Court, the
decision making body for the County, and performs those judicial functions
allowed by State law. The County Judge is an elected official.
   G.   District Attorney: Prosecuting attorney for the County, pursuant to ORS
Chapter 8 and the Oregon Constitution. The District Attorney is an elected
official.
   H.   Emergency Services Director: The Emergency Services Director
coordinates the County emergency and disaster relief plans, pursuant to ORS
401.305.
   I.   Engineer: Licensed, practicing engineer, hired by the County as County
Engineer, or in absence of the Engineer, County Supervisor or other person
designated as County Engineer by the County Court.
   J.   Environmental Health Director: Administrates the County environmental
sanitation efforts for the preservation of health and safety standards for
public facilities, the disposal of waste, and the control of air, water, noise
and solid waste pollution.
   K.   Fire Chief: The authorized chief of a rural fire protection district,
pursuant to ORS 478.260(1).
   L.   Health Officer: The County Health Officer is a licensed Oregon
physician. The Health Officer is the final authority over the County Health
Department in those areas set forth in State and local law which require the
authority of a physician, including clinical duties, pursuant to ORS 431.418
(2).
   M.   Justice Of The Peace: The Justice of the Peace is a judicial officer as
defined in ORS Chapters 51 through 55, handling all civil and criminal matters
subject to the jurisdiction of the Justice of the Peace.
   N.   Juvenile Director: The County Juvenile Director administrates the
County Juvenile Department pursuant to ORS Chapter 419.
   O.   Mental Health Director: The County Mental Health Director administers
the County mental health programs.
   P.   Planning Director: The County Planning Director administers the
County's Land Use Planning Program and serves as staff to the Malheur County
land use planning commission, pursuant to ORS chapter 215.
   Q.   Public Health Administrator: The public health administrator
administers the county health department under the direction of the health
officer, pursuant to ORS chapter 431. The health director is responsible for
services providing for the physical, mental and social well being of county
residents, including prevention, detection and treatment of communicable
diseases.
   R.   Public Works Director: The public works director provides planning and
budget information for county roads, public works, county parks and county
recreational activities, as well as the statutory duties of county surveyor
pursuant to ORS 204.016 and article VI, section 8 of the Oregon constitution.
   S.   Road Supervisor: The county road supervisor coordinates the
construction and maintenance of county roads, performs other construction work
and acts as working foreman on particular projects, as defined in ORS chapter
368.
   T.   Sheriff: The sheriff administers the county's enforcement of state and
local traffic, criminal and civil laws as required by statute and ordinance,
provides service of civil and criminal process and operates the Malheur County
Correctional Facility, pursuant to ORS chapter 206. The sheriff is an elected
official.
   U.   Treasurer: The treasurer administrates the county tax collection
program, performs the functions of the treasurer as set forth in ORS chapter
208, and maintains the county investment program. The treasurer is an elected
official.
   V.   Weed Inspector: The weed inspector performs the functions set forth in
ORS chapter 570 and the county's weed ordinance to control the spread of
noxious weeds.
All references to a county officer herein shall include the authorized
representative or designee of said officer unless specifically limited by
context to the officer exclusively. (Ords. 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22, 1-19-1983;
amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
1-4-2: OFFICIAL UNDERTAKINGS:
   A.   Official Undertakings Established:
      1.   Officers And Amounts: The following official undertakings of county
officers must be given to the county with two (2) or more sufficient sureties,
who must be residents of the county, and have the qualifications of bail upon
arrest, or a surety company authorized to do business in this state:
 
County sheriff   $10,000.00
County clerk     10,000.00
County assessor  10,000.00
County treasurer 20,000.00
 
 
      2.   Approval And Form: The undertaking must be approved by the county
court and filed with the county clerk, and may be substantially in the
following form:
Whereas at an election held on November            , 19    , AB was duly
elected County              for Malheur County, we, CD and EF, hereby undertake
that if AB shall not faithfully keep, account for and pay over according to law
all moneys that may come into AB's hands by virtue of the office of County
              , and otherwise well and faithfully perform the duties of that
office, then we, or either of us, will pay to the County of Malheur the sum of
                .
   B.   Payment Of Premiums: The county court shall pay out of the general fund
the premiums on corporate surety bonds furnished by the county officers.
   C.   New Undertakings Required; Effect Of Default: When it appears to the
county court that the sureties in an official undertaking are dead or
insufficient or are no longer residents of the county, the court, upon
reasonable notice to the officer giving the undertaking, may require the
officer to give a new undertaking with sufficient sureties. In default of
compliance with the requirement, the office is to be deemed vacant. (Ords. 18,
19, 20, 21 and 22, 1-19-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
1-4-3: COUNTY ACCOUNTANT:
   A.   Office Created: The county administrative officer shall be the county
accountant, whose qualifications, term of office and appointment shall be
pursuant to ORS chapter 216 and this section. (1989 Code)
   B.   Qualifications: The Malheur County accountant shall be a competent
accountant, a resident of Malheur County, and shall execute an official bond in
the sum of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) and otherwise in conformance
with the provisions of ORS 210.120 pertaining to the terms and conditions of
such bond. The person appointed to the office of Malheur County accountant
shall qualify within thirty (30) days from the time of appointment by meeting
the requirements set forth in this subsection. (Ord. 35, 6-29-1984; amd. 1989
Code)
   C.   Appointment: The Malheur County accountant shall be appointed by the
Malheur County court at its regular term for the transaction of county business
by resolution of said court.
   D.   Term Of Office: The Malheur County accountant shall serve at the
appointment and pleasure of the Malheur County court until such time as a
successor shall be appointed and qualified. (Ord. 13, 11-4-1981; amd. 1989
Code)
1-4-4: COUNTY TREASURER TO BE TAX COLLECTOR:
Commencing July 1, 1983, the treasurer shall be the tax collector for Malheur
County (county court minutes 4-13-1983, book V, page 307). (Ord. 148, 4-14-
2004)
1-4-5: COUNTY SURVEYOR:
   A.   Provisions Of Appointment 1 : Notwithstanding ORS 204.005, the office
of the Malheur County surveyor shall be an entirely appointive office, with
qualifications, term of office and appointment made pursuant to this section.
The office of Malheur County surveyor shall be filled by appointment of a
qualified surveyor made by resolution of the Malheur County court at its
regular term for transaction of county business.
   B.   Qualifications: Appointment to the office of Malheur County surveyor
shall be limited to persons meeting the qualifications of ORS 204.016 and
article VI, section 8 of the Oregon constitution.
   C.   Term Of Office; Removal: The Malheur County surveyor shall serve at the
appointment and pleasure of the Malheur County court until such time as a
successor shall be appointed and qualified. The term of office of the Malheur
County surveyor shall begin upon appointment as specified in the resolution of
appointment. Notwithstanding any other law, regulation, rule or policy to the
contrary, the Malheur County surveyor shall be subject to removal from office
by action of the Malheur County court, with or without cause. Notification of
such removal, when delivered in person or by deposit in the U.S. postal
service, shall operate to extinguish that person's term of office.
   D.   Powers And Duties: The responsibilities, functions and compensation of
the Malheur County surveyor shall be as set forth in ORS chapters 204 and 209
and other relevant statutes, ordinances and regulations setting forth duties
and obligations of county surveyors. (Ord. 53, 9-30-1986; amd. 1989 Code)
 
Notes
  1. Appointment instead of election of county surveyor approved by voters on
1 November 4, 1986, pursuant to ORS 203.035(3).
   
CHAPTER 5
COUNTY BUSINESS AND OFFICES
SECTION:
1-5-1:   Business Hours For County Offices
1-5-1: BUSINESS HOURS FOR COUNTY OFFICES:
   A.   Hours Established: Unless otherwise modified in accordance with
applicable provisions of law, the normal business hours for County offices
shall be from eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on
Monday through Friday, inclusive. (Ord. 38, 8-15-1984; 1989 Code)
   B.   Exceptions: The Malheur County Court may, by resolution entered of
record in the Malheur County Court proceedings, designate those offices to
which this Section does not apply and those exceptions necessary to the
efficient operation and transaction of County business. (Ord. 36, 7-18-1984)
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY FEES AND EXPENSES
SECTION:
1-6-1:   Short Title
1-6-2:   Definitions
1-6-3:   Fees Collected By The County Clerk
1-6-4:   Fees Collected By The County Surveyor (Rep. by Ord. 143, 4-16-2003,
eff. 7-1-2003)
1-6-5:   Fees Collected By The County Planning Director (Rep. by Ord. 158, 6-
14-2006)
1-6-6:   Fees Collected By The County Environmental Health Director (Rep. by
Ord. 177, 5-7-2008)
1-6-7:   Fees Collected By The County Environmental Health Director For
Disposal Sites Operated By Malheur County
1-6-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the MALHEUR COUNTY FEE ORDINANCE and may be so
cited and pleaded. (Ord. 68, 1-9-1990)
1-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, words used in the singular number include the
plural, the present tense includes the future, the word "shall" is mandatory
and not directory, and the term "this chapter" shall be deemed to include all
amendments hereafter made to this chapter. (Ord. 68, 1-9-1990)
1-6-3: FEES COLLECTED BY THE COUNTY CLERK:
The county clerk shall collect the following fees, which fees shall be in
addition to those statutory fees now or hereafter mandated by the Oregon
legislative assembly in the Oregon Revised Statutes 1 . Unless otherwise
directed, all such fees shall be deposited by the county clerk with the county
treasurer at least once a month.
   A.   Public Land Corner Preservation Fee:
      1.   Pursuant to ORS 203.148(1), the county court establishes a special
county fund known as the public land corner preservation fund. Monies in this
fund shall be used only to pay expenses incurred and authorized by the county
surveyor in the establishment and maintenance of corners of government surveys
under ORS 209.070(5) and (6). (Ord. 80, 8-18-1992)
      2.   Pursuant to ORS 203.148(2), the public land corner preservation fee
shall be ten dollars ($10.00) per document. This fee shall be collected for
recording all instruments under ORS 205.130(2) and shall be in addition to any
other fee collected by the county clerk. Nine dollars ($9.00) of all monies
collected under this subsection A shall be credited to the public land corner
preservation fund and one dollar ($1.00) of all monies collected under this
subsection A shall be credited to the general fund to compensate the county for
the cost of establishing and operating the public land corner preservation
fund. (Ord. 195, 8-31-2011, eff. 1-1-2012)
   B.   Fee For Filing A Petition To Initiate Proceedings To Acquire Property
For County Roads: Pursuant to ORS 368.081(3), the fee for filing a petition to
initiate road proceeding shall be ten dollars ($10.00) per road. (Ord. 80, 8-
18-1992)
   C.   Fee For Filing A Petition To Initiate Proceedings To Vacate County
Property: (Rep. by Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
   D.   Fee For Recording An Affidavit Of Correction To Amend A Survey Map Or
Narrative: Pursuant to ORS 209.255(6), the fee for recording an affidavit of
correction to amend a survey map or narrative shall be five dollars ($5.00) per
page. This fee is in addition to any other fees collected by the county clerk.
   E.   Fee For Services Provided By The County Surveyor In Connection With An
Affidavit Of Correction To Amend A Survey Map Or Narrative: Pursuant to ORS
209.255(6), the county clerk shall collect a fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00)
per map to be paid by the county clerk to the county surveyor for the services
of the surveyor performed under ORS 209.255 in connection with an affidavit of
correction to amend a survey map or narrative.
   F.   Fee For Services Provided By The County Surveyor In Connection With
Marking "Vacated" On The Surveyor's Plat Of Any City Or Town: Pursuant to ORS
271.230(2), the county clerk shall collect a fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00) per plat to be paid by the county clerk to the county surveyor for the
services of the surveyor in marking the record upon the surveyor's plat of any
town or city.
   G.   Fee For The Approval Of A Subdivision Or Partition Plat By The County
Court: Pursuant to ORS 92.044(3), the county clerk shall collect a fee of ten
dollars ($10.00) on behalf of the county court to defray costs incurred by the
county court in its review and investigation of and action upon proposed
subdivisions that are submitted for the court's approval pursuant to ORS 92.044
and 92.100(1).
   H.   Fees For Recording Subdivision Plats: Pursuant to ORS 92.120(1) and
205.350 the county clerk shall collect the following fees for recording
subdivision plats. These fees are in addition to any other fees collected by
the county clerk.
For recording any subdivision plat containing:
 
20 lots or less $25.00  
21 lots or more $25.00 plus $1.00 per lot for each lot over 20
 
   I.   Fee For Recording A Partition Plat: Pursuant to ORS 92.120(2) and
205.350, the county clerk shall collect twenty five dollars ($25.00) per plat
for recording partition plats. This fee is in addition to any other fees
collected by the county clerk.
   J.   Fee For Recording An Affidavit Of Correction To Amend A Subdivision Or
Partition Plat: Pursuant to ORS 92.170(6), the fee for recording an affidavit
of correction to amend a subdivision or partition plat shall be five dollars
($5.00) per page. This fee is in addition to any other fees collected by the
county clerk.
   K.   Fee For Services Provided By The County Surveyor In Connection With An
Affidavit Of Correction To Amend A Subdivision Or Partition Plat: Pursuant to
ORS 92.170(6) the county clerk shall collect a fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00)
per plat to be paid by the county clerk to the county surveyor for the services
of the surveyor in connection with the preparation, examination and
certification of an affidavit of correction to amend a subdivision or partition
plat. This fee is in addition to any other fees collected by the county clerk.
(Ord. 123, 11-23-1999, eff. 1-1-2000)
   L.   Fee For Recording The Location Notice Of A Mining Claim: (Rep. by Ord.
123, 11-23-1999, eff. 1-1-2000)
   M.   Fee For Recording An Affidavit Of Annual Labor Upon A Mining Claim:
(Rep. by Ord. 123, 11-23-1999, eff. 1-1-2000)
   N.   Fee For Issuing A Certificate Of Ownership Of A Mining Claim: Pursuant
to ORS 517.290, a fee for the issuance of the certificate described in ORS
517.280 shall be five dollars ($5.00) per page. (Ord. 80, 8-18-1992)
   O.   Fees For Application To Sell Or Serve Alcoholic Beverages: Pursuant to
ORS 471.166 every applicant for issuance or renewal of a license or temporary
license to sell or serve alcoholic beverages in Malheur County outside an
incorporated city shall pay a fee of twenty dollars ($20.00). (Ord. 188, 11-3-
2010)
   P.   Fees For A Marriage License Or Registering A Declaration Of Domestic
Partnership: The fees for a marriage license or registering a declaration of
domestic partnership will total the statutory fees of fifty dollars ($50.00)
($25.00 to state of Oregon and $25.00 to county prescribed by ORS 205.320).
(Ord. 212, 9-2-2015)
   Q.   Election Costs: In order to have a fair, uniform and current
calculation system, Malheur County shall follow the rules and regulations
issued under the authority of ORS 246.150 by the Oregon secretary of state's
office in matters regarding the recovery of election costs on all matters that
pass or fail. Calculation of election costs regarding proposed failed special
district formations shall be performed in the same manner as all other election
cost calculations prescribed by the secretary of state. Such costs shall be
billed to those responsible for payment. (Ord. 157, 6-14-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. ORS 205.
1-6-4: FEES COLLECTED BY THE COUNTY SURVEYOR:
(Rep. by Ord. 143, 4-16-2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
1-6-5: FEES COLLECTED BY THE COUNTY PLANNING DIRECTOR:
(Rep. by Ord. 158, 6-14-2006)
1-6-6: FEES COLLECTED BY THE COUNTY ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH DIRECTOR:
(Rep. by Ord. 177, 5-7-2008)
1-6-7: FEES COLLECTED BY THE COUNTY ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH DIRECTOR FOR DISPOSAL
SITES OPERATED BY MALHEUR COUNTY:
The county environmental health director shall collect fees at disposal sites
operated by Malheur County. All fees shall be deposited with the county
treasurer at least once a month. A fee schedule shall be posted at each site.
Fees shall be determined by the environmental health director and approved by
the county court. Fees may include, but are not limited to: a minimum charge
per pound; a fee for materials that require special, extraordinary or unusual
handling; fees for materials transported from outside the state of Oregon and
fees for tires, appliances, refrigeration units, special wastes and white
goods. (Ord. 157, 6-14-2006)
CHAPTER 7
PUBLIC CONTRACTS
(Rep. by Ord. 199, 4-3-2013)
CHAPTER 8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
(Rep. by Ord. 120, 4-27-1999)
CHAPTER 9
GENERAL PENALTIES
SECTION:
1-9-1:   General Penalty
1-9-2:   Application Of Provisions
1-9-3:   Liability Of Officers
1-9-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this County
Code, where no other penalties are set forth, shall be punished by a forfeiture
not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a noncontinuing offense and a
forfeiture of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a continuing
offense. (1989 Code)
1-9-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalties provided in this Chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this County Code the same as though they were a part of each and every separate
section. Any person found to have committed a violation of any section of this
County Code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any
action which is of a continuing nature is prohibited or is declared to be in
violation of this Code, shall be deemed guilty of a County infraction. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or
obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this County Code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this County Code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this County Code and there shall be no
forfeiture or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this Chapter shall apply. (1989 Code)
1-9-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this County Code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any forfeiture or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless
the intention of the County Court to impose such forfeiture or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty. (1989 Code)
ARTICLE A. GENERAL ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-9A-1:   Establishment And Purpose
1-9A-2:   Definitions
1-9A-3:   Schedule Of Forfeitures, Fines And Ordinances
1-9A-4:   Infraction Procedures
1-9A-4-1:   Administrative Resolution
1-9A-4-2:   Reporting Requirements
1-9A-4-3:   Investigation Authority; Entry On Premises
1-9A-4-4:   Infraction Citation
1-9A-4-5:   Answer
1-9A-4-6:   Hearing
1-9A-5:   Enforcement
1-9A-6:   Consent Decree
1-9A-7:   Private Right Of Action
1-9A-1: ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   A procedure to handle violations of county ordinances as civil
infractions is hereby established.
   B.   This procedure is established for the purpose of decriminalizing
penalties for violations of certain ordinances and to provide a convenient and
practical forum for civil hearing and determination of cases arising out of
said violations. (1989 Code)
1-9A-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply:
   COUNTY COUNSEL: Appearance on behalf of the county shall be made by county
counsel.
   COUNTY INFRACTIONS: An offense against the county in the form of a violation
of one of the county ordinances designated in section 1-9A-3, constitutes a
county infraction and shall be handled in accordance with the procedures
established by this article. When an infraction is of a continuing nature, a
separate infraction continues to exist for each twenty four (24) hour period
from the time noted on the citation and a separate citation may be filed for
each such infraction.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The person(s) who may issue infraction complaints is
hereafter referred to as the enforcement officer:
      Building code official employed by or contracted to perform services for
Malheur County.
      County judge.
      Designated person authorized by resolution of the county court.
      Environmental health director or a staff member of the environmental
health department.
      Planning director or a staff member of the planning department.
      Road supervisor.
      Sheriff, undersheriff, lieutenant, deputy.
      Weed inspector.
   FORFEITURE; FORFEITURE SCHEDULE: The only penalty to be imposed for an
infraction is a monetary penalty called a forfeiture. The appropriate
forfeiture to be assessed for a specific infraction will be determined from the
forfeiture schedule in section
1-9A-3. The procedure described by this article shall be the exclusive
procedure for imposing a forfeiture; however, this section shall not be read to
prohibit in any way any other alternative remedy set out in ordinances or
statutes covered by this infraction procedure which is intended to abate or
alleviate ordinance and statute violations, nor shall the county be prohibited
from recovering, in a manner prescribed by law, any expense incurred by it in
abating or removing ordinance or statute violations pursuant to said ordinances
or statutes, or limit the inherent power of the court to impose penalties for
contempt of court.
   INSPECTION WARRANT: An order, in writing, in the name of the county of
Malheur, signed by a justice of the peace, directed to an enforcement officer
authorizing inspection pursuant to this article. An inspection warrant is not a
search warrant within the meaning of ORS chapter 133.
   JURISDICTION OF THE COURT: The Malheur County justice court has jurisdiction
over all county infraction violations.
   PRIVATE RESIDENCE: A dwelling where at least one person lives and sleeps on
a permanent but not necessarily continuous basis.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE: As set forth in section
3-4-4 of this code.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON: Any legal owner or person (including individuals,
corporations, associations, firms, partnerships, government, trust, estate,
joint stock companies or other legal entity), having charge, care or control of
property or premises such as a contract purchaser, lessee, occupant, agent or
tenant.
   STOP WORK OR USE: An enforcement officer having reasonable grounds to
believe that a person has committed an infraction, in lieu of or in addition to
issuing a citation complaint, may issue a stop work or stop use tag by posting
the tag on the property where the infraction is alleged to have occurred. (1989
Code; amd. Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
1-9A-3: SCHEDULE OF FORFEITURES, FINES AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   Classification: Infractions are classified for the purpose of
determining forfeitures into the following categories:
      Class A infractions
      Class B infractions
      Class C infractions
      Class D infractions
   B.   Fines: An assessment of a forfeiture for an infraction shall be an
assessment to pay an amount not exceeding:
 
Class A $500.00, $1,000.00 for each subsequent offense
Class B $250.00, $500.00 for each subsequent offense
Class C $100.00, $200.00 for each subsequent offense
Class D $50.00, $100.00 for each subsequent offense
 
   (1989 Code)
   C.   Application And Amendment To Ordinances: The civil infraction
procedures described by this article apply to and hereby amend the following
ordinances and the infractions are classified as follows:
Ordinance Infraction Class
Ordinance                                       Infraction Class
Alteration of county code
(Section                                        D
1-1-4 of this title)
                                                 
Violation stop work or stop use tag posting
(Subsection                                     A
1-9A-5D of this article)
                                                 
Malheur County burning ordinance
(                                               C
Title 2, chapter 1 of this code)
                                                 
Malheur County subsurface sewage disposal
(                                               A
Title 2, chapter 3, article A of this code)
                                                 
Malheur County outdoor mass gathering ordinance
(                                               A
Title 3, chapter 2 of this code)
                                                 
Malheur County noxious weed control ordinance
(                                               A (with a penalty of $750.00)
Title 3, chapter 3 of this code)
                                                 
Malheur County public nuisance ordinance
(                                                
Title 3, chapter 4 of this code)
 Subsection                                    A
  3-4-4A, solid waste
 Subsection                                    B
  3-4-4B, stagnant water
 Subsection                                    D
  3-4-4C, certain trees and plants
 Subsection                                    A
  3-4-4D, abandoned vehicles
  Subsection
 3-4-4E, unauthorized sewage disposal          A
  systems
 Subsection                                    A
  3-4-4F, abandoned buildings
 Subsection                                    A (with a penalty of $750.00)
  3-4-4G, noxious weeds
 Subsection                                    B
  3-4-4H, burning ordinance
 Subsection                                    A
  3-4-4I, road hazard ordinance
 Subsection                                    A
  3-4-4J, all other violations
 Subsection                                    B
  3-4-4K, wireless telecommunication facility
 Subsection                                    A
  3-4-4L, property on "unfit for use list"
  Subsection
 3-4-4M, transporting solid waste without      A
  cover
 Subsection                                    B
  3-4-4N, unauthorized salvaging
 Subsection                                    A
  3-4-4O, offensive littering
  Subsection
 3-4-4P, property infested or providing        A
  harborage for rodents
                                                 
Malheur County road hazards ordinance
(                                               A
Title 3, chapter 5 of this code)
                                                 
Malheur County dog control ordinance
(                                                
Title 3, chapter 6 of this code)
 Section                                       D
  3-6-1, dogs running at large
 Section                                       B
  3-6-2, keeping of restricted breeds of dogs
                                                 
Malheur County bovine trichomoniasis testing
ordinance                                       B
(
Title 3, chapter 11 of this code)
                                                 
Unlawful intoxicating chemical compounds
(                                               A
Title 3, chapter 13 of this code)
                                                 
Malheur County park regulation ordinance
(                                                
Title 4, chapter 1 of this code)
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1-2A, vehicle restrictions
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1-2B, firearms
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1-2C, fireworks
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1-2D, swimming and boating
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1-2E, trash
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1-2F, park hours
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1-2G, nonseason use
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1-2H, burning and fires
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1-2I, removal of vegetation
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1-2J, continuous camping
 Subsection                                    D
  4-1-2A, animal restrictions
 Subsection                                    D
  4-1-2B, metal detectors
 Subsection                                    D
  4-1-2C, signs and concessions
                                                 
Cow Hollow Park regulation ordinance
(                                                
Title 4, chapter 1, article A of this code)
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1A-2A1, vehicle restrictions
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1A-2A2, firearms
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1A-2A3, fireworks
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1A-2A4, trash
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1A-2A5, park hours
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1A-2A6, park closure
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1A-2A7, burning and fires
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1A-2A8, removal of vegetation
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1A-2A9, continuous camping
 Subsection                                    A
  4-1A-2A10, damage
 Subsection                                    D
  4-1A-2B1, animal restrictions
 Subsection                                    D
  4-1A-2B2, signs and concessions
                                                 
Malheur County rural addressing ordinance
(                                               D
Title 4, chapter 2 of this code)
                                                 
Malheur County flood hazard building ordinance
(                                               A
Title 5 of this code)
                                                 
Malheur County building code
(                                               B
Title 5, chapter 3 of this code)
                                                 
Malheur County zoning ordinance                 A
(Title 6 of this code)
Subsection                                      A
6-4-11, recreational vehicles
Malheur County subdivision and partitioning
ordinance                                       A
(Title 7 of this code)
 
(1989 Code; amd. 1992 Revision; Ord. 95, 11-21-1995; Ord. 106, 6-25-1996; Ord.
110, 4-29-1997; per correspondence dated 8-21-1997; Ord. 146, 4-14-2004; Ord.
171, 10-17-2007; Ord. 172, 12-5-2007; Ord. 183, 10-7-2009; Ord. 188, 11-3-2010;
Ord. 190, 10-13-2010; Ord. 199, 4-3-2013; Ord. 220, 7-3-2019)
1-9A-4: INFRACTION PROCEDURES:
1-9A-4-1: ADMINISTRATIVE RESOLUTION:
   A.   Notice Of Infraction: Persons responsible for infractions shall be
notified in writing of the infraction and be given a reasonable time in which
to cure the infraction. The enforcement officer shall take into account any
attendant health risks, weather conditions and other appropriate factors in
determining a reasonable period of time to cure. Notice of infraction can be
given either through personal delivery or both regular first class mail and
certified mail return receipt requested.
   B.   Prosecution Of Infraction: Upon failure of the responsible person to
cure, or make reasonable efforts to cure, the infraction within the prescribed
time set out in the notice of infraction, an infraction citation shall be
issued by the enforcement officer. (Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
1-9A-4-2: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
All reports of infractions covered by this article will be made to the county
judge. (1989 Code)
1-9A-4-3: INVESTIGATION AUTHORITY; ENTRY ON PREMISES:
   A.   Entry And Inspection: The enforcement officer shall have the power to
enter upon and inspect, at any reasonable time, any public or private property,
with the exception of a private residence, to investigate an alleged violation
of a county ordinance or to ascertain compliance or noncompliance with the
administrative resolution procedure set out in section
1-9A-4-1 of this article. Entry to a private residence may only be by
inspection warrant, except pursuant to subsection C3 of this section.
   B.   Access To Records: The enforcement officer shall have access to any
pertinent records relating to such property, including, but not limited to,
blueprints, construction plans, permits and operational licenses.
   C.   Issuance:
      1.   An inspection warrant shall only be issued upon reasonable cause,
supported by an affidavit particularly describing the place or premises to be
inspected, the purpose of the inspection, and a statement that consent to
inspect has been sought and refused or facts and circumstances reasonably
justifying failure to seek consent.
      2.   Reasonable cause exists if there are grounds for conducting a
routine or area inspection or there is reason to believe violation of this code
has or will occur with respect to the premises to be inspected.
      3.   An inspection warrant is not required in an emergency situation
where immediate inspection is necessary to protect the public health, welfare
or safety, and it is impractical or hazardous under the circumstances to seek a
warrant pursuant to this subsection.
      4.   The justice of the peace may examine, upon oath, the enforcement
officer and any witnesses to determine the existence of grounds for issuing the
warrant. If the justice of the peace finds that cause for the inspection
exists, an inspection warrant particularly describing the place or premises to
be inspected and designating the purpose and limitations of the inspection
shall be issued.
   D.   Execution Of Inspection Warrant:
      1.   An inspection warrant shall be effective for the time specified
therein, not to exceed fourteen (14) days, unless extended or renewed by the
issuing justice of the peace upon a showing of good cause why the warrant could
not be served within the time provided.
      2.   The inspection pursuant to the inspection warrant may not be made
between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
except upon a showing of reasonable cause why the inspection should take place
at another time.
      3.   The inspection pursuant to the inspection warrant shall take place
in the presence of either the owner of the place or premises to be inspected or
of a lawful occupant thereof over the age of eighteen (18) years, unless
specified otherwise in the warrant.
      4.   No person shall hinder, delay, impede or otherwise interfere with
any enforcement officer in the course of executing or attempting to execute an
inspection warrant which is apparently valid on its face, or making or
attempting to make any inspection authorized by such warrant.
      5.   The enforcement officer shall make announcement of identity and
authority and read the original copy of the inspection warrant at the time and
place of execution to the owner or occupant of the place or premises described
in the warrant.
   E.   Forcible Entry:
      1.   An inspection pursuant to an inspection warrant shall not be made by
means of forcible entry, except by express authorization on the face of the
warrant upon affidavit containing sufficient information to show reasonable
grounds to believe the following:
         a.   Probable violation of any of the provisions of this code which
would represent an immediate threat to the public health, safety or welfare; or
         b.   Prior attempts to serve the warrant have met with refusal of the
owner or occupant of the place or premises described in the warrant; or
         c.   Reasonable attempts have been made to secure the cooperation of
the owner of the place or premises described in the warrant and the place or
premises are unoccupied and entry cannot be gained except by force or by the
owner's cooperation, and cooperation has been refused.
      2.   Except as set forth in subsection E1a of this section, an occupant
of the place or premises to be inspected shall be given at least twenty four
(24) hours' notice of the inspection and force entry. Notice shall be in
writing and delivered to the occupant in person, except as provided in
subsection E4 of this section. Notice in person to any person over eighteen
(18) years of age who is an occupant of the place or premises described in the
warrant shall be sufficient notice to all occupants. Notice in person to the
manager, agent or other person in charge of any place or premises occupied by a
business shall be sufficient notice herein.
      3.   The notice required in subsection E2 of this section shall include a
copy of the warrant properly endorsed for execution by forcible entry,
certified to be a true copy of the original warrant by the justice of the
peace. The notice shall specify the name of the enforcement officer who is to
conduct the inspection, or to be present and in supervisory control of the
inspection team, and shall specify the date and time of the intended
inspection.
      4.   Where at least three (3) diligent attempts, not less than two (2)
hours apart, have been made within a twenty four (24) hour period to give
notice to the occupant as provided in subsection A of this section, and notice
cannot be given, notice may be given by posting the warrant in some prominent
place on or near the place or premises described in the warrant, and the
warrant may be executed within twenty four (24) hours thereafter.
      5.   In execution of a properly endorsed inspection warrant by forcible
entry, the enforcement officer shall be accompanied by an officer of the
Malheur County sheriff's department who shall execute the warrant as to the
manner of gaining entry, and who shall stand by during the inspection to
prevent any interference therewith.
      6.   In the execution of an inspection warrant by forcible entry, the
enforcement officer has the same power and authority, in all respects, to use
all necessary and proper means to overcome any forcible resistance made or to
call for the aid of any other person as in the execution or service of a
warrant of arrest.
   F.   Return Of Inspection Warrant: As soon as possible after execution of an
inspection warrant, the enforcement officer shall make return to the justice of
the peace. The return shall certify the day and time of execution of the
warrant, the names of all persons assisting in the inspection, the time and
manner of giving any notice required by subsection E2 of this section and
whether or not forcible entry was necessary. (1989 Code)
1-9A-4-4: INFRACTION CITATION:
   A.   A citation signed by the enforcement officer shall be filed with the
Malheur County justice court charging the responsible person with a civil
infraction and setting a date for said person to appear before the court to
answer the citation.
   B.   The form of the infraction citation shall be prescribed by the county
judge or justice court judge and shall contain, at minimum, the following
parts: a summons and a complaint. The enforcement officer's records shall be
copied and made available to the person cited, if requested. The following
information shall be entered on the citation:
      1.   The name of the responsible person(s) allegedly to have committed
the infraction.
      2.   The infraction or code provision with which the person is to have
allegedly violated. A brief description of the alleged infraction should be
included so that it can be readily understood by a person making a reasonable
effort.
      3.   The date, time and place the infraction allegedly occurred.
      4.   The forfeiture for the alleged infraction.
      5.   The time and place at which the person is to appear in justice
court.
      6.   A statement by the enforcement officer to the effect that he/she has
reasonable grounds to believe, and does believe, that the person cited
committed the infraction.
   C.   Any error in the citation may be corrected at a hearing or prior to the
hearing upon notice to the person cited. The citation shall be set aside by the
justice court judge due to error only upon a request by the person cited made
before the close of the hearing and upon a determination that the error is
prejudicial to the person's defense. Failure to make a request of the judge to
set aside the citation before the conclusion of the hearing shall constitute a
waiver, and will be an absolute bar to raising this issue at a later date.
   D.   The citation shall be made by personal service, substituted service,
office service or by mail. Service by mail is to be by both first class mail
and by certified, registered or express mail with return receipt requested.
There shall be a rebuttable presumption that any citation sent by mail is
served on the third business day following deposit with the U.S. postal
service. (Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
1-9A-4-5: ANSWER:
   A.   A person served a citation shall answer it and appear personally or in
writing to the justice court by the date and time specified in the citation.
   B.   A person cited desiring to pay the forfeiture without appearing in
justice court may do so by admitting the infraction and paying with a check or
money order the amount of the forfeiture before the date and time specified in
the citation.
   C.   A person who denies part or all of the allegations in the citation may
request a hearing. A hearing date will be set by the justice court. (Ord. 183,
10-7-2009)
1-9A-4-6: HEARING:
   A.   Every hearing to determine whether an infraction has occurred shall be
held before the justice court judge.
   B.   The hearing shall be limited to production of evidence only on the
infraction alleged in the citation. (Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
      1.   Oral Evidence: Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or
affirmation.
      2.   Hearsay Evidence: Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of
supplementing or explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be sufficient in
itself to support a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in
civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this state.
      3.   Admissibility Of Evidence: Any relevant evidence shall be admitted.
   C.   The person cited shall have the right to present evidence and
witnesses, to cross-examine witnesses who testify against him or her and to
submit rebuttal evidence.
   D.   The person cited may be represented by counsel, but counsel shall not
be provided at public expense. If defense counsel is to appear, written notice
shall be provided to the designated court no later than ten (10) days prior to
the hearing date, excluding weekends and legal holidays.
   E.   The county shall have the burden of proving the infraction by a
preponderance of the evidence.
   F.   After consideration of the evidence and arguments presented at the
hearing, the court shall determine whether the infraction as alleged in the
complaint has been established. When the infraction has not been established,
an order dismissing the complaint shall be entered in the court records. When
the commission of an infraction has been established, or the forfeiture paid by
the defendant, an appropriate order shall be entered in the court records.
   G.   Unless otherwise provided by ordinance, upon establishment of the
commission of an infraction, the court shall assess the forfeiture shown on the
schedule established in accordance with this article.
   H.   The county shall be entitled to recover all costs and disbursements
reasonable and necessarily incurred in the successful enforcement of an
infraction complaint other than the legal services, but including the costs/
expenses/salaries of officers, employees and witnesses, the necessary expenses
of taking depositions, the expense of publication of summons or notices,
postage, compensation of expert witnesses, and the expense of copying any
public record, book or document used as evidence in the trial. Costs shall be
assessed in the same manner as a judgment for forfeitures in subsection G of
this section. (1989 Code)
   I.   There shall be no review or appeal of a determination by the court
herein. Appeal shall be only by writ of review pursuant to chapter 34 of the
ORS. (Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
1-9A-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Default Judgment: If a cited person fails to answer the summons or
appear at a scheduled hearing as provided herein, the court may enter a default
judgment for the scheduled forfeiture applicable to the charged infraction, or
it may issue a warrant for the arrest of the cited person for reason of the
nonappearance, or both.
   B.   Liens On Real Property: Forfeitures assessed for infractions occurring
on real property or for improper use of real property or liens for the costs of
abatement of a public nuisance are county liens against real property and
collectible in the same manner as other such debts owing to the county.
   C.   Nuisance Abatement An Additional Remedy: The procedure to abate a
nuisance is an additional remedy to the civil infraction procedure. Imposition
of a forfeiture does not relieve a person of a duty to abate a nuisance and
abatement is not a defense to imposition of forfeiture.
   D.   Stop Work Or Stop Use Tag Posting: Violation of a stop work or stop use
notice constitutes a class A infraction. (1989 Code)
   E.   Delinquency: At the discretion of the county judge or justice court
judge, any forfeiture or cost not paid within sixty (60) days from the date of
the justice court's order may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection.
   F.   Delinquency Additional Remedy: At the discretion of the county judge,
any forfeiture or cost not paid within sixty (60) days from the date of the
justice court's order may be recorded as a lien in the county lien record. In
addition to any other remedy provided by law, recording an order in the county
lien record shall have the same effect and may be enforced as provided in ORS
205.125 and 205.126. (Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
1-9A-6: CONSENT DECREE:
   A.   The county and the responsible person(s) may enter into a consent
decree. The consent decree shall provide for necessary corrections, as set
forth in the agreement, to bring the complained actions, conduct, omissions or
property into conformance with appropriate county ordinances, without admission
of violation.
   B.   The responsible person(s), or attorney(s) if any, and the county
counsel shall sign all consent decrees.
   C.   The consent decree shall be filed with the court as a final
adjudication of the proceedings and shall constitute a dismissal of the action
upon agreed performance. Either party may seek a court order dismissing the
case upon compliance with the conditions of the consent decree.
   D.   Failure to comply with the consent decree allows the county to seek any
additional remedies provided by law or this article. (1989 Code)
1-9A-7: PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION:
Any person whose interest is or may be affected by any violation of a county
ordinance may, in addition to other remedies provided by law, file an
infraction/violation complaint with the Malheur County justice court pursuant
to ORS 153.058.
   A.   The complaint must contain the information and certification required
in ORS 153.058(2).
   B.   Upon the filing of a complaint, the court shall cause a summons to be
delivered to the defendant and shall deliver a copy of the complaint to the
county attorney. The court may require any enforcement officer to serve the
summons.
   C.   If the complaint does not conform to the requirements in ORS 153.058,
the court shall set it aside upon the motion of the defendant made before the
entry of a plea.
   D.   The court may, acting in its sole discretion, amend a complaint filed
under the provisions of this section.
   E.   The court shall dismiss a complaint filed under this section upon the
motion of the county attorney if:
      1.   The county attorney or county enforcement officer has brought a
proceeding against defendant named in the complaint or intends to bring a
proceeding against the defendant named in the complaint; and
      2.   The proceeding is brought by the county attorney or county
enforcement officer by reason of the same conduct alleged in the complaint.
(Ord. 199, 4-3-2013)
CHAPTER 10
COUNTY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
SECTION:
1-10-1:   Nonattendance Of Meetings; Forfeiture Of Office
1-10-1: NONATTENDANCE OF MEETINGS; FORFEITURE OF OFFICE:
Any member of a Malheur County board, commission, or committee appointed by the
County Court who has failed or hereafter fails to attend two (2) consecutive
meetings of the board, commission or committee, whether regular, adjourned or
special, shall forfeit office unless the member is prevented from attending by
the serious illness of the member, or the family of the member, or for any
other cause that, in the judgment of the County Court, constitutes a valid
reason for failing to attend. (Ord. 70, 6-26-1990)
CHAPTER 11
TAX FORECLOSED PROPERTIES
SECTION:
1-11-1:   Title
1-11-2:   Findings; Purpose
1-11-3:   Definitions
1-11-4:   Property Suffers Waste Or Abandonment; Notice
1-11-5:   County Court Order Deeding Property To County; Redemption Rights;
Removal Of Holdovers
1-11-6:   Review Of Court's Decision
1-11-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the COUNTY TAX FORECLOSED PROPERTY REDEMPTION
ACCELERATION ORDINANCE, and shall be referred to herein as this chapter. (Ord.
200, 10-9-2013)
1-11-2: FINDINGS; PURPOSE:
   A.   Properties ordered foreclosed for delinquent taxes by the court
generally do not legally pass into county ownership for two (2) years after
judgment is rendered, during which period persons with recognized legal
interests may pay all required taxes to redeem the property.
   B.   During the two (2) year redemption period some properties may remain
vacant or undeveloped, thereby resulting in significant deterioration and loss
of value for the property; contributing to the decline of neighborhoods;
discouraging investment; attracting nuisances through accumulation of discarded
material; and could in some instances encourage occupancy by unauthorized
persons or the establishment of criminal enterprises.
   C.   Under ORS 312.122, counties may enact ordinances to accelerate the
expiration of the two (2) year redemption period for tax foreclosed properties
which suffer abandonment or waste and the conveyance of title to the county,
permitting earlier county intervention to preserve the value of tax foreclosed
property, enhancing recovery of delinquent taxes and protecting and preserving
community interests.
   D.   The interests to the county, through protection of the health and
welfare of its residents and preserving the value of tax foreclosed properties,
requires that this chapter be enacted as an emergency measure to meet and
effectively deal with the problems attendant in the foreclosure of delinquent
properties. (Ord. 200, 10-9-2013)
1-11-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ABANDONMENT: Property not occupied by the owner, others authorized by the
owner, or any entity appearing in the records of the county to have a lien or
other interests in the property, for a period of six (6) consecutive months,
when such property is not otherwise maintained and thereby suffers a
substantial depreciation in value of the likelihood thereof if it remains
unoccupied.
   COURT: The Malheur County court.
   WASTE: The destruction, alteration, or deterioration of land or improvements
thereon, whether caused directly by the person rightfully in possession thereof
or permitted to be done by others through failure to supervise such property or
to protect the foreclosed property from the elements, nuisance or from
trespass, which results in loss of value, or the threat thereof, to the
property. (Ord. 200, 10-9-2013)
1-11-4: PROPERTY SUFFERS WASTE OR ABANDONMENT; NOTICE:
   A.   Public Hearing: Upon determining that any tax foreclosed property
suffers waste or abandonment, the county court shall set a date for public
hearing to determine whether such property should be deeded to the county
pursuant to this chapter. Any person or entity having an interest in the
subject property may appear and testify at the hearing, and if they so desire,
may be represented by counsel. The hearing shall be conducted in a manner
calculated to permit a full opportunity for interested parties to present all
relevant evidence, but shall not be subject to formal statutory rules of
evidence.
   B.   Content: Not less than thirty (30) days prior to the hearing, the tax
collector or other person designated by the court shall notify the owner(s) and
any person or entity that then appears in the records of the county as defined
in ORS 312.125(7) to have a lien or other interest in the property subject to
the hearing, in writing, by both certified mail and regular first class mail,
of the following:
      1.   The date, time and place of the hearing;
      2.   The date of the judgment and decree entered pursuant to ORS 312.090;
      3.   The normal date of expiration of the period of redemption under ORS
312.120;
      4.   A warning that if the court determines that the subject property
suffers waste or abandonment, the subject property will be deeded to the county
immediately after the expiration of thirty (30) days from the date the court
determination and that every right or interest of any person in the property
will be forfeited forever to the county unless the property is redeemed within
that thirty (30) day period;
      5.   A legal description of the property and its tax account number; and
      6.   The name of the owner as it appears on the latest tax roll.
   C.   Notice: The notice described above shall be sent both certified mail
and regular first class mail, and shall be provided in the following manner, as
appropriate:
      1.   To the owner or owners as reflected in the county deed records, at
the true and correct address of the owner as appearing on the instrument of
conveyance under ORS 93.260, or as furnished under ORS 311.555, or as otherwise
ascertained pursuant to ORS 311.560.
      2.   To a lienholder or entity other than the owner having or appearing
to have a lien or other interest in the property, to the address which the
county knows, or after reasonable inquiry has reason to believe, will most
likely result in receipt of actual notice by the interest holder. If the
lienholder is a corporation or limited partnership, the county shall be
considered to have made reasonable inquiry if notice is mailed to the
registered agent or last registered office of the corporation or limited
partnership as shown by the records on file in the office of the Oregon
secretary of state, or if the corporation or partnership is not authorized to
transact business in this state, then by sending notice to the principal office
or place of business of the corporation or limited partnership.
      3.   To any occupants of the premises by first class mail addressed to
"occupants", and by posting the property. (Ord. 200, 10-9-2013)
1-11-5: COUNTY COURT ORDER DEEDING PROPERTY TO COUNTY; REDEMPTION RIGHTS;
REMOVAL OF HOLDOVERS:
   A.   Upon a finding by the court that the subject property is suffering
waste or abandonment, it may direct the tax collector by written order to deed
the property to the county not earlier than thirty (30) days from the date of
the court order, during which period the property may be redeemed by the
affected parties. Any order entered by the court shall be sent first class mail
to the owner and any person who appeared, either in writing or in person at the
hearing provided for in section
1-11-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Upon failure of any affected party to redeem the subject property
within thirty (30) days after the date of the court's order, the tax collector
shall issue a deed terminating all redemption rights and canceling all taxes
and special assessments.
   C.   Any person still in possession of the property after issuance of a deed
under subsection B of this section may be removed as provided in ORS 105.105 to
105.168. (Ord. 200, 10-9-2013)
1-11-6: REVIEW OF COURT'S DECISION:
Review of the court's decision provided in subsection
1-11-5A of this chapter shall lie only by writ of review, pursuant to ORS
chapter 34. (Ord. 200, 10-9-2013)
CHAPTER 12
MEET TO PROMOTE RELOCATING OREGON-IDAHO BORDER
SECTION:
1-12-1:   Title
1-12-2:   Purpose
1-12-3:   Adoption
1-12-4:   Penalty
1-12-1: TITLE:
This Ordinance shall be known as “Meet to Promote Relocating Oregon-Idaho
Border Ordinance”. This Ordinance shall be codified in the Malheur County Code
at Title 1 Chapter 12. (Order GO-04-21, 5-18-2021)
1-12-2: PURPOSE:
This ordinance implements the intent of the voters as demonstrated by the
passage of Malheur County Initiative Measure 23-64, captioned “Requires County
Court meetings regarding relocation of Oregon-Idaho border”, on May 18, 2021.
(Order GO-04-21, 5-18-2021)
1-12-3: ADOPTION:
The Malheur County Court shall meet on the second Monday of every January, May
and September to discuss how to promote the interests of Malheur County in any
negotiations regarding relocations of Idaho state borders, irrespective of any
other meeting dates that may be determined by that Court. (Order GO-04-21, 5-
18-2021)
1-12-4: PENALTY:
   A.   If a Malheur County Court meeting does not occur on a date designated
in Section 1-12-3, anyone within the jurisdiction of the County found to have
willfully prohibited, cancelled, or hindered the meeting of the Court that was
to have occurred on that date may be made a defendant in a civil proceeding by
the County seeking redress of the violation, per ORS 203.065(2).
   B.   Fines recovered under ORS 203.030-203.075 shall be paid to the clerk of
the court in which recovery is had. After first deducting court costs in the
proceedings, the clerk shall pay the remainder to the treasurer of the County
for the general fund of the County, per ORS 203.065 (4).
   C.   A civil offense against this ordinance is a Class D violation with a
maximum fine of $125.
   D.    Any peace officer, as defined by ORS 161.015, may enforce this
ordinance, adopted under ORS 203.035 (5). (Order GO-04-21, 5-18-2021)
CHAPTER 13
BORDER REGION REVIEW BOARD
SECTION:
1-13-1:    Creation Of Border Region Review Board
1-13-2:    Purpose
1-13-3:    Staff And Review Board Duties And Responsibilities
1-13-4:    Review Board Public Hearing Procedures
1-13-5:    Border Region Housing (BRH) Zone
1-13-1:   CREATION OF BORDER REGION REVIEW BOARD:
The County Court hereby creates the Border Region Review Board, hereinafter
referred to as the "Review Board", pursuant to Section 3 of the Note following
ORS 215.700 as amended. The Note following ORS 215.700 provides limited
flexibility to rezone land to allow up to one hundred (100) single-family homes
on not more than two hundred (200) acres of relatively low-quality agricultural
land currently zoned for Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) or Exclusive Range Use (ERU)
within the Eastern Oregon Border Economic Development Region (Border Region).
(Ord. 233, 9-20-2023)
1-13-2:   PURPOSE: 
The Review Board is established to hold fair and impartial public hearings and
to render binding opinions related to the implementation of the Note section of
ORS 215.700, including approval or denial of rezoning applications and related
partitions as set forth in Section
1-13-5  of this chapter. The Review Board may also make determinations of GIS
mapping errors identified during its review and decision-making process. (Ord.
233, 9-20-2023)
1-13-3:   STAFF AND REVIEW BOARD DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Planning Director Responsibilities: The Malheur County Planning
Director or designee shall serve as staff to the Review Board and shall assume
the following responsibilities:
      1.   Reviewing rezoning and related partitioning applications for
completeness consistent with Border Region Housing (BRH) Zone requirements.
      2.   Analyzing rezoning and partitioning applications and drafting staff
reports to the Review Board recommending approval, approval with conditions, or
denial of applications based on the requirements of the BRH Zone.
      3.   Reviewing and approving land division applications that comply with
Title 7 Subdivisions and Land Partitioning, subject to concurrence by the
Review Board.
      4.   Ensuring that public notices, staff reports, and final decisions are
made available to the public pursuant to Section
1-13-4  of this chapter.
      5.   Coordinating with affected state agencies and county departments in
the review process.
      6.   Drafting findings in support of Review Board final opinions subject
to approval by the Review Board chair.
      7.   Making changes to the official Zoning Map consistent with Review
Board opinions.
      8.   Coordinating with the County tax assessor to ensure that land
divisions approved pursuant to Article Q and Title 7 Subdivisions and Land
Partitioning are recognized in tax assessor maps and are no longer eligible to
receive farm tax deferral.
      9.   Rendering opinions on compliance with county land division
standards.
      10.   Advising the Review Board regarding claims of error regarding GIS
overlay maps where relevant to rezoning criteria and maintaining a record of
Review Board opinions regarding such mapping errors.
   B.   Review Board Responsibilities: The Review Board shall have sole
responsibility for rendering opinions regarding the final approval of rezoning
applications from Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) or Exclusive Range Use (ERU) to the
Border Region Housing (BRH) Zone pursuant to ORS 215.700 and this chapter. The
Review Board's duties include the fair and impartial:
      1.   Review of rezoning and land division applications and staff reports
prior to holding public hearings.
      2.   Conduct of public hearings in the manner prescribed in Section
1-13-4  of this chapter.
      3.   Rendering of opinions regarding the compliance of rezoning
applications with Section
1-13-5  (BRH Zone) based on evidence in the public hearing record.
      4.   Review of related land divisions to ensure consistency with approved
rezoning applications.
      5.   Establishment of rules of procedure and decorum within the framework
established by ORS 215.700 and this chapter.
      6.   Ensuring that minutes are reviewed and maintained for all Review
Board meetings and public hearings.
      7.   Making determinations of GIS mapping error. (Ord. 233, 9-20-2023)
1-13-4:   REVIEW BOARD PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURES:
The Review Board is analogous to the Planning Commission in its quasi-judicial
review and decision-making role - except that Review Board "opinions" regarding
the approval or denial of rezoning and related partitioning applications
pursuant to the Note of ORS 215.700 are not "land use decisions" as defined in
ORS 197.015(10) and cannot be appealed to the Malheur County Court or to the
Land Use Board of Appeals.
   A.   Completeness Review: For a rezoning and land division application to be
considered by the Review Board, the Planning Director shall find that the
application meets the eligibility requirements set forth in Section
1-13-5  (BRH Zone) and Title 7 Subdivisions and Land Partitions, includes an
accurate site plan, and necessary technical materials identified on the BRH
Rezoning and Partition application form. The application shall be seemed
complete at least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing date.
      1.   The applicant shall be responsible for preparing a complete rezoning
and land division application that provides the Review Board with sufficient
information to render an informed opinion regarding approval, approval with
conditions, or denial of rezoning and partitioning application.
      2.   The Planning Director may determine that all required information is
not needed in certain circumstances and may assist the applicant in accessing
the required information.
      3.   Upon making such a completeness determination, the Planning Director
shall schedule a public hearing before the Review Board and notify the
applicant of the scheduled hearing date.
   B.   Public Notice:
      1.   Individual Mailed Notice: The Planning Director or designee shall be
responsible for sending public notice of the forthcoming hearing to all
property owners within seven hundred fifty (750) feet of the rezoning or land
partition area.
         a.   The notice shall state:
            (1)   The location of the property subject to rezoning and land
division;
            (2)   The place, time and location of the public hearing;
            (3)   The review criteria applicable to the rezoning and land
division decision;
            (4)   When and where the staff report will be available for public
review; and
            (5)   That testimony must be directed to applicable review
criteria.
         b.   The notice shall be mailed at least twenty (20) days before the
scheduled public hearing.
      2.   Published Notice: In addition to notice by mail, notice of hearing
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the County at least
twenty (20) days prior to the hearing.
   C.   Staff Report: The Planning Director shall prepare a staff report
addressing relevant review criteria and development standards, and recommending
approval, approval with conditions, or denial of the rezoning and land division
application. The staff report shall be available to the applicant, the public
and the Review Board at least seven (7) days before the scheduled public
hearing.
   D.   Standing: Anyone may appear before the Review Board and present
testimony. The following persons may appeal a Review Board decision to the
Malheur County Circuit Court:
      1.   Property owners who received or should have received notice.
      2.   Any aggrieved person whose pecuniary interest is directly affected
by the adjudication, or one whose right of property may be established or
divested thereby.
   E.   Record: The Review Board shall maintain a record of its proceedings.
      1.   An electronic audio or video recording of the hearing shall be made.
      2.   All exhibits presented shall be marked to show the identity of the
person offering the exhibit.
      3.   Exhibits shall be numbered in the order presented.
      4.   When exhibits are introduced, the exhibit number or letter shall be
read into the record.
   F.   Disclosure of Conflicts of Interest or Ex Parte Contact.
      1.   If a Review Board member has a pecuniary interest in the outcome of
the Board's opinion, the member shall declare a conflict and shall not
participate in the hearing proceeding.
         a.   Prior to or at the commencement of a hearing, any party may
challenge the qualification of the hearings body, or a member thereof, for
bias, prejudgment or personal interest.
         b.   The challenge shall be made on the record and be documented with
specific reasons supported by facts.
         c.   Should qualifications be challenged, the hearings body or the
member shall disqualify itself, withdraw or make a statement on the record of
its capacity to hear the application without bias.
      2.   Prior to rendering an opinion regarding a rezoning or land division
proposal, no Review Board member shall communicate directly or indirectly with
any party or their representative in connection with any issue involved in a
pending hearing except upon notice and opportunity for all parties to
participate. Communication between County staff and the hearings body is not an
ex parte contact. Should such communication - whether written, electronic or
oral - occur, the hearings body member shall:
         a.   Publicly announce for the record the substance of such
communication; and
         b.   Announce the parties' right to rebut the substance of the ex
parte communication during the hearing.
   G.   Conduct of Public Hearings: A hearing shall be conducted as follows:
      1.   Explanation Of Purpose: The Review Board Chair (or Vice-Chair as
appropriate) shall explain the purpose of the hearing and announce the order of
the proceedings, including reasonable time limits on presentations by parties.
      2.   Statement: A statement by the chair regarding pre-hearing contacts,
bias, prejudice or personal interest shall be made.
      3.   Facts Received Outside Of Hearing: Any facts received, noticed or
recognized outside of the hearing shall be stated for the record.
      4.   Challenges: Challenges to the Review Board's qualifications to hear
the matter shall be stated and challenges entertained.
      5.   Applicable Substantive Criteria: The Review Board shall list
applicable substantive criteria, explain that testimony and evidence must be
directed toward those criteria or other provisions in Section
1-13-5  (BRH Zone) or MCC Title 7 Subdivisions and Land Partitions that the
person believes to apply to the decision.
   H.   Order of Presentation:
      1.   Open the hearing.
      2.   Staff Report.
      3.   Applicant's presentation (20 minutes maximum).
      4.   Proponent Testimony (5 minutes maximum).
      5.   Opponent Testimony (5 minutes maximum).
      6.   Applicant' s Rebuttal (10 minutes maximum).
      7.   Staff Comments.
      8.   Questions from or to the Chair may be entertained at any time at the
Review Board's discretion.
      9.   Close the hearing.
   I.   Record Available: The record shall be available for public review at
the hearing. (Ord. 233, 9-20-2023)
1-13-5:   BORDER REGION HOUSING (BRH) ZONE: 
The Review Board is authorized to approve rezoning to the Border Region Housing
(BRH) zone consistent with this section.
   A.   Purpose: The Border Region Housing (BRH) zone implements Section 2 of
ORS 215.700, which allows limited rural residential development on relatively
poor agricultural land in the Eastern Oregon Border Economic Development Region
(Border Region).
   B.   Applicability and Review Authority
      1.   Applicability: The BRH zone may only be applied to qualifying
privately-owned land zoned for Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) or Exclusive Range Use
(ERU) outside of urban growth boundaries and within the Border Region.
      2.   Review Authority. The Review Board appointed by the Malheur County
Court shall have the sole authority to review qualifying rezoning applications
from an EFU or ERU zone to the BRH zone.
         a.   Review Board opinions may only be rendered after the required
public hearing and shall be supported by findings demonstrating compliance with
the provisions of this Chapter.
         b.   Review Board opinions are not "land use decisions" and cannot be
appealed to the Malheur County Court or to the Oregon Land Use Board of Appeals
(LUBA).
         c.   Review Board opinions are not subject to the agricultural or
urbanization goals and policies of the Malheur County Comprehensive Plan.
      3.   Review Procedure. Section
1-13-4  of this chapter establishes Review Board decision-making authority and
public hearing review procedures.
   C.   Permitted Uses. The following uses may be permitted outright in the BRH
zone subject to the standards set forth in Subsections D-J below:
      1.   Single-family residential dwellings.
      2.   Farm uses, excluding feed lots.
      3.   Structures accessory to primary residential uses.
   D.   Application Eligibility Thresholds. The statutory and Review Board
eligibility standards set forth in Subsection E and F below should be met
before the Planning Director accepts an application for rezoning to the BRH
Zone.
   E.   Statutory Eligibility Requirements. To be eligible for consideration by
the Review Board, an area proposed for rezoning:
      1.   Shall be privately owned and zoned Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) or
Exclusive Range Use (ERU) and located outside an urban growth boundary.
      2.   Shall be composed of two (2) acres (87,120 square feet) that are not
predominantly composed of prime, unique, or Class I-III agricultural soils when
either irrigated or not irrigated, as classified by the National Resources
Conservation Service (NRCS).
      3.   Shall not be classified as high value farmland as described in ORS
195.300(10), excluding lands described in ORS 195.300(10)(c)(B) and (10)(f)(E).
      4.   Shall not be within a designated critical groundwater area per ORS
537.730-740 or within an area where groundwater withdrawals are restricted by
the Oregon Water Resources Commission.
      5.   Has not been employed for farm use in the prior three (3) years
prior to application submission as demonstrated by aerial photographs, tax
records, affidavits from the applicant and abutting property owners, or other
substantial evidence.
      6.   Does not have an irrigation water right (i.e., the property is not
within the place of use for a permit, certificate or decree for the use of
water for irrigation issued by the Water Resource Department).
      7.   Has not, in the ten (10) years prior to application submission, been
assessed for property tax purposes as:
         a.   Open space land under ORS 308A.300 to 308A.330;
         b.   Riparian habitat under ORS 308A.350 to 308A.383;
         c.   Wildlife habitat under ORS 308A.403 to 308A.430; or
         d.   Having a conservation easement under ORS 308A.450 to 308A.465.
      8.   Shall be within a rural fire protection district established under
ORS 478.010 to 478.100 and shall meet all applicable fire prevention code
requirements.
      9.   Shall not be within the one hundred (100) year floodplain as defined
on Federal Emergency Management Agency maps and referenced in Malheur County
Title 5, Chapter 2 - Flood Control.
      10.   If approved, would not exceed the two hundred (200) acre cumulative
maximum based on (a) the date the application was found complete and assuming
that other complete applications will be approved by the Review Board; and (b)
records maintained by the Planning Department showing the number, date and
acreage of rural dwellings approved under this Chapter.
   F.   Review Board Application Completeness Review. The Planning Director
should not accept an application for rezoning or land division as complete for
review purposes unless the application meets all Section
1-13-5 -E eligibility requirements, and the following Review Board eligibility
requirements are met:
      1.   If a land division is required, the application must include
sufficient information for the Planning Director to determine that Malheur
County Title 7 Subdivisions and Land Partitioning substantive standards have
been or can be met.
      2.   To maximize the number of rural dwellings produced and the number of
benefitting property owners, while distributing rural dwellings in different
areas of the Border Region:
         a.   No single application may result in more than ten (10) total
homesites on contiguous land covering a maximum of 20 (twenty) acres.
         b.   No single property owner, either directly or indirectly as a
member of an investment group, may apply for rezoning that would allow more
than 10 (ten) cumulative homesites covering a maximum twenty (20) acres.
         c.   Subsection (2)(a) and (2)(b) requirements may be waived by the
Review Board after January 2, 2026, if fewer than one hundred (100) rural
homesites have been approved pursuant to this chapter.
      3.   If the applicant claims that all or part of the proposed rezoning
area has lower quality soils than indicated on applicable NRCS maps on file
with the Planning Department, the applicant shall provide a soils assessment
prepared by a certified soil scientist documenting the agricultural
productivity classification of soils found in the proposed rezoning area,
pursuant to ORS 215.710(5)(b).
   G.   Application Forms, Fees, and Map Changes.
      1.   Application Forms. The County Planning Director shall maintain a
form listing all required information necessary for the Review Board to make an
informed decision regarding the rezoning, land division and home construction
on land subject to the provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   Fees. The County Court shall establish a fee schedule to cover the
costs of staff administration and participation in Review Board activities. The
fees can be periodically reviewed and amended by motion and minutes of the
Review Board.
      3.   Claims of Mapping Error. The County Planning Department relies on a
series of GIS maps for determining application thresholds and where certain
review criteria apply. Because mapping errors occasionally occur, the following
process is available to correct them:
         a.   If the applicant or any party to a review proceeding has reason
to believe that a map is incorrect with respect to their property, they may
provide information to this effect to the Planning Director.
         b.   Based on the recommendation of the Planning Director and
supported by substantial evidence, the Review Board may determine that a change
to one or more GIS maps is justified.
         c.   The Planning Director shall maintain a record of formal map
changes approved by the Review Board.
   H.   Rezoning and Land Division Review Criteria. In addition to meeting the
statutory and Review Board threshold and locational standards found in Section
1-13-5 -E, the applicant shall be responsible for demonstrating to the
satisfaction of the Review Board that the proposed rezoning of land meets all
the statutory and county criteria set forth in Subsections 1 and 2, below.
      1.   Statutory Criteria:
         a.   The area proposed for rezoning is not viable for reasonably
obtaining a profit through farm use. Expert testimony from experienced farmers,
the Farm Bureau or the Oregon State University Extension Service may be
considered by the Review Board in making its determination.
         b.   The property owner has agreed to a condition of rezoning approval
to sign and record in the county deed records the following irrevocable deed
restriction in the form prescribed by the county acknowledging the protected
rights of farm, forest and rangeland practices in the area and prohibiting the
owner and the owner's successors in interest from pursuing a cause of action or
claim of relief alleging an injury from any farming, forest or rangeland
practices if no claim or action is allowed under ORS 30.936 or 30.937 or
otherwise protected by law as a farming, forest or rangeland practice.
   The property herein described is situated in or near a resource (farm or
ranch) zone, where the intent is to encourage agricultural use and minimize
conflicts with nonresource uses. Nonresource residents may be subjected to
common, customary and accepted farm and ranch practices that are conducted in
accordance with Federal and State laws but ordinarily and necessarily produce
noise, dust, smoke and other impacts. The grantees, including their heirs,
assigns and lessees, by the recording of this statement, and in return for
allowing a nonresource dwelling on this property, hereby accept the potential
impacts of accepted farm and ranch practices as normal and necessary and part
of the risk of establishing a dwelling in this area, and grantee acknowledges
the need to avoid activities that conflict with nearby resource uses.
         c.   The proposed rezoning, if approved, would not force a significant
change in accepted farm or forest practices on surrounding lands devoted to
farm or forest use.
            (1)   To address this criterion, the applicant shall describe the
accepted farming practices on abutting agricultural properties and explain why
the proposed residential use will not force a significant change in such
practices.
            (2)   In addition to the signed non-complaint agreement, the Review
Board may consider geographic buffers between proposed dwellings and actively
farmed agricultural land, such as intervening rural development, stream
corridors, slope differentials, or dedicated roads as evidence towards meeting
this criterion.
      2.   County Review Criteria: The Planning Director has certified that the
proposed land division, if necessary, complies (or will comply with conditions
of approval) with relevant provisions of Title 7 Subdivisions and Land
Partitioning of the Malheur County Code.
   I.   Development Standards. The following dimensional standards apply to
proposed single-family dwellings and accessory structures located within the
BRH zone.
      1.   Dimensional Standards. The following dimensional standards shall
apply to single-family residential dwellings in the BRH zone.
         a.   Density. The minimum and maximum density in the BRH zone shall be
one unit per two (2) acres.
         b.   On-Site Sanitary Facilities. All septic tanks, drain fields and
wells shall be located on the same parcel or lot as the residential dwelling.
         c.   Above Ground Structure Setbacks:
            (1)   No building or sight obscuring fence shall be closer than
forty (40) feet from a street or road right-of-way line, fifteen (15) feet from
any other property line or twenty (20) feet from any major irrigation canal
right of way.
            (2)   No sight obscuring fence exceeding three (3) feet in height
shall be placed within the forty (40) foot street setback, also within this
setback, shrubbery other than trees shall be maintained at heights not
exceeding three (3) feet.
            (3)   The minimum setback between habitable structures and actively
farmed land or lands zoned EFU or ERU shall be one-hundred (100) feet to
mitigate potential existing or future conflicts.
         d.   Building Height. The maximum building height shall be thirty-five
(35) feet, measured from the midpoint of the roof.
      2.   Accessory Uses. The standards of Malheur County Code
6-4-2  Accessory Uses shall be met.
      3.   Access Standards. All dwellings approved in the BRH zone shall meet
the emergency fire vehicle access requirements and fire prevention standards as
recommended by the applicable Rural Fire Protection District.
   J.   Revocation of Rezoning and Land Division Approvals. To ensure that the
limited supply of rural homesites authorized by this section results in
construction of new single-family dwellings in a timely manner, this subsection
authorizes the Review Board to:
      1.   Enter into a binding agreement with the property owner to ensure
completion of the land division process and/or home construction in a timely
manner.
      2.   Revoke rezoning and land division approvals in cases where
substantial progress has not been made towards completion of the land division
process or towards home construction. If the Review Board revokes rezoning or
land division approval for a property:
         a.   That property shall revert to the original EFU or ERU zoning.
         b.   No dwelling unit(s) may be authorized on that property pursuant
to this chapter.
         c.   That property shall not be counted against the two hundred (200)
maximum rezoned acres or the one hundred (100) maximum dwelling units
approvable under ORS 215.700 and this chapter. (Ord. 233, 9-20-2023)
TITLE 2
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
2-1-1:   Establishment And Purpose
2-1-2:   Definitions
2-1-3:   Exceptions To Provisions
2-1-4:   General Requirements
2-1-5:   Burning Permits
2-1-5-1:   Issuance Of Burning Permits
2-1-5-2:   Cancellation, Revocation Of Burning Permits
2-1-1: ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate open burning in Malheur
County by requiring burning permits for certain types of burning and
prohibiting certain types of burning, and to repeal existing ordinances
regarding burning permits and fire usage.
   B.   Consistent with the overall public welfare, it is the policy of the
county:
      1.   To eliminate open burning disposal practices where alternative
disposal methods are feasible and practicable;
      2.   To encourage the development of alternative disposal methods;
      3.   To emphasize resource recovery;
      4.   To regulate specified types of open burning;
      5.   To encourage utilization of the highest and best practicable burning
methods to minimize emissions where other disposal practices are not feasible;
      6.   To require specific programs and timetables for compliance with
these rules;
      7.   To ensure proper identification of controlled and permitted burning
during a time of fire danger. (1989 Code)
2-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
   AGRICULTURAL OPERATION: An activity on land currently used or intended to be
used primarily for the purpose of obtaining a profit in money by raising,
harvesting and selling crops or by the raising and selling of livestock or
poultry, or the produce thereof, which activity is necessary to serve that
purpose. Agricultural operation also means activities conducted by not for
profit agricultural research organizations, which activities are necessary to
serve that purpose. It does not include the construction and use of dwellings
provided in conjunction with the agricultural operation.
   AGRICULTURAL WASTE: Any material actually generated or used by an
agricultural operation.
   BLM: Vale district office of the bureau of land management, department of
interior, United States Of America.
   BURN BARREL: A device used for the sole purpose of burning domestic waste
and covered by a mesh screen.
   BURNING PERMIT: A burning permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
   COMMERCIAL WASTE: A. Any material except:
      Agricultural waste
      Construction waste
      Demolition waste
      Domestic waste
      Industrial waste
   B.   Examples of commercial waste are material from offices, wholesale, or
retail of goods or services, warehouses, restaurants, mobile home parks, and
dwellings containing more than four (4) family living units such as apartments,
condominiums, hotels, motels or dormitories. Any waste produced by a
governmental educational or charitable institution.
   CONSTRUCTION WASTE: Any material actually resulting from or produced by a
building or construction project. Examples of construction waste are wood,
lumber, paper, crating and packing materials used during construction,
materials left after completion of construction and materials collected during
cleanup of a construction site.
   DEMOLITION WASTE: Any material actually resulting from or produced by the
complete or partial destruction or tearing down of any manmade structure or
land clearing, excluding yard debris (domestic waste) and agricultural waste.
   DOMESTIC WASTE: Household material, which includes paper, cardboard,
clothing, yard debris, or other material actually generated in or around a
dwelling of four (4) or fewer family living units, or on the real property
appurtenant to the dwelling. Such materials actually generated in or around a
dwelling of more than four (4) family living units are commercial wastes. Once
domestic waste is removed from the property of origin, it becomes commercial
waste.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Any material, including process waste, produced as the
direct result of any manufacturing or industrial process.
   LAND CLEARING: The removal of trees, brush, stumps, debris or manmade
structures for the purpose of site cleanup or site preparation. All material
generated by land clearing is demolition waste except those materials which are
included in the definitions of agricultural wastes, and yard debris (domestic
waste).
   NUISANCE: A substantial and unreasonable interference with another's use and
enjoyment of real property, or the substantial and unreasonable invasion of a
right common to members of the general public.
   OPEN BURNING: Includes burning in:
   A.   Open outdoor fires;
   B.   Burn barrels;
   C.   Incinerators which do not meet the emission limitations specified for
solid waste and infectious waste burning equipment in OAR 340-230-10101 through
340-230-0150;
   D.   Any other burning which occurs in such a manner that combustion air is
not effectively controlled and combustion products are not effectively vented
through a stack or chimney.
   RURAL FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT: A rural fire protection district established
pursuant to Oregon law, including, but not limited to, the Nyssa, Adrian,
Ontario, Vale, Annex and Ironside districts.
   YARD DEBRIS: Wood, needle or leaf materials from trees, shrubs or plants
from the real property appurtenant to a dwelling of not more than four (4)
family living units so long as such debris remains on the property of origin.
Once yard debris is removed from the property of origin, it becomes commercial
waste. Yard debris is included in the definition of domestic waste. (1989 Code;
amd. Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
2-1-3: EXCEPTIONS TO PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Fires set for traditional recreational purposes and traditional
ceremonial occasions for which a fire is appropriate and provided that no
materials which may emit dense smoke or noxious odors are burned.
   B.   The operation of any barbecue equipment.
   C.   Fires set or permitted by a public agency when such fire is set or
permitted in the performance of its official duty for the purpose of weed
abatement, prevention or elimination of a fire hazard, or a hazard to public
health or safety or instruction of employees in the methods of fire fighting,
which in the opinion of the agency is necessary.
   D.   Fires set pursuant to a permit for the purpose of instruction of
employees of private industrial concerns in methods of fire fighting, or for
civil defense instruction.
   E.   Agricultural open burning pursuant to ORS 468A.020.
   F.   Burning in or within three (3) miles of the city of Ontario (prohibited
unless a burn permit is obtained from Ontario rural fire protection district).
   G.   Any area within a rural fire protection district that issues permits.
   H.   Fires set for the purpose of disposal of dry tumbleweed plants
(typically Russian thistle and tumbleweed mustard plants) that have been broken
off and rolled about by the wind.
   I.   Burning authorized by the Oregon department of agriculture. (Ord. 183,
10-7-2009)
2-1-4: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Fire Hazard: No person who owns, controls, has custody, or is a tenant
on real property, or owns, controls or has custody of the material described
herein, shall allow the presence or accumulation of combustible material of
such nature and in sufficient quantity that its continued existence constitutes
an imminent and substantial danger to life, property, public welfare or to
adjacent real or personal property.
   B.   Open Burning:
      1.   Attendance: All open burning shall be constantly attended by the
person responsible or an expressly authorized agent until extinguished.
      2.   Responsible Person: Each person who owns, controls, or has custody
of the real property on which open burning occurs, including any tenant; or,
who owns, controls, or has custody of the material which is burned, shall be
considered the person responsible for the open burning. Any person who causes
or allows open burning to be initiated or maintained shall also be considered a
responsible person.
      3.   Duty: It shall be the duty of each person responsible to promptly
extinguish any burning which is in violation of this chapter or of any permit
issued by the county.
      4.   Efficient Burning: To promote efficient burning and prevent
excessive emissions of smoke, each person responsible shall, except where
inappropriate to agricultural open burning:
         a.   Assure that all combustible material is dried to the extent
practicable. This action shall include covering the combustible material when
practicable to protect the material from deposition from moisture in any form,
including precipitation or dew.
         b.   Loosely stack or windrow the combustible material in such a
manner as to eliminate dirt, rocks and other noncombustible material and
promote an adequate air supply to the burning pile, and provide the necessary
tools and equipment for the purpose.
         c.   Periodically restack or feed the burning pile and ensure that
combustion is essentially completed and smoldering fires are prevented and
provide the necessary tools and equipment for the purpose.
      5.   Nonexemption: Open burning in compliance with this chapter does not
exempt any person from any civil or criminal liability for consequences or
damages resulting from such burning, nor does it exempt any person from
complying with any other applicable law, ordinance, regulation, rule, permit,
order or decree of this or any other governmental entity having jurisdiction.
      6.   Nuisance Prohibited: No person shall cause or allow to be initiated
or maintained any open burning which interferes unreasonably with enjoyment of
life or property or which creates any of the following:
         a.   A private nuisance, except as created by agricultural open
burning;
         b.   A public nuisance, except as created by agricultural open
burning; or
         c.   A hazard to public safety. (1989 Code)
      7.   Prohibited Materials: No person shall cause or allow to be initiated
or maintained any open burning of any wet garbage, plastic, asbestos, wire
insulation, tires, roofing, industrial waste, automobile part, asphalt,
petroleum product, petroleum treated material, rubber product, animal remains,
or animal or vegetable matter resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking
or service of food or of any other material which normally emits dense smoke or
noxious odors.
      8.   Days Restricted: No person shall cause or allow any open burning of
any material in any part of the county on any day or at any time when the state
fire marshal, DEQ or the county court announces that such open burning is
prohibited. (Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
      9.   Solid Waste: No person shall cause or allow to be initiated or
maintained any open burning at any solid waste disposal site unless authorized
by a solid waste permit issued by the state of Oregon.
      10.   Industrial Waste: Open burning of industrial waste is prohibited,
except as allowed by the laws of the state of Oregon.
      11.   Commercial, Construction, Or Demolition Waste: Open burning of
commercial, construction or demolition waste is prohibited within three (3)
miles of the city of Ontario. (1989 Code)
      12.   Domestic Waste: Burning of domestic waste shall take place in a
common burn barrel which is used for the sole purpose of domestic waste and is
covered by a mesh screen with holes no larger than one-fourth inch (1/4"). Burn
barrels must be metal, in good condition and vented. Burn barrels must be
placed in open area with no overhanging trees. A circle ten feet (10') in
diameter must be cleared of grass and weeds around the barrel (ground cleared
to soil or gravel). A barrel must be, at least, fifteen feet (15') from a
burnable structure. Burn barrels should not be used for burning yard debris.
      13.   Yard Debris: Yard debris burn piles and land clearing piles must be
at least forty feet (40') from a burnable structure. Piles must be no larger
than twelve feet (12') in diameter and twelve feet (12') high. Piles less than
four feet (4') in diameter and three feet (3') high, must be twenty five feet
(25') from a burnable structure. An accessible water source shall be at the
burn pile site. Firebreaks should be constructed around large burn piles.
      14.   Hours Restricted: All open burning shall be conducted during
daylight hours.
      15.   Notification: Except when burning domestic waste, the person
burning shall notify BLM Vale district office prior to burning near BLM ground.
      16.   Violation: It is a violation of this chapter to conduct any open
burning that unreasonably interferes with enjoyment of life or property,
creates a public or private nuisance or is a hazard to public safety. (Ord.
183, 10-7-2009)
   C.   Hazardous Burning Conditions: Open burning should not be attempted when
one or more of the following conditions exist: (1989 Code)
      1.   Temperatures above ninety degrees Fahrenheit (90°F). (Ord. 199, 4-3-
2013)
      2.   Wind velocity above twenty (20) miles per hour.
      3.   Humidity below twenty percent (20%). (1989 Code)
2-1-5: BURNING PERMITS:
   A.   No person shall cause or permit to be initiated or maintained any open
burning of commercial waste, construction waste, demolition waste or land
clearing (land clearing does not include yard debris or agricultural waste)
without a burning permit issued by a rural fire protection district or Malheur
County.
   B.   Burning of industrial waste is prohibited unless authorized by DEQ.
   C.   A burning permit is not required for the burning of domestic waste in a
burn barrel.
   D.   A burning permit is not required for the burning of yard debris.
   E.   A burning permit is not required for burns or fires listed in section
2-1-3 of this chapter.
   F.   The duration of a burning permit is not to exceed one year in the case
of commercial, construction or demolition waste (land clearing). (Ord. 183, 10-
7-2009)
2-1-5-1: ISSUANCE OF BURNING PERMITS:
   A.   Issuance By Environmental Health Director: The environmental health
director may issue permits for open burning of construction, demolition,
commercial and domestic waste by means other than a burn barrel. The
environmental health director will determine a standard and procedure for
issuance of burning permits.
   B.   Issuance By County Court: The county court or its designated
representative may issue permits for open burning of domestic waste by means
other than a burn barrel, land clearing and yard debris for a period not to
exceed one year and subject to the limitations set out in this chapter and such
other conditions the county may determine. (Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
2-1-5-2: CANCELLATION, REVOCATION OF BURNING PERMITS:
The county court or its designated representative may cancel or revoke any
burning permit when by its determination it is necessary to prevent danger to
life or property, to protect the air resources of the state, or for violation
of any statute, rule, regulation, permit, order, ordinance, judgment or decree.
(1989 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
ARTICLE A. SOLID WASTE COLLECTION FRANCHISES
SECTION:
2-2A-1:   Authority To Grant Franchises
2-2A-2:   Franchise Required, Exceptions
2-2A-3:   Applications And Requirements For Franchises
2-2A-4:   Insurance And Bond Requirements
2-2A-5:   Issuance Of Collection Franchises
2-2A-6:   Appeal Decision Of County Court
2-2A-7:   Franchise Fees
2-2A-8:   Transfer Of Franchises
2-2A-9:   Suspension, Modification, Revocation Or Refusal To Renew A Franchise
2-2A-10:   Determination Of Rates
2-2A-11:   Billing For Solid Waste Collection
2-2A-12:   Collection Of Recyclables
2-2A-13:   Inspection For Compliance
2-2A-14:   Records Of Waste Quantity
2-2A-1: AUTHORITY TO GRANT FRANCHISES:
   A.   The County Court may grant a franchise, exclusive or otherwise, for the
removal of types of wastes or solid wastes specified in the franchise agreement
for the area of Malheur County specified in the franchise agreement.
   B.   Malheur County may grant the exclusive right, privilege, and franchise
to any person under the terms of this Article to establish, operate and
maintain a collection service for recyclable materials at any County owned
disposal site designated by the County Court.
   C.   The term for a franchise shall be ten (10) years, unless the County
Court finds a shorter or longer term is required in the public interest.
   D.   Franchises may be renewed unless grounds exist for refusal to renew
pursuant to this Article. (1989 Code)
2-2A-2: FRANCHISE REQUIRED, EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   No person shall provide or offer to provide storage, collection,
transportation or disposal of wastes or solid wastes for compensation or
operate a collection service for recyclable materials within the legal
boundaries of County-owned disposal sites without first obtaining a franchise
from the County Court.
   B.   The provisions of this Section do not apply to the following:
      1.   A nonprofit organization conducting an activity determined by the
County Court to be of a civic, community, benevolent or charitable nature.
      2.   A person transporting solid waste through the County that is neither
collected nor disposed of within the County.
      3.   A person employed to demolish, construct or remodel a building
hauling waste or solid waste created in connection with such employment.
      4.   The business of septic tank pumping. (1989 Code)
2-2A-3: APPLICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR FRANCHISES:
   A.   Applications Submitted: Applications for franchises shall be on forms
provided by the County Court. In addition to information required on the forms,
the County Court may require the filing of any additional information they deem
necessary to insure compliance with this Article.
   B.   Solid Waste Collection Franchise Requirements:
      1.   An applicant for a solid waste collection franchise for an area of
the County not presently being served under franchise shall:
         a.   Describe the area in the County within which proposed service
will be performed.
         b.   Demonstrate possession of or the ability to obtain the collection
vehicles, equipment, facilities and personnel sufficient to meet the standards
of equipment and service established by this Chapter and State law.
         c.   Have no record of violations of law or ordinance that indicate an
inability to satisfactorily perform the service being franchised.
         d.   Demonstrate through evidence of prior experience and knowledge
the ability to provide service of the quantity and quality required by this
Chapter.
         e.   Have in force, or have in force at the commencement of service
should the franchise be granted, the insurance requirements set forth in this
Article.
      2.   An applicant for a solid waste collection franchise for an area or
portion of an area that is presently being served by a franchise holder shall,
in addition to those requirements listed in subsection B1 of this Section,
show:
         a.   That the defined service area is not presently being served by
the holder of the franchise thereof; or
         b.   That the defined service is not being adequately served by the
holder of the franchise and there is a substantial demand from customers within
the area for a change in service to the area. (1989 Code)
2-2A-4: INSURANCE AND BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A franchise holder shall submit a certificate of public liability
insurance with a thirty (30) day notice of cancellation clause, acceptable to
the County which will cover its business operation, including each vehicle
operated by the franchise holder. Insurance coverage shall include not less
than two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) for one person or less than
five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for bodily injury due to each
occurrence, and not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for damage to
property due to each occurrence.
   B.   The insurance shall indemnify and save the County harmless from any
claim, demand, or liability for damages or expense to which the County may be
subjected as a consequence of any claimed action or omission of the licensee,
its agents or employees, in any matter arising from the rights and privileges
granted the licensee under the terms of the franchise. (1989 Code)
2-2A-5: ISSUANCE OF COLLECTION FRANCHISES:
   A.   Applications for franchises shall be reviewed by the County Court or
their representative. The County Court shall give written notice to any person
who holds a franchise which includes any part of the area contained in the
application for franchise.
   B.   Upon the basis of the application, evidence submitted and the results
of any investigation by the County Court or their representative, the County
Court shall make a finding on the qualifications of the applicant, the area to
be included in the franchise, whether any additional service or equipment
should be provided and what additional conditions, if any, should be included
in the franchise agreement.
   C.   On the basis of their findings, the County Court shall issue an order
granting, denying or amending the application.
   D.   Upon receiving a franchise, the franchise holder shall endorse the
franchise documents to signify agreement with the terms and conditions of the
franchise as set forth in this Article. (1989 Code)
2-2A-6: APPEAL DECISION OF COUNTY COURT:
   A.   If the order of the County Court is adverse to the applicant or to the
holder of an existing franchise, it shall not become effective until thirty
(30) days after the date of such order unless the County Court finds that there
is an immediate and serious danger to the public or that a health hazard or a
public nuisance would be created by the delay. The applicant or franchise
holder may request a public hearing before the County Court upon the County
Court's order by filing a written request for the hearing with the County Court
within thirty (30) days after the date of said order. On filing of such a
request for hearing, the County Court shall set a time and place for a public
hearing upon its order, which hearing shall not be more than thirty (30) days
from the date of said request for hearing. The applicant or franchise holder
may submit relevant evidence to the County Court. Other interested persons or
affected public or private agencies may appear and offer oral or written
testimony. The County Court may, following the public hearing, affirm, modify
or rescind its prior order.
   B.   Subject to the provisions of subsection A of this Section, the
determination of the County Court after conclusion of said public hearing shall
be final.
   C.   Court Appeal: All decisions of the County Court under this Article
shall be reviewable as provided by the laws of the State of Oregon. (1989 Code)
2-2A-7: FRANCHISE FEES:
   A.   The County Court may collect from the holder of said waste collection
franchise an annual fee of not more than three percent (3%) of the gross cash
receipts from the collection service provided to the area included in the
franchise.
   B.   Computation Of Fees:
      1.   The annual solid waste collection franchise fee shall be computed on
the basis of the previous year's gross cash receipts, shall be collected on a
quarterly basis and shall be paid by the franchise holder not later than thirty
(30) days after the end of each calendar quarter.
      2.   Within sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar year, a solid
waste collection franchise holder shall file with the County Court a sworn and
verified statement of the gross receipts for the previous year. If the gross
receipts are less than that of the previous year, the franchise holder shall
have a proportionate credit against the quarterly payment next due.
      3.   Every solid waste collection franchise holder shall maintain books
and records disclosing gross receipts for the service area, which books and
records shall be open at reasonable times and places for audit by authorized
personnel of the County Court.
   C.   A franchisee shall pay, as consideration for a recycling franchise, an
annual franchise fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00). The franchise fee shall
be set and payable annually on January 1 of each year. Franchise fees may be
modified during the term of this franchise by resolution of the County Court.
(1989 Code)
2-2A-8: TRANSFER OF FRANCHISES:
   A.   A franchise holder may transfer the franchise, or portion thereof to
another person only upon written notice to and approval by the County Court.
   B.   The County Court shall approve or disapprove any application for a
transfer of a franchise within thirty (30) days of receipt of notice by the
County Court unless the County Court find there is a substantial question of
public health or safety involved which requires additional time for
investigation and decision.
   C.   The County Court may permit a franchise to be pledged as security for
purchase of land, equipment or facilities needed to provide service or to
finance purchase of a business providing service under this Article. The County
Court may attach whatever conditions it deems necessary to guarantee
maintenance of service. (1989 Code)
2-2A-9: SUSPENSION, MODIFICATION, REVOCATION OR REFUSAL TO RENEW A FRANCHISE:
   A.   The County Court may suspend, modify, revoke or refuse to renew a
franchise upon finding that the holder thereof has:
      1.   Wilfully violated this Chapter or ORS Chapter 459 or the rules and
regulations promulgated thereunder;
      2.   Materially misrepresented facts or information given in the
application for franchise;
      3.   Wilfully refused to provide adequate service in a service area
contained in the franchise after written notification and a reasonable
opportunity to do so; or,
      4.   Wilfully misrepresented records required to be furnished to the
County Court under the franchise agreement;
      5.   Failed to pay franchise fees in a timely manner pursuant to
subsection
2-2A-7B of this Article;
      6.   Refused inspection of vehicle; or
      7.   Refused to perform audit pursuant to subsection
2-2A-7B3 of this Article.
   B.   In lieu of immediate suspension, modification, revocation or refusal to
renew a franchise, the County Court may order compliance and make the
modification, revocation or refusal to renew the franchise contingent upon
compliance with the order within a period of time stated in said order.
   C.   If the County Court suspends, modifies or refuses to renew a franchise,
the provisions of Section
2-2A-6 of this Article shall apply. (1989 Code)
2-2A-10: DETERMINATION OF RATES:
   A.   Rates Established: The County Court may approve and establish existing
rates filed by applicants for franchises if it finds that such rates are not
demonstratively unreasonable and are not substantially different than those
charged generally under similar service requirements and for the same or
similar quality of service in other areas or it may establish a different rate
schedule.
   B.   Rates To Be Uniform: Rates shall be uniform within a service area for
the same service or may be uniform within zones taking into account hauling
distance, concentration of dwelling units and other factors which the County
Court considers justifying variations in rates.
   C.   Data Furnished To Establish Rates: If sufficient information is not
available to permit the approval of rates based on charges presently made for
similar services, the County Court may require operations costs and income data
including but not limited to the following:
      1.   The investment in facilities and equipment required to perform the
service;
      2.   Personnel needs and wage scales;
      3.   Customer potential probable income from regularly scheduled service;
      4.   Length of haul to disposal facilities;
      5.   Operations costs for regularly scheduled service including overhead
and profit;
      6.   Costs for pickup of extra waste and for pickup at nonscheduled
times;
      7.   Costs for pickup of special wastes and for other special services;
and,
      8.   Costs of disposal.
   D.   Change In Rates:
      1.   The holder of a solid waste collection franchise may file with the
County Court a written request for a rate change.
      2.   The franchise holder shall furnish information on operations,
practices, and operation costs and income data as requested by the County Court
for rate evaluation purposes and shall make records available to persons
assigned rated evaluation duties by the County Court.
      3.   The County Court may require an investigation by the Committee of
any proposed rate increase. For the purpose of making this investigation, the
Committee is authorized to hold public hearings and to take and receive
testimony relevant to the considerations to be made by the County Court in
allowing or denying the rate increase. The Committee shall make a report of the
public hearing and shall make recommendations to the County Court concerning
the proposed rate. (1989 Code)
2-2A-11: BILLING FOR SOLID WASTE COLLECTION:
   A.   Charges for solid waste collection shall be made against the premises
and shall be the responsibility of the property owner. Delinquent charges may
be made a lien against the property.
   B.   A franchise holder may establish reasonable procedures to assure
payment of charges due from customers. The franchise holder may require the
payment monthly in advance for regularly scheduled service. Collection service
for which the charge is delinquent for a period of thirty (30) days may be
discontinued by the franchise holder within five (5) days after giving
appropriate written notice to the occupants of the premises. A copy of the
notice of discontinuance shall be furnished to the County Court within twenty
four (24) hours after such notice has been given. (1989 Code)
2-2A-12: COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLES:
   A.   Recycling Collection Centers: A recycling franchise holder shall have
the right to establish recycling collection centers at any disposal site but
must provide collection at the Lytle Boulevard Landfill. The specific manner,
times and methods of collection shall be established by agreement with the
County and shall include the following:
      1.   The specific materials to be collected as recyclable must include,
but are not limited to: newsprint, corrugated cardboard, scrap iron, steel, and
other valuable metals, and aluminum.
      2.   The franchise holder shall agree to maintain recycling collection
centers in a clean and orderly fashion. Newspapers and other lightweight
materials shall be secured against blowing away in normal winds and must be
protected to preserve resale market values. Separate secure containers shall be
provided for materials designated by the State of Oregon as recyclable.
      3.   The franchise holder shall keep records of citizen participation in
the recycling program and of the volume and types of material collected. The
franchise holder shall agree to pick up recyclable material in a clean and
orderly fashion.
      4.   The franchise holder shall agree to operate, maintain and pick up
recyclable material during normal hours of operation established for the
appropriate County disposal sites.
      5.   It is contemplated that the franchise holder may assign that portion
of the franchise obligations relating to the recycling program; however, such
responsibility shall not be assigned or transferred by the franchise holder
without prior approval of the County, which approval the County will not
unreasonably withhold.
      6.   The franchise holder shall have the right to collect and retain
revenues accruing from the sale of recyclable materials at County-owned
landfills, but may not charge a collection fee from generators for collecting
recyclable materials.
   B.   Refuse Salvage: County solid waste employees shall retain the right to
salvage refuse delivered to landfills. Salvage collected and retained is
expected to be used for personal use only and shall not exceed a weight of two
hundred fifty (250) pounds or a loose volume of three (3) cubic yards during
any one monthly period.
   C.   Public Notification And Education:
      1.   The franchise holder shall agree to direct effective educational and
informational services regarding recycling designed to reach all residents of
the County. Content, structure and length of presentations or materials may
vary according to variations in age, specific interests or geographic locations
of audiences. Presentations shall include but are not limited to, information
concerning:
         a.   Why people should recycle.
         b.   Where people can recycle.
         c.   Materials which can be recycled.
         d.   Preparation standards of recyclable materials.
         e.   How materials are recycled and their end uses.
         f.   The value of recycling materials.
         g.   The effect of knowledgeable consumerism on waste reduction.
      2.   In order to transmit the desired educational and informational
materials, the franchise holder will be conversant with and able to demonstrate
familiarity with the concepts of:
         a.   Energy savings and conservation.
         b.   Resource preservation.
         c.   Landfill avoidance.
         d.   Pollution reduction through recycling.
         e.   Locations and hours of operation of recycling facilities.
         f.   Collectors, processors, and end users of recyclable materials.
         g.   The requirements of State law.
      3.   The franchise holder will make available to the Solid Waste
Committee all materials to be used and activities proposed. The presentations
shall be subject to approval by the Solid Waste Committee as to form and
general content. (1989 Code)
2-2A-13: INSPECTION FOR COMPLIANCE:
The vehicles, equipment and property used to conduct a solid waste service
shall be available for inspection at reasonable times to determine compliance
with provisions of this Chapter. Consent to such inspection is a condition of
granting of a solid waste franchise. (1989 Code)
2-2A-14: RECORDS OF WASTE QUANTITY:
A franchised solid waste collection service shall maintain a record of the
quantities of solid waste and recyclable materials handled in a form approved
by the County Court and shall submit the information to the County Court upon
request. (1989 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ON SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
ARTICLE A. SUBSURFACE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
2-3A-1:   Purpose
2-3A-2:   Oregon State Law Adopted
2-3A-3:   Manner Of Enforcement
2-3A-1: PURPOSE:
The county shall enforce state standards and regulations for subsurface sewage
disposal in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
the county. (Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
2-3A-2: OREGON STATE LAW ADOPTED:
Violation of ORS 454.605 to 454.755 or Oregon administrative rules, chapter
345, or any other state or county regulations pertaining to subsurface sewage
disposal systems, alternative sewage disposal systems and nonwater-carried
sewage disposal facilities may be enforced by the county pursuant to ORS
454.640 and 454.725. (Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
2-3A-3: MANNER OF ENFORCEMENT:
In addition to any enforcement action authorized under state law and Oregon
administrative rules, the procedures for a county civil infraction and
abatement of a public nuisance shall apply to unauthorized or violations of
sewage disposal system rules, regulations and permits. The contested case
hearing procedures in
title 3, chapter 1 of this code also apply to certain actions or decisions of
the environmental health director pertaining to sewage disposal systems. (Ord.
183, 10-7-2009)
CHAPTER 4
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
2-4-1:   Purpose
2-4-2:   Definitions
2-4-3:   General Guidance
2-4-4:   Specific Guidance
2-4-5:   Coordination And Monitoring
2-4-6:   Enforcement
2-4-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to establish the basis and process for
determining how federal and state agencies, special districts and the county
will coordinate and jointly plan actions affecting land and natural resource
uses in order that the citizens of Malheur County may preserve their custom,
culture and economic stability and protect and use their environment. (Ord.
135, 12-5-2001)
2-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, and any regulations promulgated hereunder, the
following words shall be defined as follows:
   ACTION: When used with respect to any federal or state agency and special
district, shall have the broadest possible meaning in the context of any
exercise of authority, and shall include, without limitation, any proposal,
policy, regulation, management plan, rule, consideration, finding, study, or
gathering or review of data, that may lead to any substantive rule, regulation,
plan or administrative action or determination.
   FEDERAL AGENCY, STATE AGENCY, DISTRICT OR ANY COMBINATION THEREOF: Each
department, commission, political subdivision or other instrumentality
receiving its authority from the executive, legislative or judicial branch of
the United States or the state of Oregon or from a board or governing body,
including, without limitation, independent regulatory agencies, districts
created under ORS chapter 198 or the principal act, and public corporations,
together with each officer, agent or employee thereof in the performance of
official duties.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY: All property protected by the fifth and fourteenth
amendments to the United States constitution. (Ord. 135, 12-5-2001)
2-4-3: GENERAL GUIDANCE:
To the fullest extent required or permitted by law, including this chapter, all
federal and state agencies and districts shall, in all actions considered,
proposed or taken that effect or have the potential of effecting the use of
land or natural resources within Malheur County:
   A.   Notify Malheur County, in writing, of any proposed action prior to the
initial planning phase of the proposed action.
   B.   Consider the effects such actions will have on: 1) community stability,
2) maintenance of custom, culture and economic stability, 3) conservation and
use of the environment and natural resources, and 4) access to natural
resources, and provide Malheur County with a detailed assessment of these
effects. The assessment shall include, at minimum, an analysis of the impacts
on:
      1.   Forest and timber resources;
      2.   Range or dry land crops;
      3.   Livestock grazing rights on private and public lands;
      4.   Watershed resources;
      5.   Water rights and irrigated cropland;
      6.   Air, water (including surface and ground water), energy and soils;
      7.   Integrated resource planning and management in which the county,
private parties and/or other public agencies are involved;
      8.   Multiple use, sustained yield and range resource laws and
regulations and grazing rights;
      9.   Private investment in public land and resources;
      10.   Hunting, fishing and other outdoor recreation;
      11.   The society, customs and culture of the county, as well as schools
and other local public services, including:
         a.   Impacts on culture due to population loss or relocation;
         b.   Impacts from proposed or foreseeable limitations or restrictions
on cultural beliefs and practices, and maintenance of cultural and community
cohesion;
         c.   Impacts on the ability of local government to protect the health,
safety, social and cultural well being of its citizens;
         d.   Impacts on cultural and community aesthetics, including
historical natural resource vistas, river ways and landscapes;
         e.   Impacts on the ability of local government to promote local
environmental values, resource protection and development;
         f.   Impacts on the ability of local government to finance local
public programs and services through bonding, lending and other fixed
mechanisms;
         g.   Identification of tax revenue loss to local government and
schools;
         h.   Impacts on local emergency medical services, law enforcement,
fire protection and nuisance abatement;
         i.   Impacts on local government infrastructure, including
transportation, landfill services and public water systems, including those
provided through irrigation and reclamation districts; and
         j.   Cumulative and long term impacts on local community stability and
well being.
      12.   Local economy, customs, services and businesses, which shall
include:
         a.   Impacts on private, investment expectations;
         b.   Impacts on the economic value of water rights and real property;
         c.   Direct and cumulative impacts on employment and wages;
         d.   Direct and cumulative impact on agriculture, timber and related
industries;
         e.   Direct and cumulative impacts on local retail and service
industries;
         f.   Impacts on housing and related residential services such as
water, sewer, sanitation, energy and communications;
         g.   Thresholds for business demand and markets; and
         h.   Direct and cumulative impacts on community stability and well
being related to private ability to maintain current and future debt service.
   C.   Coordinate procedures to the fullest extent possible with the county,
on an equal basis and not with the county as subordinate, prior to and during
the taking of any federal, state or district action.
   D.   Meet with the county to establish, through a memorandum of
understanding or otherwise, the process for such coordination, including joint
planning, joint environmental research and data collection, joint hearings, and
joint environmental assessments.
   E.   Submit a list and description of alternatives in light of possible
conflicts with the county's laws, policies and plans; consider reconciling the
proposed action with the county's laws, policies and plans; and after such
consideration, take all practical measures to resolve such conflict and display
the results of such consideration in appropriate documentation.
   F.   Not, in any environmental impact statement or otherwise, assume that
any proposed actions would be consistent with county conditions or would have
nonsignificant impact, without coordination and consultation with the county
and review of data specific to the county.
   G.   In the absence of a direct constitutional conflict, coordinate with the
county so as to comply with federal and state statutes and regulations, and
county laws, policies and plans, including the comprehensive plan.
   H.   Take appropriate mitigation measures adopted with the concurrence of
the county to mitigate adequately adverse impacts on culture, custom, economic
stability or protection and use of the environment. Proposed mitigation
measures shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Identify each impact which the mitigation measure is intended to
address;
      2.   Identify the party or agency responsible for the implementation and
monitoring of the proposed mitigation measure;
      3.   Specify for each mitigation alternative:
         a.   How impacts may be minimized by limiting the degree or magnitude
of the proposed action;
         b.   How impacts may be rectified through repair, rehabilitation or
restoration of the affected environment;
         c.   How impacts may be reduced or eliminated over time through
preservation and maintenance over the life of the proposed action; and
         d.   How the agency could compensate for the impact by providing
substitute resources of equal economic value;
      4.   Specify, for each mitigation measure, its legal authority, technical
feasibility, fiscal and economic feasibility, and social, political and
cultural feasibility;
      5.   Draft a detailed mitigation monitoring plan which shows as to each
mitigation measure, specific objectives and performance standards to ensure the
implementation of mitigation measures during the life of the plan, program or
project.
   I.   Not violate through regulatory means or otherwise any private property
rights of citizens of Malheur County.
   J.   Avoid taking actions that have the effect of obstructing or making
agricultural and livestock production of timber and wood products production or
mineral extraction economically infeasible in Malheur County.
   K.   Act to preserve important historic, cultural and natural aspects of our
county heritage, as determined by Malheur County.
   L.   Consider the historic and current use of water when the proposed action
could have an effect on existing water rights or uses and coordinate any action
which may affect the management of river flows, sources or uses of irrigation
water within the county.
   M.   Coordinate the acquisition of water rights with the county to ensure
that all water rights are protected.
   N.   Coordinate with the county in the planning and management of the
county's natural, cultural, economic, environmental resources related to air
and water quality. (Ord. 135, 12-5-2001)
2-4-4: SPECIFIC GUIDANCE:
   A.   Agriculture, Livestock And Grazing Management: The custom and culture
associated with the agriculture and livestock production in Malheur County is
significant to the economic stability, livelihood and well being of its
citizens and protection and use of their environment. The purpose of this
section is to provide clear guidance to federal and state agencies and
districts when actions taken by such entities affect or have the potential of
affecting grazing or agricultural and livestock production in Malheur County.
      1.   In general, since the regulation of any aspect of agriculture or
livestock production may impact the ability of county citizens to use land and
use and conserve natural resources for agriculture and livestock purposes, all
federal and state agencies and districts shall provide a detailed statement
assessing the specific effects on custom, culture, economy and environment of
Malheur County as well as the effect the action will have on any party or
parties with interests in the land or grazing allotments that would be subject
to the decision.
   B.   Cultural Resources, Recreation, Wildlife, Wilderness And Threatened And
Endangered Species Planning And Management, Including Reintroduction And
Relocation Of Species: The custom and culture associated with cultural
resources, recreation, wildlife and wilderness in Malheur County are
significant to the livelihood and well being of its citizens and protection and
use of their environment. It is the continuing policy of Malheur County to: 1)
assure for all citizens safe, healthful, productive and aesthetically and
culturally pleasing surroundings, 2) preserve important historic, cultural and
natural aspects of our county heritage, and 3) maintain whenever possible an
environment which supports diversity, multiuses and variety of individual
choice. The purpose of this section is provide clear guidance to federal and
state agencies and districts when actions by such agencies and districts may
affect cultural resources, recreation, wildlife and wilderness in Malheur
County.
      1.   In connection with any action related to sensitive threatened or
endangered plant or animal species, a federal or state agency or district
shall:
         a.   At the earliest possible time, give actual written notice to
Malheur County of the intent to consider or propose a species for listing, or
to change or propose critical habitat;
         b.   Base the listing of a species on the best scientific and
commercial data relating specifically to Malheur County and not generalized
over a wider geographic area;
         c.   List a species as threatened or endangered only after taking into
account the efforts of Malheur County to conserve the species;
         d.   Only implement a recovery plan if it will provide for
conservation of a species;
         e.   In designating critical habitat, base the designation on the best
scientific data available and, after taking into consideration economic
impacts, exclude as critical habitat all impacted areas unless, based upon the
best scientific and commercial data available, failure to designate would
result in extinction of the species;
         f.   Complete and forward to Malheur County in a timely manner all
documentation required by law when designating critical habitat;
         g.   Consider and directly respond to comments submitted by Malheur
County;
         h.   Not develop protective regulations or recovery plans if a Malheur
County plan is in place to protect effectively the species within Malheur
County;
         i.   Protect the species through alternatives with the least impact on
the custom, culture and economic stability and preservation and use of the
environment of Malheur County; and
         j.   To the extent permitted by law, take appropriate action
mitigation measure adopted with the concurrence of the county to mitigate
adequately any impact on custom, culture, economic stability and protection and
use of the environment, including any impact on public use and access and
private property rights.
   C.   Land Acquisition And Disposition: Land is significant to the
preservation of custom, culture and economy, and preservation and use of the
environment and natural resources. In addition, land provides much of the tax
base for vital public functions, such as funding of public schools and
administration of county government. When land (including any interest in land)
is acquired or held in trust by federal and state agencies and districts, it
may be removed from this tax base and the citizens of Malheur County may suffer
as a result. For these reasons, it is the policy of Malheur County that the
design and development of all federal and state land acquisitions, including by
forfeiture, donation, purchase, eminent domain or trust, and disposals,
including adjustments and exchanges, be carried out to the benefit of the
citizens of Malheur County.
   D.   Water Resources: Malheur County recognizes that the conservation and
development of water resources are essential to preservation of the custom,
culture and economic stability of its citizens and protection and use of their
environment. To the extent permitted by law, federal and state agencies shall
avoid taking actions affecting water rights and water resources that are
incompatible with local custom, culture and economic stability or preservation
and use of the environment, or that otherwise fail to protect private property
rights and local determination.
      1.   Any proposed definition of wetlands, any action affecting the
management of river flows or the sources or uses of irrigation, and any other
federal, state or district action that has any effect on water rights or water
uses with the county: a) shall be coordinated with the county, b) to the extent
permitted by law, shall comply with all county water use plans and c) shall not
violate any water rights.
      2.   To the extent permitted by law, Malheur County may develop, in
coordination with private landowners and governmental agencies, water
management plans that encompass water resources on both governmentally owned
and privately owned lands.
      3.   To the extent permitted by law, Malheur County shall have the
authority to establish development regulations for point source and nonpoint
source water pollution. To the extent such authority is exercised, and
otherwise in accordance with law, federal and state agencies and districts
shall be subject to, and shall comply with all administrative requirements,
controls, processes and sanctions of such development regulations.
      4.   The use of water that originates from sources outside of Malheur
County has been and continues to be an important part in the preservation of
custom, culture and economic stability and the protection and use of the
environment of Malheur County. The provision of this section shall therefore
apply full to actions taken by federal and state agencies and districts in any
jurisdiction that affect water rights and water uses within Malheur County.
      5.   Before any federal or state agency or district acquires or agrees to
acquire any interest in water rights in Malheur County, directly or indirectly
or in trust, for any purpose (including for transfer to or use any other
jurisdiction), by donation, purchase, condemnation or otherwise, such agency
shall fully comply with all provisions of this chapter. In addition, federal
and state agencies and districts shall not acquire for any public purpose any
interest in water rights within Malheur County without: a) first coordinating
and consulting with the county, and b) ensuring that private water rights are
protected.
   E.   Clean Air: Malheur County recognizes that the conservation and use of
clean air resources are significant to preservation of the custom, culture and
economic stability of its citizens and protection and use of their environment.
      1.   Any federal, state or district action that has or could have the
effect of changing existing use of air resources within the county shall be
critically considered in relationship to the historic and current use of air
resources in the county by humans, vegetation, livestock and wildlife. Any
proposed designation of federal or state pollution nonattainment areas and any
other federal or state action that has any effect on air resources within
Malheur County shall be coordinated with the county and shall comply with all
county air quality standards and use plans.
      2.   It is the intent of the county to assist federal and state agencies
and districts in the planning and management of the county's natural, cultural,
economic and environmental resources related to air quality. Malheur County
shall have the authority to establish development regulations regarding air
pollution and develop air quality protection plans of its own design. To the
extent such authority is exercised, federal and state agencies and districts
shall act in compliance with acceptance and enforcement of such regulations, to
the extent permitted by law. In addition, the county shall have the authority
to continue to develop, in coordination with private landholders and
governmental agencies, air quality management plans that encompass clean air
resources throughout Malheur County. To the extent such authority is exercised
and otherwise as permitted by law, federal and state agencies and districts
shall be subject to, and shall comply with, all administrative requirements,
controls, processes and sanctions of such regulations and plans.
   F.   Mining And Minerals: Malheur County recognizes that the conservation
and use of mining and mineral resources are significant to preservation of the
custom, culture and economic stability of its citizens and protection and use
of their environment.
      1.   Any federal, state or district action that has or could have the
effect of changing existing use of mining or mineral resources within the
county shall be critically considered in relationship to the historic and
current use of such resources in the county.
   G.   Private Property Rights: Malheur County recognizes that the protection
of private property rights is essential to preservation of the custom, culture
and economic stability of its citizens and protection and use of their
environment. Federal and state agencies and districts shall fully comply with
case law, statutes, regulations, rules and guidelines concerning protection of
private property rights in Malheur County. (Ord. 135, 12-5-2001)
2-4-5: COORDINATION AND MONITORING:
   A.   Coordination: This chapter shall be coordinated with existing and
future county ordinances, resolutions, policies and plans. It is intended as a
set of provisions that shall provide a general framework as well as specific
guidelines and shall work in conjunction with other county ordinances,
resolutions, policies and plans. In the event this chapter conflicts with such
other ordinances, resolutions, policies and plans, the provisions of this
chapter shall be given effect to the fullest extent possible.
   B.   General Authorization: Malheur County shall have the authority to
develop and maintain monitoring and compliance standards to evaluate and
enforce compliance by federal and state agencies and districts with the
provisions of this chapter, the comprehensive plan and other ordinances,
resolutions, policies and plans of Malheur County. Any actions that may be
taken or authority that may be exercised by Malheur County pursuant to this
chapter or otherwise in accordance with law, may be taken or exercised by
action of the Malheur County court. The county may exempt any action or area of
action by a federal or state agency or district from compliance with this
chapter.
   C.   Coordinating Committee: A basic premise of this chapter is that
involvement by citizens is crucial to the preservation of their custom, culture
and economic stability and protection and use of their environment. This is
particularly true with respect to coordinating regulation of land and natural
resource use. In order to involve citizens in monitoring, enforcement, planning
and data collection associated with this chapter and its purpose, the Malheur
County court will form an advisory committee. While no specific criteria must
be met, appointments to the committee should reflect an expertise and
involvement in the primary subject matter, and the broad diversity of the many
aspects of the culture, custom, economy and environment of Malheur County.
(Ord. 135, 12-5-2001)
2-4-6: ENFORCEMENT:
The Malheur County court shall have the authority to request county counsel or
the district attorney to bring an action to enforce this chapter in any court
or administrative tribunal of competent jurisdiction and to seek cumulative
remedies, including any criminal or civil penalties allowed by law, equitable
relief, and monetary compensation when the county tax base or the general
welfare or health and safety of the citizens of the county is at issue.
Any person or agency, who under the color of law, statute, ordinance,
regulation or customs, wilfully subjects any person within Malheur County to
the deprivation of property rights secured or protected by this chapter shall
be guilty of a class A infraction. (Ord. 135, 12-5-2001)
TITLE 3
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
HEALTH AND SANITARY FACILITIES
SECTION:
3-1-1:   Authority; Purpose And Intent
3-1-2:   Definitions
3-1-3:   Notice To Parties In Contested Cases
3-1-4:   Immediate Suspension Or Refusal to Renew Licenses; Notice
3-1-5:   Orders When No Hearing Requested Or Upon Failure To Appear
3-1-6:   Administrative Hearings
3-1-7:   Evidentiary Rules
3-1-8:   Proposed Orders In Contested Cases; Exceptions And Arguments
3-1-9:   Final Orders In Contested Cases; Notification
3-1-10:   Reconsideration; Rehearing
3-1-11:   Civil Penalties
3-1-12:   Review
3-1-1: AUTHORITY; PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   In compliance with ORS 446.425, 448.100 and 624.510, and rules of the
state health division relating to county performance of certain licensing
programs for tourist facilities, as defined in ORS chapter 446, for public
swimming and wading pools and bathhouses as defined in ORS chapter 448, and for
restaurants, commissaries, mobile units and vending machines as defined in ORS
chapter 624, the provisions of this chapter are adopted for the conduct of
hearings for license and certificate denial, suspension and revocation.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter are intended for the specific
administration of programs assigned to the county as the local public health
authority under referenced laws, and the Malheur County court is designated to
receive petitions and appeals as provided for assignment to a hearings officer.
(Ord. 157, 6-14-2006)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
   CONTESTED CASE: A contested case exists whenever:
   A.   Legal rights, duties, or privileges of specific parties are required by
statute, constitution, ordinance, rule or regulation to be determined only
after a hearing.
   B.   The county has discretion to suspend or revoke a right or privilege of
a person.
   C.   There is a suspension, revocation or refusal to renew or issue a
license where the licensee or applicant for a license demands an administrative
hearing.
   D.   There is a proceeding in which the county elects to grant an
administrative hearing, in accordance with contested case requirements.
   PARTY: Any person or agency entitled to a hearing as of right before the
county with respect to the matter in issue, or named or admitted as a party.
(Ord. 157, 6-14-2006)
3-1-3: NOTICE TO PARTIES IN CONTESTED CASES:
   A.   The county shall give notice to all parties in a contested case. The
notice shall include:
      1.   A statement of the party's right to an administrative hearing, or a
statement of the time and place of the hearing;
      2.   A statement of the authority and jurisdiction under which the
hearing is to be held;
      3.   A reference to the particular sections of the statutes and rules
involved;
      4.   A short and plain statement of the matters asserted or charged;
      5.   A statement that the party may be represented by counsel at the
hearing; and
      6.   A statement that if the party desires a hearing, a written request
for such hearing must be given to the county within a specified number of days
from the date of the mailing of the notice.
   B.   The number of days within which the county must be notified that the
party desires a hearing shall be as follows:
      1.   Within twenty (20) days of the date of the mailing of the notice; or
      2.   When the county refuses to issue a license required to pursue any
commercial activity, trade, occupation or profession, if the refusal is based
on grounds other than the results of a test or inspection, within sixty (60)
days from notification of the refusal.
   C.   The notice shall be served personally or by registered or certified
mail. (Ord. 157, 6-14-2006)
3-1-4: IMMEDIATE SUSPENSION OR REFUSAL TO RENEW LICENSES; NOTICE:
   A.   If the county finds that there is a serious danger to the public health
or safety, it may immediately suspend or refuse to renew a license.
   B.   The county shall give notice to the party upon immediate suspension or
refusal to renew a license. The notice shall include:
      1.   A statement of the party's right to a hearing;
      2.   A statement of the authority and jurisdiction under which the
hearing is to be held;
      3.   A reference to the particular sections of the statutes and rules
involved;
      4.   A short and plain statement of the matters asserted or charged;
      5.   A statement that the party may be represented by counsel at the
hearing;
      6.   A statement that if the party demands a hearing, the county must be
notified within ninety (90) days of the date of this notice;
      7.   A statement giving the reason for the immediate action; and
      8.   The effective date of the suspension or refusal to renew the
license.
   C.   The notice shall be personally served or by registered or certified
mail.
   D.   A hearing need not be held where the suspension or refusal to renew is
accompanied by or is pursuant to a citation for violation which is subject to
judicial determination in any court of this state; and the suspension or
refusal to renew by its terms will terminate in case of a final judgment in
favor of licensee. (Ord. 157, 6-14-2006)
3-1-5: ORDERS WHEN NO HEARING REQUESTED OR UPON FAILURE TO APPEAR:
   A.   When a party has been given an opportunity and fails to request a
hearing within a specified time, or having requested a hearing, fails to appear
at the specified time and place, the county shall enter an order which supports
the action taken.
   B.   The order supporting the county action shall set forth the material on
which the action is based or such material shall be attached to and made a part
of the order. (Ord. 157, 6-14-2006)
3-1-6: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
   A.   A hearing shall be conducted by and shall be under the control of a
hearing officer. The hearing officer may be any member of the Malheur County
court, the entire Malheur County court, the Malheur County justice of peace or
any other person(s) designated by the county.
   B.   At the discretion of the hearing officer, the hearing shall be
conducted in the following manner:
      1.   Statement and evidence of the county in support of its action. The
county may be represented by legal counsel;
      2.   Statement and evidence of affected person disputing the county's
action; and
      3.   Rebuttal testimony.
   C.   The hearing officer, the affected parties and the county or its
attorneys shall have the right to question or examine or cross examine any
witness.
   D.   The hearing may be continued with recesses as determined by the hearing
officer for good cause shown.
   E.   The hearing officer may set reasonable time limits for oral
presentation and may exclude or limit cumulative, repetitious or immaterial
matter.
   F.   Exhibits shall be marked and the markings shall identify the person
offering the exhibits. The exhibits shall be preserved as part of the record of
the proceedings.
   G.   Hearing will be tape recorded, but an official transcript will not be
made.
   H.   Once closed, the hearing will not be reopened for additional evidence.
At the request of a party, the hearing may remain open for ten (10) days for
the limited purpose of submitting written arguments to the hearing officer.
(Ord. 157, 6-14-2006)
3-1-7: EVIDENTIARY RULES:
   A.   Evidence of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons
in the conduct of their serious affairs shall be admissible.
   B.   Irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious evidence shall be
excluded.
   C.   All offered evidence, not objected to, will be received by the hearing
officer subject to his or her power to exclude irrelevant, immaterial or unduly
repetitious matter.
   D.   Evidence objected to may be received by the hearing officer and rulings
on its admissibility or exclusion shall be made at the time of a final order
issued.
   E.   Testimony of witnesses shall be upon oath or affirmation administered
by the hearing officer. Such testimony shall be subject to cross examination. A
witness may be heard other than under oath without being subject to cross
examination, but any informal statements of fact will not be part of the record
for decision, review or appeal purposes.
   F.   The hearing officer may limit oral argument in his/her discretion.
   G.   A person authorized to be heard shall have the right to present his/her
case by oral, documentary, or other satisfactory evidence, to submit evidence
in rebuttal, and to conduct such cross examination as may be required for a
full and complete disclosure of facts.
   H.   The hearing officer may limit expert opinion evidence in his/her
discretion.
   I.   Rules of privilege recognized by law shall be applicable.
   J.   After first advising of intention to do so, notice may be taken of
judicially cognizable facts as is provided by law.
   K.   Documentary evidence may be received in the form of copies or excerpts
or by incorporation by reference.
   L.   The provisions of ORS 183.450 shall be applicable. (Ord. 157, 6-14-
2006)
3-1-8: PROPOSED ORDERS IN CONTESTED CASES; EXCEPTIONS AND ARGUMENTS:
   A.   If a majority of officials from the county court who are to render a
final order are not present at a hearing or have not reviewed and considered
the record, and the order is adverse to a party (excluding the county), a
proposed order, including findings of fact and conclusions of law, shall be
served upon the parties.
   B.   The parties shall be given the opportunity to file exceptions and
present arguments to the officials who render the final order.
   C.   The hearing officer shall prepare and serve on the county and all
parties to hearing a proposed order, including recommended findings of fact and
conclusions of law. The proposed order shall become final after the twentieth
day following the date of service of the proposed order, unless the county
within that period issues an amended order. (Ord. 157, 6-14-2006)
3-1-9: FINAL ORDERS IN CONTESTED CASES; NOTIFICATION:
   A.   Final orders in contested cases shall be in writing and include the
following:
      1.   Rulings: Rulings on admissibility of offered evidence;
      2.   Findings Of Fact: Those matters which are either agreed as fact or
which, when disputed, are determined by the fact finder, on substantial
evidence, to be a fact over contentions to the contrary;
      3.   Conclusions Of Law: Applications of the controlling law to the facts
found at the legal results arising therefrom; and
      4.   Order: The action taken by the county as a result of the findings of
fact and conclusions of law.
   B.   Parties to contested cases and their attorneys on record shall be
served a copy of the final order by mail. Parties shall be notified of their
right to a judicial review of the order including the cite to ORS 183.484.
(Ord. 157, 6-14-2006)
3-1-10: RECONSIDERATION; REHEARING:
   A.   A party may file a petition for reconsideration or rehearing on a final
order with the county within thirty (30) days after the order is served.
   B.   The petition shall set forth the specific grounds for requesting the
reconsideration or rehearing. The petition may be supported by a written
argument.
   C.   The county may grant a reconsideration petition if sufficient reason is
made to appear. If the petition is granted, an amended order shall be entered.
   D.   The county may grant a rehearing if sufficient reason therefor is made
to appear. The rehearing may be limited by the county to specific matters.
   E.   If the county does not act on the petition within sixty (60) days
following the date the petition was filed, the petition shall be deemed denied.
   F.   A petition for rehearing or reconsideration need not be filed as
condition of judicial review. (Ord. 157, 6-14-2006)
3-1-11: CIVIL PENALTIES:
   A.   Civil penalties may be levied in the manner provided by ORS 183.745 and
OAR 333-157-0045.
   B.   A civil penalty imposed under this section shall become due and payable
ten (10) days after the order imposing the civil penalty becomes final by
operation of law or on appeal. A person against whom a civil penalty is to be
imposed shall be served with a notice in the form and manner provided by
section
3-1-3 of this chapter.
   C.   Any person who requests a hearing within the time allowed shall be
entitled to a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to section
3-1-6 of this chapter. If a hearing is not requested within the time allowed, a
final order imposing the civil penalty shall be made. (Ord. 157, 6-14-2006)
3-1-12: REVIEW:
The provisions of ORS chapter 183, otherwise applicable to contested case
proceedings and civil penalties shall apply. (Ord. 157, 6-14-2006)
CHAPTER 2
OUTDOOR MASS GATHERINGS
SECTION:
3-2-1:   Statutes And Rules Incorporated
3-2-2:   Definitions
3-2-3:   Permit Required
3-2-4:   Application
3-2-5:   Fee
3-2-6:   Permit Process For Outdoor Mass Gatherings When Gathering Does Not
Require A Land Use Permit
3-2-7:   Waiver
3-2-8:   Insurance
3-2-9:   Administrator
3-2-10:   Sheriff
3-2-11:   Fire And Emergency Medical Services
3-2-12:   Health Officer And Environmental Health Officer
3-2-13:   Temporary Permit May Be Required
3-2-14:   Other Types Of Assemblies Distinguished
3-2-15:   Enforcement
3-2-1: STATUTES AND RULES INCORPORATED:
   ORS 433.735 to 433.770 and 433.990(6) (the statutes) and OAR 333-039-0005 to
333-039-0055 (the administrative rules) which regulate mass gatherings, are
incorporated herein by this reference and apply to outdoor mass gatherings as
defined by this chapter. However, where this chapter provides a standard,
procedure or definition different than the statutes and/or rules, this chapter
shall control. (Ord. 189, 11-3-2010)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
   COUNTY COURT: The county court for Malheur County, Oregon.
   ORGANIZER: Includes any person who holds, stages or sponsors an outdoor mass
gathering and the owner, lessee or possessor of the real property upon which
the outdoor mass gathering is to take place.
   OUTDOOR MASS GATHERING: An actual or reasonably anticipated assembly of 750
or more persons at any time on land within the unincorporated areas of Malheur
County which continues and can reasonably be expected to continue for more than
five (5) hours but not more than 120 hours within any three-month period, which
is held primarily in open spaces and not in any permanent structure. Included
are hours necessary to set up the gathering or clean up afterward. Excluded are
hours required for ingress to egress from a gathering that is located on lands
zoned Exclusive Farm Use that are 60 miles or farther from the nearest
interstate highway.
   PERMANENT STRUCTURE: Includes a stadium, an arena, an auditorium, a
coliseum, a fairground or other similar established places for assemblies.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE: Includes tents, trailers, chemical toilet facilities
and other structures customarily erected or sited for temporary use. (Ord. 189,
11-3-2010; amd. Ord. 225, 10-14-2020)
3-2-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No organizer shall hold, conduct, advertise or otherwise promote an
outdoor mass gathering or allow an outdoor mass gathering to be held on real
property the organizer owns, leases or possesses unless a permit to hold such
outdoor mass gathering has been issued by the county court.
   B.   A permit issued under this chapter does not entitle the organizer to
make any permanent physical alterations to or on real property. (Ord. 189, 11-
3-2010)
3-2-4: APPLICATION:
An application, more than sixty (60) days prior to the first day of the
gathering, shall be submitted by the organizer to the county court. The
application shall include:
   A.   Names, addresses, date of birth and telephone number of all persons
organizing, promoting and sponsoring the outdoor mass gathering.
   B.   Dates, number of days, hours of the days and total duration of the
outdoor mass gathering, including set up and clean up.
   C.   The location or site of the outdoor mass gathering, including site
dimensions. Include legal description, address and zoning designation of site.
   D.   Plans for sanitation, fire protection, medical services, public safety,
security, parking, traffic flow and public roads to be accessed.
   E.   The number of persons anticipated to attend the outdoor mass gathering
at any one time, and the number of persons expected to attend the entire event.
Organizer must be able to keep a reasonable count of persons and vehicles
entering and leaving the outdoor mass gathering and, if necessary, to limit
admissions to comply with attendance numbers estimated by organizer.
   F.   Nature of proposed gathering. Food being served and by whom, cost to
attend, whether sound amplification will be used, a statement whether alcohol
will be made available etc.
   G.   Signed certification of the accuracy and truthfulness of the statements
made in the application.
   H.   Incomplete applications will not be processed. (Ord. 189, 11-3-2010)
3-2-5: FEE:
Before accepting an application for an outdoor mass gathering permit, the
county court shall collect an application fee. The fee shall be set, and may be
changed, by order or resolution of the county court. In setting or changing the
fee, the county court will consider the reasonable and necessary costs incurred
by the sheriff, fire agency, county health and environmental health officers,
road supervisor and other agencies and officials, in reviewing and processing
the application, inspecting the assembly site and ensuring the safety of
persons and property at, and in the vicinity of, the outdoor mass gathering.
The fee shall not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), unless the limit in
ORS 433.750(6) is increased. (Ord. 189, 11-3-2010; amd. Ord. 225, 10-14-2020)
3-2-6: PERMIT PROCESS FOR OUTDOOR MASS GATHERINGS WHEN GATHERING DOES NOT
REQUIRE A LAND USE PERMIT:
Upon receipt of an application and permit fee to hold an outdoor mass
gathering, the county court shall give notice of the application to the county
sheriff, the fire district, ambulance district and ambulance provider in which
the outdoor mass gathering is to be held, the county environmental and public
health officers and the county road supervisor. The county court may, in
addition, request comment on the application from any other agency or official
who may be affected by the application. The county court shall publish and post
notice, and hold a public hearing on the application in the manner required by
ORS 433.750. After holding the hearing and considering the evidence and
testimony submitted, the county court shall determine whether to issue the
permit. In any case, the county court shall not grant a permit for an outdoor
mass gathering unless the organizer can:
   A.   Demonstrate compliance with or the ability to comply with the
administrative rules and conditions of permit.
   B.   Demonstrate that the proposed outdoor mass gathering will not make any
permanent physical alterations to or on the real property, which is the site of
the outdoor mass gathering, or materially alter the capability to use the real
property upon which the outdoor mass gathering is to be held in the future for
uses designated under the real property's comprehensive plan and zoning
designation.
   C.   Demonstrate compliance with or the ability to comply with the
requirements of the Oregon liquor control commission (OLCC), if alcohol is
served.
   D.   Demonstrate that the proposed outdoor mass gathering will not
unreasonably disturb persons or property in the vicinity of the gathering for
reasons such as, but not limited to, excessive noise or dust. When sound
amplification is used, no outdoor mass gathering shall be conducted within one
thousand feet (1,000') of any neighboring residence between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. The county court, in its
discretion, may impose other noise restrictions and specify a noise control
level if the county court determines that doing so is necessary to preserve the
comfort and repose of neighboring residents.
   E.   Consent, in writing, to allow law enforcement, public and environmental
health and fire control officers to come upon the premises for which the permit
has been granted for the purpose of inspection and enforcement of the terms and
conditions of the permit issued. If deficiencies are not cured or cannot be
cured, a county code enforcement officer may revoke the outdoor mass gathering
permit. If the organizer fails to remove all debris, structures and residue
from the site or adjacent property by the end of the one hundred twenty (120)
hours permitted for the event, a county code enforcement officer may issue a
public nuisance citation. In addition, the county may seek other and additional
remedies as set out in ORS 433.755(2).
   F.   Acknowledge that issuance of a permit by the county court pursuant to
this section shall not authorize an outdoor mass gathering unless the organizer
also secures the written statement of the county sheriff, as required by OAR
333-039-0050, and the written approval of the chief of the fire district in
which the gathering is to be held, or other local fire protection agency with
jurisdiction, as required by OAR 333-039-0045. (Ord. 189, 11-3-2010; amd. Ord.
225, 10-14-2020)
3-2-7: WAIVER:
An organizer of an outdoor mass gathering of less than one thousand (1,000)
persons may request a waiver from the county court regarding the requirement of
published notice and a hearing. The county court, in its discretion, may waive
the requirement of published notice and hearing if the organizer demonstrates
to the county court's satisfaction that the outdoor mass gathering will involve
less than one thousand (1,000) persons, that adjacent and nearby residents and
property owners have been notified of the outdoor mass gathering, and any
concerns of adjacent and nearby residents and property owners have been
addressed or will be addressed, and that the waiver is justified under the
circumstances. (Ord. 189, 11-3-2010)
3-2-8: INSURANCE:
The county court determines that outdoor mass gatherings inherently create a
potential for injury to persons and property. Therefore, organizers are
required to obtain an insurance policy in an amount not exceeding one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00). The policy of casualty insurance shall provide
coverage against liability for death, injury or disability of any human or for
damage to property arising out of the outdoor mass gathering. The county, its
officers, agents and employees, the sheriff, and the county health officer
shall be named as additional insureds under the policy. (Ord. 189, 11-3-2010)
3-2-9: ADMINISTRATOR:
The county court, by order or resolution, may appoint a person or position to
administer this chapter and applications filed pursuant to this chapter. (Ord.
189, 11-3-2010)
3-2-10: SHERIFF:
Upon receipt of an application for an outdoor mass gathering permit, the
sheriff shall consider the requirements of OAR 333-039-0050, security
personnel. (Ord. 189, 11-3-2010)
3-2-11: FIRE AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES:
Upon receipt of an application for an outdoor mass gathering permit, the fire
district or agency, ambulance service district, ambulance service provider and
road supervisor shall consider the requirements of OAR 333-039-0040, emergency
medical facilities; OAR 333-039-0045, fire protection; and OAR 333-039-0055
traffic. (Ord. 189, 11-3-2010)
3-2-12: HEALTH OFFICER AND ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH OFFICER:
Along with the notice of an application for an outdoor mass gathering permit,
the county court shall request the county health officer and environmental
health officer to recommend whether to approve or deny the permit considering
the requirements of OAR 333-039-0015, water supply; OAR 333-039-0020, drainage;
OAR 333-039-0025, sewerage facilities; OAR 333-039-0030, refuse storage and
disposal; and OAR 333-039-0035, food and sanitary food service. (Ord. 189, 11-
3-2010)
3-2-13: TEMPORARY PERMIT MAY BE REQUIRED:
No more than one permit may be issued under this chapter for an outdoor mass
gathering during any three (3) month period for the same organizer or property,
unless the organizer or landowner also applies for and receives a temporary or
conditional use permit pursuant to Malheur County zoning ordinance. (Ord. 189,
11-3-2010)
3-2-14: OTHER TYPES OF ASSEMBLIES DISTINGUISHED:
   A.   An actual or reasonably anticipated assembly of less than seven hundred
fifty (750) persons is not an outdoor mass gathering and is not a land use.
   B.   An actual or reasonably anticipated assembly of seven hundred fifty
(750) or more persons on land which does not constitute and is not reasonably
expected to continue for more than five (5) consecutive hours is not an outdoor
mass gathering and is not a land use.
   C.   Land Use Permit. An actual or reasonably anticipated assembly of more
than 3000 persons which continues or can reasonably be expected to continue for
more than 24 consecutive hours but less than 120 hours within any three-month
period and which is primarily in open spaces and not in a permanent structure
requires a land use permit (i.e. conditional use permit in the EFU zone). In
addition, the organizer must demonstrate compliance or that it can comply with
the requirements of this ordinance; and the requirements set out in ORS 433.750
and 433.755. An outdoor mass gathering requiring a land use permit must be
compatible with the existing land uses and cannot materially alter the
stability of the overall land use pattern of the area. The conduct of hearings,
notice provisions and approval criteria for a land use permit are set in ORS
433.763, ORS 215.402 to 215.438, the Malheur County Code and other applicable
state laws and administrative rules. A separate or additional fee may be
established by the planning department for a land use permit for outdoor mass
gatherings. (Ord. 189, 11-3-2010; amd. Ord. 225, 10-14-2020)
3-2-15: ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter may be enforced as provided by, and violators hereof are subject
to the penalties provided in, the Malheur County general enforcement
provisions, in addition to other remedies and penalties provided by statutes,
administrative rules and common law. (Ord. 189, 11-3-2010)
CHAPTER 3
NOXIOUS WEED CONTROL
SECTION:
3-3-1:   Title
3-3-2:   Purpose
3-3-3:   Definitions
3-3-4:   Weed Control District
3-3-5:   Weed Inspector
3-3-6:   List Of Noxious Weeds
3-3-7:   Notice
3-3-8:   Duties Of Owner
3-3-9:   Duty To Clean Machinery Before Moving; Weed Infested Residue Not To Be
Moved
3-3-10:   Eradication Of Noxious Weeds When Owner Refuses
3-3-11:   Expenses As Lien
3-3-12:   Penalties
3-3-13:   Other Remedies
3-3-14:   Jurisdiction
3-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the MALHEUR COUNTY WEED ORDINANCE. (Ord. 172,
12-5-2007)
3-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to specify the procedures for the control of
weeds identified as noxious by the Malheur County court and for areas within
the Malheur County Weed Control District. (Ord. 172, 12-5-2007; amd. Ord. 231,
4- 12-2023)
3-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the following
meanings:
 
COUNTY COURT: The Malheur County court
              The Malheur County weed control district, the boundaries of which
DISTRICT:     coincide with the boundaries of Malheur County. Boundaries of
              incorporated cities are specifically excluded from the District.
 
 
              Real property within Malheur County outside the limits of a city
LAND:         upon which a violation of this chapter has occurred or is
              occurring.
              Any plant determined by the county court and recommended by the
NOXIOUS WEED: Weed Inspector to be injurious to public health, crops,
              livestock, land, or other property.
OWNER:        Any legal owner or any person having charge, care or control of
              land. (Ord. 172, 12-5-2007; amd. Ord. 231, 4-12-2023)
 
3-3-4: WEED CONTROL DISTRICT:
All of Malheur County outside the limits of any city is the weed control
district for the purpose of destroying and preventing the seeding and spread of
noxious weeds. The district is known as the Malheur County weed control
district. (Ord. 172, 12-5-2007)
3-3-5: WEED INSPECTOR:
The county court shall appoint a weed inspector, whose duties shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   To discover whether any noxious weeds or plants are being permitted to
grow and produce bloom or seed within the district contrary to this chapter or
ORS 569.360 to ORS 569.495;
   B.   To serve notices;
   C.   When necessary, to destroy or cut, or to supervise the destruction or
cutting of noxious weeds growing or seeding within the district; and
   D.   To conduct investigations, approve plans, make expenditures within the
weed department budget and issue citations for violations of this chapter.
The weed inspector shall exercise discretion in fulfilling duties pursuant to
this chapter, consistent with the availability of funds and other resources.
(Ord. 172, 12-5-2007; amd. Ord. 231, 4-12-2023)
3-3-6: LIST OF NOXIOUS WEEDS:
For purposes of this chapter, weeds shall be declared noxious by their
inclusion on a list adopted by resolution of the county court, upon the
recommendation of the weed inspector. A weed may be added to, re-prioritized or
deleted from the list of noxious weeds by resolution of the county court.
Noxious weeds shall be designated and control prioritized into A, B and C
groups. Priorities may be adjusted within the county at the discretion of the
weed inspector with permission of the county court. (Ord. 172, 12-5-2007)
3-3-7: NOTICE:
   A.   When it appears that violation of ORS chapter 569 or this chapter has
occurred, the weed inspector shall serve a written notice to the owner of the
land. If the weed inspector is unable to serve the notice personally, the weed
inspector shall post the notice and two (2) copies thereof in three (3)
conspicuous places on the land. If notice is posted, the weed inspector shall
also mail a copy of the notice to the owner or occupant of the land by both
regular mail and certified mail, return receipt requested.
   B.   The notice shall contain at least the following:
      1.   The date of service or posting of the notice;
      2.   The name of the noxious weed or weeds growing on the land; and
      3.   A statement setting forth that the noxious weeds must be destroyed
or must be prevented from producing seed within a specified period of time,
which shall be within the discretion of the weed inspector, but in no event
shall be less than two (2) days or more than twenty (20) days from the date of
service or posting.
   C.   A copy of the notice, together with proof of service or posting
endorsed thereon, shall be filed with the county court.
   D.   Notwithstanding the above, with permission of the landowner or
occupant, employees of the State Department of Agriculture, or agents of the
weed control district or weed inspector, may enter the land to identify noxious
weeds and to implement or provide for the implementation of integrated noxious
weed control measures, including but not limited to the application of
pesticides to the land. The control or eradication of noxious weeds may be
conducted with or without charge to the owner or occupant of the land. A notice
described in subsection B. above is not required for the conduct of activities
described in this subsection. (Ord. 172, 12-5-2007; amd. Ord. 231, 4-12-2023)
3-3-8: DUTIES OF OWNER:
   A.   Upon service or posting of the notice provided in section
3-3-7  of this chapter, any owner of the land shall destroy the noxious weed or
weeds specified in the notice or prevent the noxious weed or weeds from seeding
or spreading.
   B.   Every owner shall destroy or prevent the seeding on the owner's land of
any weed classified as a noxious weed by the county court using the most
efficient and practical means available and within the time declared reasonable
by the weed inspector. In no event shall a noxious weed be permitted to produce
seed. The means used to destroy or prevent the seeding of noxious weeds shall
comply with all applicable laws and label instructions. (Ord. 172, 12-5-2007;
amd. Ord. 231, 4- 12-2023)
3-3-9: DUTY TO CLEAN MACHINERY BEFORE MOVING; WEED INFESTED RESIDUE NOT TO BE
MOVED:
   A.   No person operating or having control of any threshing machinery,
clover huller, hay baler, seed cleaning or treating machinery or other
machinery shall move said machinery over any public road or from one farm to
another without first being thoroughly swept and cleaned.
   B.   All hay, straw or other crop residue infested with noxious weeds having
partially or fully formed seeds shall not be moved from the land on which grown
to other lands not infested with any of the weeds in the field from which such
crop material came. (Ord. 231, 4-12-2023)
3-3-10: ERADICATION OF NOXIOUS WEEDS WHEN OWNER REFUSES:
   A.   In the event that any owner or occupant of land fails or refuses to
destroy or cut noxious weeds within the time period specified in the notice
provided in section
3-3-7  of this chapter; or a person fails to comply with section
3-3-9  of this chapter, the weed inspector may issue a citation to the owner,
and/or seek injunctive relief in the Malheur County justice court to force
compliance with this chapter.
   B.   In addition, the weed inspector may go upon the land of the owner and
destroy or cut the noxious weeds or control them in a manner that will destroy
all seeds of such noxious weeds. The weed inspector and persons authorized by
the weed inspector may enter upon the property to abate the weed violation only
upon obtaining consent of the owner or a court issued warrant or upon obtaining
authority from the county court.
   C.   In the event destruction or control of the noxious weeds on any farm is
in the judgment of the weed inspector impracticable because the weeds are too
far advanced, or if for any other reason the means of control available are
unsatisfactory, the weed inspector shall notify the county court, who may
request the state department of agriculture to immediately quarantine the
noxious weed infested farm within the county to prevent the movement of
infested crops or livestock from the farm except under conditions prescribed in
the quarantine that will prevent the spread of noxious weeds by such crops or
livestock.
   D.   In all cases where the weed inspector undertakes to destroy or control
noxious weeds, the most effective and practical method that will not cause
injury to the land or crops in the judgment of the weed inspector shall be
used.
   E.   Upon completion of the weed abatement process and such work as
specified herein by the weed inspector or other person so appointed and
authorized by the county court, the weed inspector or such other person shall
file with the county court and county clerk an itemized statement of the
expenses necessarily incurred in the destruction of the noxious weeds,
including the wages of the inspector, assistants, if any, or such other person,
verified by the oath of the weed inspector or person. (Ord. 172, 12-5-2007;
amd. Ord. 231, 4-12-2023)
3-3-11: EXPENSES AS LIEN:
   A.   When the statement of expenses is filed with the county court as
specified in section
3-3-10  of this chapter, the county clerk shall cause it to be entered upon a
lien docket prepared for that purpose. The amount of the charges and expenses
when so docketed shall constitute a first lien upon the owner's land or
premises, except as to taxes.
   B.   If the charges and expenses are not paid and the lien discharged by the
owner or occupant of such lands within ninety (90) days from the date the lien
is docketed, the county may recover the expenses in an action at law.
   C.   If within ten (10) days from the date of filing and docketing the lien
as provided herein or ORS 569.400 and 569.410, no objection have been filed
thereto, the county court shall pay to the person(s) so appointed by the court
to perform the work, out of the general funds or the county, the amount of such
lien. (Ord. 172, 12-5-2007; amd, Ord. 231, 4-12-2023)
3-3-12: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates sections
3-3-9  and
3-3-10  of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than seven
hundred twenty dollars ($720.00) for a noncontinuing offense and a fine of not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a continuing offense.
   B.   Each day that this chapter is violated shall constitute a separate
violation. (Ord. 172, 12-5-2007; amd. Ord. 231, 4-12-2023)
3-3-13: OTHER REMEDIES:
The provisions of this chapter are in addition to and not in lieu of any other
procedures and remedies provided by law including equitable relief and damages.
(Ord. 172, 12-5-2007; amd. Ord. 231, 4-12-2023)
3-3-14: JURISDICTION:
Jurisdiction for actions brought under this chapter shall be with the Malheur
County justice court for penalties as set out in
3-3-12 . All other matters in this chapter shall be heard before the county
court. (Ord. 172, 12-5-2007; amd. Ord. 231, 4-12-2023)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC NUISANCES
SECTION:
3-4-1:   Title
3-4-2:   Purpose
3-4-3:   Definitions
3-4-4:   General Prohibitions
3-4-5:   Notice Of Abatement
3-4-6:   Enforcement
3-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the MALHEUR COUNTY PUBLIC NUISANCE ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
3-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and general
welfare of the people of Malheur County and protect the beauty of its
landscape. (Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
3-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
   ABATE: To decrease in amount, clean up, eradicate, destroy and rectify the
problem.
   ACCUMULATION: Place, collect, pile, store, or keep on property.
   BUILDING: Any structure, mobile home or manufactured home.
      Abandoned Building: A building in which no one claims a right or interest
in or one that the owner has withdrawn all rights or interests in.
      Dangerous Building: A building that is deemed dangerous or unsafe when
any and or all of the conditions or defects that exist are to the extent that
the life, health, property or safety of the public or its occupants are
endangered. The county building official or the state fire marshal will make
the determination based on the Oregon building codes or Malheur County building
code.
      Vacant Building: A building unoccupied or unused for its intended purpose
for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months or longer shall be deemed
vacant. The unfinished exterior construction of a building when a building
permit has expired.
   HAZARDOUS APPLIANCE OR CONTAINER: Household appliances such as washers,
dryers, icebox, refrigerators, dishwashers, water heaters, stoves, and other
containers which are not being used for their intended purpose in their current
condition or which have an airtight lock or hook which may not be released from
inside and are being stored outside for more than a period of fourteen (14)
days.
   HOBBYIST OR OWNER: Vehicles or vehicle parts that are collected, purchased,
acquired, traded, restored, stored or maintained for the person's own use. This
shall include cars used in competition or racing. This shall include all
vehicles whether they are operable or inoperable.
   NUISANCE: For the purpose of this chapter, any act, omission, thing or
condition that, under the circumstances, causes injury, damage, annoyance,
inconvenience, discomfort, an offensive odor, is unsightly or degrades the
appearance of the area; is capable of causing an unreasonable threat of fire or
detriment to public health, safety and welfare; interferes with another's use
and enjoyment of real property; or interferes with the substantial and
unreasonable invasion of a right common to members of the general public.
   NUISANCE TREE, PLANT OR VEGETATION: Any plant, grass or tree (alive or dead)
causing or capable of causing an unreasonable threat to public health, safety
and welfare including, but not limited to: a tree, plant or vegetation
attractive to climb; a tree, plant or vegetation that may damage property and
utilities by falling due to its condition or size, overhang or height; or a
tree, plant or vegetation that blocks the vision of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic. This definition includes poison oak, hazardous thickets, noxious weeds
and dangerous vegetation that is a health or fire hazard. This definition does
not include agricultural crops.
   OFFENSIVE LITTERING: Consistent with ORS 164.805, a person commits the
violation of offensive littering if the person creates an objectionable stench
or degrades the beauty or appearance of property or detracts from the natural
cleanliness or safety of property by intentionally: discarding or depositing
any rubbish, trash, garbage, debris or other refuse or solid waste upon the
land of another without permission of the owners, or upon any public way or in
or upon any public transportation facility. Draining or causing or permitting
to be drained, garbage, debris or other refuse or solid waste upon a public way
or in or upon any public transportation facility. Permitting any rubbish,
trash, garbage, debris or other refuse or solid waste to be thrown from a
vehicle, which the person is operating. This definition does not apply to a
person operating a vehicle transporting passengers for hire subject to
regulation by interstate of commerce commission of the public utility
commission of Oregon, or to a person operating a school bus described in ORS
801.460.
   OWNER/RESPONSIBLE PERSON: Any legal owner or person having charge, care or
control of property or premises such as a contract purchaser, lessee, occupant,
agent or tenant.
   PERSONS: Individuals, corporations, associations, firms, partnerships,
government (local, federal or state), trust, estate, joint stock companies or
any other legal entity.
   PROPERTY: A developed or undeveloped lot or parcel and all improvements
located thereon as located within Malheur County.
   UNFIT FOR USE: A determination made by the Oregon health division that means
the property or building has been found to be, or there are reasonable grounds
to believe that the building or property was the site of illegal drug
manufacturing.
   VEHICLES: Any motor vehicle or motor vehicle parts. This includes, but is
not limited to, vehicles that are wrecked, dismantled, scrapped, ruined, used,
untitled, operable, inoperable, domestic, agricultural, commercial, industrial,
hobby or collectibles.
   WASTE: Useless, unwanted or discarded material. The fact that materials,
which would otherwise come within the definition of waste, may from time to
time have value, and thus be utilized or wanted shall not be removed from this
definition. Waste includes solid waste, hazardous solid waste and putrescible
waste.
      Hazardous Solid Waste: Solid waste, which may, by itself or in
combination with other solid waste or naturally occurring substances, be
infectious, poisonous, caustic, toxic, otherwise dangerous or injurious to
humans, plants, or animals.
      Putrescible Waste: Solid waste or sludge containing organic material that
can be rapidly decomposed by microorganisms, which may give rise to foul
smelling, offensive products such as animal carcasses that attract or provide
food for birds, animals, and insects including potential disease vectors such
as rats or rodents.
      Solid Waste: Shall include all putrescible and nonputrescible waste,
including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, refuse, ashes, junk,
wastepaper and cardboard, rubber products, petroleum products, plastics,
bottles, glass, cans and manmade products; grass clippings; compost; sewer
sludge; septic tank and cesspool pumpings; hazardous solid waste; hazardous
appliances and containers; residential, commercial, industrial, construction
and demolition waste; equipment and furniture; pieces of metal; inoperable
vehicles; vehicle parts and bodies; used motor oil, batteries, vehicle tires;
manure, vegetable, dead animals; and animal solid and semisolid waste. (Ord.
183, 10-7-2009)
3-4-4: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS:
No person shall cause or permit a nuisance on property that is owned or
controlled by the person. Nuisance includes:
   A.   Accumulations, deposits, dumping or disposal of solid waste or waste,
except:
      1.   Materials located in a duly licensed and authorized landfill or
waste disposal site licensed and maintained in accordance with local and state
law.
      2.   Materials accumulated for collection within seven (7) days by a
solid waste disposal service.
      3.   Materials in reasonable amounts to be used for fertilizer in an
agricultural operation or domestic garden. What is reasonable will be
determined by the size of the agricultural operation or domestic garden, zoning
of the property and proximity to residential and commercial structures.
      4.   Personal recycling completely enclosed and not visible from a public
road or to be disposed of within ninety (90) days.
   B.   Stagnant water that affords a breeding place for mosquitoes and other
insect pests.
   C.   Nuisance tree, plant or vegetation.
   D.   Vehicles on property when:
      1.   Dealer: There is an accumulation of more than eight (8) motor
vehicles or an equivalent amount of motor vehicle bodies or body parts on the
property and the owner of the property does not have a Malheur County zoning
permit and a license for a junk dealer, salvage yard, auto wrecking
establishment or commercial business; or
      2.   Hobbyist/Owner: There is an accumulation of more than eight (8)
motor vehicles or an equivalent amount of motor vehicle bodies or body parts on
the property and the motor vehicles are: a) not enclosed in a sight obscuring
fence not less than six feet (6') tall or a building that is maintained in good
condition, or b) not hidden or adequately screened by the terrain or other
natural objects, or by plantings or other appropriate means so as not to be
visible from public roads.
      3.   Exceptions: This subsection D does not apply to:
         a.   Any vehicle or equipment on property of a licensed or legitimate
business including an agricultural operation.
         b.   Any vehicle temporarily on property not to exceed ninety (90)
days. Nothing in this section is meant to permit commercial or temporary
activities that require a zoning permit or license.
         c.   Any vehicle on property when the vehicle is licensed, insured,
titled and actually and regularly operated on public roads.
         d.   Any vehicle operated on a regular or seasonal basis and is used
for the productivity, care and maintenance of the property or animals on the
property.
   E.   Unauthorized sewage disposal system.
   F.   Abandoned, dangerous or vacant building when the building or any
portion thereof is no longer used for its original purpose; is unsafe for its
intended purpose; a visual nuisance; or a risk to life, health, other property
or safety of the public or its occupants.
   G.   Noxious weeds 1 .
   H.   Violations of a continuous and ongoing nature of the Malheur County
open burning ordinance 2 .
   I.   Road hazards 3 .
   J.   Any other thing, act, omission or condition that is determined by a
county enforcement officer to meet the definition of nuisance.
   K.   A wireless telecommunication facility that is not in compliance with
its conditional use permit and requires removal because of discontinued or
nonuse.
   L.   Property placed on the Oregon health division "unfit for use list"
pursuant to ORS 453.879 because it has been used for the manufacture of illegal
drugs shall be considered a nuisance ninety (90) days after it has been listed
and shall remain a nuisance until such time as it is issued a "certificate of
fitness" by the Oregon health division.
   M.   Transporting waste or solid waste without a cover, tie down or suitable
security during transit so that no piece, article or portion of waste or solid
waste can blow, fall or otherwise be deposited upon public roads or the
property of another.
   N.   Salvaging any materials or solid waste disposed of at Lytle Boulevard
Landfill without authorization from the environmental health director.
   O.   Offensive littering.
   P.   Any property, whether vacant or improved, building, or accumulation of
waste or materials, which is infested or provides harborage for vector or
rodents. (Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See
  chapter 3  of this title.
2 2. See
  title 2, chapter 1  of this code.
3 3. See
  chapter 5  of this title.
3-4-5: NOTICE OF ABATEMENT:
   A.   Civil Infraction And Fine: Imposition of a civil infraction and fine
does not relieve an owner/responsible person of the duty to abate the nuisance.
The procedure to abate a nuisance is an additional remedy to the civil
infraction procedure. Abatement is not a defense to imposition of a forfeiture
or fine.
   B.   Abatement Of Noxious Weeds And Road Hazards: The abatement procedures
for noxious weeds are set out in ORS chapter 570 and
chapter 3 of this title. The abatement procedures for road hazards are set out
in ORS 368.251 to 368.281.
   C.   Notice Of Abatement (NOA): Upon determination that a public nuisance
exists as defined in this chapter or any other ordinance of the county, a
county enforcement officer shall notify the owner or responsible person(s) of
the nuisance in writing. The NOA shall be made by personal service, substituted
service, office service or by mail. Service by mail is to be by both first
class mail and by certified mail with return receipt requested. There shall be
a rebuttable presumption that any NOA sent by mail is delivered/served on the
third business day following deposit with the U.S. postal service.
   D.   Abatement By Owner Or Responsible Person: Within fourteen (14) days
after delivery of the NOA, the alleged offender, owner or responsible person
shall remove or abate the nuisance or meet with the county enforcement officer
to formulate a removal or abatement plan that is acceptable to the county.
   E.   Appeal Or Protest Notice Of Abatement:
      1.   Any person who receives a NOA may appeal from the NOA or protest
that a nuisance exists by filing with the justice court a written request for
an appeal or protest. The appeal or written protest shall be received by the
justice court within fourteen (14) days after the person appealing or
protesting received the NOA. The written request for an appeal or protest shall
contain a brief statement setting forth the facts of the appeal or protest and
in concise language the relief sought.
      2.   As soon as practical, the justice court shall fix a date, time and
place for the hearing on appeal. Such date shall not be less than ten (10) days
or more than sixty (60) days from the date the appeal was received by the
county. The hearing may be conducted by the justice of peace.
      3.   Failure of a person to file a timely appeal in accordance with the
provisions herein contained shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing
or adjudication of the NOA or any portion thereof.
      4.   All hearings shall be heard by the justice of peace and conducted in
such manner as to allow all interested persons full opportunity to be heard.
Hearings need not be conducted according to technical rules relating to
evidence and witnesses.
      5.   Following the hearing, the justice of peace may uphold, overrule or
modify any decision or requirement as set forth in the NOA.
      6.   A decision of the justice court after the hearing shall be final.
Appeal shall only be by writ of review under ORS chapter 34. (Ord. 183, 10-7-
2009)
3-4-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any owner or responsible person who violates section
3-4-4 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine as set out in section
1-9A-3 of this code.
   B.   The county may institute any appropriate action to abate the nuisance
if the NOA or decision of the county court or justice of peace is not followed.
   C.   The enforcement officer, county representative or contractor hired by
the county may enter upon the property to abate the nuisance.
   D.   Accurate records of the direct expense incurred by the county to abate
the nuisance shall be kept and include a surcharge of ten percent (10%) of the
cost of abatement for administrative overhead.
   E.   At the conclusion of the abatement, a notice of costs of abatement
shall be served by a method that is consistent with ORCP 7(D). Payment must be
made within thirty (30) days from the date of the notice of costs of abatement.
   F.   The owner or responsible person may contest the charges at a hearing if
a written request for a hearing is received by the justice court within
fourteen (14) days after receipt of the notice of costs of abatement. The only
issue at the hearing shall be the reasonableness of the cost of abatement.
Failure of the person requesting the hearing shall constitute a waiver of the
right to present evidence at the hearing or thereafter. At the conclusion of
the hearing, the justice of peace shall issue an order detailing the amount of
the abatement cost the owner/responsible person must pay, if any. If costs are
not paid within thirty (30) days, the county may record a lien with the county
clerk lien record. The lien shall be foreclosed in the manner prescribed by
state law for the enforcement of liens against real property. Nine percent (9%)
interest per annum on the unpaid abatement costs shall run from the date of the
entry of the lien in the lien record. (Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
CHAPTER 5
ROAD HAZARDS
SECTION:
3-5-1:   Obstruction Of Road Drains Prohibited
3-5-2:   Creation Of Road Hazard Prohibited
3-5-3:   Homeless Individuals Camping On County Right-Of-Way
3-5-1: OBSTRUCTION OF ROAD DRAINS PROHIBITED:
No person shall stop, obstruct or in any other manner impair or damage any
drain, ditch or other manmade or natural waterway that:
   A.   Prevents water from causing damage to, flowing across or standing on a
public road under County jurisdiction; or
   B.   Benefits a public road under County jurisdiction. (1989 Code)
3-5-2: CREATION OF ROAD HAZARD PROHIBITED:
Except as authorized by the County governing body, an owner or lawful occupant
of land shall not allow:
   A.   Any water to overflow, seep or otherwise discharge from that land onto
a public road under County jurisdiction including, but not limited to, water
that is passing over the land, diverted from the land by an obstruction on the
land, flowing from the land because of rainfall or discharged from an
irrigation sprinkler or other device.
   B.   Any structure, tree drainage way, soil deposit or other natural or
manmade thing on that land to present a danger to or create a hazard for the
public traveling on a public road or facilities within the right of way of the
public road by obstructing, hanging over or otherwise encroaching or
threatening to encroach in any manner on a public road that is under County
jurisdiction.
A person is not in violation of this Section if there is no reasonable method
for the person to control, stop or remove the cause of the violation. (1989
Code)
3-5-3:   HOMELESS INDIVIDUALS CAMPING ON COUNTY RIGHT-OF-WAY:
Camping is prohibited on County right-of-way as defined and set out in Malheur
County Code Title 3 Chapter 17. (Ord. 232, 6-21-2023)
CHAPTER 6
DOG CONTROL
SECTION:
3-6-1:   Dogs Running At Large
3-6-2:   Keeping Of Restricted Breeds Of Dogs
3-6-1: DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   No dog shall run at large in Malheur County. Any dog shall be
considered to be running at large when it is off or outside the premises
belonging to the owner or keeper of such dog, or not in the company of and
under the control of its owner or keeper, and does not include use of a dog:
      1.   Under the supervision of a person in order to legally hunt, chase or
tree wildlife;
      2.   To control or protect livestock; or
      3.   In other related agricultural activities.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to those areas inside a
city that has an established dog licensing program.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of any authorized
person to enforce the provisions of ORS 609.010 through 609.190. (1989 Code)
3-6-2: KEEPING OF RESTRICTED BREEDS OF DOGS:
   A.   Definitions:
   KEEPER: A person who keeps, owns, possesses, controls, harbors, exercises or
otherwise has charge of a restricted breed of dog.
   MUZZLE: A restraining device made of metal, plastic, leather or cloth or a
combination of these materials, that, when fitted and fastened over a snout/
mouth/head, prevents a dog from biting but allows room for the dog to breathe
and pant. The muzzle must be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the
dog or interfere with its vision or respiration, but must prevent the dog from
biting any person or animal.
   RESTRICTED BREED OF DOG: American pit bull terrier, American Staffordshire
terrier, Staffordshire bull terrier, American bulldog (Old Country bulldog),
Dogo Argentino, Canary dog (Canary Island dog, Presa Canario, Perro de Presa
Canario), Presa Mallorquin (Perro de Presa Mallorquin, Ca de Bou), Tosa (Tosa
inu, Tosa fighting dog, Japanese fighting dog, Japanese mastiff), Cane Corso
(Cane di Macellaio, Sicilian branchiero), Fila Brasileiro (Brazilian mastiff)
or any dog displaying the majority of physical traits or any one or more of the
above breeds, or any dog exhibiting those distinguishing characteristics which
substantially conform to the standards established by the American Kennel Club
or United Kennel Club for any of the above breeds. Any uncertainty about the
breed of a dog is to be determined by a duly licensed and qualified
veterinarian at the expense of the keeper.
   SECURE PEN, KENNEL OR ENCLOSURE: A five (5) sided structure designed to
prevent entry of a child or escape of a restricted breed of dog. The pen,
kennel or enclosure must have secure sides and a secure top. If the pen, kennel
or enclosure does not have a bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be
embedded in the ground no less than two feet (2'). All structures erected to
house a restricted breed of dog must comply with all zoning and building
regulations and ordinances of the county, be of adequate size and kept
sanitary. The gate of the pen, kennel or enclosure shall be secured with a
combination or key lock. (Note: If the pen is larger than 200 square feet or
has sides greater than 6 feet, the county may require a structural permit.
Inquiries are to be made at Inspections, Inc.)
   B.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to have, own, possess,
keep, exercise control over, maintain, harbor or otherwise have charge of any
restricted breed of dog within Malheur County, unless the following guidelines
are complied with at the sole expense of the keeper. Failure to comply and
remain in compliance with all of the following guidelines shall subject the
restricted breed of dog to impoundment and the keeper to fines and other costs
as established by the Malheur County justice of the peace in accordance with
subsections D and E of this section:
      1.   At all times, a restricted breed of dog must be confined in
accordance with this chapter. When outside, a restricted breed of dog must be
in a secure pen, kennel or enclosure. No restricted breed of dog may be kept on
a porch, patio, or in any part of a house or structure that would allow the dog
to exit on its own volition. Restricted breeds of dogs shall not be leashed,
chained or otherwise attached to an inanimate object such as a tree, pole,
building or vehicle.
      2.   Restricted breeds of dogs that are being walked or exercised off the
premises of the owner must be muzzled and securely leashed with a leash no
longer than four feet (4') in length held by someone who is physically capable
of effectively controlling the dog.
      3.   Restricted breeds of dogs may not ride or be transported in an open
area of a truck or vehicle without a secure temporary enclosure. The temporary
transporting enclosure must have six (6) sides with a top and bottom that are
permanently attached to the sides except for the door for removal of the dog.
The enclosure must be of such material so that the dog cannot exit the
enclosure on its own.
      4.   The owner shall, at the owner's expense, have the restricted breed
of dog vaccinated for rabies as well as spayed and/or neutered and be able to
present proof that these procedures have been performed.
   C.   Exceptions: The prohibition and guidelines in subsection B of this
section shall not apply in the following circumstances.
      1.   A Humane Society or other nonprofit animal shelter.
      2.   A licensed business primarily intended to obtain a profit from the
kenneling of dogs.
      3.   A facility impounding dogs on behalf of Malheur County or a city
within Malheur County.
      4.   Law enforcement, animal control or Humane Society officials for the
purpose of carrying out this chapter or other dog control official business.
      5.   Any veterinarian while treating, grooming or housing a dog until
claimed by the owner.
      6.   Showing a restricted breed of dog in an exhibition, show or contest
sponsored by a dog club association or similar organization. However, the
sponsor of the exhibition, contest or show must receive authorization from the
Malheur County sheriff's office, must obtain applicable planning and zoning
approval and provide protective measures adequate to prevent restricted breeds
of dogs from escaping or injuring the public.
   D.   Impoundment:
      1.   If a restricted breed of dog has been impounded for violating this
section, the dog shall not be released from impoundment except on the order of
the justice of peace, but not less than three (3) days, excluding weekends and
holidays, subsequent to the owner being notified or reasonable efforts have
been made to notify the owner of the impoundment. Possession of the dog may be
recovered by the dog's owner if the judge finds that the restricted breed of
dog was not in violation of this section, or upon payment of all assessments,
expenses, fees or costs as set forth in subsection E of this section and upon
proof of compliance with the guidelines set forth in subsection B of this
section. If possession of the dog is not recovered in the time frame ordered by
the justice of peace or an owner cannot reasonably be located, the dog shall be
deemed an unclaimed dog and may be disposed of by adoption or death in a humane
manner.
   E.   Infraction: Violations of this section are a class B infraction under
this code and subject to a monetary assessment of no more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). Monetary assessments shall be two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) for the first offense and five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
subsequent offense plus the expense of boarding, reclamation fees, food and
necessary veterinary expenses. This assessment may be imposed in addition to
impoundment and court ordered disposition of the dog as set forth in subsection
D of this section. (Ord. 161, 12-13-2006)
CHAPTER 7
AMBULANCE AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
SECTION:
3-7-1:   Short Title And Authority
3-7-2:   Policy And Purpose
3-7-3:   Definitions
3-7-4:   Emergency Medical Service Advisory Board (Rep. by Ord. 127, 7-25-2000)
3-7-5:   Ambulance And Emergency Medical Service Areas
3-7-5-1:   Ambulance Service Areas Adopted
3-7-6:   Duties Of Ambulance Service Provider (Rep. by Ord. 127, 7-25-2000)
3-7-7:   Emergency Services Director (Rep. by Ord. 127, 7-25-2000)
3-7-8:   EMS Medical Director/Supervising Physician
3-7-1: SHORT TITLE AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known as the MALHEUR COUNTY AMBULANCE AND
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORDINANCE. (1998 Revision)
   B.   Authority: This chapter is enacted pursuant to ORS 682.205, 682.275 and
203.035. (Ord. 127, 7-25-2000)
3-7-2: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
The county court finds:
   A.   That ORS 682.205 requires Malheur County to develop a plan for the
county relating to the need for and coordination of ambulance and emergency
medical services and to establish ambulance service areas consistent with the
county ASA plan to provide efficient and effective ambulance services. (1998
Revision)
   B.   This chapter, which establishes ambulance and emergency medical service
areas, together with the documentation known as the Malheur County ambulance
service area plan (ASA plan) incorporated herein by reference, make up the
complete plan for ambulance and emergency medical service for Malheur County.
(Ord. 127, 7-25-2000)
   C.   It is the intent of this chapter that no disruption of services occur.
Any agreements to provide services in effect on the date this chapter becomes
effective shall remain in effect thereafter.
   D.   It is also the intent of this chapter to provide the most efficient and
effective EMS system possible, while still maintaining each EMS provider's
independence and identity. (1998 Revision)
   E.   An EMS medical director/supervising physician shall be appointed for
all EMS providers within Malheur County. This chapter gives the EMS medical
director/supervising physician all powers and duties under ORS 682.245(4) and
OAR 847-35-0025. (Ord. 127, 7-25-2000)
3-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases in this chapter shall have the meanings provided in ORS
chapter 682, OAR chapter 333, division 260 and OAR chapter 847, division 35.
(Ord. 127, 7-25-2000)
3-7-4: EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ADVISORY BOARD:
(Rep. by Ord. 127, 7-25-2000)
3-7-5: AMBULANCE AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE AREAS:
3-7-5-1: AMBULANCE SERVICE AREAS ADOPTED:
For the efficient and effective provision of ambulance and emergency medical
services in accordance with the 1998 ASA plan, the ambulance and emergency
medical service areas shown on the map included in the ASA plan are hereby
adopted as the ambulance service areas for Malheur County. The county court, by
ordinance and pursuant to ORS 682.205, may adjust the boundaries of the
ambulance service areas from time to time as necessary to provide efficient and
effective ambulance services, as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 127, 7-25-
2000)
3-7-6: DUTIES OF AMBULANCE SERVICE PROVIDER:
(Rep. by Ord. 127, 7-25-2000)
3-7-7: EMERGENCY SERVICES DIRECTOR:
(Rep. by Ord. 127, 7-25-2000)
3-7-8: EMS MEDICAL DIRECTOR/SUPERVISING PHYSICIAN:
The EMS medical director/supervising physician shall have all powers and duties
under ORS 682.245(4) and OAR 847-35-0025, including final authority for all
protocols and standing orders which pertain to patient care. (Ord. 127, 7-25-
2000)
CHAPTER 8
FOOD HANDLER'S CERTIFICATION
(Rep. by Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
CHAPTER 9
TRAFFIC SAFETY
SECTION:
3-9-1:   Short Title And Authority
3-9-2:   Policy And Purpose
3-9-3:   Malheur County Traffic Safety Commission
3-9-3-1:   Commission Created; Members' Terms; Organization
3-9-3-2:   Powers And Duties
3-9-1: SHORT TITLE AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known as the MALHEUR COUNTY TRAFFIC SAFETY
ORDINANCE.
   B.   Authority: This chapter is enacted pursuant to ORS 203.035 and 802.329.
(Ord. 74, 4-2-1991)
3-9-2: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
The county court finds:
   A.   That ORS 802.329 provides that Malheur County may participate in the
state's highway safety program. (Ord. 74, 4-2-1991)
   B.   That reducing Malheur County's motor vehicle crash rate will save
valuable lives and limbs and will reduce insurance rates for motor vehicles
registered in Malheur County, including those owned and operated by Malheur
County. (Ord. 162, 1-17-2007)
3-9-3: MALHEUR COUNTY TRAFFIC SAFETY COMMISSION:
3-9-3-1: COMMISSION CREATED; MEMBERS' TERMS; ORGANIZATION:
There is hereby created a Malheur County traffic safety commission, each member
of which shall be appointed by the county court for a two (2) year term. There
is no limit to the number of subsequent terms each member may be appointed to
serve. The commission shall choose its own chairperson and secretary and shall
meet at least quarterly or when called upon by the county court. Motions shall
be passed by a majority of those attending. (Ord. 96, 1-2-1996)
The commission shall consist of:
   A.   One representative of the Malheur County health department.
   B.   One representative of the fire services from within Malheur County.
   C.   One representative of the Malheur County sheriff's office, one
representative of the Nyssa police department, one representative from the
Ontario police department and one representative from the Oregon state police
department.
   D.   One representative from the Malheur County road department, one
representative from the Ontario road assessment district, one representative
from the Nyssa road assessment district, one representative from each of the
city public works and one representative from ODOT.
   E.   One representative from the Malheur County district attorney's office.
   F.   The Malheur County justice of the peace.
   G.   One representative of the Malheur County private business community.
   H.   One representative who has either a special interest or experience in
traffic safety issues. (Ord. 162, 1-17-2007)
   I.   One representative of Malheur County's students. (Ord. 199, 4-3-2013)
   J.   One representative from a trucking or towing business that has its
principal place of business in Malheur County. (Ord. 162, 1-17-2007)
The Malheur County counsel shall provide legal advice and assistance to the
commission as needed. (Ord. 96, 1-2-1996)
3-9-3-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The commission's powers and duties to identify and meet Malheur County's
traffic and safety needs include, but are not limited to, the following: (Ord.
74, 4-2-1991)
   A.   To review traffic crash reports made to the motor vehicle division,
Oregon department of transportation, which the law makes available to the
commission, and to initiate measures which will help prevent crashes in the
future. (Ord. 162, 1-17-2007)
   B.   To solicit input from throughout Malheur County concerning traffic
safety issues and problems.
   C.   To make the commission the countywide focal point and clearinghouse for
traffic safety issues.
   D.   To facilitate communication and public relations about traffic safety
issues regionwide. (Ord. 74, 4-2-1991)
   E.   To coordinate available resources and programming made available for
traffic safety, engineering, education and enforcement countywide. (Ord. 162,
1-17-2007)
   F.   To act as the countywide resource for accessing state and federal
monies for traffic safety programs.
   G.   To encourage the development and implementation of new projects in
traffic safety.
   H.   To recognize accomplishment in local traffic safety efforts in diverse
areas. (Ord. 74, 4-2-1991)
CHAPTER 10
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
3-10-1:   Title; Authority
3-10-2:   Policy And Purpose
3-10-3:   Definitions
3-10-4:   Emergency Services Director
3-10-5:   Emergency Declaration
3-10-6:   Enforcement And Penalties
3-10-1: TITLE; AUTHORITY:
   A.   Title: This Chapter shall be known as the MALHEUR COUNTY EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE.
   B.   Authority: This Chapter is enacted pursuant to ORS 401.015 et seq.
(Ord. 95, 11-21-1995)
3-10-2: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
The Malheur County Court finds:
   A.   ORS Chapter 401 requires counties to establish an emergency management
agency. An emergency management agency is necessary to prevent, prepare for,
respond to, and recover from damage resulting from a disaster.
   B.   A disaster could occur at any time and a local agency for emergency
management is necessary to protect the general welfare of the people of Malheur
County.
   C.   It is necessary to designate an Emergency Services Director for the
County and give the Director all powers and duties under ORS 401.305.
   D.   The purpose of this Chapter is to provide for an organization to act
before, during and after an emergency or disaster to coordinate mitigation,
preparedness, response and recovery from disaster. (Ord. 95, 11-21-1995)
3-10-3: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases in this Chapter shall have the meanings provided in ORS,
Chapter 401, as currently constituted unless specifically defined herein to
have a different meaning.
"Emergency" includes any manmade or natural event or circumstances causing or
threatening loss of life, injury to person or property, human suffering, or
weather, drought, earthquake, volcanic activity, spills or releases of oil or
hazardous material as defined in ORS 466.605, contamination, utility or
transportation emergencies, disease, blight, infestation, crisis influx of
migrants unmanageable by the County, civil disturbance, riot, sabotage and war.
(Ord. 95, 11-21-1995)
3-10-4: EMERGENCY SERVICES DIRECTOR:
The Director of Emergency Services is hereby appointed as the person who shall
have the responsibility for the organization, administration, and operations of
the Malheur County Emergency Management Agency, subject to the direction of the
Malheur County Court, as specified in ORS 401.305. (Ord. 95, 11-21-1995)
3-10-5: EMERGENCY DECLARATION:
   A.   When in the judgment and discretion of the County Court a state of
emergency exists, the Court shall declare in writing and publicize the
existence of the same. If the circumstances prohibit the timely action of the
County Court, any combination of two (2) of the following Malheur County
officials may together declare such a state of emergency: the County Court
Judge, and County Court Commissioner, the County Sheriff, or the Emergency
Services Director. This declaration shall be in effect for a period of up to
seven (7) days, at which time the County Court will either continue or
discontinue the state of emergency.
   B.   The Emergency Services Director shall cause an Emergency Operations
Plan to be prepared, adopted, maintained, and exercised. The Emergency
Operations Plan shall provide for an organization for emergency management,
including a chain of command, the use of Incident Command System, management
and maintenance of an Emergency Operations Center, and for the operations
during and after the state of emergency.
   C.   Whenever a state of emergency has been declared to exist within the
County, as authorized pursuant to ORS Chapter 401 and by executive order of the
Governor, certain extraordinary measures may be taken in the interest of public
health, safety, or welfare. These measures may be taken by the County Court. If
the circumstances prohibit the timely action of the Court, any combination of
two (2) of the following Malheur County officials may together implement these
actions for a period of seven (7) days, unless continued by the County Court:
the County Court Judge, a County Court Commissioner, the County Sheriff, or the
Emergency Services Director. (Ord. 95, 11-21-1995)
3-10-6: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
Any such person who violates any of the provisions of this Chapter is guilty of
a Class A County infraction. Failure to comply with any provision of this
Chapter shall be a separate offense for each provision. (Ord. 95, 11-21-1995)
CHAPTER 11
BOVINE TRICHOMONIASIS TESTING
SECTION:
3-11-1:   Purpose
3-11-2:   Definitions
3-11-3:   Bulls In Public Grazing Allotments
3-11-4:   Virgin Bulls
3-11-5:   Trichomoniasis Test Tag And Virgin Bull Identification Tag
3-11-6:   Penalties
3-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to control the bovine venereal disease
trichomoniasis. The requirements of this chapter are in addition to Oregon
state law. The provisions of the bovine trichomoniasis test positive response
program, otherwise applicable to positive trichomoniasis cases, shall apply.
(Ord. 154, 4-5-2006, eff. 9-1-2006)
3-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
   BOVINE TRICHOMONIASIS OR TRICHOMONIASIS: A sexually transmitted disease of
cattle caused by the parasitic protozoan organism Trichomoniasis fetus.
   OFFICIAL TRICHOMONIASIS TAG: An ear tag of the correct color for the then
current trichomoniasis testing season as designated by the Oregon department of
agriculture to be the official Oregon trich ear tag. Bulls which bear a current
trichomoniasis test tag from another state that has an official trichomoniasis
testing program will be acceptable to Malheur County as an official
trichomoniasis tag.
   TRICHOMONIASIS TESTING SEASON: The period from September 1 through August 31
each year and representative of the year starting January 1 as the current
trichomoniasis testing year.
   VETERINARIAN: A person who holds a current and valid license to practice
veterinary medicine in Oregon or in the state where the veterinarian practices
and who is either certified under OAR 603-011-0630 or otherwise trained to
perform trichomoniasis testing and diagnosis.
   VIRGIN BULL: A sexually intact male bovine less than twelve (12) months of
age that is certified by an owner or the owner's representative as having had
no potential breeding contact with females. Certification by an owner or the
owner's representative shall be a written instrument signed by the owner or the
owner's representative that the bull is a virgin bull. (Ord. 154, 4-5-2006,
eff. 9-1-2006; amd. Ord. 188, 11-3-2010)
3-11-3: BULLS IN PUBLIC GRAZING ALLOTMENTS:
Bulls that are turned out on public grazing allotments, that are located wholly
or partially within Malheur County, shall be tested for trichomoniasis by a
veterinarian before March 31 of each trichomoniasis testing season or forty
five (45) days prior to turnout on a public grazing allotment, whichever occurs
first. (Ord. 154, 4-5-2006, eff. 9-1-2006)
3-11-4: VIRGIN BULLS:
Virgin bulls shall be exempt from the trichomoniasis testing requirement in
this chapter. (Ord. 154, 4-5-2006, eff. 9-1-2006)
3-11-5: TRICHOMONIASIS TEST TAG AND VIRGIN BULL IDENTIFICATION TAG:
All bulls tested for trichomoniasis or certified as virgin bulls turned out on
public grazing allotments, located wholly or partially within Malheur County,
shall be identified with an official trichomoniasis tag. Bulls tested by a
veterinarian in Oregon must be recorded on the Oregon state trich testing/
tagging form. (Ord. 154, 4-5-2006, eff. 9-1-2006)
3-11-6: PENALTIES:
Violation of this chapter is a Malheur County code class B infraction with an
assessment of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per bull. (Ord. 154, 4-5-
2006, eff. 9-1-2006)
CHAPTER 12
DESIGNATION OF CRIMINAL GANG AFFILIATES
SECTION:
3-12-1:   Definitions
3-12-2:   Procedure
3-12-3:   Hearings Process
3-12-4:   Records Division
3-12-5:   Appeals Of Existing Designations
3-12-6:   Purge Process
3-12-7:   Improper Designation
3-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
   CRIMINAL GANG: A gang is criminal if individuals affiliated with it have
committed two (2) or more crimes, which involve any of the following:
   A.   Benefit members of the gang;
   B.   Are committed as part of an initiation process or membership ritual;
   C.   Are designed to announce the existence of the gang, its membership or
its territorial claims;
   D.   Are committed in response to the race, color, religion, sexual
preference, national origin or gang association of the victim; or
   E.   Are designed to intimidate a victim in the name of the gang.
   CRIMINAL GANG AFFILIATE (OR AFFILIATE OF A CRIMINAL GANG): A person who
participates in the activity of a criminal gang, or who actively pursues
membership in a criminal gang. A person will be designated as a criminal gang
affiliate only when there is clear and convincing evidence that the person has
been a criminal gang affiliate in the previous three (3) years, and while a
criminal gang affiliate, either one of the indicators in list A of this
definition was present, or two (2) of the indicators in list B of this
definition were present.
   A.   List A (1 of 3 required):
      1.   The person admits or asserts affiliation, membership or
participation with a criminal gang.
      2.   The person participates in a criminal gang initiation, ritual or
ceremony.
      3.   The person conspires to commit, or commits a crime:
         a.   Which is part of a pattern of street crimes facilitated by the
efforts of other criminal gang affiliates, which advance the interests of the
person or criminal gang; or
         b.   To attract the attention of the criminal gang or enhance the
standing of the person with the criminal gang; or
         c.   For the benefit of the criminal gang; or
         d.   To announce the existence of the criminal gang, its membership or
its territorial claims; or
         e.   In response to the race, color, religion, sexual preference,
national origin or criminal gang association of the victim.
   B.   List B (2 of 7 required):
      1.   The person displays knowledge of the gang's history, leadership,
activities or rituals in a context that clearly indicates affiliation with the
criminal gang; or
      2.   The person announces to the police that the person is willing to
commit assaults, crimes, or make other sacrifices for the criminal gang; or
      3.   The person wears clothes or jewelry unique to a gang in a context
that clearly indicates affiliation with a criminal gang; or
      4.   The person uses a hand sign or language, which, due to content or
context, clearly indicates affiliation with the criminal gang; or
      5.   The person's name appears on a criminal street gang document; or
      6.   The person is in a photograph with other people who collectively
display criminal gang signs or apparel to exhibit solidarity; or
      7.   The person possesses a criminal gang tattoo.
   GANG: An ongoing organization, association or group of three (3) or more
individuals who utilize both of the following:
   A.   Use a gang name, common identifying sign or symbol, or acknowledge an
identifiable leadership; and
   B.   Have a high rate of interaction among themselves to the exclusion of
other persons or gangs. (Ord. 164, 2-21-2007)
3-12-2: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Designation Request By Law Enforcement Officer: Any law enforcement
officer may request that a person be designated as a criminal gang affiliate by
describing, in a report, the specific conduct that corresponds to the criminal
gang affiliation indicators listed above. Any designation request must contain
a reference date which corresponds to the last incident of occurrence relied on
for designation. This reference date will determine the purge date of the
designation; therefore, all reports of conduct must document the date of the
conduct. If the report refers to a resident of Malheur County (exclusive of the
incorporated cities) or if the conduct that corresponds to the criminal gang
affiliation indicators listed above occurred in Malheur County, the report must
be routed to the Malheur County sheriff.
   B.   Designation Recommended By Malheur County Sheriff: The sheriff or his/
her designee will review all requests for criminal gang affiliation designation
and will recommend whether or not the request should result in designation. The
sheriff may not recommend designation unless:
      1.   There is clear and convincing evidence that the person presents at
least one of the indicators from list A in section
3-12-1 of this chapter and/or two (2) indicators from list B in section
3-12-1 of this chapter within the previous three (3) years, and
      2.   There is clear and convincing evidence the person is affiliated with
a criminal gang.
   C.   Notice To Potential Designee:
      1.   Personal Notice Or Notice By Both Certified, Return Receipt And
Regular Mail: If the sheriff recommends that a person be designated as a
criminal gang affiliate, the sheriff or his/her designee will provide written
notice of the recommendation to the potential designee either by delivery in
person or delivery by both certified, return receipt mail and regular mail to
the last known address of the person. The sheriff or his/her designee will make
reasonable efforts to determine the potential designee's last known address
including, but not limited to, a search of LEDS, Oregon DMV files and Oregon
parole and probation records. In the event the potential designee is a
juvenile, both the juvenile and a parent or guardian of the juvenile will be
delivered with written notice of the recommendation either in person or by both
certified, return receipt mail and regular mail. The sheriff or his/her
designee may request a search of the Malheur County juvenile department's
probation records to determine a juvenile's last known address. If notice is
provided in person, the deputy sheriff delivering notice will document the
date, place and time personal notice was delivered.
      2.   Content Of Notice: The notice will include a list of the indicator
(s) relied on to recommend designation, and will state that supporting
documentation, if any, may be viewed by the potential designee and in the event
the potential designee is a juvenile, documentation may be viewed by both the
juvenile and his/her parent(s) or guardian(s) at the sheriff's office located
at 151 B. Street West, Vale. There will be no charge for this service. Copies
of supporting documentation may be provided at a reasonable cost, as
established by the sheriff's office. The notice will prominently announce that
the recommendation will result in a designation of the person as a criminal
gang affiliate in fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of personal
notification or from mailing of the notice. If the potential designee wishes to
contest the designation, the potential designee must request a hearing in
writing which must be received at the sheriff's office no later than fourteen
(14) calendar days from the date of personal notification or from mailing of
the notice. If a potential designee does not request a hearing, the sheriff
will send the recommendation for designation to the district attorney for
review.
The notice will also describe the hearing and appeal process set out below.
      3.   Undeliverable Notice: The sheriff will place notice letters, which
are returned undeliverable in the designation file, and designation will occur
in accordance with this chapter.
      4.   List Of Pending Designations: A list of pending designations with
the sheriff will be maintained at the sheriff's office. Upon request, any
person will be told whether he/she is on the list of pending designations, and
parents or guardians will be told if their children or wards are on the list.
(Ord. 164, 2-21-2007)
3-12-3: HEARINGS PROCESS:
   A.   First Stage Hearing Before Sheriff: The first stage hearing will occur
within twenty one (21) calendar days of receipt of a request for a hearing. The
sheriff or his/her designee will try to accommodate the schedule of the
potential designee (and parent or guardian in the event the person is a
juvenile). The sheriff or his/her designee reserves the right to set the time
and date of the hearing in the event a mutually convenient time and date cannot
be easily accommodated. At the hearing, the potential designee may present any
information that bears on the applicability of the designation criteria, and
will be required to provide a current address. Hearings will be tape recorded
at the discretion of the sheriff or his/her designee. Hearings may be held
telephonically or by correspondence at the discretion of the sheriff and upon
request of the potential designee. Any decision following the first stage
hearing will be made at the end of the hearing orally in front of the potential
designee or at a later date by regular, first class mail to the current address
provided by the potential designee. A record of the date of mailing of the
decision must be maintained in the sheriff's office.
   B.   Second Stage Hearing Before County Court Judge: If the sheriff
continues to recommend designation as a criminal gang affiliate following the
first stage hearing, the potential designee may request a second stage hearing
before the Malheur County judge or his/her designee which may not be the
hearing officer involved in the first stage hearing. A request for a second
stage hearing must be made in writing and received by the Malheur County judge
at 251 B. Street West, Vale, OR 97918, within fourteen (14) calendar days
following the date of the first hearing if an oral decision is made at the end
of first hearing or within fourteen (14) calendar days following the mailing of
a written decision from the first hearing. A second stage hearing will be
conducted within twenty one (21) calendar days from receipt of the written
request. The county judge or his/her designee will try to accommodate the
schedule of the potential designee (and parent or guardian in the event the
person is a juvenile). The county judge or his/her designee reserves the right
to set the time and date of the hearing in the event a mutually convenient time
and date cannot be easily accommodated. Hearings at the second stage will be
held de novo. At the hearing, the potential designee may present any
information that bears on the applicability of the designation criteria, and
will be required to provide a current address. Hearings will be tape recorded
at the discretion of the county judge or his/her designee. Hearings may be held
telephonically or by correspondence at the discretion of the county judge and
upon request of the potential designee. Any decision following the second stage
hearing will be made at the end of the hearing orally in front of the potential
designee or at a later date by regular, first class mail to the current address
provided by the potential designee. A record of the date of mailing of the
decision must be maintained in the county judge's office.
   C.   Final Appeals Process:
      1.   Review And Determination By District Attorney: Following the second
stage hearing, if the potential designee wishes to contest the recommended
designation, the potential designee must request review by the district
attorney. A request for review must be in writing and received by the district
attorney at 251 B. Street West, Vale, OR 97918, within fourteen (14) calendar
days from the date of the second hearing if at the end of the second hearing an
oral decision is made or within fourteen (14) calendar days from the date the
written decision from the second hearing is mailed to the potential designee.
The district attorney will review any information submitted at both hearings
and determine, without a hearing, whether gang affiliation designation is
supported by clear and convincing evidence and meets the stated criteria in
this chapter. The potential designee will be informed of the decision by letter
mailed regular, first class mail to the current address of the potential
designee as provided by the potential designee. If the district attorney
designates as a criminal gang affiliate, the decision will become effective
immediately upon mailing of his/her determination unless the potential designee
appeals the determination to the Malheur County justice court. The district
attorney's determination will list the steps a potential designee may take to
appeal the determination to the Malheur County justice court. The district
attorney's office will maintain a record of when the determination was mailed
to the potential designee.
      2.   Appeal To Malheur County Justice Court: A notice of appeal from the
district attorney's determination must be received by the Malheur County
justice court currently at 1178 SW Fourth Street, Ontario, OR 97914, in writing
within fourteen (14) calendar days of the date the determination was mailed to
the potential designee. On receipt of a written request for appeal the Malheur
County justice court will schedule an appeal hearing and will notify the
district attorney and the potential designee of a hearing date. The hearing
will be held de novo. Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or affirmation.
Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of supplementing or explaining any
direct evidence, but shall not be sufficient in itself to support a finding
unless it would be admissible over objection in civil actions in courts of
competent jurisdiction. Any relevant evidence shall be admitted. The potential
designee shall have the right to present evidence and witnesses, to cross
examine witnesses who testify against him or her and to submit rebuttal
evidence. Telephonic or hearings conducted by correspondence may be allowed if
a hardship exists at the discretion of the justice of peace and at the request
of the potential designee. Following the hearing, the Malheur County justice of
peace will notify both the district attorney and the potential designee of his/
her decision in writing or orally upon the conclusion of the hearing. If the
Malheur justice of peace upholds the determination, the district attorney may
list the person as a criminal gang affiliate in his/her records.
   D.   Right To Counsel: At any and all hearings, the potential designee may
be represented by counsel. (Ord. 164, 2-21-2007)
3-12-4: RECORDS DIVISION:
The district attorney will review all recommendations for criminal gang
affiliation designation to ensure Malheur County's criteria are met. If the
documentation presented to the district attorney supports designation, the
record of the person will be updated to reflect criminal gang affiliation
designation. Any designation must contain a reference date which corresponds to
the last incident of occurrence relied on for designation. This reference date
will determine the purge date of the designation. If the documented conduct
does not support designation, the record of the person will not be updated and
a form indicating the deficiency of documentation will be sent to the sheriff.
(Ord. 164, 2-21-2007)
3-12-5: APPEALS OF EXISTING DESIGNATIONS:
Any person on the criminal gang affiliate list will be provided a hearing to
challenge the designation if:
   A.   The person has not previously brought a challenge to the designation;
and
   B.   The person submits clear and convincing evidence that she/he was not
properly notified in accordance with this chapter before being designated and
listed as a criminal gang affiliate.
All challenges to existing designations processed by the sheriff will be routed
to the sheriff for processing. Upon receipt of a valid challenge to an existing
designation, a hearing will be set up within twenty one (21) calendar days. The
hearings and subsequent final appeal process as set forth above will be
followed. (Ord. 164, 2-21-2007)
3-12-6: PURGE PROCESS:
The criminal gang affiliate designation will expire four (4) years after the
incident on which it is based. If during this four (4) year period the criminal
gang affiliate engages in conduct or behavior that meets the designation
criteria, the person may be redesignated by means of the notice, hearing and
appeals process set forth above.
Each month the district attorney will publish and distribute a list of
individuals on the criminal gang affiliate designation list with the date the
record is to be purged. Law enforcement agencies having information that will
support a redesignation of the person as a criminal gang affiliate must send
out notice of the redesignation pursuant to the notice, hearings and appeal
process set forth above. (Ord. 164, 2-21-2007)
3-12-7: IMPROPER DESIGNATION:
In the event a person is improperly designated as a criminal gang affiliate,
the sheriff may submit a special report to the district attorney requesting to
rescind the designation. The district attorney will review the information
submitted and if appropriate the district attorney will remove the designation.
(Ord. 164, 2-21-2007)
CHAPTER 13
PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES
SECTION:
3-13-1:   Unlawful Intoxicating Chemical Compounds
3-13-1: UNLAWFUL INTOXICATING CHEMICAL COMPOUNDS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, including a corporation or other
entity, to manufacture, distribute, dispense, ingest, use, possess, purchase,
attempt to purchase, sell, publicly display for sale, attempt to sell, give,
trade or barter, any one or more of the following chemical compounds and/or
substances, including their salts, isomers, homologues and salts of their
isomers and homologues:
      1.   Salvia divinorum or Salvinorum A; all parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as Salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or extracts;
      2.   1-Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-018);
      3.   2-(3-hydroxycyclohexyl)-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenol (also known as
CP-47/497), and the dimethylhexyl, dimethyloctyl and dimethylnonyl homologues
of CP-47/497;
      4.   1-Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-073);
      5.   1-(2-(4-(morpholinyl)ethyl))-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as
JWH-200);
      6.   1-Pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole (also known as JWH-250);
      7.   1-Hexyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-019);
      8.   1-Pentyl-3-(4-chloro-1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-398);
      9.   1-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl) piperazine (also known as TFMPP);
      10.   Any similar structural analogs of the above chemical compounds;
      11.   Any other synthetic cannabinoids;
      12.   Any commercial products sold as aromatics or incense under the
brand names spice, black mamba, K2, puff, smoke, skunk, pandora potpourri and
sugar sticks or other brand names, that have been determined by chemical
testing laboratories, law enforcement or other governmental agencies to contain
any of the foregoing compounds; (Ord. 190, 10-13-2010)
      13.   Mephedrone (2-methylamino-1-p-tolylpropan-1-one) also known as 4-
methylmethcathinone (4-MMC), 4-methylephedrone;
      14.   3,4-Methylenedioxypyrovalerone (MDPV). (Res. R11-2, 2-2-2011)
   B.   The Malheur County court may by resolution add to or amend the list of
unlawful intoxicating compounds identified in subsection A of this section.
   C.   It is not a violation of subsection A of this section if the person was
acting at the direction of an authorized agent of Malheur County to enforce or
ensure compliance with this law prohibiting the sale of the aforementioned
intoxicating chemical compound.
   D.   If any of the intoxicating chemical compounds prohibited herein are
found in the possession of any person, they may be confiscated and destroyed by
law enforcement officials.
   E.   This section shall not apply to drugs or substances lawfully prescribed
or to drugs or substances which have been approved by the federal food and drug
administration or which are specifically permitted by Oregon law.
   F.   A violation of subsection A of this section is a class A violation
under
title 1, chapter 9, article A, "General Enforcement Provisions", of this code.
Each day on which a violation occurs shall be punishable as a separate
violation.
   G.   Malheur County shall have the authority to seek an injunction against
any person or business violating subsection A of this section. In any action
seeking an injunction Malheur County shall be entitled to collect its
enforcement expenses, including reasonable attorney fees incurred at trial and
on appeal. (Ord. 190, 10-13-2010)
CHAPTER 14
PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES RELATED TO MARIJUANA
Editor's Note: Ordinance 229 will become effective only if Ordinance 210 is
repealed.
SECTION:
3-14-1:   Provisions
3-14-2:   Fine For Violation
3-14-3:   Civil Action
3-14-4:   Severability
3-14-5:   Emergency Clause
3-14-1: PROVISIONS:
The establishment or maintenance of any one or more of the following is
prohibited within the jurisdictional limits of Malheur County:
   A.   Marijuana processing sites registered under section 85, chapter 614,
Oregon laws 2015;
   B.   Medical marijuana dispensaries registered under ORS 475.314;
   C.   Marijuana producers licensed under section 19, chapter 1, Oregon laws
2015;
   D.   Marijuana processors licensed under section 20, chapter 1, Oregon laws
2015;
   E.   Marijuana wholesalers licensed under section 21, chapter 1, Oregon laws
2015; and
   F.   Marijuana retailers licensed under section 22, chapter 1, Oregon laws
2015; and
   G.   Any combination of the entities described above or under section 133 of
house bill 3400 (2015). (Ord. 210, 8-5-2015)
3-14-2: FINE FOR VIOLATION:
A violation of this section is a class A violation under
title 1, chapter 9, article A, "General Enforcement Provisions", of this code.
Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate violation.
(Ord. 210, 8-5-2015)
3-14-3: CIVIL ACTION:
In addition to, or in lieu of, the imposition of a fine, Malheur County may
initiate a civil action against any person or entity violating this chapter for
any and all remedies available under Oregon law, including, but not limited to,
obtaining mandatory and prohibitory injunctions and orders of abatement.
Malheur County shall be entitled to collect its costs and expenses, including
reasonable attorney fees incurred at trial, hearing or on appeal. (Ord. 210, 8-
5-2015)
3-14-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any part or section of this chapter is invalid or unenforceable in any
respect for any reason, the validity and enforceability of any such provision
in any other respect and of the remaining provisions of this chapter shall not
be in any way impaired. (Ord. 210, 8-5-2015)
3-14-5: EMERGENCY CLAUSE:
The Malheur County court hereby adjudges that it is necessary for the immediate
preservation of the peace, health, and safety of the county that this chapter
shall take effect immediately upon its passage and approval, and an emergency
is hereby declared to exist and this chapter shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its passage. (Ord. 210, 8-5-2015)
CHAPTER 15
POSSESSION OF MARIJUANA PROHIBITED ON COUNTY PROPERTY
SECTION:
3-15-1:   County Property And Facilities
3-15-2:   Possession Not Applicable To Law Enforcement
3-15-3:   Fine For Violation
3-15-4:   Civil Action
3-15-5:   Severability
3-15-6:   Emergency Clause
3-15-1: COUNTY PROPERTY AND FACILITIES:
The consumption, use, display, possession, transfer, distribution, sale or
growth of marijuana on county owned or operated property or facilities is
prohibited. Such county property and facilities includes, but is not limited
to: Cow Hollow Park, Bully Creek Park, Malheur County Courthouse, Malheur
County justice court, Malheur County Fairgrounds, health department, Community
Corrections, Veterans Services, sheriff offices, road department facilities,
extension office, county offices and associated parking areas, county vehicles,
and all other real or personal property owned or operated by Malheur County.
(Ord. 211, 8-5-2015)
3-15-2: POSSESSION NOT APPLICABLE TO LAW ENFORCEMENT:
Law enforcement officials may possess marijuana on county property and
facilities within their official employment capacity. (Ord. 211, 8-5-2015)
3-15-3: FINE FOR VIOLATION:
A violation of this chapter is a class A violation under
title 1, chapter 9, article A, "General Enforcement Provisions", of this code.
Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate violation.
(Ord. 211, 8-5-2015)
3-15-4: CIVIL ACTION:
In addition to, or in lieu of, the imposition of a fine, Malheur County may
initiate a civil action against any person or entity violating this chapter for
any and all remedies available under Oregon law, including, but not limited to,
obtaining mandatory and prohibitory injunctions and orders of abatement.
Malheur County shall be entitled to collect its costs and expenses, including
reasonable attorney fees incurred at trial, hearing or on appeal. (Ord. 211, 8-
5-2015)
3-15-5: SEVERABILITY:
If any part or section of this chapter is invalid or unenforceable in any
respect for any reason, the validity and enforceability of any such provision
in any other respect and of the remaining provisions of this chapter shall not
be in any way impaired. (Ord. 211, 8-5-2015)
3-15-6: EMERGENCY CLAUSE:
The Malheur County court hereby adjudges that it is necessary for the immediate
preservation of the peace, health, and safety of the county that this chapter
shall take effect immediately upon its passage and approval, and an emergency
is hereby declared to exist and this chapter will be in full force and effect
immediately upon its passage by the Malheur County court. (Ord. 211, 8-5-2015)
CHAPTER 16
TRUANCY FROM MALHEUR COUNTY SCHOOLS
SECTION:
3-16-1:    Title
3-16-2: Authority And Purpose
3-16-3:    Jurisdiction
3-16-4:    Definitions
3-16-5:    Conduct Prohibited
3-16-6:    Proceedings
3-16-7:    Order To Attend School; Conditions; Fine To Responsible Adult; Refer
To District Attorney
3-16-8:    Separate Offense
3-16-1:   TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as "Truancy from Malheur County Schools". (Ord.
230, 4-5-2023)
3-16-2:   AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   The Malheur County Court has authority to regulate matters of County
concern within the County, under the provisions of the Constitution of the
State of Oregon and the revised statutes of the State of Oregon.
   B.   This chapter applies to students (Kindergarten (K) - 12th grades)
enrolled in a full-time public school located within Malheur County, including
within the incorporated cities of Nyssa, Ontario, Vale, Jordan Valley and
Adrian, the city councils of which have consented pursuant to ORS 203.040.
   C.   This chapter does not apply to students attending private schools
located within Malheur County, including within the incorporated city of
Ontario.
   D.   The purpose of this chapter is to create rules for enforcement
procedures intended to reduce the incidents of truancy within public schools in
Malheur County. It is in the best interest of a student to attend school
regularly and complete the educational courses of study. (Ord. 230, 4-5-2023)
3-16-3:   JURISDICTION:
The Malheur County Justice Court and Vale Municipal/Justice Court have
jurisdiction and venue over infractions and proceedings of this chapter. Venue
for truancy occurs at the school district office where the student is enrolled.
(Ord. 230, 4-5-2023)
3-16-4:   DEFINITIONS:
 
                                   A Student is not attending School for ten
CHRONIC ABSENTEEISM:               percent (10%) or more of School days in a
                                   School year.
                                   Malheur County Sheriff Deputy, city police
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:          officer, or Malheur County Juvenile
                                   Department Counselor.
                                   A full-time school operated by Adrian
                                   School District No.61, Annex Charter
                                   School District No. 29, Arock School
PUBLIC SCHOOL IN MALHEUR COUNTY OR District No. 81, Four Rivers Charter
SCHOOL:                            School, Harper Charter School No. 66,
                                   Jordan Valley School District No. 3,
                                   Juntura School District, Nyssa School
                                   District No. 26, Ontario School District
                                   No. 8C and Vale School District No. 84.
                                   A person at least eighteen (18) years of
RESPONSIBLE ADULT:                 age, who is the parent, guardian or
                                   otherwise authorized to have the care or
                                   custody of a Student.
                                   Any personnel appointed/designated by a
                                   School or the Education Service District
SCHOOL OFFICIAL:                   Region 84 in Malheur County including but
                                   not limited to principal, vice-principal,
                                   superintendent, resource officer, or
                                   truancy enforcement specialist.
                                   A minor between the ages of five through
                                   eighteen (5-18) who has not completed the
STUDENT:                           twelfth (12th) grade and is enrolled in a
                                   Public School in Malheur County. (Ord.
                                   230, 4-5-2023)
 
3-16-5:   CONDUCT PROHIBITED:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided herein, students are required to attend
school and shall not be chronically absent. For the purpose of this section
"chronically absent" means to miss ten percent (10%) or more of school days in
a school year. It is unlawful for a student to have chronic absenteeism from
school as required by this chapter.
   B.   Every responsible adult having the custody or care of a student shall
make every reasonable effort to prevent the student from violating this
chapter, and shall supervise the student by sending the student to school and
maintaining the student in school so that the student does not miss ten percent
(10%) or more of school days.
   C.   This chapter does not limit or supersede any provision of Oregon law,
which exempts certain children from compulsory school attendance (ORS 339.030),
nor does this ordinance limit the duties, powers and responsibilities of public
school officials. (Ord. 230, 4-5-2023)
3-16-6:   PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   A law enforcement official or school official may issue a citation to a
student and responsible adult for violating this chapter as set out in section
3-16-5  above.
   B.   Prior to issuing a citation, the Superintendent of Education Service
District Region 84 or school district superintendent shall provide the student
and responsible adult with written notification to include the following
content:
      1.   The student is required to attend school, and the student is deemed
chronically absent in violation of this chapter and state rule.
      2.   The failure of a responsible adult to send the student to school and
maintain the student in school so that the student does not miss ten percent
(10%) or more of school days is a violation of this chapter.
      3.   The student and responsible adult may be cited to Justice Court for
chronic absenteeism under this chapter.
      4.   The student and responsible adult must attend a conference with a
designated school official on a specified date and time where expectations for
the student's regular attendance at school will be outlined.
      5.   The student and responsible adult have the right to request an
evaluation if the student is not on an individualized education program (IEP).
If the student is on an IEP, the right to request a review of the IEP.
   C.   Following the notification and process in subsection B above, if the
Student remains chronically absent from School in violation this chapter or the
Student or Responsible Adult fails to attend the conference in subsection B.
4., an infraction citation will be issued. The citation shall be substantially
in the form as set out in Malheur County Code
1-9A-4-4 . The citation will direct the Student (if the Student is in the 6th
through 12th grade) and the Responsible Adult to appear at Justice Court on a
designated date and time.
   D.   If a Responsible Adult fails to appear at the date and time issued on
the citation, the Justice of the Peace shall continue the matter and issue an
order/show cause for the Responsible Adult to appear. A warrant will be issued
for the Responsible Adult who fails to appear at such show cause proceeding.
(Ord. 230, 4-5-2023)
3-16-7:   ORDER TO ATTEND SCHOOL; CONDITIONS; FINE TO RESPONSIBLE ADULT; REFER
TO DISTRICT ATTORNEY:
   A.   Order To Attend School. Upon finding a violation of this chapter, the
Justice of the Peace shall enter an order requiring the student to attend
school and not miss ten percent (10%) or more of school days; and order the
responsible adult to send the student to school and maintain the student in
school so that the student does not miss ten percent (10%) or more of school
days.
   B.   Conditions Imposed to Suspend Imposition of Fine, Dismiss Violation and
Discharge Responsible Adult. In addition to the Order in subsection
3-16-6 , A. if the responsible adult seeks suspension of the fine in subsection
3-16-6 , C. dismissal and discharge of the violation under this chapter, the
Justice of Peace shall impose conditions with which the student and/or
responsible adult must meet. Conditions imposed by the Justice of the Peace
shall include, but are not be limited, to:
      1.   Review. Set future dates and time for the student and responsible
adult to personally appear and provide progress reports demonstrating the
student's proof of attendance, grades, and other school-related information
determined by the Justice of the Peace.
      2.   Require student and/or responsible adult to complete and engage in
recommendations of an age-appropriate and relevant class, group or program in
person or on-line, such as, but not limited to: Needs Assessment by local
mental authority; a parent mentor or parent effectiveness program, support
group that promotes parenting, mental, behavioral, or emotional wellness,
truancy intervention classes, or academic classes for the Student after school
or on the weekend. Costs, if any, will be paid by a responsible adult.
   C.   Fine. A violation of this chapter is a Class A civil infraction under
the Malheur County Code subject to a fine imposed on the responsible adult of
up to five hundred dollars ($500) for the first offense; and up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000) each subsequent offense. The fine shall be suspended, the
civil infraction dismissed and the responsible adult discharged if the Order in
subsection
3-16-6 , A. and the conditions in subsection
3-16-6 , B. are met to the satisfaction of the court. If the responsible adult
fails to comply with the Order in subsection
3-16-6 , A. and the conditions in subsection
3-16-6 , B., the court shall impose the fine authorized by this chapter.
   D.   There may only be one suspension of the fine under this subsection with
respect to a responsible adult.
   E.   The Justice of the Peace, School Official or a Law Enforcement Official
shall, when the circumstances are appropriate, refer responsible adults to the
District Attorney's Office for prosecution in Malheur County Circuit Court/
Juvenile Court under ORS 163.577 (1) (c). (Ord. 230, 4-5-2023)
3-16-8: SEPARATE OFFENSE:
Each violation of this chapter shall be a separate offense. (Ord. 230, 4-5-
2023)
CHAPTER 17
USE OF COUNTY PROPERTY FOR CAMPING
SECTION:
3-17-1:    Purpose And Scope
3-17-2:    Definitions
3-17-3:    Time, Place And Manner Regulations
3-17-4:    Vehicles, Automobiles Or Recreational Vehicles
3-17-5:    Violations And Enforcement
3-17-1:   PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to adequately protect the
health, safety and public welfare of the County by addressing time, place and
manner camping regulations that identify when, where, and how camping is
allowed on County property, as well as define enforcement and compliance. This
chapter addresses camping in tents and other portable shelters.
   B.   Scope. This chapter is meant to regulate the use of County property and
is not intended to regulate activities on private property or property owned by
other public entities. This chapter does not allow violation of other
ordinances, rules or laws of the County or within the city limits of Nyssa,
Ontario, Vale, Adrian or Jordan Valley. (Ord. 232, 6-21-2024)
3-17-2:   DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms and phrases have the meanings
assigned to them below:
 
                    Include, but are not limited to, tents, huts, temporary
CAMP FACILITIES:    shelters, lean-tos, or any other temporary and removal
                    structures or parts thereof.
                    To pitch, erect, create, use, or occupy camp facilities for
CAMP OR CAMPING:    the purposes of habitation, as evidenced by the use of camp
                    paraphernalia.
                    Includes, but is not limited to, tarpaulins, cots, beds,
                    sleeping bags, blankets, mattresses, hammocks, or outdoor
CAMP PARAPHERNALIA: cooking devices and similar equipment.
                    Note. Camp facilities and camp paraphernalia do not include
                    vehicles, automobiles or recreation vehicles used for
                    camping.
 
 
                      Any locations where one or more persons have temporary
CAMPSITE:             sleeping or living accommodations by use of camp
                      facilities and/or camp paraphernalia.
                      All real property, land, and right-of-way owned, leased
COUNTY PROPERTY:      (either to County or by County), controlled, or managed
                      by the County.
ESTABLISHED CAMPSITE: A campsite in place for over twenty-four (24) consecutive
                      hours in one location.
                      An item that can reasonably be identified as belonging to
PERSONAL PROPERTY:    an individual and that has apparent value or utility.
                      Personal property includes camp facilities and camp
                      paraphernalia.
RECREATIONAL FIRE:    A fire for the cooking of food, warmth, fellowship or
                      ceremonial purposes.
                      Roads, and other public right-of-way dedicated and
                      accepted by the County, either in fee title or as holder
                      of a public easement for right-of-way or public access
                      purposes. Public rights-of-way include but are not
RIGHT-OF-WAY:         limited to any County Road, local access road or other
                      property that is subject to a public access easement
                      dedicated or granted to the County for vehicular,
                      pedestrian or other means. This includes roads maintained
                      and within a rural road assessment district.
                      Public or private elementary, middle or high school or
SCHOOL:               other school attended primarily by children under
                      eighteen (18) years of age. (Ord. 232, 6-21-2024)
 
3-17-3:   TIME, PLACE AND MANNER REGULATIONS:
Camping is permitted on County property subject to the time, place, and manner
regulations contained herein.
   A.   Time Regulations. Except as expressly authorized in the Malheur County
Code, County's camping policy, rules adopted for a County park or by the County
Court, camping is prohibited on any County property between the hours of seven
o’clock to ten o’clock (7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.).
   B.   Place Regulations. Except as expressly authorized in the Malheur County
Code, or by the Malheur County Court, it shall be unlawful for any person to
camp on the following County property:
      1.   Cow Hollow Park without permission from the park manager, County or
Cow Hollow Park Association.
      2.   Bully Creek Park without the permission of the park manager. Bully
Creek Park is the boundary of the recreation area managed by the County under a
Management Agreement with Bureau of Reclamation.
      3.   Arcadia Industrial Park Subdivision.
      4.   Malheur County Courthouse and all surrounding parking lots used for
Courthouse parking.
      5.   On or within any County road right-of-way, including undeveloped
right-of-ways.
      6.   On or within any County property zoned Ontario - College District
(O-CD) (such as Extension Office property.
      7.   Any County property that is fenced, posted with signs such as "keep
out" or "no trespassing" or otherwise not open to the public.
      8.   Within five hundred (500) feet of any public, private or parochial
school and childcare facility or preschool as defined in ORS 329A.250 as
amended.
      9.   Within twenty-five (25) feet of the public entrance to a business,
including the front entrance of a County business.
      10.   Within twenty-five (25) feet of a public or private driveway.
      11.   On or within one hundred (100) feet of County property located
within any area zoned residential or industrial on the County or city zoning
maps or ordinances in effect at the time.
      12.   All County Property along Lytle Boulevard leased to private
individuals for grazing.
      13.   Malheur County Fairgrounds and parking lots used for the
fairgrounds.
      14.   Malheur County Community Correction developed lot and paved parking
area.
      15.   Stone House Museum.
      16.   Brogan Community Park.
      17.   Malheur County Health Department.
      18.   Malheur County Justice Court.
      19.   Any property not within three (3) miles of a city's limits (In
other words more than three (3) miles from the city limits of Vale, Ontario,
Nyssa, Adrian and Jordan Valley).
      20.   Any County property designated as no camping at any time by County
Court resolution, including without limitation, modification or amendment to
places designated or not designated in this Section 16-3-3 B.
   C.   Manner Regulations. At times and locations where camping is permitted
under this chapter, the following regulations apply:
      1.   Camping in a manner that reduces the clear, continuous sidewalk
width to less than three (3) feet is prohibited. Camping that obstructs fire
hydrants or clear vision for traffic, pedestrians or traffic devices is
prohibited.
      2.   At no time may huts, lean-tos, shacks, or any other structures,
whether constructed with plywood, wood materials, pallets, or other materials,
be built, or placed on County property for camping. Items such as tents and
similar items used for shelter that are readily portable are not prohibited by
this section.
      3.   Camping must be limited within a spatial footprint of one hundred
fifty (150) square feet in surface area. The intent of this section is to allow
a person to sleep and maintain essentials, while still maintaining the ability
of everyone to use public spaces as designed and intended. A group of up to
three (3) may camp together (group camps). To prevent larger campsites and the
cumulative impacts that can result, group camps may not be within one hundred
fifty (150) feet of any group camps.
      4.   Individuals may not accumulate, discard or leave behind garbage,
debris, unsanitary or hazardous materials, or other items of no apparent
utility on County property, or on any adjacent public or private property.
      5.   Open flames, recreational fires, burning of garbage, bonfires, or
other fires, flames, or heating deemed unsafe by the County environmental
health director, applicable fire district or applicable city fire department
are prohibited. Some cooking stoves and other means of keeping warm may be
permitted.
      6.   Dumping of gray water (i.e., waste water from baths, sinks, and the
like) or black water (i.e., sewage) into any facilities or places not intended
for gray water or black water disposal is prohibited. This includes but is not
limited to storm drains, which are not intended for disposal of gray water or
black water.
      7.   Digging, excavation, terracing of soil, alteration of property or
infrastructure, or damage to vegetation or trees is prohibited. Unauthorized
connections to utilities and use of power generators are prohibited.
      8.   Storage of personal property such as tires, gasoline, lumber,
furniture, extra propane tanks, combustible material, lumber or other items or
materials (except as needed for an individual to camp, sleep or keep warm and
dry) is prohibited.
      9.   Except as expressly authorized by the Malheur County Code, all
persons are prohibited from leaving personal property, camp facilities and camp
paraphernalia, unattended on any County property for more than twenty-four (24)
hours.
      10.   All animals on County property must be leashed or crated at all
times. (Ord. 232, 6-21-2024)
3-17-4:   VEHICLES, AUTOMOBILES OR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
It is prohibited at all times for any person to use County property to camp in
vehicles, automobiles or recreation vehicles, provided the County Court may, in
its discretion, designate certain County properties or portions of properties
where camping in licensed and fully operable vehicles, automobiles or
recreation vehicles may be allowed on a limited basis, and may set the terms
and conditions of camping that may be allowed. Any such use of County property
will follow environmental health and building code provisions. (Ord. 232, 6-21-
2024)
3-17-5:   VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violation. A violation of this chapter is a Class D civil infraction.
Citations will only be issued when other means of achieving compliance have
been unsuccessful or are not practical for the situation. Violators will be
cited into the Malheur County Justice Court.
   B.   Prior to civil infraction. Before a civil infraction citation is
issued, the County enforcement officer will contact the person(s) and provide a
reasonable opportunity to cure or remedy the alleged violation. The enforcement
officer shall consider weather conditions, if the person has a disability and
other appropriate factors in determining a reasonable period of time to cure.
In most cases, the enforcement officer will assess whether the person subject
to the citation has been referred to service providers, and make a referral if
it appears none have been made.
   C.   Campsite and Property Removal. A violation of this chapter may result
in the removal of an established campsite (existing more than twenty-four (24)
hours). In addition, when enforcement personnel determine a campsite endangers
public health and safety, the campsite may be removed immediately.
   Typically, removal of a campsite and clean-up of the camp, camp material,
camp paraphernalia or other personal property will not occur until after a
request for voluntary compliance has been made, except in the case of an
exceptional emergency, such as possible contamination by hazardous materials, a
public health emergency or when there is an immediate danger to human life or
safety or illegal activities. Any camp, camp materials, camp paraphernalia or
personal property in violation of the standards or manner regulations in this
chapter may be removed or cleaned-up by the County or its contractors, subject
to the requirements in section D below. A campsite and individul may be subject
to removal or citation, or both.
   D.   Policies Related to Campsite and Personal Property Removal.
      1.   Prior to removing an established campsite on County property, at
least seventy-two (72) hours in advance, except in the case of emergency,
danger to human life or safety or criminal/illegal activity, the County will
post notice (in English and Spanish) at the location of the established
campsite stating the individuals must leave and all remaining personal property
will be removed by the County. The notice will state: (a) an address where the
unclaimed personal property will be stored; (b) list a phone number and hours a
person can claim ownership and collect or make arrangements to collect their
personal property; or (c) list a phone number and address individuals may call
to find out where the property will be stored. The County will also inform
local agencies that deliver services to homeless individuals that such notice
has been posted and the location of the notice.
      2.   A campsite may be removed for violation of this chapter without
posting a seventy-two (72) hour notice when there are grounds for law
enforcement officials to believe that illegal activity, other than camping, is
occurring on the campsite or in the immediate vicinity of the campsite, or the
property that comprises the campsite is being used or intended to be used to
commit or facilitate the commission of otherwise illegal activity; or in the
event of an exceptional emergency, such as possible site contamination by
hazardous materials or when there is a an immediate danger to human life or
safety.
      3.   Once the seventy-two (72) hour notice has been posted, the County
may remove the established campsite and personal property beginning seventy-
two (72) hours after posting and for up to ten (10) days following the posting.
      4.   After the established campsite has been removed subject to a
seventy-two (72) hour notice or for campsites when no advance notice is
required due to the circumstances, the camp and all associated camp facilities,
camp paraphernalia and personal property can be removed by County.
      5.   When removing individuals and property from campsites, enforcement
personnel will make reasonable efforts to remove individuals without the use of
force, arrest or citation.
      6.   When removing camp facilities, camp paraphernalia and personal
property, the County will make reasonable efforts to determine if the property
belongs to an individual and if it has any apparent value or utility. The
County will make reasonable efforts to identify which established campsite
personal property was removed from and aid in connecting people with their
property. Items that are perishable, or have no apparent use or value, or that
are in an unsanitary condition due to saturation or contamination from bodily
fluids, whether human or animal, or other contamination, will be considered
garbage, discarded and not stored.
      7.   Weapons, drug paraphernalia, or other contraband, and items that
appear to be either stolen or evidence of a crime shall be given to law
enforcement officials. Items that appear ro have a value of one thousand
dollars ($1,000) or more shall be given to law enforcement officials for
storage and safe keeping, and shall be made available as described in section
D9 below.
      8.   When personal property, camp paraphernalia and camp facilities are
removed and notice was not provided in D1 the County must post notice at or
near as possible to the location where the personal property was collected. The
notice will state where the personal property is being stored, list a phone
number and hours a person can claim ownership and collect or make arrangements
to collect their personal property.
      9.   Personal property removed from a campsite and unclaimed at the time
of removal will be stored by the County for a minimum of thirty (30) days, or
the duration required by law at the time of the removal. To the extent
possible, the County will store personal property at a County building or
facilities in the same community of the campsite so that individuals can
reasonably retrieve personal property. The County will make reasonable efforts
to provide a range of times the storage location will be available for
individuals to collect their personal property. The County may dispose of any
personal property that remains unclaimed after thirty (30) days, or such
duration as required by law. (Ord. 232, 6-21-2024)
TITLE 4
PROPERTY AND FACILITY REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
COUNTY PARKS
SECTION:
4-1-1:   Regulations And Restrictions; Scope
4-1-2:   Class A Infractions
4-1-3:   Class D Infractions
4-1-4:   Enforcement Officer
4-1-5:   Other Remedies
4-1-6:   Other Rules Of Park
4-1-1: REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS; SCOPE:
The following regulations apply to use by the public of Bully Creek Park and
Reservoir, a County recreation facility. (Ord. 110, 4-29-1997)
4-1-2: CLASS A INFRACTIONS:
   A.   Vehicle Restrictions:
      1.   No person shall operate any motorized vehicle except upon designated
roadways and in the reservoir.
      2.   No person shall drive upon a roadway within Bully Creek Park in
excess of ten (10) miles per hour.
      3.   No person shall park a motor vehicle, boat, trailer on the grass or
other marked areas prohibiting the parking of vehicles.
   B.   Discharge Of Firearms/Possession Of Loaded Firearms: No person shall
discharge a firearm, pellet gun, blow gun, crossbow, bow and arrow, or any
weapon which acts by force of explosion. No person shall possess a loaded
firearm. This subsection does not apply or affect:
      1.   A person discharging a firearm in the lawful defense of person or
property;
      2.   A law enforcement officer in the performance of official duty; and
      3.   A member of the military in the performance of official duty.
   C.   Sale And Use Of Fireworks: No person shall sell or use fireworks. For
purposes of this subsection, "fireworks" includes unclassified items exempt
from the definition of "fireworks" in the Oregon Fireworks Law including
sparklers, snakes, and smoke producing items.
   D.   Swimming And Boating: No person shall swim or water-ski from the boat
moorage docks or in the area of the boat launch ramp and dock bounded by the
shoreline, marked buoys parallel to the shoreline, by the swimming area and by
marker buoys perpendicular to the shoreline.
   E.   Deposit Of Trash: No person shall discard any glass, cans or other
trash, rubbish, debris, refuse or litter on land or water, other than in
receptacles provided for the purpose of holding such trash, rubbish, debris or
litter. There shall be no dumping of human waste or gray water tanks in the
restroom sinks, toilets, urinals or fish cleaning facility. A dumping station
for such items is available at the park entrance.
   F.   Park Hours: No person shall enter or remain in park area between posted
closing and opening time, except where overnight camping is permitted.
   G.   Nonseason Use Prohibited: No person shall enter the park when the park
is closed to the public from November 15 to April 15 of each year; and at such
times as may be determined by the County Court, considering the weather
conditions and other factors which may constitute a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of the public.
   H.   Burning And Fires: It is a violation of this Chapter for any person to
build a fire outside designated areas for fires, outside of a stove, fireplace,
grill or fire ring; to leave a fire unattended; to fail to extinguish a fire
before leaving the park area and failure to obey posted restrictions on fires
during high fire hazard conditions.
   I.   Removal Of Trees, Shrubs, Flowers And Other Foliage: Except with
permission from the park manager, no person shall sever, cut down, mutilate or
remove any tree, timber, shrub or flowers from Bully Creek Park.
   J.   Continuous Overnight Camping: No person shall continuously camp at
Bully Creek Park without the permission of the park manager. No individual may
designate Bully Creek Park as an address or receive mail at the park without
the permission of the park manager. (Ord. 110, 4-29-1997; amd. Ord. 232, 6-21-
2023)
4-1-3: CLASS D INFRACTIONS:
   A.   Animal Restrictions:
      1.   No person shall bring, keep, maintain or allow livestock, including
cattle, horses, pigs, sheep or goats.
      2.   No owner or person in control shall allow a dog to run at large.
Dogs shall be on a leash.
   B.   Metal Detectors: No person shall use a metal detector without the park
manager's permission.
   C.   Signs And Concessions:
      1.   It is a violation of this Chapter for any person to operate a
concession, fixed or mobile; or solicit, sell or offer for sale any goods,
wares, foods, liquids or services without the park manager's written permission
and, if applicable, without a license from the Malheur County Environmental
Health Officer.
   D.   Camping By Homeless Individuals. It shall be unlawful to camp, as
defined in Malheur County Code Title 3 Chapter 17, at Bully Creek Park without
the permission of the park manager. (Ord. 110, 4-29-1997; amd. Ord. 232, 6-21-
2023)
4-1-4: ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The person(s) who may issue infraction citations for violating this Chapter are
the caretaker of the Bully Creek Park and any "enforcement officer" defined in
Section
1-9A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 110, 4-29-1997)
4-1-5: OTHER REMEDIES:
The rights and remedies provided above are not exclusive and are in addition to
any other rights and remedies provided by law. Individuals who violate this
Chapter may be liable to Malheur County in a civil action for any and all
damages done to property in Bully Creek Park. (Ord. 110, 4-29-1997)
4-1-6: OTHER RULES OF PARK:
The public shall comply with other rules developed by the park manager which
are posted within Bully Creek Park and amended from time to time. Noncompliance
with such rules can result in violation of this Chapter, State law, removal
from the park and any and all other action provided by law. (Ord. 110, 4-29-
1997; amd. Ord. 232, 6-21-2023)
ARTICLE A. COW HOLLOW PARK
SECTION:
4-1A-1: Regulations And Restrictions; Scope
4-1A-2: Infractions
4-1A-3: Enforcement Officer
4-1A-4: Other Remedies
4-1A-5: Other Rules Of Park
4-1A-1: REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS; SCOPE:
The following regulations apply to use by the public of Cow Hollow Park (park),
a county recreation facility. The national park service, U.S. department of
interior donated Cow Hollow Park to Malheur County for public recreational uses
through the federal lands to parks program. (Ord. 188, 11-3-2010)
4-1A-2: INFRACTIONS:
   A.   The following are class A infractions:
      1.   Vehicle Restrictions:
         a.   No person shall operate any motorized vehicle except upon
designated roadways.
         b.   No person shall drive upon a roadway in Cow Hollow Park in excess
of ten (10) miles per hour.
         c.   No person shall park a motor vehicle or trailer on the grass,
unless in a designated overnight or day use area.
      2.   Discharge Of Firearms: No person shall discharge a firearm, pellet
gun, blowgun or any other weapon that acts by force or explosion. This
subsection does not apply to a person discharging a firearm in the lawful
defense of person or property or to a law enforcement officer in the
performance of official duty.
      3.   Sale And Use Of Fireworks: No person shall sell or use fireworks.
      4.   Deposit Of Trash: No person shall discard any glass, cans or other
trash, rubbish, debris, refuse or litter on land, other than in receptacles
provided for the purpose of holding such trash, rubbish, debris or litter.
There shall be no dumping of human waste or gray water tanks in the restroom
sinks, toilets or urinals. There are no RV dumping facilities at the park.
      5.   Park Hours: Day use is from dawn to dusk.
      6.   Use Prohibited: Absent written permission, no person shall use the
park when the park is closed to the public at such times as may be determined
by the county court considering the weather conditions and other factors which
may constitute a threat to the health, safety and welfare of the public.
      7.   Burning And Fires: It is a violation for any person to build a fire
outside designated areas for fires, outside of a stove, fireplace, grill or
fire ring; to leave a fire unattended; to fail to extinguish a fire before
leaving the park area and failure to obey posted restrictions on fires during
high fire hazard conditions.
      8.   Removal Of Trees, Shrubs, Flowers And Other Foliage: No person shall
sever, cut down, mutilate or remove any tree, timber, shrub or flower from Cow
Hollow Park.
      9.   Continuous Overnight Camping: No person shall continuously camp at
Cow Hollow Park for longer than fourteen (14) days without the permission of
the county.
      10.   Damage: No person shall destroy, deface, damage, impair or remove
any part of the park or improvements on the park.
   B.   The following are class D infractions:
      1.   Animal Restrictions:
         a.   No person shall bring, keep, maintain or allow livestock of
cattle, pigs, sheep or goats.
         b.   No owner or person in control shall allow a dog to run at large.
      2.   Signs And Concessions: It is a violation for any person to operate a
concession, fixed or mobile; or solicit, sell or offer for sale any goods,
wares, foods, liquids or services without the county's permission and, if
applicable, without a license from the Malheur County environmental health
officer.
      3.   Camping By Homeless Individuals. It shall be unlawful to camp, as
defined in Malheur County Code
Title 3 Chapter 17 , at Cow Hollow Park without the permission of the county,
Cow Hollow Park Association, or the park manager. (Ord. 188, 11-3-2010; amd.
Ord. 232, 6-21-2023)
4-1A-3: ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The person(s) who may issue infraction citations for violating these rules and
regulations is any "enforcement officer" defined in section
1-9A-2 of this code. (Ord. 188, 11-3-2010)
4-1A-4: OTHER REMEDIES:
The rights and remedies provided above are not exclusive and are in addition to
any other rights and remedies provided by law. Individuals who violate this
chapter may be liable to Malheur County in a civil action for any and all
damages done to property in Cow Hollow Park. (Ord. 188, 11-3-2010)
4-1A-5: OTHER RULES OF PARK:
The public shall comply with other rules developed for the park, which are
posted within the park and amended from time to time. (Ord. 188, 11-3-2010)
CHAPTER 2
RURAL MAPS AND ADDRESSES
SECTION:
4-2-1:   Rural Maps And Addresses Adopted
4-2-2:   Planning Director's Responsibility
4-2-3:   Amendment And Update To Maps
4-2-4:   Posting Of Addresses
4-2-5:   Authorized Designee
4-2-1: RURAL MAPS AND ADDRESSES ADOPTED:
   A.   The Malheur County rural maps and addresses (hereinafter referred to as
"maps"), as presented to the county court, are hereby accepted and adopted as
the official county diagrammatic layout of roads and streets within the
unincorporated areas of Malheur County, for the purpose and for use as the
official means of assigning and locating addresses within the county.
   B.   The names of roads and streets as set forth on said maps are adopted as
the official Malheur County road and street names.
   C.   The addresses set forth on said maps are adopted as set forth thereon
and shall henceforth be used as official county addresses. The planning
director or authorized designee shall be responsible for assigning all future
addresses, making corrections and adjustments in the addressing maps and
notifying the affected property owners, post office and utility companies.
   D.   The Malheur County rural maps and addresses, as compiled, are hereby
incorporated herein by reference and adopted as if set forth in full. A true
and correct copy of said maps with corrections and adjustments shall be on file
with the county planning department. It is understood that these maps will be
updated by the planning department as needed and as provided herein.
   E.   Copies of the official Malheur County rural maps and addresses shall be
available for sale to the public at a cost established by approved motion of
the county court. (Ord., 4-7-1987)
4-2-2: PLANNING DIRECTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be the responsibility of the planning director to issue proper
addresses to each new residential and legitimate business structure for which
approval is granted for a zoning permit. Each new residential and business
structure shall be numbered in the manner set forth in section 4-2-4 of this
chapter. At the discretion of the planning director and upon application, an
unoccupied structure or facility may be assigned an address if it is necessary
to identify the site for assessment, utility connections, insurance, emergency
services or other similar reasons. Home occupations and vacant property will
not be issued addresses. (Ord. 153, 5-18-2005)
4-2-3: AMENDMENT AND UPDATE TO MAPS:
The county court shall cause said maps, as officially accepted and adopted
herein, to be updated at least annually. Such updates shall be available to the
public at a cost established by approved motion of the county court. (Ord., 4-
7-1987)
4-2-4: POSTING OF ADDRESSES:
All existing structures for which an address is set forth on said maps shall be
renumbered with the address set forth on the appropriate map, said numerals to
be at least two and one- half inches (21/2") in height, placed at a driveway
opening or on a building so as to be clearly visible from the center of the
road or street facing said structure. All individuals affected hereby shall
number their mailboxes in accordance with U.S. postal regulations. Failure to
comply with the provisions of this section constitutes a violation of county
ordinance 1 . (Ord., 4-7-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-9A-3C of this code.
4-2-5: AUTHORIZED DESIGNEE:
Pursuant to subsection
4-2-1C of this chapter, the Malheur County planning director may, within his
discretion and upon approval of the Malheur County court by motion and minutes,
designate any city planning director and/or city staff member within an
incorporated city of Malheur County to be the authorized designee to assign
future addresses, make corrections and adjustments to in the addressing maps
and notify the affected property owners, post office and utility companies
within that city's urban growth area. (Ord. 109, 1-21-1997, eff. 1-21-1997)
CHAPTER 3
ESTABLISHMENT OF PROVISIONS FOR CREATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF REIMBURSEMENT
DISTRICTS
   SECTION:
4-3-1:   Purpose
4-3-2:   Definitions
4-3-3:   Application To Establish A Reimbursement District
4-3-4:   Public Works Director's Report
4-3-5:   Amount To Be Reimbursed
4-3-6:   Public Hearing
4-3-7:   County Court Action
4-3-8:   Notice Of Adoption Of Resolution
4-3-9:   Recording The Resolution
4-3-10:   Contesting The Reimbursement District
4-3-11:   Obligation To Pay Reimbursement Fee
4-3-12:   Public Improvement(s)
4-3-13:   Multiple Public Improvements
4-3-14:   Collection And Payment; Other Fees And Charges
4-3-15:   Nature Of The Reimbursement Fee
4-3-16:   Administration
4-3-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of a reimbursement district is to provide local government
and developers a method for sharing all or a portion of the costs of
constructing public improvements with benefited properties which have the
opportunity to use the public improvement. A reimbursement district is an
alternative procedure to formation of a local improvement district.
   B.   Owners of property which would be subject to a reimbursement fee will
be provided an opportunity to review and comment on pertinent information prior
to the county establishing a district pursuant to this chapter. The county will
collect the reimbursement fee and, upon receipt will forward the funds to the
person who constructed the public improvement.
   C.   A developer may include a city, special district, road assessment
district or private person or entity.
   D.   The reimbursement fees established under this chapter are intended to
become due and payable upon development of benefited property. Such charges are
fees for service because they contemplate a development's receipt of essential
infrastructure and services based upon the nature of development. The timing
and extent of any development are within the control of the developer. The
reimbursement fee imposed under this chapter is not intended to be a tax on
property or on a property owner as a direct consequence of ownership of
property within the meaning of section 11b of article XI of the Oregon
constitution of the legislation implementing that section.
   E.   The county requires developers to construct certain public improvements
necessary to serve proposed developments. Often these public improvements,
particularly those constructed off site, can and will benefit other property
owners when they develop their property. Therefore, these improvements
represent a benefit to those property owners.
   F.   The development of public improvements in order to enable new
development, particularly in the urban growth area, is a county goal. The
management of the urban growth area is shared jointly between the county and
the applicable city within Malheur County. City water, sanitary sewer, storm
sewer and street improvements are necessary to serve proposed developments in
the urban growth areas. These public improvements are constructed in accordance
with city and county design and construction standards and later dedicated as
"public improvements". (Ord. 155, 4-5-2006)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms are defined as follows for the purposes of this chapter:
   COUNTY: The county of Malheur, Oregon.
   DEVELOPER: The county, city, special district or a person who is required or
chooses to finance some or all of the cost of a street, water or sewer
improvement which is available to provide service to property, other than
property owned by the person, and who applies to the county for reimbursement
for the expense of the public improvement.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: Any final land use decision, limited land use decision,
partition, subdivision, excavation, conditional use, temporary use or right of
way access permit.
   PERSON: A natural person, the person's heirs, executors, administrators or
assigns; a firm, partnership, corporation, association, legal entity, city,
special district, road assessment district, or the county, its or their
successors or assigns; and any agent, employee or representative thereof.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any construction, reconstruction or upgrading of water,
storm water, sewer or road improvements. Road improvement includes, but is not
limited to, road, curbs, sidewalks, gutters, storm drains and public rights of
way.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: The public works director of Malheur County.
   REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT: The agreement between the developer and the county
which is authorized by the county court, providing for the installation of and
payment for public improvements within the reimbursement district.
   REIMBURSEMENT DISTRICT: The area which is determined by the county court to
derive a benefit from the construction of public improvements, financed in
whole or in part by the developer.
   REIMBURSEMENT FEE: The fee required to be paid by a resolution of the county
court and, if the developer is not the county, the reimbursement agreement. The
county court resolution and reimbursement agreement shall determine the
boundaries of the reimbursement district and shall determine the methodology
for imposing a fee which considers the cost of reimbursing the developer for
financing the construction of the public improvement within the reimbursement
district. (Ord. 155, 4-5-2006)
4-3-3: APPLICATION TO ESTABLISH A REIMBURSEMENT DISTRICT:
   A.   A person who is required to or chooses to finance some or all of the
cost of public improvement(s) which will be available to provide service to
property other than property owned by the person may by written application
filed with the public works director request that the county establish a
reimbursement district. The public improvement(s) must be of a size greater
than that which would otherwise ordinarily be required in connection with an
application for a building permit or development permit or must be available to
provide service to property other than property owned by the developer, so that
the public will benefit by making the public improvement(s).
   B.   The application shall be accompanied by an application fee, in an
amount established by county resolution, which the county court has determined
reasonable to cover the cost of the preparation of the public works director's
report and notice pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   The application shall include the following:
      1.   A written description of the location, type, size and cost of each
public improvement which is to be eligible for reimbursement.
      2.   A map showing the boundaries of the proposed reimbursement district,
the tax account number of each property, its size and boundaries.
      3.   A map showing the properties to be included in the proposed
reimbursement district; the zone for the properties; the front footage and
square footage of said properties, or similar data necessary for calculating
the apportionment of the cost of the public improvement(s); the property or
properties owned by the developer; and the names and mailing addresses of
owners of other properties to be included in the proposed reimbursement
district.
      4.   The actual or estimated cost of the public improvement(s). (Ord.
155, 4-5-2006)
4-3-4: PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR'S REPORT:
The public works director shall review the application for the establishment of
a reimbursement district and evaluate whether a reimbursement district should
be established. The public works director may require the submission of other
relevant information from the developer in order to assist in the evaluation.
The public works director shall prepare a written report for the county court
that considers and makes recommendation concerning each of the following
factors:
   A.   Whether the developer will finance, or has financed some or all of the
cost of the public improvement(s), thereby making service available to property
other than that owned by the developer.
   B.   The boundary and size of the proposed reimbursement district.
   C.   The actual or estimated cost of the public improvement(s) serving the
area of the proposed reimbursement district and the portion of the cost for
which the developer should be reimbursed for each public improvement.
   D.   A methodology for spreading the cost among the properties within the
reimbursement district and, where appropriate, defining a "unit" for applying
the reimbursement fee to property which may, with county approval, be
partitioned, subdivided, developed, altered or modified at some future date.
   E.   The amount to be charged by the county for an administration fee for
the reimbursement agreement. The administration fee shall be fixed by the
county court and shall be included in the resolution approving and forming the
reimbursement district. The administration fee is due and payable to the county
at the time the reimbursement agreement is signed.
   F.   Whether the public improvement(s) shall or have met the county
standards.
   G.   Whether it is fair and in the public interest to create a reimbursement
district. (Ord. 155, 4-5-2006)
4-3-5: AMOUNT TO BE REIMBURSED:
   A.   A reimbursement fee shall be computed by the county for all properties
within the reimbursement district, excluding property owned by or dedicated to
a city, the county or the state of Oregon, which have the opportunity to use
the public improvements, including the property of the developer. The
reimbursement fee shall be calculated separately for each public improvement.
The developer shall not be reimbursed for the portion of the reimbursement fee
computed for the developer's own property.
   B.   The cost to be reimbursed to the developer shall be limited to the cost
of construction engineering, construction, and off site dedication and/or
acquisition of right of way property. Construction engineering shall include
surveying and inspection costs and shall not exceed seven and one-half percent
(7.5%) of eligible public improvement construction costs. Costs to be
reimbursed for right of way property shall be limited to the reasonable market
value of land or easements purchased by the developer from a third party in
order to complete the public improvement(s).
   C.   No reimbursement shall be allowed for the cost of design engineering,
financing costs, permits or fees required for construction permits, land or
easements dedicated by the developer, the portion of costs which are eligible
for systems development charge credits or any costs which cannot be clearly
documented.
   D.   Reimbursement for legal expenses shall be allowed only to the extent
that such expenses relate to the preparation and filing of an application for
reimbursement, and, in the case of the county or city acting as developer, the
attorney fees and costs related to any condemnation proceeding involving
property within the reimbursement district.
   E.   Reimbursement for the amount of the application fee required by
subsection
4-3-3B of this chapter. (Ord. 155, 4-5-2006)
4-3-6: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Within forty five (45) days after the public works director has
completed the report required in section
4-3-4 of this chapter, the county court shall hold an informational public
hearing in which any person shall be given the opportunity to comment on the
proposed reimbursement district. Because formation of the reimbursement
district does not result in an assessment against property or lien against
property, the public hearing is for informational purposes only and is not
subject to mandatory termination because of remonstrances. The county court has
the sole discretion after the public hearing to decide whether a resolution
approving and forming the reimbursement district shall be adopted.
   B.   Not less than ten (10) days prior to any public hearing held pursuant
to this chapter, the developer and all owners of property within the proposed
reimbursement district shall be notified of the public hearing and the purpose
thereof. Such notification shall be accomplished by regular and certified mail
or by personal service. Notice shall be deemed effective on the date that the
letter of notification is mailed. Failure of the developer or any affected
property owner to be notified shall not invalidate or otherwise affect any
reimbursement district resolution or the county court's action to approve the
same.
   C.   If a reimbursement district is formed prior to construction of the
public improvement(s), a second public hearing, subject to the same notice
requirements, shall be held after the public improvement has been accepted by
the county. At that time, the county, at its discretion, may modify the
resolution to reflect the actual cost of the public improvement(s). (Ord. 155,
4-5-2006)
4-3-7: COUNTY COURT ACTION:
   A.   After the public hearing held pursuant to subsection
4-3-6A of this chapter, the county court shall approve, reject or modify the
recommendations contained in the public works director's report. The county
court's decision shall be contained in a resolution. If a reimbursement
district is established, the resolution shall include the public works
director's report as approved or modified, and specify that payment of the
reimbursement fee, as designated for each property within the reimbursement
district, is a precondition of receiving any county permits applicable to
development of that parcel as further provided in section
4-3-11 of this chapter.
   B.   The resolution shall establish an interest rate to be applied to the
reimbursement fee as a return on the investment of the developer. The interest
rate shall be fixed and computed against the reimbursement fee as simple
interest and shall not compound.
   C.   The resolution shall instruct the county to enter into an agreement
with the developer pertaining to the public improvement(s) within the
reimbursement district. If the reimbursement agreement is entered into prior to
construction, the reimbursement agreement shall be contingent upon the public
improvement(s) being accepted by the county. The reimbursement agreement shall
contain at least the following provisions:
      1.   The public improvement(s) shall meet all applicable county
standards.
      2.   The total amount of potential reimbursement to the developer shall
be specified.
      3.   The total amount of potential reimbursement shall not exceed the
actual cost of the public improvement(s).
      4.   The developer shall guaranty the public improvement(s) for a period
of twelve (12) months after the date of installation.
      5.   A clause in a form acceptable to county counsel stating that the
developer shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the county from any and all
losses, claims, damage, judgments or other costs or expense arising as a result
of or related to the county's establishment of the reimbursement district,
including any county costs, expenses and attorney fees related to collection of
the reimbursement fee should the county court decide to pursue collection of an
unpaid reimbursement fee under subsection
4-3-11I of this chapter.
      6.   A clause in a form acceptable to county counsel stating that the
developer agrees that the county cannot be held liable for any of the
developer's alleged damages, including all costs and attorney fees, under the
reimbursement agreement or as a result of any aspect of the formation of the
reimbursement district, or the reimbursement district process, and that the
developer waives, and is stopped from bringing, any claim of any kind,
including a claim in inverse condemnation, because the developer has benefited
by the county's approval of its development and the required public improvement
(s).
      7.   Other provisions the county determines necessary and proper to carry
out the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   If a reimbursement district is established by the county court, the
date of the formation of the reimbursement district shall be the date that the
county court adopts the resolution forming the reimbursement district. (Ord.
155, 4-5-2006)
4-3-8: NOTICE OF ADOPTION OF RESOLUTION:
The county shall notify all property owners within the reimbursement district
and the developer of the adoption of a reimbursement district resolution. The
notice shall include a copy of the resolution, the date it was adopted and a
short explanation specifying the amount of the reimbursement fee and that the
property owner is legally obligated to pay the reimbursement fee pursuant to
this chapter. (Ord. 155, 4-5-2006)
4-3-9: RECORDING THE RESOLUTION:
Notice of the formation and nature of the reimbursement district will be
recorded in the office of the Malheur County clerk so as to provide notice to
potential purchasers of property within the reimbursement district. Said
recording shall not create a lien. Failure to make such recording shall not
affect the legality of the resolution or the obligation to pay the
reimbursement fee. (Ord. 155, 4-5-2006)
4-3-10: CONTESTING THE REIMBURSEMENT DISTRICT:
No legal action intended to contest the formation of the reimbursement district
or the reimbursement fee, including the amount of the reimbursement fee
designated for each property within the reimbursement district, shall be filed
after sixty (60) days following the adoption of a resolution establishing a
reimbursement district and any such legal action shall be exclusively by writ
of review pursuant to ORS 34.010 to 34.102. (Ord. 155, 4-5-2006)
4-3-11: OBLIGATION TO PAY REIMBURSEMENT FEE:
   A.   The applicant for a permit related to property within any reimbursement
district shall pay the county, in addition to any other applicable fees and
charges, the reimbursement fee established by the county court if, within
twenty five (25) years after the date of the passage of the resolution forming
the reimbursement district, the person applies for and receives approval from
the county for any of the following activities:
      1.   A building permit for a new building or structure.
      2.   A building permit(s) for any addition(s), modification(s), repair(s)
or alteration(s) of a building, which exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the
value of the building within any twelve (12) month period. The value of the
building shall be the amount shown on the most current records of the Malheur
County assessor's office for the building's real market value. This subsection
A2 shall not apply to repairs made necessary due to damage or destruction by
fire or other natural disaster.
      3.   A "development permit", as that term is defined by this chapter.
      4.   Connection to or use of the public improvement(s).
   B.   The county's determination of who shall pay the reimbursement fee and
when the reimbursement fee is due is final.
   C.   In no instance shall the county, or any officer or employee of the
county, be liable for payment of any reimbursement fee, or portion thereof, as
a result of the county's determination as to who should pay the reimbursement
fee. Only those payments which the county has received from or on behalf of
those properties within a reimbursement district shall be payable to the
developer. The county's general fund or other revenue sources shall not be
liable for or subject to payment of outstanding and unpaid reimbursement fees
imposed upon private property.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter is intended to modify or limit the authority of
the county to provide or require access management.
   E.   Nothing in this chapter is intended to modify or limit the authority of
the county to enforce development conditions which have already been imposed
against specific properties.
   F.   Nothing in this chapter is intended to modify or limit the authority of
the county, in the future, to impose development conditions against specific
properties as the properties develop.
   G.   No person shall be required to pay the reimbursement fee on an
application or upon property for which the reimbursement fee has been
previously paid, unless such payment was for a different type of improvement.
No permit shall be issued for any of the activities listed in subsection A of
this section unless the reimbursement fee, together with the amount of accrued
interest, has been paid in full. Where approval is given as specified in
subsection A of this section, but no permit is requested or issued, then the
requirement to pay the reimbursement fee lapses if the underlying approval
lapses.
   H.   The reimbursement fee is immediately due and payable to the county by
property owners upon use of the public improvement(s) as provided in subsection
A of this section. If connection is made or construction commenced without
required county permits, then the reimbursement fee is immediately due and
payable upon the earliest date that any such permit was obtained.
   I.   Whenever the full reimbursement fee has not been paid and collected for
any reason after it is due, the county administrative officer shall report to
the county court the amount of the uncollected reimbursement, the legal
description of the property on which the reimbursement fee is due, the date
upon which the reimbursement fee was due and the property owner's name or
names. The county court shall then, by motion, set a public hearing date and
direct the county administrative officer to give notice of that hearing to each
of the identified property owners, together with a copy of the county
administrative officer's report concerning the unpaid reimbursement fee. Such
notice may be accomplished by regular and certified mail or personal service.
At the public hearing, the county court may accept, reject or modify the county
administrative officer's report. If the county court determines that the
reimbursement fee is due but has not been paid for whatever reason, the county
court may, at its sole discretion, act, by resolution, to take any action it
deems appropriate, including all legal or equitable means necessary, to collect
the unpaid reimbursement fee amount. After the county court has made the
determination that the reimbursement fee is due but has not been paid, the
developer shall have a private cause of action against the person legally
responsible for paying the reimbursement fee. (Ord. 155, 4-5-2006)
4-3-12: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT(S):
Public improvements installed pursuant to reimbursement agreements shall become
and remain the sole property of the county or applicable city if in the urban
growth boundary. (Ord. 155, 4-5-2006)
4-3-13: MULTIPLE PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
More than one public improvement may be the subject of a reimbursement
district. (Ord. 155, 4-5-2006)
4-3-14: COLLECTION AND PAYMENT; OTHER FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   The developer shall receive all reimbursements collected by the county
for public improvements within the reimbursement district. Such reimbursements
shall be delivered to the developer for as long as the reimbursement agreement
is in effect. Such payments shall be made by the county within ninety (90) days
of receipt of the reimbursements.
   B.   The reimbursement fee is not intended to replace or limit, and is in
addition to, any other existing fees or charges collected by the county. (Ord.
155, 4-5-2006)
4-3-15: NATURE OF THE REIMBURSEMENT FEE:
The county court finds that the reimbursement fee imposed by this chapter is
not a tax subject to the property tax limitations of article XI, section 11(b)
of the Oregon constitution. (Ord. 155, 4-5-2006)
4-3-16: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The right of reimbursement is assignable and transferable after written
notice is delivered to the county, advising the county to whom future payments
are to be made.
   B.   The county shall establish separate accounts for each reimbursement
district. Upon receipt of a reimbursement fee, the county shall cause a record
to be made of that property's payment and remit the fee to the person who
requested establishment of the reimbursement district or their assignee.
   C.   The reimbursement fee is not intended to replace or limit, and is in
addition to, any other existing fees or charges collected by the county. (Ord.
155, 4-5-2006)
TITLE 5
BUILDING AND FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD HAZARD BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1:   Utility Connections
5-1-2:   Building Permit System For Flood Prone Areas
5-1-1: UTILITY CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Short Title: This section shall be known as the MALHEUR COUNTY
UTILITIES ORDINANCE and may be so cited and pleaded. (Res., 3-13-1974; amd.
1989 Code)
   B.   Definitions:
   BUILDING: A structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
   SERVICE: Providing or attaching to any newly constructed building or newly
installed manufactured dwelling or prefabricated building the initial line,
hook up or metering device to provide electricity.
   UTILITY: Any public or private corporation or company which supplies the
public or a group of individuals with electrical power.
   ZONING PERMIT: A zoning permit issued subject to the regulations as
described in the Malheur County zoning ordinance 1 . (Res., 3-13-1974; amd.
1989 Code; Ord. 147, 4-14-2004)
   C.   Zoning Permit Required:
      1.   Providing Services Without A Zoning Permit Prohibited: No utility
shall provide any service to any newly constructed building or newly installed
manufactured dwelling or prefabricated building outside the limits of any
incorporated city in Malheur County until such utility has been furnished with
a copy of the zoning permit which has been issued for such newly constructed
building or newly installed manufactured dwelling or prefabricated building.
(Ord. 147, 4-14-2004)
      2.   Issuance Of Copies: When a zoning permit is issued pursuant to the
Malheur County zoning ordinance, the issuer shall furnish to the successful
applicant copies in an amount sufficient for said applicant to provide the
utility with a copy.
   D.   Violation: Violation of this section is a class A county infraction.
(Res., 3-13-1974; amd. 1989 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6 of this code.
5-1-2: BUILDING PERMIT SYSTEM FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS:
   A.   The planning director shall review all building permit applications for
new construction or substantial improvements to determine whether proposed
building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a proposed building
site is in a location that has a flood hazard, any proposed new construction or
substantial improvement (including prefabricated and manufactured dwellings)
must: 1) be designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement of the structure; 2) use construction materials and utility
equipment that are resistant to flood damage; and 3) use construction methods
and practices that will minimize flood damage. (Ord. 147, 4-14-2004)
   B.   The planning commission shall review subdivision proposals and other
proposed new developments to assure that: 1) all such proposals are consistent
with the need to minimize flood damage; 2) all public utilities and facilities,
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems are located, elevated and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage; and 3) adequate drainage is
provided so as to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   C.   The environmental health director shall require new or replacement
water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage systems to be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and discharges from
the systems into floodwaters, and require on site waste disposal systems to be
located so as to avoid impairment of them or contamination from them during
flooding. (Res., 3-13-1974; amd. 1989 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FLOOD CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1:   Findings
5-2-2:   Definitions
5-2-3:   General Provisions
5-2-4:   Administration
5-2-4-1: Establishment Of Development Permit
5-2-4-2: Local Administrator
5-2-4-3: Variance Requests
5-2-5:   Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
5-2-5-1: General Standards
5-2-5-2: Specific Standards
5-2-5-3: Floodways
5-2-5-4: Standards For Shallow Flooding Areas
5-2-1: FINDINGS:
   A.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   Statutory Authority: The State of Oregon has in ORS 203.035
delegated the responsibility to local government units to adopt regulations
designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its
citizenry. Therefore, Malheur County does ordain as follows:
      2.   The flood hazard areas of Malheur County are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base;
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      3.   These flood losses may be caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored, cause damage in other areas. Uses
that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss.
   B.   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this Chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare, and to minimize public and private
losses due to flooding in flood hazard areas by provisions designed:
      1.   To protect human life and health;
      2.   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      6.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood hazard areas so as to minimize future flood blight
areas caused by flooding;
      7.   Notify potential buyers that property is in a special flood hazard
area;
      8.   Notify those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard areas that
they assume responsibility for their actions; and
      9.   Participate in and maintain eligibility for flood insurance and
disaster relief.
   C.   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish its purposes,
this Chapter includes methods and provisions for:
      1.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in
damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      2.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Controlling the alteration of natural flood plains, stream channels
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
      4.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
      5.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas. (Ord. 54, 3-24-1987; Ord. 219, 11-13-2019)
5-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in common usage.
 
APPEAL:    A request for a review of the interpretation of any provision of this chapter or
           a request for a variance.
           A designated AO, AH, AR/AO or AR/AH on a community’s flood insurance rate map
AREA OF    (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of flooding to an
SHALLOW    average depth of one (1) to three (3) where a clearly defined channel does not
FLOODING:  exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may
           be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF    The land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent (1%) or
SPECIAL    greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on the flood insurance
FLOOD      rate map (FIRM) as Zone A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR. “Special flood area zone”
HAZARD:    is synonymous in meaning with hte phrase “area of special flood hazard.”
BASE       The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
FLOOD:     given year.
BASE FLOOD The elevation to which floodwater is anticipated to rise during the base flood.
ELEVATION:
BASEMENT:  Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all
           sides.
BELOW-     Means the enclosed area below the base flood elevation in which the interior
GRADE      grade is not more than two (2) feet below the lowest adjacent exterior grade and
CRAWL      the height, measured from the interior grade of the crawlspace to the top of the
SPACE:     crawlspace foundation, does not exceed four (4) feet at any point.
 
CHAPTER:               This chapter is codified in the Malheur County Code
                       Title 5 Chapter 2.
                       Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
                       estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or
DEVELOPMENT:           other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
                       paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
                       equipment or materials.
                       Means: 1. A general and temporary condition of partial
                       or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
                       a) The overflow of inland waters. b) The unusual and
                       rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
                       source. c) Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are
                       proximately caused by flooding as defined in 1.b) of
                       this definition and are akin to a river of liquid and
                       flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas,
                       as when earth is carried by a current of water and
FLOOD or FLOODING:     deposited along the path of the current. 2. The collapse
                       or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other
                       body of water as a result of erosion or undermining
                       caused by waves or currents of water exceeding
                       anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an
                       unusually high water level in a natural body of water,
                       accompanied by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated
                       force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal
                       tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and
                       unforeseeable event which results in flooding as defined
                       in paragraph 1. a) of this definition.
                       An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
                       hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface
FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY: elevations, or an examination, evaluation and
                       determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-
                       related erosion hazards.
 
 
FLOOD        The official map of a community, on which the federal insurance
INSURANCE    administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas and the risk
RATE MAP     premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made
(FIRM):      available digitally is called a digital flood insurance rate map
             (DFIRM).
FLOOD
INSURANCE    See “flood elevation study.”
STUDY (FIS):
             The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive
FLOODPLAIN   measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
MANAGEMENT:  emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and floodplain
             management regulations.
             Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes or
FLOOD        adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate risk of flood damage
PROOFING:    to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
             structures, and their contents.
             The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas
FLOODWAY:    that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
             cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
             designated height. Also referred to as “regulatory floodway.”
             A use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or
FUNCTIONALLY carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only docking
DEPENDENT    facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the loading and
USE:         unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
             facilities, and does not include long term storage or related
             manufacturing facilities.
 
 
HIGHEST    The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction next to the
ADJACENT   proposed walls of a structure.
GRADE:
           Any structure that is:
              1.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a listing
           maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary
           of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the national
           register;
              2.   Certified or preliminary determined by the Secretary of Interior as
HISTORIC   contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a
STRUCTURE: district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as registered historic
           district;
              3.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in communities
           with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
                 a.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
           Interior; or
                 b.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
           programs.
 
 
              The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including “basement”). An
              unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles,
LOWEST FLOOR: building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area, is not
              considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such enclosure is not built
              so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design
              requirements of this chapter.
              A structure, transportable in one (1) or more sections, which is built on a
MANUFACTURED  permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a permanent
DWELLING:     foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term “manufactured
              dwelling” does not include a “recreational vehicle” and is synonymous with
              “manufactured home.”
MANUFACTURED
DWELLING PARK A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more
OR            manufactured dwelling lots for rent or sale.
SUBDIVISION:
MEAN SEA      For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the national geodetic
LEVEL:        vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base flood elevations
              shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are referenced.
              For floodplain management purposes, “new construction” means structures for which
NEW           the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of
CONSTRUCTION: floodplain management regulation adopted by Malheur County and includes any
              subsequent improvements to such structures.
PLANNING      The Malheur County planning director who serves as the floodplain administrator.
DIRECTOR:
 
                                  For floodplain management purposes, means a
                                  vehicle which is: 1. Built on a single
                                  chassis; 2. Four hundred (400) square feet or
                                  less when measured from the largest
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:             horizontal projection; 3. Designed to be
                                  self-propelled or permanently towable by a
                                  light duty truck; and 4. Designed primarily
                                  not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
                                  temporary living quarters for recreational,
                                  camping, travel, or seasonal use.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): See “area of special flood hazard.”
                                  Includes substantial improvement and means
                                  the date the building permit was issued;
                                  provided the actual start of construction,
                                  repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
                                  addition, placement or other improvement was
                                  within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
                                  date of the permit. The actual start means
                                  either the first placement of permanent
                                  construction of a structure on a site, such
                                  as the pouring of slab or footings, the
                                  installation of piles, the construction of
                                  columns, or any work beyond the stage of
                                  excavation; or the installation of a
                                  manufactured dwelling on a foundation.
                                  Permanent construction does not include land
START OF CONSTRUCTION:            preparation, such as clearing, grading and
                                  filling; nor does it include the installation
                                  of streets and/or walkways; nor does it
                                  include excavation for a basement, footings,
                                  piers, or foundation or the erection of
                                  temporary forms; nor does it include the
                                  installation on the property of accessory
                                  buildings, such as garages or sheds not
                                  occupied as dwelling units or not part of the
                                  main structure. For a substantial
                                  improvement, the actual start of construction
                                  means the first alteration of any wall,
                                  ceiling, floor or other structural part of a
                                  building, whether or not that alteration
                                  affects the external dimensions of the
                                  building.
 
             For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building including a gas or
STRUCTURE:   liquid storage tank, that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured
             building.
SUBSTANTIAL  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
DAMAGE:      structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%) of
             the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
             Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or improvement of a structure, the
             cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
             before the “start of construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures
             which have incurred “substantial damage,” regardless of the actual repair work
SUBSTANTIAL  performed. The term does not, however, include either:
IMPROVEMENT:    1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
             state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
             identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
             assure safe living conditions; or
                2.   Any alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the alteration will not
             preclude the structure’s continued designation as a “historic structure.”
VARIANCE:    A grant of relief by Malheur County from the terms of flood management regulation.
 
           The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant
           with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure or
           other development without the elevation certificate, other
VIOLATION: certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in this Chapter
           is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
           provided. (Ord. 54, 3-24-1987; amd. Ord. 147, 4-14-2004; Ord. 219, 11-
           13-2019)
 
5-2-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which Provisions Applicable: This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazards areas (SFHA) within the jurisdiction of Malheur
County excluding areas within incorporated city limits (“community”).
   B.   Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance administrator in a
scientific and engineering report entitled "The Flood Insurance Study Of
Malheur County", dated September 29, 1986, with accompanying flood insurance
rate maps (FIRMS) and flood boundary-floodway maps (410146IND0, 410149FND0,
4101491825B, 4101491725B, 4101491702B, 4101491702, 4101491700B, 4101491675B,
4101491650B, 4101491575B, 4101491564B, 4101491564, 4101491550B, 4101491425B,
4101490825B, 4101490804B, 4101490804, 4101490803B, 4101490803, 4101490800B,
4101490725B, 4101490675B, 4101490650B, 4101490625B, 4101490600B, 4101490520B,
4101490510B, 4101490510, 4101490505B, 4101490505, 4101490500B, 4101490492B,
4101490492, 4101490491B, 4101490491, 4101490489B, 4101490489, 4101490487B,
4101490487, 4101490483B, 4101490483, 4101490475B, 4101490450B, 4101490375B,
4101490370B, 4101490370, 4101490350B, 4101490325B, 4101490225B, 4101490218B,
4101490218, 4101490216B, 4101490216, 4101490214B, 4101490214, 4101490212B,
4101490212, 4101490200B, 4101490175B) which are hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter. The FIS and FIRM panels are on file in
the Malheur County planning office located in the Malheur County Courthouse.
   C.   Coordination With State Of Oregon Specialty Codes: Pursuant to the
requirement established in ORS 455 that Malheur County administers and enforces
the State of Oregon Specialty Codes, Malheur County does not hereby acknowledge
that the Oregon Specialty Codes contain certain provisions that apply to the
design and construction of buildings and structures located in special flood
hazard areas. Therefore, this chapter is intended to be administered and
enforced in compliance with the Oregon Specialty Code.
   D.   Compliance: All development within special flood hazard areas is
subject to the terms of this chapter and required to comply with its provisions
and all other applicable regulations.
   E.   Penalties For Noncompliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be
constructed, located, extended, converted, or altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. Violation of
the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with any of its
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor under state law. Any
person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall be subject to the fines, penalties and remedies provided for
in the Malheur County code. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Malheur
County court from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation1.
   F.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and other ordinances, easements,
covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   G.   Severability: This chapter and the various parts thereof are hereby
declared to be severable. If any section, clause, sentence or phrase of this
chapter is held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, said holding shall in no way effect the validity of the remaining
portions of this chapter.
   H.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   I.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or
natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the area of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of Malheur County, any officer or employee thereof or the federal insurance
administration, for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter
or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 54, 3-24-1987;
amd. Ord. 219, 11-13-2019)
5-2-4: ADMINISTRATION:
5-2-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area horizontally within the special flood hazard area
established in subsection
5-2-3 B of this chapter. The development permit shall be required for all
structures, including manufactured dwellings, and for all development as
defined in
5-2-2 , including fill and other activities. Application for a development
permit shall be made on forms furnished by the Malheur County planning
director/floodplain administrator and may include, but not be limited to, plans
in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage of facilities and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
   A.   In riverine flood zones, the proposed elevation (in relation to mean
sea level), of the lowest floor (including basement) and all attendant
utilities of all new and substantially improved structures.
   B.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea levelto which any non-
residential structure will be flood proofed.
   C.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
licensed in the State of Oregon that the floodproofing methods for any non-
residential structure meet the floodproofing criteria in subsection
5-2-5-2 C of this chapter.
   D.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development.
   E.   Base flood elevation data for subdivision proposals or other
development when required per sections
5-2-4-2 B and
5-2-5-1 F.
   F.   Substantial improvement calculations for any improvement, addition,
reconstruction, renovation, or rehabilitation of an existing structure.
   G.   The amount and location of any fill or excavation activities proposed.
(Ord. 54, 3-24-1987; amd. Ord. 147, 4-14-2004; Ord. 219, 11-13-2019)
5-2-4-2: LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Designation: The Malheur County Planning Director is hereby appointed
to administer and implement this Chapter by granting or denying development
permit applications in accordance with its provisions. The Planning Director
may delegate authority to implement these provisions.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties of the floodplain administrator, or
their designee, shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Permit Review:
         a.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this Chapter have been satisfied.
         b.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
         c.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of subsection
5-2-5-3 A of this Chapter are met.
         d.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in an area where base flood elevation (BFE) data is
available either through the flood insurance study (FIS) or from another
authoritative source. If BFE data is not available then ensure compliance with
the provisions of sections
5-2-5-1 G.
         e.   Provide to building officials the base flood elevation (BFE)
applicable to any building requiring a development permit.
         f.   Review all development permit applications to determine if the
proposed development qualifies as a substantial improvement as defined in
section
5-2-2 .
         g.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development activity is a watercourse alteration. If a watercourse alteration
is proposed, ensure compliance with the provisions in section
5-2-4-2 B5.
         h.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development activity includes the placement of fill or excavation.
      2.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with subsection
5-2-3  of this Chapter, the Planning Director shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
Federal, State or other source, in order to administer Sections
5-2-5-1 ,
5-2-5-2  and
5-2-5-3  of this Chapter.
      3.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained: The following information
shall be obtained and maintained and shall be made available for public
inspection as needed:
         a.   Obtain, record and maintain the actual elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basements) and all attendant
utilities of all new or substantially improved structures where base flood
elevation (BFE) data is provided through the flood insurance study (FIS), flood
insurance rate map (FIRM), or obtained in accordance with
5-2-5-1 G of this chapter.
         b.   Obtain and record the elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
of the natural grade of the building site for a structure prior to the start of
construction and the placement of any fill and ensure that requirements of
sections
5-2-5-3  and
5-2-4-2 B1b are adhered to.
         c.   Upon placement of the lowest floor or a structure (including
basement) but prior to further vertical construction, obtain an elevation
certificate (EC) recording the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
of the lowest floor (including basement), all attendant utilities in place, and
the location and height of all flood openings.
         d.   Obtain as-built elevation certificate (EC) recording the actual
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including
basement), and all attendant utilities, and the location and height of all
flood openings prior to the final inspection.
         e.   Maintain all elevation certificates (EC) submitted to Malheur
County as required under this chapter.
         f.   Obtain, record, and maintain the elevation (in relation to mean
sea level) to which the structure and all attendant utilities were flood
proofed for all new or substantially improved flood proofed structures where
base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided through FIS, FIRM, or obtained in
accordance with
5-2-5-1 G of this chapter.
         g.   Maintain all flood proofing certificates required under this
chapter.
         h.   Record and maintain all variance actions, including justification
for their issuance.
         i.   Obtain and maintain all hydrologic and hydraulic analyses
performed as required under
5-2-5-3 .
         j.   Record and maintain all substantial improvement and substantial
damage calculations and determinations as required under section
5-2-4-2 B7.
         k.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
      4.   Community Boundary Alterations: The floodplain administrator shall
notify the federal insurance administrator in writing whenever the boundaries
of the community have been modified by annexation or the community has assumed
authority or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management
regulations for a particular area to ensure that all flood hazard boundary maps
(FHBM) and flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) accurately represent the
community’s boundaries. Include within such notification a copy of a map of the
community suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate
limits or new area for which the community has assumed or relinquished
floodplain management regulatory authority.
      5.   Alteration Of Watercourses: Notify adjacent communities, the
Department of Land Conservation and Development, and other appropriate state
and federal agencies, prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse,
and submit evidence of such notification to the federal insurance
administration. The notification shall be provided by the applicant to the
federal insurance administration as the letter of map revision (LOMR) along
with either:
         a.   A proposed maintenance plan to assure the flood carrying capacity
within the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse is maintained; or
         b.   Certification by a registered professional engineer that the
project has been designed to retain its flood carrying capacity without
periodic maintenance.
      The applicant shall be required to submit a conditional letter of map
revision (CLOMR) when required under section
5-2-4-2 B6. Ensure compliance with all applicable requirements in sections
5-2-4-2 B6 and
5-2-5-1 A.
      6.   Requirement To Submit New Technical Data:
         a.   A community’s flood base elevations may increase or decrease
resulting from physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as
practicable, but not later than six (6) months after the date such information
becomes available, a community shall notify the federal insurance administrator
of the changes by submitting technical or scientific data in accordance with
Section 44 of the code of federal regulations (CFR), sub-section 65.3. The
planning director/floodplain administrator may require that applicant submit
such data and review fees required for compliance with this section through the
applicable FEMA letter of map change (LOMC) process.
         b.   The floodplain administrator shall require a conditional letter
of map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
            (1)   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base of the
flood elevation; and
            (2)   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation
by more than one (1) foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway.
         c.   An applicant shall notify FEMA within six (6) months of project
completion when an applicant has obtained a conditional letter of map revision
(COLMR) from FEMA. This notification to FEMA shall be provided as a letter of
map revision (LOMR).
         d.   The applicant shall be responsible for preparing all technical
data to support COLMR/LOMR applications and paying any processing or
application fees. The floodplain administrator shall be under no obligation to
sign the community acknowledgment form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR
application, until the applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met
the requirements of this code and all applicable state and federal laws.
      7.   Substantial Improvement And Substantial Damage Assessments And
Determinations: Conduct substantial improvement (SI) (as defined in section
5-2-2 ) reviews for all structural development proposal applications and
maintain a record of SI calculations within permit files in accordance with
section
5-2-4-2 B. Conduct substantial damage (SD) (as defined in section
5-2-2 ) assessments when structures are damaged due to a natural hazard event
or other causes. Make SD determinations whenever structures within the special
flood hazard area (as established in section
5-2-3 B) are damaged to the extent that the cost of restoring the structure to
its before damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      8.   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations where
needed, as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special
flood hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions). The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation. Such appeal shall be granted consistent with the standards of
section 60.6 of the rules and regulations of the national flood insurance
program (44 CFR 59-76). (Ord. 54, 3-24-1987; amd. Ord. 219, 11-13-2019)
5-2-4-3: VARIANCE REQUESTS:
   A.   Variance Procedure: The issuance of a variance is for floodplain
management purposes only. Flood insurance premium rates are determined by
federal statute according to actuarial risk and will not be modified by the
granting of a variance.
   B.   Conditions For Variances:
      1.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less
in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures
constructed below the one foot (1') above base flood level, providing
subsections
5-2-4-3B2 through B7 have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      3.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      5.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as
a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      6.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that the criteria in
5-2-4-3B2 through B4 are met, and the proposed structure of other development
is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and
create no additional threats to public safety.
      7.   Variance Notification: Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice that the issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below the base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates
for flood insurance and that such construction below the base flood elevation
increases risks to life and property. Such notification and a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, shall be
maintained in accordance with section
5-2-4-2B above. (Ord. 54, 3-24-1987; amd. Ord. 219, 11-13-2019)
5-2-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
5-2-5-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards (SFHA), the following standards are
required:
   A.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
      1.   Require that the flood carry capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained. Require that maintenance
is provided within the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse to
ensure that the flood carrying capacity is not diminished. Require compliance
with sections
5-2-4-2B5 and
5-2-4-2B6.
   B.   Anchoring:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      2.   All manufactured dwellings must likewise be anchored per section
5-2-5-2D.
   C.   Construction Materials And Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, duct systems, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities shall be elevated at or
above the base flood elevation or shall be designed and installed to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components and to resist
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and stresses, including the effects of
buoyancy, during conditions of flooding. In addition, electrical, heating,
ventilating, air- conditioning, plumbing, duct systems, and other equipment and
service facilities shall:
         a.   If replaced as a part of a substantial improvement meet all the
requirements of this section.
   D.   Utilities: Water supply, sanitary sewer, and on-site waste disposal
systems:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      2.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters.
      3.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding consistent with the Oregon
Department of Environmental Quality.
   E.   Tanks:
      1.   Underground tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse
and lateral movement under conditions of the base flood.
      2.   Above-ground tanks shall be installed at or above the base flood
level or shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement
under conditions of the base flood.
   F.   Subdivision, Commercial, Industrial And Other Development Proposals:
      1.   All new subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments
(including proposals for manufactured dwelling parks and subdivisions) greater
than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is the lesser, shall include
within such proposals, base flood elevation data.
      2.   All new subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments
(including proposals for manufactured dwelling parks and subdivision) shall:
         a.   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
         b.   Have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
and
         c.   Have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   G.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data:
      1.   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with section
5-2-3B, the local floodplain administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data available from federal, state, other
source, in order to administer section
5-2-5-1. All new subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments
(including proposals for manufactured dwelling parks and subdivisions) must
meet the requirements of section
5-2-5-1F.
      2.   Base flood elevations shall be generated for all development
proposals that are five (5) or more in size or are fifty (50) lots or more,
whichever is lesser iin any A zone that does not have an established base flood
elevation. Development proposals located within a riverine A zone shall be
reasonably safe from flooding; the test of reasonableness includes use of
historical data, high water marks, photographs of past flooding, etc., where
available. Failure to elevate at least two (2) feet above grade in these zones
may result in higher insurance rates.
   H.   Structures Located In Multiple Or Partial Flood Zones: In coordination
with the State of Oregon Specialty Codes:
      1.   When a structure is located in multiple flood zones on the
community’s flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) the provisions for the more
restrictive flood zone shall apply.
      2.   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area
(SFHA), the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction
and substantial improvements. (Ord. 54, 3-24-1987; amd. Ord. 147, 4-14-2004;
Ord. 219, 11-13-2019)
5-2-5-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data have been
provided as set forth in subsection
5-2-3B or
5-2-4-2B2 of this chapter, the following standards are required. These specific
standards shall apply in addition to the general standards contained in section
5-2-5-1 of this chapter:
   A.   Flood Openings:
      1.   Flood Openings: All new construction and substantial improvements
with fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) are
subject to the following requirements. Enclosed areas below the base flood
elevation, including a crawl space shall:
         a.   Be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on
walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters.
         b.   Be used solely for parking, storage, or building access.
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) openings.
            (2)   The total net area of non-engineered openings shall be not
less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed area, where the
enclosed area is measured on the exterior of the enclosed walls.
            (3)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1)
foot above grade.
            (4)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic flow of
floodwater into and out of the enclosed areas and shall be accounted for in the
determination of the net open area.
            (5)   All additional higher standards for flood openings in the
State of Oregon Residential Specialty Codes Section R322.2.2 shall be complied
with when applicable.
   B.   Garages:
      1.   Attached garages may be constructed with the garage floor slab below
the base flood elevation (BFE) in riverine flood zones, if the following
requirements are met:
         a.   If located within a floodway the proposed garage must comply with
the requirements of section
5-2-5-3;
         b.   The floors are at or above grade on not less than one (1) side;
         c.   The garage is used solely for parking, building access, and/or
storage;
         d.   The garage is constructed with flood openings in compliance with
section
5-2-5-2A to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for
the automatic entry and exit of floodwater;
         e.   The portions of the garage constructed below the BFE are
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
         f.   The garage is constructed in compliance with the general
standards above in section
5-2-5-1; and
         g.   The garage is constructed with electrical, and other service
facilities located and installed so as to prevent water from entering or
accumulating within the components during conditions of the base flood.
      2.   Detached garages must be constructed in compliance with the
standards for appurtenant structures in section
5-2-5-2F or non-residential structures in section
5-2-5-2C depending on the square footage of the garage.
   C.   Before Regulatory Floodway: In areas where a regulatory floodway has
not been designated, no new construction, substantial improvement, or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and AE on
the community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM), unless it is demonstrated that
the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one (1) foot at any point within the
community.
   D.   Residential Construction:
      1.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
one foot (1') above base flood elevation.
      2.   Enclosed areas below the lowest floor shall comply with the flood
opening requirements in section
5-2-5-2A.
   E.   Nonresidential Construction:
      1.   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall:
         a.   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of one foot (1') above the base flood elevation (BFE);
      Or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall:
         b.   Be flood-proofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water.
         c.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
         d.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this section based on their
development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and plans.
Such certifications shall be provided to the floodplain administrator as set
forth in subsection
5-2-4-2B of this Chapter.
      2.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed, shall
comply with the standards for enclosed areas below the lowest floor in section
5-2-5-2A.
      3.   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall be notified
that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot (1')
below the floodproofed level (e.g., a building constructed to the base flood
level will be rated as 1 foot below that level).
      4.   Applicants shall supply a maintenance plan for the entire structure
to include but not limited to: exterior envelope of structure; all penetrations
to the exterior of structure; all shields, gates, barriers, or components
designed to provide flood proofing protection to the structure; all seals or
gaskets for shields; gates, barriers, or ocmponents; and, the location of all
shields, gates, barriers, and components, as well as all associated hardware,
and any materials or specialized tools necessary to seal the structure.
      5.   Applicants shall supply an emergency action plan (EAP) for the
installation and sealing of the structure prior to a flooding event that
clearly identifies what triggers the EAP and who is responsible for enacting
the EAP.
   F.   Manufactured Dwellings:
      1.   New or substantially improved manufactured dwellings supported on
solid foundation walls shall be constructed with flood openings that comply
with section
5-2-5-2A;
      2.   The bottom of the longitudinal chassis frame beam shall be at or
above base flood elevation;
      3.   New or substantially improved manufactured dwellings shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement during the base
flood. Anchoring methods may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-
top or frame ties to ground anchors (Reference FEMA’s “Manufactured Home
Installation in Flood Hazard Areas” guidebook for additional techniques); and
      4.   Electrical crossover connections shall be a minimum of twelve (12)
inches above base flood elevation (BFE).
   G.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles placed on sites are
required to:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) days; and
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions; or
      3.   Meet the requirements of section
5-2-5-2D including the anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured
dwellings.
   H.   Appurtenant (Accessory) Structures: Relief from elevation or flood
proofing requirements for residential and non-residential structures in
Riverine (non-coastal) flood zones may be granted for appurtenant structures
that meet the following requirements:
      1.   Appurtenant structures located partially or entirely within the
floodway must comply with requirements for development within a floodway found
in section
5-2-5-3.
      2.   Appurtenant structures must only be used for parking, access, and/or
storage and shall not be used for human habitation.
      3.   In compliance with State of Oregon Specialty Codes, appurtenant
structures on properties that are zoned residential are limited to one-story
structures less than two hundred (200) square feet, or four hundred (400)
square feet if the property is greater than two (2) acres in area and the
proposed appurtenant structure will be located a minimum of twenty (20) feet
from all property lines. Appurtenant structures on properties that are zoned as
non- residential are limited in size to one hundred twenty (120) square feet.
      4.   The portions of the appurtenant structure located below the base
flood elevation must be built using flood resistant materials.
      5.   The appurtenant structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the base flood.
      6.   The appurtenant structure must be designed and constructed to
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls and comply with the
requirements for flood openings in section
5-2-5-2A.
      7.   Appurtenant structures shall be located and constructed to have low
damage potential.
      8.   Appurtenant structures shall not be used to store toxic material,
oil, or gasoline, or any priority persistent pollutant identified by the Oregon
Department of Environmental Quality unless confined in a tank installed in
compliance with section
5-2-5-1E.
   I.   Below-Grade Crawl Spaces:
      1.   A building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structures resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Hydrostatic loads and the effects of buoyancy can usually be addressed through
the required flood openings stated in
5-2-5-2A. Because of hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace construction is not allowed
in areas with flood velocities greater than five (5) feet per second unless the
design is reviewed by a qualified design professional, such as a registered
architect or professional engineer. Other types of foundations are recommended
for these areas.
      2.   The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the base flood elevation
(BFE) and, as such, must have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by
allowing the automatic entry and exist of floodwaters. The bottom of each flood
vent opening can be no more than one (1) foot above the lowest adjacent
exterior grade.
      3.   Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation
walls of the crawlspace used to elevate the building, but also any joists,
insulation, or other materials that extend below the BFE. The recommended
construction practice is to elevate the bottom of the joists and all
insulation, or other materials that extend below the BFE. The recommended
construction practice is to elevate the bottom of the joists and all insulation
above the BFE.
      4.   Any building utility system within the crawlspace must be elevated
above BFE or designed so that the floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within
the system components during flood conditions. Ductwork, in particular, must
either be placed above the BFE or sealed from floodwaters.
      5.   The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be more
than two (2) feet below the lowest adjacent exterior grade.
      6.   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall, must not
exceed four (4) feet at any point. The height limitation is the maximum
allowable unsupported wall height according to engineering analyses and
building code requirements for flood hazard areas.
      7.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained
within a reasonable time after a flood event. The type of drainage system will
vary because of the site gradient and other drainage characteristics, such as
soil types. Possible options include natural drainage through porous, well-
drained soils and drainage systems such as perforated pipes, drainage tiles or
gravel or crushed stone drainage by gravity or mechanical means.
      8.   The velocity of floodwaters at the site shall not exceed five (5)
feet per second for the crawlspace. For velocities in excess of five (5) feet
per second, other foundation types should be used. (Ord. 54, 3-24-1987; amd.
Ord. 147, 4-14-2004; Ord. 219, 11-13-2019)
5-2-5-3: FLOODWAYS:
Located within areas the special flood hazard areas established in subsection
5-2-3B of this chapter are areas designed as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
apply:
   A.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory floodway
unless:
      1.   Certification by a registered professional civil engineer is
provided demonstrating through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in
accordance with standard engineering practices that the proposed encroachment
shall not result in any increase in flood levels of the community during
occurrence of the base flood discharge; or
      2.   A community may permit encroachments within the adopted regulatory
floodway that would result in an increase in base flood elevations, provided
that a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) is applied for and approved
by the federal insurance administrator and the requirements for such revision
as established under Volume 44 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Section
65.12, are fulfilled.
   B.   If the requirements of subsection A of this section are satisfied, all
new construction and substantial improvements, and other development shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this section
5-2-5. (Ord. 54, 3-24-1987; amd. Ord. 147, 4-14-2004)
5-2-5-4: STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING AREAS:
Shallow flooding areas appear on FIRMs as AO zones with depth designations or
as AH zones with base flood elevations. For AO zones the base flood depths
range from one (1) to three (3) feet above ground where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, or where the path of flooding is unpredictable and
where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is usually characterized as
sheet flow. For both AO and AH zones, adequate drainage paths are required
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   A.   Standards For AH Zones: Development within AH zones must comply with
the standards in sections
5-2-5-1,
5-2-5-2, and
5-2-5-4A.
   B.   Standards For AO Zones: In AO zones, the following provisions apply in
addition to the requirements in sections
5-2-5-1 and
5-2-5-4A.
      1.   New construction and substantial improvement of residential
structures and manufactured dwellings within AO zones shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated above the highest grade adjacent to the
building, at minimum above the depth number specified on the flood insurance
rate maps (FIRM) (at least two (2) feet if no depth number is specified). For
manufactured dwellings the lowest floor is considered to be the bottom of the
longitudinal chassis frame beam.
      2.   New construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures within AO zones shall either:
         a.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade of the building site, at minimum above the depth number
specified on the flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) (at least two (2) feet if no
depth number is specified); or
         b.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
completely flood proofed to or above the depth number specified on the FIRM or
a minimum of two (2) feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified, so that any space below that level is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effects of buoyancy. If this method is used, compliance shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as stated in
section
5-2-5-2C3.
      3.   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within AO zones on the
community’s flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) shall either:
         a.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days; and
         b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions; or
         c.   Meet the elevation requirements of section
5-2-5-4A above, and the anchoring and other requirements for manufactured
dwellings of section
5-2-5-2D.
      4.   In AO zones, new and substantially improved appurtenant structures
must comply with the standards in section
5-2-5-2F.
      5.   Enclosed areas beneath elevated structures shall comply with the
requirements in section
5-2-5-2A. (Ord. 219, 11-13-2019)
CHAPTER 3
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
5-3-1:   Title
5-3-2:   Purpose
5-3-3:   Scope
5-3-4:   Administration Of Code
5-3-5:   County Adoption Of State Specialty Codes
5-3-6:   Alternate Materials And Method
5-3-7:   Modifications
5-3-8:   Tests
5-3-9:   Power And Authority Of Building Official
5-3-10:   Plans And Permits
5-3-11:   Fees
5-3-12:   Refund Of Fees
5-3-13:   Interpretation Of Specialty Codes
5-3-14:   Specific Provisions Of Electrical Inspection Program
5-3-15:   Appeal, Local Appeal Board And Alternative Appeal Procedure
5-3-16:   Instances Of Violations
5-3-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall be known as the MALHEUR COUNTY BUILDING CODE, may be
cited as such and will be referred herein as “this chapter”. (Ord. 106, 6-25-
1996, eff. 7-1-1996; amd. Ord. 224, 4-1-2020)
5-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform performance standards
providing reasonable safeguards for health, safety, comfort and security of the
residents of this jurisdiction who are occupants and users of buildings and for
the use of modern methods, devices, materials, techniques and practical maximum
energy conservation. This chapter is adopted as a general legislative enactment
pursuant to ORS 203.035 and 455.150. (Ord. 106, 6-25-1996, eff. 7-1-1996; amd.
Ord. 224, 4-1-2020)
5-3-3: SCOPE:
This chapter shall apply to the construction, alteration, moving, demolition,
repair, maintenance and work associated with any building or structure except
those located in a public way.
Where, in any specific case, different sections of this chapter specify
different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most
restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general and a
specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable.
Where, in any specific case, there is a conflict between this chapter and
Oregon Revised Statutes, the statute shall govern.
   A.   Definitions.
 
          The official designated by the Malheur County Court as the Malheur County
BUILDING  Building Official, or the Building Official’s duty authorized representative,
OFFICIAL: and charged by the Codes (Malheur County Building Code and adopted Oregon
          Specialty Codes) with the administration and enforcement of this chapter. (Ord.
          106, 6-25-1996, eff. 7-1-1996; amd. Ord. 224, 4-1-2020)
 
5-3-4: ADMINISTRATION OF CODE:
Malheur County shall provide a program of building code administration
(“program”) within the limits of Malheur County, including the issuing of
permits, plan reviews and inspection for structural, mechanical, plumbing and
electrical work. The program shall be administered by the Building Official.
The Building Official may delegate the authority to administer or enforce all
or part of the program. The program shall operate pursuant to the State of
Oregon Building Codes, except as modified by this chapter. (Ord. 106, 6-25-
1996, eff. 7-1-1996; amd. Ord. 224, 4-1-2020)
5-3-5: COUNTY ADOPTION OF STATE SPECIALTY CODES:
Malheur County hereby adopts, by reference and incorporates herein, that
version of the following state specialty codes (“specialty codes”) adopted by
the State of Oregon, from time to time, relating to building construction, as
county ordinances:
   A.   Structural Code: The Oregon Structural Specialty Code, as adopted by
OAR 918-460-0010 through 918-460-0015, except as modified in this chapter, is
enforced as part of the Malheur County Building Code.
   In addition to activities and structures requiring permits under the Oregon
Structural Specialty Code, permits are required for the following activities
and structures, pursuant to ORS 455.020(4) and this chapter:
      1.   As required pursuant to the regulation of dangerous buildings,
seismic rehabilitation plans.
      2.   For abatement of nuisances and dangerous buildings.
      3.   Fire/ life safety during construction.
      4.   Demolition.
      5.   Fences exceeding 7 feet in height.
      6.   Retaining walls supporting a surcharge, or impounding Class I, II,
IIIA liquids.
      7.   Tanks that are located exterior to and not attached to or supported
by a regulated building.
      8.   Cellular phone, radio, television and other telecommunication and
broadcast towers that are not attached to or supported by a regulated building.
      9.   Flagpoles and light poles exceeding 25 feet in height.
      10.   Signs not attached to or supported by a regulated building.
   B.   Sign Regulations: Appendix H of the Oregon Structural Specialty Code is
adopted as part of this chapter.
   C.   Adoption of Additional National Fire Protection Association (NFPA)
Standards:
      1.   NFPA standard 20, Centrifugal Fire Pumps, is adopted as part of this
chapter.
      2.   NFPA standard 22, Water Tanks for Private Fire Protection, is
adopted as part of this chapter.
      3.   NFPA standard 24, Private Fire Service Mains and Their
Appurtenances, is adopted as part of this chapter.
   D.   Mechanical Code: The Oregon Mechanical Specialty Code, as adopted by
OAR 918-440-0010 through 918-440-0040, except as modified in this chapter, is
enforced as part of the Malheur County Building Code.
   E.   Plumbing Code: The Oregon Plumbing Specialty Code, as adopted by OAR
918-750-0110, except as modified in this chapter, is enforced as part of the
Malheur County Building Code.
   F.   Electrical Code: The Oregon Electrical Specialty Code, as adopted by
OAR 918-305-0100 through 918-305-320, except as modified in this chapter, is
enforced as part of the Malheur County Building Code
   G.   Residential Code: The Oregon Residential Specialty Code, as adopted by
OAR 918-480-0002 through 918-480-0010, except as modified in this chapter, is
enforced as part of the Malheur County Building Code.
   In addition to activities and structures requiring permits under the Oregon
Residential Specialty Code, permits are required for the following activities
and structures, pursuant to ORS 455.020(4) and this chapter:
      1.   Abatement of nuisances and dangerous buildings.
      2.   Demolition.
      3.   Fences, other than required swimming pool barriers, exceeding 7 feet
in height.
      4.   Retaining walls supporting a surcharge, or impounding Class I, II,
IIIA liquids.
      5.   Tanks that are located exterior to and not attached to or supported
by a regulated building.
      6.   Free Standing radio, television and other telecommunication and
broadcast towers that are not attached to or supported by a regulated building.
   H.   Manufactured Dwelling Code:
      1.   The manufactured dwelling park and mobile home park rules adopted by
OAR 918-600-0005 through 918-600-0110, except as modified in this chapter, are
enforced as part of the Malheur County Building Code.
      2.   The manufactured dwelling rules adopted by OAR 918-500-0000 through
918-500-0500 and OAR 918-520-0010 through 918-520-0020, except as modified in
this chapter, are enforced as part of the Malheur County Building Code.
   I.   Unsafe buildings designated nuisances: All buildings or structures
which are structurally unsafe or not provided with adequate egress, or which
constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life, or which in
relation to existing use constitute a hazard to safety or health, or public
welfare, by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire
hazard, disaster damage, or abandonment, as specified in the Malheur County
Building Code or any other effective ordinance, are for the purpose of this
section, unsafe buildings. All such unsafe buildings are declared to be public
nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal
in accordance with the procedure specified in Chapters 4 through 9 of the
Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings published by the
International Conference of Building Officials, and available and on file with,
the office of the County Building Official, or by any other procedures provided
by law and shall apply to structures in all unincorporated areas of Malheur
County.
   J.   Recreational Park and Organizational Camps: The recreational park and
organizational camp rules adopted by OAR 918-650-000 through 918-650-0085,
except as modified in this chapter, are enforced as part of the Malheur County
Building Code.
   K.   The Oregon Energy Efficiency Specialty Code adopted by OAR 918-460-0500
through 918-460-0510, except as modified in this chapter, is enforced as part
of the Malheur County Building Code. (Ord. 188, 11-3-2010; amd. Ord. 224, 4-1-
2020)
5-3-6: ALTERNATE MATERIALS AND METHOD:
The provisions of this chapter are not intended to prevent the use of any
alternate material, design, or method of construction not specifically
proscribed by this chapter; provided such alternate has been approved and is
authorized by the Building Official.
The Building Official may approve any such alternate material, design or
method, provided the Building Official finds that the proposed material, design
or method complies with the provisions of this chapter and that is, for the
purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this chapter in
suitability, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability, safety and
sanitation.
The Building Official may require that evidence or proof be submitted to
substantiate any claims that may be made regarding its use. The details of any
approval of an alternate material, design or method shall be recorded and
entered in the files of the agency. ORS 455.060 provides for state rulings on
acceptable materials, designs and methods of construction. When a ruling has
been issued, ORS 455.060(4) applies. (Ord. 106, 6-25-1996, eff. 7-1-1996; amd.
Ord. 224, 4-1-2020)
5-3-7: MODIFICATIONS:
When there are practical difficulties in carrying out the provisions of this
chapter, the Building Official may grant modifications provided the Building
Official finds that the modification is in conformance with the intent and
purpose of this chapter and that said modification does not lessen any fire
protection requirements nor the structural integrity of the building involved.
Any action granting modification shall be recorded in the files of the Malheur
County building department. (Ord. 106, 6-25-1996, eff. 7-1-1996; amd. Ord. 224,
4-1-2020)
5-3-8: TESTS:
Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the provisions of
this chapter or that any material, method or design does not conform to the
requirements of this chapter, the Building Official may require tests as proof
of compliance to be made at no expense to this jurisdiction.
Test methods shall be as specified by this chapter or by other recognized test
standards. If there are no recognized and accepted test methods for the
proposed alternate, the Building Official shall determine test procedures.
All tests shall be approved by the testing agency. Reports of such tests shall
be retained by the Building Official for the period required for the retention
of public records. (Ord. 106, 6-25-1996, eff. 7-1-1996; amd. Ord. 224, 4-1-
2020)
5-3-9: POWER AND AUTHORITY OF BUILDING OFFICIAL:
   A.   General: There is established a code enforcement section which shall be
under the administrative operational control of the Building Official. The
Building Official is authorized to enforce all the provisions of this chapter
and the Malheur County Building Code. The Building Official shall have the
power to render written and oral interpretations of this chapter and to adopt
and enforce administrative procedures in order to clarify the application of
its provisions. Such interpretations, rules and regulations shall be in
conformance with the intent and purpose of this chapter and the Malheur County
Building Code.
   B.   Deputies: With the approval of the Malheur County Court, the Building
Official may appoint technical officers and inspectors and other employees or
agents to carry out the functions of the code enforcement section of this
chapter and the Malheur County Building Code.
   C.   Right of Entry: When it may be necessary to inspect to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and the Malheur County Building Code or the Building
Official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a building or
upon a premises a condition which is contrary to or in violation of this
chapter or the Malheur County Building Code, or otherwise makes the building or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Building Official may enter said
building or premises at reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties
imposed by this chapter and the Malheur County Building Code, provided that, if
such building or premises be occupied, credentials be presented to the occupant
and entry requested. If such building or premises be unoccupied, the Building
Official shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other
person having charge or control of the building or premises and request entry.
If entry is refused, the Building Official shall have recourse to the remedies
provided by the Oregon Revised Statutes to secure entry.
   D.   Corrections And Stop Orders: When any work is being done contrary to
the provisions of the specialty codes, this chapter, the Malheur County
Building Code or other pertinent laws or ordinances, the Building Official may
order the work corrected or stopped by notice in writing served on any persons
engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done. Such persons shall
specifically make the necessary corrections or stop work until authorized by
the Building Official to proceed with work.
   E.   Authority To Disconnect Utilities: The Building Official or the
Building Official’s authorized representative shall have the authority to
disconnect fuel-gas utility service and/or other energy supplies to a building,
structure, premises or equipment regulated by this chapter when necessary to
eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property. The Building Official shall,
whenever possible, notify the serving utility, the owner and occupant of the
building, structure or premises of the decision to disconnect prior to taking
such action; and shall notify such serving utility, owner and occupant of the
building, structure or premises in writing of such disconnection immediately
thereafter.
   F.   Authority To Abate Hazardous Equipment: When the Building Official
ascertains that any equipment, or portion thereof, regulated by this chapter
has become hazardous to life, health or property, the Building Official shall
order that the equipment either be removed from its location, and/or restored
to a safe or sanitary condition, as appropriate. The notice shall be in writing
and contain a fixed time limit for compliance. Persons shall not use or
maintain defective equipment after receiving a notice.
   When equipment or installation is to be disconnected, written notice of the
disconnection (and causes thereof) shall be given within twenty four (24) hours
to the involved utility, the owner and/or occupant of the building, structure
or premises. When equipment is maintained in violation of this chapter and in
violation of a notice issued pursuant to the provisions of this Section, the
Building Official may institute such action as is deemed necessary to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   G.   Connection After Order To Disconnect: Persons shall not make
connections from any electrical service or fuel-gas utility service nor supply
electrical power to any equipment regulated by this Section which has been
disconnected or ordered to be disconnected by the Building Official until the
proper permits have been obtained, inspections approved, and the Building
Official authorizes the reconnection and use of such equipment.
   H.   Maintenance: All buildings, structures, both existing and new, and all
parts thereof, shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary condition. All
devices or safeguards which are required by this chapter shall be maintained in
conformance with the code edition under which installed. The owner or the
owner’s designated agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of building
and structures. To determine compliance with this section, the Building
Official may cause a structure to be re-inspected.
   I.   Occupancy Violations: Whenever any building, structure or equipment
regulated by this chapter is used contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
the Building Official may order such use discontinued and the structure (or
portion thereof) vacated. All persons using the structure (or portion thereof)
shall discontinue the use within the time prescribed by the Building Official
in his notice and make the structure, or portion thereof, comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
   J.   The authority of the Building Official above is in addition to any
authority given the Building Official by the State Building Codes Divisions,
State boards, specialty codes, Oregon Revised Statutes or Oregon Administrative
Rules. (Ord. 106, 6-25-1996, eff. 7-1-1996; amd. Ord. 224, 4-1-2020)
5-3-10: PLANS AND PERMITS:
   A.   Issuance: The application, plans, specifications, computations and
other data filed by an applicant for a permit shall be reviewed by the Building
Official. Such plans may be reviewed by other departments of this jurisdiction
to verify compliance with any applicable laws under their jurisdiction. If the
Building Official finds that the work described in application for a permit and
the plans, specifications, and other data filed therewith conform to the
requirements of this chapter and the Malheur County Building Code and other
pertinent laws and ordinances, and that the fees have been paid, the Building
Official shall issue a permit therefor to the applicant. When the Building
Official issues the permit where plans are required, the Building Official
shall endorse in writing or mark the plans and specifications APPROVED. Such
approved plans and specifications shall not be changed, modified, and altered
without authorizations from the Building Official, and all work regulated by
this chapter and the Malheur County Building Code shall be done in accordance
with the approved plans. The Building Official may issue a permit for the
construction of part of a building or structure before the entire plans and
specifications for the whole building or structure have been submitted or
approved, provided adequate information and detailed statements have been filed
complying with all pertinent requirements of this chapter and the Malheur
County Building Code. The holder of a partial permit shall proceed without
assurance that the permit for the entire building or structure will be granted.
   B.   Retention Of Plans: One set of approved plans, specifications and
computations shall be retained by the Building Official in accordance with
state archive requirements; and one set of approved plans and specifications
shall be returned to the applicant, which shall be kept on the site of the
building or work at all times during which the work authorized thereby is in
progress.
   C.   Validity Of Permits: The issuance of a permit or approval of plans,
specifications and computations shall not be construed to be a permit for, or
an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter,
federal, state or local law, statute, rule, regulation or other ordinance of
this jurisdiction.
   The issuance of a permit based upon plans, specifications, computations and
other data shall not prevent the Building Official from thereafter requiring
the correction of errors in said plans, specifications, and other data or from
preventing building operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of
this chapter or other Malheur County ordinances.
   D.   Revocation of Permits: The Building Official may, in writing, suspend
or revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this chapter or specialty
codes whenever the permit is issued in error, on the basis of incorrect
information supplied or in violation of the ordinances of Malheur County,
Oregon Revised Statutes or Oregon administrative rules.
   E.   Expiration Of Plans: Applications for which no permit is issued within
one hundred eighty (180) days following the date of the application shall
expire by limitation, and plans and other data submitted for review may
thereafter be returned to the applicant or destroyed by the Building Official.
The Building Official may extend the time for action by the applicant for a
period not exceeding one hundred eighty (180) days on request by the applicant
showing that circumstances beyond the control of the applicant have prevented
action from being taken. No application shall be extended more than once. In
order to renew action on an application after expiration, the applicant shall
resubmit plans and pay a new plan review fee.
   F.   Permit Expiration, Extension And Reinstatement: Every permit issued by
the Building Official under the provisions of this chapter shall expire by
limitation and become null and void if the building or work authorized is not
commenced within the time limitations set forth in this section.
   Every permit issued by the Building Official shall expire by limitation and
become null and void if the building or work authorized by such permit is not
commenced within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of such permit, or
if the building or work authorized by such permits is suspended or abandoned at
any time after the work is commenced for a period of one hundred eighty (180)
days. The work shall not be considered suspended or abandoned where the
permittee has pursued activities deemed by the Building Official to indicate
the intent to start and complete the project. The Building Official may require
the permittee to document these activities.
   G.   Permit Extension. Any permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply
for an extension of the time within which work is to be completed under that
permit when the permittee is unable to complete the work within the time
required by this section for any satisfactory reasons. The Building Official
may extend the time for action by the permittee for a period not exceeding one
hundred eighty (180) days on written request by the permittee showing that
circumstances beyond the control of the permittee have prevented work from
being completed. No permit shall be extended more than once.
   Where a permit has expired, the permit can be reinstated and work authorized
by the original permit can be recommenced, provided that the following are met:
      1.   The building code under which the original permit was issued and
other laws which are enforced by the code enforcement agency have not been
amended in any manner which affects the work authorized by the original permit.
      2.   No changes have been made or will be made in the original plans and
specifications for such work.
      3.   The original permit expired less than one year from the request to
reinstate.
      4.   The fee for a reinstated permit shall be one-half (1/2) the amount
required for a new permit. Where the request for reinstatement does not comply
with the preceding criteria, a new permit, at full permit fees, shall be
required.
   H.   Work Without A Permit And Investigation Fees:
      1.   Investigation: Whenever any work for which a permit is required by
this chapter has been commenced without first obtaining a permit, a special
investigation shall be made before a permit may be issued for such work.
      2.   Fee: An investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee, shall be
collected whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued. The payment
of such investigation fee shall not exempt any person from compliance with any
provision of the specialty codes or this chapter.
   I.   Not Transferable: A permit issued to one person or firm is not
transferable and shall not permit any other person or firm to perform any work
thereunder.
   J.   Inspections: It shall be the duty of the permit holder or authorized
agent to request all inspections that may be necessary or otherwise required in
a timely manner, provide access to the site, and to provide all equipment as
may be deemed necessary or appropriate by the Building Official. The permit
holder shall not proceed with construction activity until authorized to do so
by the Building Official. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to cause
the work to remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes. Any expense
incurred by the permit holder to remove or replace any material required for
inspection shall be the responsibility of the permit holder or agent of the
permit holder.
   Work requiring a permit shall not be commenced until the permit holder or an
agent of the permit holder has posted, or otherwise made available, an
inspection record card such as to allow the Building Official to conveniently
make the required entries thereon regarding inspection of the work. This card
shall be maintained available by the permit holder until final approval has
been granted by the Building Official. (Ord. 106, 6-25-1996, eff. 7-1-1996;
amd. Ord. 224, 4-1-2020)
5-3-11: FEES:
Fees for permits and activities related to Malheur County’s building program
shall be printed in a resolution adopted by the Malheur County Court.
The value to be used in computing the building permit fee for new commercial
construction shall be the value of all construction work including finish work,
painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, elevators,
fire extinguishing systems and other permanent equipment.
The value to be utilized in computing the building permit fee for new
residential construction shall be based on the square footage of the residence.
(Ord. 153, 5-18-2005; amd. Ord. 224, 4-1-2020)
5-3-12: REFUND OF FEES:
   A.   The Building Official may authorize the refunding of any fee paid for
permits or activities related to all specialty codes which were erroneously
paid or collected.
   B.   The Building Official may authorize refunding of not more than eighty
percent (80%) of the permit fee paid when no work has been done under a permit
issued in accordance with this chapter.
   C.    The Building Official may authorize refunding of not more than eighty
percent (80%) of the plan review fee paid when an application for a permit for
which a plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or canceled before any plan
review effort has been expended.
   D.   The Building Official shall not authorize refunding of any fee paid
except upon written application filed by the original permittee not later than
one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of fee payment. (Ord. 106, 6-25-
1996, eff. 7-1-1996; amd. Ord. 224, 4-1-2020)
5-3-13: INTERPRETATION OF SPECIALTY CODES:
Any questions or conflicts in technical, scientific or alternative material
code interpretations of the State of Oregon Structural Specialty Code, State of
Oregon Plumbing Specialty Code, State of Oregon Mechanical Specialty Code,
Oregon Residential Specialty Code, Oregon State Manufactured Dwelling
installation standards and the Uniform Code for Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings between inspectors shall be resolved by the Building Official. When
necessary, an inquiry to the Oregon State Building Codes Division may be made.
Conflicts between inspectors and the public regarding technical, scientific and
alternative material code interpretations will be resolved between the
customer, inspector directly involved and the Building Official. The Building
Official shall make a final ruling in writing sent to the customer. If
differences occur, the customer may appeal to the local appeal board or State
of Oregon within thirty (30) days. (Ord. 106, 6-25-1996, eff. 7-1-1996; amd.
Ord. 134, 2-21-2001; amd. Ord. 224, 4-1-2020)
5-3-14: SPECIFIC PROVISIONS OF ELECTRICAL INSPECTION PROGRAM:
Coordination Of Permits; Providing Electrical Services Without Permits
Prohibited: No person shall provide any electrical service to any newly
constructed or altered building or newly placed or altered manufactured
dwelling or prefabricated building inside the limits of Malheur County until
all required permits have been issued for such building, manufactured dwelling
or prefabricated building. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent reconnection
of existing electrical services which have been temporarily disrupted. (Ord.
137, 8-28-2002, eff. 8-28-2002; amd. Ord. 224, 4-1-2020)
5-3-15: APPEAL, LOCAL APPEAL BOARD AND ALTERNATIVE APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.    Manner Of Taking: Any person aggrieved by a code interpretation or
decision of the Building Official may file an appeal with the Malheur County
Court who will, within a reasonable time, convene the local appeal board for
hearing of the appeal. A decision of the local appeal board can be appealed to
the appropriate state advisory board pursuant to ORS 455.690.
   B.   Alternative Appeal Process: In lieu of subsection A of this section,
the aggrieved person may appeal directly to the state specialty code chief
under OAR 918-001-0130 and ORS 455.475. If the appeal relates to an inspection
pursuant to the electrical specialty code, the appeal process set forth in OAR
918-251-0040 shall be followed.
   C.   Form Of Appeal To Local Appeal Board: No particular form or format for
an appeal to the local board is required. However, the appeal shall specify the
nature of decision appealed, the date of the decision and shall specifically
set out each and every allegation of error. The appeal shall be signed by the
grievant. A copy of the appeal shall be sent U.S. mail or delivered personally
to the Building Official. An appeal fee is established by the Malheur County
Court.
   D.   Form Of Appeal To State: An appeal application to the State of Oregon
may be obtained from Oregon Department of Consumer and Business Services/State
of Oregon Building Codes Division. An appeal fee is established by State.
   E.   Local Appeal Board: A local appeal board is hereby created consisting
of five (5) members. The members shall be selected by and serve at the pleasure
of the Malheur County Court. The board will consist of the following: 1)
engineer or architect; 2) plumbing contractor; 3) electrical contractor; 4)
building contractor; and 5) representative from any fire protection agency.
(Ord. 134, 2-21-2001; amd. Ord. 224, 4-1-2020)
5-3-16: INSTANCES OF VIOLATIONS:
Instances of permit, specialty code or ordinance violations shall be enforced
by the Building Official as follows:
   A.   Imposition Of Local Civil Penalties: A violation of any provision of
this chapter is a class B infraction under the Malheur County Code. Every day’s
continuance of the violation may be considered a separate offense. An offense
is subject to a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). The Building
Official or other county enforcement officer can issue an infraction complaint
for violations under this chapter.
   B.   Additional Penalties: The penalties and remedies herein are in addition
to the remedies provided for trade licensing under Oregon law.
   C.   Enforcement: No more than one recovery shall be had against a person
for the same offense. Revocation of permit, corrections, stop work order,
disconnection of utilities and other authority of the Building Official shall
not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being
enforced. (Ord. 134, 2-21-2001; amd. Ord. 224, 4-1-2020)
TITLE 6
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1:   Title
6-1-2:   Purpose
6-1-3:   Definitions
6-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the MALHEUR COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE and shall be
cited herein as "this title" and the maps herein referred to shall be known as
the Malheur County zoning maps, and hereafter referred to as the "zoning maps".
Said maps and all explanatory matter thereon are hereby adopted and made a part
of this title 1 . (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-3-3  of this title.
6-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title is to establish zones that regulate the location and
use of buildings, structures and land for agricultural, recreational,
educational, residential, commercial and industrial purposes; to implement the
policies established in the Malheur County comprehensive plan; to regulate and
limit the percent of lot coverage of buildings and other structures hereafter
erected or altered; to establish minimum widths and areas for the subdivision
or resubdivision of lots; to protect future primary roads and enable the
widening of certain existing roads; to promote a high quality environment; and
to promote public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, all words in the present tense shall include the
future; all words in the singular shall include the plural; the masculine shall
include the feminine and neuter; and the word "shall" is mandatory and not
discretionary. The following words and terms are construed and defined as
follows:
   ACCEPTED RESOURCE PRACTICE: The mode of operation that is in conformance
with state and federal regulations, common to farms or ranches of a similar
nature and necessary for the operation of such farm or ranch operation to
obtain a profit in money and customarily utilized in conjunction with farm use.
   ACCESS: The place, means or way by which pedestrians, vehicles or utilities
shall have safe ingress or egress to a property, use or parking space.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure incidental and subordinate to
the main use of the property and located on the same lot as the main use (e.g.,
a garage or storage building).
   ACCESSWAY: A walkway that provides pedestrian and bicycle passage either
between streets or from a street to a building or other destination such as
school, park, or transit stop. Accessways generally include a walkway and
additional land on either side of the walkway and additional land on either
side of the walkway, often in the form of an easement or right of way, to
provide clearance and separation between the walkway and adjacent uses.
Accessways through parking lots are generally physically separated from
adjacent vehicle parking or parallel vehicle traffic by curbs or similar
devices and include landscaping, trees, and lighting. Where accessways cross
driveways, they are generally raised, paved, or marked in a manner that
provides convenient access for pedestrians.
   AFFECTED AREA: Property within the area of a subject property. Specifically,
that area within two hundred fifty feet (250'), excluding streets and alleys.
   ANCILLARY FACILITIES: All buildings, interior and exterior enclosures, and
equipment associated with a wireless telecommunication facility.
   ANTENNA(S): An electrical conductor or group of electrical conductors that
radiate or receive radio waves.
   BUILDING: Any temporary or permanent structure built and maintained for the
support, shelter or enclosure of people, motor vehicles, animals or personal or
real property of any kind.
   BUSINESS OFFICE: An office that provides nonretail services such as
insurance, real estate, finance or travel, or any office of similar nature and
impact.
   CLEAR VISION AREA: An area next to a driveway, street, road or highway where
low signs, other structures and vegetation are required to be kept not greater
in height than a stated maximum number of inches. The purpose of a clear vision
area is to protect the view necessary to assist pedestrians, bicyclists and
motor vehicle operators to see one another in time to avoid or reduce damage
from an accident. Clear vision areas are most commonly triangular areas at the
corner of intersecting travelways.
   COLLOCATION: The practice of locating multiple wireless communications
facilities on a single, specific purpose structure, or locating the
telecommunication facilities on alternate purpose structures.
   COMMERCIAL RESOURCE (FARM, RANCH UNIT): A parcel of land large enough that
crops harvested from it meet mortgage costs, crop or raising and harvesting
expenses and provide substantial household income. In addition, it shall
contribute in a substantial way to the area's existing agricultural economy,
and help maintain agricultural processors and established markets.
Consideration shall be given not only to what is produced but how much is
produced. Method of marketing is also a consideration.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The Malheur County comprehensive plan.
   CONDOMINIUM: Generally a dwelling unit or other structure, the interior
portion of which may be owned by an individual. The individual owning a
condominium also holds ownership in common of the total development in which
the subject condominium belongs. For a more precise definition refer to ORS 94.
   CONTIGUOUS LOTS: Two (2) or more parcels or units of land including water
under a single ownership which are not separated by an intervening parcel of
land under separate ownership.
   CURRENT EMPLOYMENT OF LAND FOR FARM USES:
   A.   Farmland, the operation or use of which is subject to any farm related
government program.
   B.   Land lying fallow for one year as a normal and regular requirement for
good agricultural husbandry.
   C.   Land planted in orchards or other perennials other than land specified
in subsection D of this definition, prior to maturity.
   D.   Land not in an exclusive farm use zone which has not been eligible for
assessment at special farm use value in the year prior to planting the current
crop and has been planted in orchards, cultured Christmas trees or vineyards
for at least three (3) years.
   E.   Wasteland, in an exclusive farm use zone, dry or covered with water,
neither economically tillable nor grazeable, lying in or adjacent to and in
common ownership with a farm use land and which is not currently being used for
any economic farm use.
   F.   Land under buildings supporting accepted farm practices.
   G.   Water impoundments lying in or adjacent to and in common ownership with
farm use land.
   H.   Any land constituting a wood lot, not to exceed twenty (20) acres,
contiguous to and owned by the owner of land specially valued at true cash
value for farm use even if the land constituting the wood lot is not utilized
in conjunction with farm use.
   I.   Land lying idle for no more than one year where the absence of farming
activity is due to the illness of the farmer or member of the farmer's
immediate family. For purposes of this subsection I, illness includes injury or
infirmity whether or not such illness results in death.
   J.   Any land described under ORS 321.267(1)(e) or 321.415(5).
   DAYCARE CENTER: An establishment that is certified to care for thirteen (13)
or more children, or an establishment certified to care for less than thirteen
(13) children that is not located in a residential dwelling or accessory
building to the residence that the provider resides in.
   DWELLING: A detached building containing one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, DUPLEX OR TWO-FAMILY: A detached building containing two (2)
dwelling units.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof, containing three (3)
or more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached building containing one dwelling unit
and designed for occupancy by one family only.
   DWELLING UNIT: A habitable area enclosed by walls, windows and doors which
provides shelter for a person, family or persons living as a family sharing
kitchen and bathroom facilities.
   EVALUATION REPORT: A statement in writing from the local contract agent or
regional department of environmental quality representative stating that at
least one septic system drainfield site with replacement area has been found on
each lot or parcel that meets the criteria outlined by the Oregon department of
environmental quality.
   FAMILY: An individual or any number of persons related by blood, marriage,
adoption or legal guardianship living together in a dwelling in which meals or
lodging may also be provided for not more than four (4) additional persons.
Also six (6) or less unrelated persons living as a family sharing a single
kitchen and dining facility.
   FARM OR RANCH: The current employment of land for the primary purpose of
obtaining a profit in money by raising, harvesting and selling crops or the
feeding, breeding, management and sale of, or the produce of, livestock,
poultry, fur bearing animals or honeybees or for dairying and the sale of dairy
products or any other agricultural or horticultural use or any animal husbandry
or any combination thereof. "Farm use" includes the preparation and storage of
the products raised on such land for human use and animal use and disposal by
marketing or otherwise. "Farm use" also includes the propagation, cultivation,
maintenance and harvesting of aquatic species. Also as further defined in ORS
215.203.
   FARMING OR RANCHING PRACTICE: A mode of operation that is common to farms or
ranches of a similar nature, necessary for the operation of such farms or
ranches to obtain a profit in money and customarily utilized in conjunction
with farm use.
   FEEDLOT: An area in which livestock are confined for concentrated feeding
for fattening or dairying as part of a commercial operation and in which no
vegetation intended for animal food is growing. The term does not include
temporary wintering operation for livestock (a "feed yard").
   FENCE, SIGHT OBSCURING: A fence or evergreen planting arranged in such a way
as to obstruct vision.
   FOREST USE: The propagation or harvesting of a forest product.
   GARAGE OR YARD SALE: A sale held at a residence or a combination of
residences where items to be sold constitute used or handcrafted items
generated from participating individual neighborhood households. Garage sales
shall not be used as wholesale or retail outlets for new or manufactured goods,
other than home generated, handcrafted items. Garage sales may not be conducted
in any one residence more than three (3) times during any calendar year. No
single garage or yard sale may last for more than three (3) consecutive days. A
garage sale as hereinabove defined is an authorized accessory use to a
residence in all zones.
   GARAGE, RESIDENTIAL: A structure used for the parking of automobiles and
recreational vehicles.
   JUNKYARD: Any establishment or place of business that is maintained,
operated or used for storing, keeping, buying or selling old or scrap copper,
brass, rope, iron, steel, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber, debris or
other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous materials, metal and nonmetal
materials and junked, dismantled, wrecked, scrapped or ruined motor vehicles or
motor vehicle parts. This term includes auto wrecking yards and scrap metal
processing, sorting and storage facilities.
   KENNEL: A lot or building in which four (4) or more dogs, cats or other
animals at least four (4) months of age are kept commercially for board,
breeding, training or sale.
   LANE: A driveway or private road providing access from property to a public
right of way.
   LEGISLATIVE CHANGES: Involves broad public policy decisions that apply to
other than an individual property owner. These include, without limitation,
amendments to the text of the comprehensive plans, zoning ordinances or the
land development ordinance and changes in zoning maps not directly affecting
individual property owners.
   LIVESTOCK: Domestic animals or types customarily raised or kept on farms for
profit or other purposes.
   LOCATIONALLY DEPENDENT: If the wireless telecommunication facility must be
located on land in one or more areas zoned for exclusive farm or exclusive
range use in order to achieve reasonably satisfactory results or to meet unique
needs that cannot be satisfied on other lands.
   LOT: A unit of land that is created by a subdivision of land.
   LOT AREA: The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot including
streets and easements of access to other property, laterals and canals.
   LOT COVERAGE: The percentage of lot area that may be covered by buildings or
structures.
   LOT DEPTH: The average horizontal distance between the front and back lot
lines.
   LOT LINE: The property line bounding a lot.
   LOT WIDTH: The average horizontal distance between the side lot lines,
ordinarily measured parallel to the front lot line.
   MALHEUR COUNTY TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM PLAN: The Malheur County transportation
system plan (TSP) adopted by ordinance into the Malheur County comprehensive
plan.
   MANUFACTURED DWELLING: A structure constructed for movement on the public
highways that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended
for human occupancy, and that is being used for residential purposes, and that
was constructed in accordance with federal manufactured housing construction
and safety standards (HUD standards) and regulations in effect at the time of
construction. Manufactured dwelling does not include any building or structure
constructed to conform to the state of Oregon structural specialty code or the
one- and two-family dwelling code adopted pursuant to ORS 455.100 and 455.450
and 455.610 to 455.630 or any "recreational vehicle" defined in this section.
   MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARK: Any place where three (3) or more manufactured
dwellings are parked within five hundred feet (500') of one another on a lot,
tract or parcel of land under the same ownership, the primary purpose of which
is to rent space or keep space for rent to any person for a charge or fee paid,
or to be paid for the rental or use of facilities, or to offer space free in
connection with securing the trade or patronage of such person.
   MINING: Includes all or any part of the process of mining by the removal of
overburden and the extraction of natural mineral deposits thereby exposed by
any method including open pit mining operations, auger mining operations,
processing, surface impacts of underground mining, production of surface mining
refuse and the construction of adjacent or off site borrow pits except those
constructed for use as access roads. Mining does not include excavations of
sand, gravel, clay rock or other similar materials conducted by a landowner or
tenant on the landowner's or tenant's property for the primary purpose of the
reconstruction or maintenance of access roads and excavations or grading
operations conducted in the process of farming or cemetery operations, on site
road construction or nonsurface impacts of underground mines.
   MINOR HOME OCCUPATION, HOME OCCUPATION AND HOME BUSINESS: An occupation or
business activity which results in a product or service; is conducted in whole
or in part in a dwelling and/or an accessory structure to the dwelling; is
conducted by at least one family member occupying the dwelling; and is clearly
subordinate to the dwelling use of the subject property. Home occupations or
businesses do not include garage or yard sales, holiday bazaars or home parties
which are held for the purpose of the sale or distribution of goods or services
if the service is provided three (3) or fewer times per calendar year.
   MOBILE HOME: A structure constructed for movement on the public highways
that has sleeping, cooking, and plumbing facilities, that is intended for human
occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes, and that was
constructed between January 1, 1962, and June 15, 1976, and met the
construction requirements of Oregon mobile home law in effect at the time of
construction.
   MOTEL: A building or group of buildings on the same lot containing guest
units with separate entrances from the building exterior and consisting of
individual sleeping quarters, with or without cooking facilities for rental to
transients.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE OR USE: A lawful structure or use existing at the
time this title or any amendment hereto becomes effective and which does not
conform to the requirements of the zone in which it is located.
   OVERLAY ZONE: A zone that establishes special requirements and provisions in
addition to those of the primary zone.
   OWNER: The party or parties having a fee interest in land except, that where
land is subject to a real estate sales contract, "owner" shall mean the
contract vendee.
   PARCEL: Includes a unit of land created by a partitioning of land.
   PARENT PARCEL: All property that is owned by the owner of the property for
which the application has been made and is contiguous to the property for which
the application has been made.
   PARTITION: The act of partitioning land or an area or tract of land
partitioned.
   PARTITION LAND: To divide an area or tract of land into two (2) or three (3)
parcels within a calendar year when such area or tract of land exists as a unit
or contiguous units of land under single ownership at the time of the first
partitioning. "Partition land" does not include any adjustment of a lot line by
the relocation of a common boundary where an additional parcel is not created
and where the existing parcel reduced in size by the adjustment is not reduced
below the minimum lot size unless better field management or irrigation control
will result. "Partition land" does not include the sale of a lot in a recorded
subdivision, even though the lot may have been acquired prior to the sale with
other contiguous lots or property by a single owner. "Partition land" does not
include division of land resulting from a lien foreclosure, foreclosure of a
recorded contract for the sale of real property or the creation of cemetery
lots. "Partition land" does not include a sale or grant by a person to a public
agency or public body for state highway, county road, city street or other
right of way purposes; provided, that such road or right of way complies with
the comprehensive plan and subsections
6-3A-2A6 through A9 and subsection
6-3A-3S through U of this title. However, any property divided by the sale or
grant of property for state highway, county road, city street or other right of
way purposes shall continue to be considered a single unit of land until such
time as the property is further subdivided or partitioned.
   PARTY: The applicant and all persons or group of persons who appeared before
a hearings body set forth in this title orally or in writing.
   PERSON: Includes natural person, firm, association, partnership, company,
corporation, estate, branch of government or any group or combination acting as
a unit.
   PLANNING COMMISSION: The Malheur County planning commission 1 .
   PLAT: A final map, diagram, drawing or other document containing all
descriptions, locations, specifications and dedications concerning a
subdivision.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT OR MAP: A preliminary drawing, diagram or document
illustrating the proposed layout of a proposed subdivision or partition to be
submitted to the planning department or planning commission for their
consideration.
   PRIMARY ZONE: The zone that establishes the basic requirements and
provisions of the use of the land in a particular area.
   PROPERTY LINE: Synonymous with "lot line".
   QUASI-JUDICIAL: Zone changes or plan amendments generally refer to a plan
amendment or zone change directly affecting individual property owners and that
involves the application of existing policy to a specific factual setting. (The
distinction between legislative and quasi-judicial actions must ultimately be
made on a case by case basis with reference to case law on the subject.)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A mobile unit which is designed for temporary human
occupancy and licensed as a motor home, recreational trailer or camper (stand-
alone or when it is on the back of a pick-up or truck) by the motor vehicles
division, or similar units licensed by another state or any unit identified as
a recreational vehicle by the manufacturer. Recreational vehicle includes non-
motorized vehicles designed for human occupancy such as vacation trailers,
tents and fifth-wheel trailers. It also includes vehicles designed for off-road
use, such as off-road vehicles, dune buggies and recreation boats.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: For the purpose of this zoning ordinance, a
"recreational vehicle park" is a plot of land that provides for two (2) or more
recreational vehicle sites and such sites are established or maintained for
occupancy by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living
quarters, i.e., overnight camping.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY: A facility licensed by or under the authority of the
department of human resources which provides residential care alone or in
conjunction with treatment or training, or a combination thereof, for six (6)
to fifteen (15) individuals who need not be related. Staff persons required to
meet department of human resources licensing requirements shall not be counted
in the number of facility residents, and need not be related to each other, or
to any resident of the residential facility.
   RESIDENTIAL TRAILER: A structure constructed for movement on the public
highways that has sleeping, cooking, and plumbing facilities, that is intended
for human occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes, and that was
constructed before January 1, 1962, with a minimum size of at least eight feet
by thirty two feet (8' x 32').
   RESOURCE: A term which in appropriate context means commercial farming,
ranching or forestry.
   RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land which has been dedicated to the public by a
warranty or other suitable deed depending upon the history of the right of way,
or by a statement of dedication upon an approved and recorded subdivision plat.
Roads created by public use and recognized as a public road in the records of
the county court are also rights of way for public use.
   ROAD OR STREET: A travel way that is created to provide ingress or egress
for persons to one or more lots, parcels, areas or tracts of land, excluding a
private way that is created to provide ingress or egress to such land in
conjunction with the use of such land for forestry, mining or agricultural
purposes.
   ROADWAY: That portion of a road or street designed and ordinarily used for
vehicular traffic.
   SEASONAL FARM HOUSING: Housing limited to the occupancy by seasonal farm
workers and their immediate families which is occupied no more than nine (9)
months a year.
   SEASONAL FARM WORKER: Any person who, for an agreed remuneration or rate of
pay, performs temporary labor for another to work in production of farm
products or planting, cultivation or harvesting of seasonal agricultural crops
or in forestation or reforestation of lands, including, but not limited to, the
planting, transplanting, tubing, precommercial thinning and thinning of trees
and seedlings, the clearing, piling and disposal of brush and slash and other
related activities.
   SETBACK: The distance between the nearest point of the building or structure
and the right of way or easement border line or property line; setbacks are
measured horizontally at right angles from the right of way or easement border
line or property line to the nearest point of the building or structure
excluding roof eaves and small decorative projections such as cornices,
gargoyles, etc.
   SIGN: An identification, description, illustration or device that is affixed
to or represented, directly or indirectly, upon a building, structure or land,
and that directs attention to a product, place, activity, person, institution
or business.
   SITE PLAN: A drawing done to scale illustrating the layout of a proposed
land development or changes to an existing property improvement submitted to
the planning department or planning commission for their consideration.
   SITE REVIEW: A procedure wherein plats of proposed uses in specific zones
are reviewed by the planning director or planning commission to ensure
compatibility with adjoining land uses and compliance with applicable ordinance
provisions. The planning director's action may be referred to or appealed to
the planning commission.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change to the supporting members of a structure
including foundations, bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, girders or
any structural change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE: Any object constructed or installed by man, including, but not
limited to, buildings, towers, smokestacks and overhead transmission lines.
   SUBDIVIDE LAND: To divide an area or tract of land into four (4) or more
lots within a thirty six (36) month period when such area or tract of land
exists as a unit or contiguous units of land under a single ownership at the
beginning of the first division.
   SUBDIVISION: An act of subdividing land or an area or tract of land that has
been subdivided.
   TRACT OF LAND: One or more contiguous lots or parcels under the same
ownership.
   USE: The purpose for which land or a structure is designed, arranged or
supports an activity.
   UTILITY FACILITIES: Any major structure or facility owned or operated by a
public, private or cooperative electric, fuel, communication, sewage or water
company for the generation, transmission, distribution or processing of its
product or for the disposal of cooling water, waste or byproducts, and
including power transmission lines, wireless telecommunication facilities,
ancillary facilities, transmission tower, major trunk pipelines, power
substations, dams, wind and water towers, sewage lagoons, sanitary landfills
and similar facilities, but excluding sewer, water, gas, local telephone and
power distribution lines and similar minor facilities.
   VISUALLY SUBORDINATE: The relative visibility of a transmission tower or
wireless telecommunication facility where that facility does not noticeably
contrast with the surrounding landscape.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES: An unstaffed facility for the
transmission or reception of radio frequency (RF) signals usually consisting of
an equipment shelter, cabinet or other enclosed structure containing electronic
equipment, a storage structure such as a self-supporting monopole or lattice
tower, transmission tower, antenna(s), microwave dishes or other transmission
and reception devices. This definition includes a personal wireless service
facility as defined under the telecommunications act of 1996.
   YARD: An open space on a lot that is unobstructed from the ground upward
except by vegetation or as otherwise provided in this title.
   ZONING MAPS: The Malheur County zoning maps, incorporated herein and made a
part of this title 2 . (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord., 11-8-1994; Ord. 125, 6-
20-2000; Ord. 146, 4-14-2004; Ord. 147, 4-14-2004; Ord. 148, 4-14-2004; Ord.
184, 10-21-2009; Ord. 220, 7-3-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-9-1  of this title.
2 1. See section
  6-3-3  of this title.
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1:   Compliance Required
6-2-2:   Interpretation
6-2-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   General:
      1.   A lot may be partitioned or used and a structure or part of a
structure may be constructed, reconstructed, altered, occupied or used only as
this title permits or as constitutional private property rights allow.
      2.   Reduction in the size of any lot, area, yard or other open space
existing on or after the effective date of this title shall be done in
compliance with this title.
      3.   All parcels created by the partition of any lot, area, yard or other
open space shall meet the dimensional standards required by this title for the
allowed use. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
   B.   Comprehensive Plan: Zoning decisions shall be in compliance with
applicable local laws, as well as with the Malheur County comprehensive plan
and various provisions and elements thereof. Such laws and plan provisions
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Building codes.
      2.   Comprehensive plan policies.
      3.   Comprehensive plan map designations.
      4.   Urban growth area joint management agreements.
      5.   Transportation system plan maps, policies and standards. (Ord. 125,
6-20-2000)
   C.   Land Use Decisions: Age, gender or physical disability shall not be an
adverse consideration in making a land use decision. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-2-2: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   General: The interpretation and application of the provisions of this
title shall be held to be minimum requirements. Where this title imposes a
greater restriction than is imposed or required by other provisions of law or
by other rules or regulations, provisions of this title shall control.
   B.   Plan/Zone Relationship: In case of conflicts or discrepancies between
plan and zone provisions, the county will administer the provisions as follows:
      1.   Where plan provisions are more restrictive than zoning regulations,
plan provisions supersede zoning regulations.
      2.   Where a zoning regulation is more restrictive than a plan provision,
the zoning regulation shall determine use suitability and requirements.
   C.   Irrigation District And Water Rights: The provisions of this title
shall not be interpreted as abrogating any authority currently vested by law in
locally elected boards of directors of the irrigation districts in Malheur
County, including, but not limited to, such authority as administration,
maintenance, supervision and control of irrigation waters where applicable. The
provisions of this title shall not be interpreted to restrict other irrigation
water rights such as adjudicated or state permit water rights.
   D.   Determination Of Compatibility: Before the issuance of any land or
building permits within a boundary of a state scenic waterway, the county will
request a determination of compatibility with the Oregon scenic waterways
system from the Oregon state parks and recreation department in order to
conform to the provisions of ORS 390 and OAR 736-40. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAPS
SECTION:
6-3-1:   Establishment Of Zones
6-3-2:   Zone Location
6-3-3:   Zoning Maps
6-3-4:   Interpretation Of Zoning Boundaries
6-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES:
In order to carry out the purpose and provisions of this title, the following
land use zones are hereby established for Malheur County:
Land Use Zones Abbreviation GIS Code
Land Use Zones                           Abbreviation GIS Code
Resource lands
 Exclusive farm use                      EFU          C-A1
 Exclusive range use                     ERU          C-A2
 Exclusive farm-forest use               EFFU         C-A3
Rural residential                        R-1          C-RR
Rural recreational                       R-2          C-REC
Urban growth area                        UGA          UGA
Rural service center                     RSC          C-RSC
Commercial                               C-1          C-C1
Light industrial                         M-1          C-I1
Heavy industrial                         M-2          C-I2
Agricultural processing plant industrial M-3          C-I3
Park management                          PM           C-PM
Limited use overlay                      LU           C-LU
Floodplain management overlay            FP           C-FP
Airport approach overlay                 AA           C-AA
Environmental hazards overlay            EH           C-EH
Geothermal development overlay           G            C-G
Urban reserve area overlay               URA-overlay  C-URAO
Urban reserve area                       URA          C-URA
Design review overlay                    D            C-D
 
(Ord. 183, 10-7-2009)
6-3-2: ZONE LOCATION:
The location and boundaries of the land use zones listed in section
6-3-1 of this chapter are hereby established as delineated on the Malheur
County zoning maps. Such boundaries, upon adoption of this title, shall be
amended only in accordance with
chapter 10 of this title. Any such amendment in boundaries shall be made upon a
certified copy or copies of the zoning maps, and any such amendment in
boundaries approved in accordance with
chapter 10 of this title shall be adopted and by reference incorporated herein
and made a part of this title. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3-3: ZONING MAPS:
The originals of the Malheur County zoning maps shall be dated with the
effective date of this title and signed by the members of the Malheur County
court, and said originals shall be maintained in the office of the Malheur
County clerk for as long as this title remains in effect. Boundary amendments
shall be made upon a certified copy or copies of the zoning maps in accordance
with section
6-3-2 of this chapter and
chapter 10 of this title and shall be dated with the date of adoption by the
county court and signed by the members of the county court, and such certified
maps or copies containing such boundary amendments shall be filed with the
office of the county clerk, and such certified maps or copies shall be
maintained in the office of the county clerk for as long as this title remains
in effect. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3-4: INTERPRETATION OF ZONING BOUNDARIES:
Wherever any uncertainty exists as to the boundary of a zone as shown on the
zoning maps, the following regulations shall control:
   A.   Where a boundary line is indicated as following a street or road, it
shall be construed as following the centerline of such street or road.
   B.   Where a boundary line follows or approximately coincides with a lot or
property ownership line, it shall be construed as following such line.
   C.   Where a boundary line is not indicated as following or approximately
coinciding with a street, road, lot line or property ownership line, the
boundary line shall be determined by the use of the scale designated on the
zoning maps.
   D.   Where the boundary line of a zone divides a lot in single ownership,
the boundary line shall be considered as the lot line for purposes of computing
area and setback for uses that are permitted in the less restrictive zone. For
uses that are permitted in the more restrictive zone, the ownership lines may
be used in applying the area and setback requirements. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
ARTICLE A. RESOURCE LANDS, EFU EXCLUSIVE FARM USE ZONE, ERU EXCLUSIVE RANGE USE
ZONE, EFFU EXCLUSIVE FARM-FOREST USE ZONE
SECTION:
6-3A-1: Purpose
6-3A-2: Permitted Uses
6-3A-3: Conditional Uses
6-3A-4: Approval Of Farm Or Ranch Dwellings
6-3A-5: Division Of Land
6-3A-6: Dimensional Standards
6-3A-7: Creation Of Mortgage Lots
6-3A-1: PURPOSE:
Resource lands consist of the exclusive farm, ranch and farm-forest use zones
and appropriate overlay zones such as for destination resorts and secondary
lands. The purpose of the EFU, ERU and EFFU zones is to maintain the resource
based economy of Malheur County by permitting the establishment of only those
uses that are compatible with agricultural activities. The intent is to ensure
that areas classified EFU, ERU or EFFU are preserved and protected from
conflicting nonresource uses. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3A-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   The following uses may be permitted outright by ministerial permit in
each of the three (3) resource zones except as specifically added or excluded:
      1.   Farm uses as defined in ORS 215.203(2), including the propagation,
cultivation, maintenance and harvesting of aquatic species, excluding feedlots.
      2.   The propagation or harvesting of a forest product.
      3.   The dwellings and other buildings customarily provided in
conjunction with farm or ranch use, subject to section
6-3A-4 of this article.
      4.   Subject to section
6-3A-4 of this article, an additional dwelling on real property used for farm
or ranch use if the dwelling is:
         a.   Located on the same lot or parcel as the dwelling of the resource
operator; and is
         b.   Occupied by a relative, which means grandparent, grandchild,
parent, child, brother or sister of the farm or ranch operator or operator's
spouse, whose assistance in the management of the resource use is or will be
required by the operator.
      5.   Well drilling is a permitted activity, provided permits are obtained
as required by state statute and this code. Development of the well for
production usage shall be for agricultural or forest purposes only unless
additional approval has been granted under section
6-3A-3 of this article.
      6.   Climbing and passing lanes within the right of way existing as of
July 1, 1987.
      7.   Reconstruction or modification of public roads and highways, not
including the addition of travel lanes where no removal or displacement of
buildings would occur, or no new land parcels result.
      8.   Temporary public road and highway detours that will be abandoned and
restored to original condition or use at such time as no longer needed.
      9.   Minor betterment of existing public roads and highway related
facilities such as maintenance yards, weigh stations and rest areas, within
rights of way existing as of July 1, 1987, and contiguous public owned property
utilized to support the operation and maintenance of public roads and highways.
      10.   A replacement dwelling to be used in conjunction with farm use if
the existing dwelling has been listed in a county inventory as historic
property as defined in ORS 358.480.
      11.   Exploration only for geothermal, gravel and mineral deposits.
      12.   Breeding, boarding and training horses for profit.
      13.   Seasonal farm worker housing.
      14.   Utility facilities necessary for public service, including wetland
waste treatment systems but not including commercial facilities for the purpose
of generating electrical power for public use by sale or transmission towers
over two hundred feet (200') in height. A utility facility necessary for public
service may be established as provided in ORS 215.275 and section
6-6-8-8, "Wireless Telecommunication Facilities" of this title. (Ord. 86, 12-7-
1993; amd. Ord. 146, 4-14-2004)
6-3A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses and their accessory uses may be established when
authorized in accordance with
chapter 6 of this title:
   A.   Public or private schools.
   B.   Churches.
   C.   Commercial utility facilities for the purpose of generating power for
public use by sale.
   D.   A site for the disposal of solid waste approved by the governing body
of a city or county or both and for which a permit has been granted under ORS
459.245 by the department of environmental quality together with equipment,
facilities or buildings necessary for its operation.
   E.   Operations conducted for:
      1.   Exploration for and production of oil and gas as defined by ORS
520.005, including the placement of operation compressors, separators and other
customary production equipment for an individual well adjacent to the wellhead.
      2.   Mining and processing of geothermal resources as defined by ORS
522.005.
      3.   Mining of aggregate and other mineral resources or other subsurface
resources subject to section
6-4-7 of this title.
      4.   Processing, as defined by ORS 517.750, of aggregate into asphalt or
portland cement.
      5.   Processing of other mineral resources and other subsurface
resources.
   F.   Private parks, playgrounds, hunting and fishing preserves and
campgrounds.
   G.   Parks, playgrounds or community centers owned and operated by a
governmental agency or a nonprofit community organization.
   H.   Golf courses.
   I.   Personal use airports for airplanes and helicopter pads, including
associated hangar, maintenance and service facilities. A "personal use airport"
means an airstrip restricted, except for aircraft emergencies, to use by the
owner and, on an infrequent and occasional basis, by invited guests, and by
commercial aviation activities in connection with resource management
operations.
   J.   Commercial activities that are in conjunction with farm or ranch use.
   K.   The boarding of horses for profit.
   L.   Home occupations or home businesses as provided in section
6-6-8-6 of this title and ORS 215.448.
   M.   A facility for the primary processing of forest products; provided,
that such facility is found to not seriously interfere with accepted farming
practices and is compatible with farm uses described in ORS 215.203(2). Such a
facility may be approved for a one year period, which is renewable. These
facilities are intended to be only portable or temporary in nature. The primary
processing of a forest product, as used in this section, means the use of a
portable chipper or stud mill or other similar methods of initial treatment of
a forest product in order to enable its shipment to market. "Forest products",
as used in this section, means timber grown upon a parcel of land or contiguous
land where the primary processing facility is located.
   N.   Residential homes as defined in ORS 197.660, in existing dwellings.
   O.   Feedlots.
   P.   Single-family residential dwellings not provided in conjunction with
the respective resource use, except dwellings on parcels partitioned pursuant
to section
6-4-4 of this title, which shall be established as authorized in accordance
with that section.
   Q.   The temporary use of a manufactured dwelling during a family hardship
condition, where such condition is related to the aged, the infirm, or to
persons otherwise incapable of maintaining a completely separate residence
apart from their family for health reasons. The zoning permit for such use
shall note that it is temporary and subject to renewal annually without
additional fee. In the event the hardship no longer exists, the removal of the
temporary use shall be required. If the temporary manufactured dwelling is to
be connected to an existing sewage system, compliance with applicable rules of
the department of environmental quality will be required. Application for a
temporary manufactured dwelling shall consist of a letter describing the nature
of the hardship and any form required by the planning department.
   R.   Nonresource land uses and land partitions are restricted and regulated
by sections
6-6-8-1 and
6-6-8-2 of this title.
   S.   Construction of additional passing travel lanes requiring the
acquisition of right of way but not resulting in the creation of new land
parcels.
   T.   Reconstruction or modification of public roads and highways involving
the removal or displacement of buildings but not resulting in the creation of
new land parcels.
   U.   Improvement of public roads and highway related facilities such as
maintenance yards, weigh stations and rest areas, where additional property or
right of way is required but not resulting in the creation of new land parcels.
   V.   Cemeteries in conjunction with churches.
   W.   Dog kennels.
   X.   Transmission towers over two hundred feet (200') in height. (Ord. 86,
12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 101, 4-25-1996; Ord. 146, 4-14-2004; Ord. 147, 4-14-2004;
Ord. 184, 10-21-2009)
6-3A-4: APPROVAL OF FARM OR RANCH DWELLINGS:
The resource dwellings identified in subsections
6-3A-2A of this article may be approved subject to a determination that the
dwellings are in conjunction with the respective commercial farm or ranch use
based on subsection A of this section and subsection
6-3A-5A of this article and that the property and improvements constitute a
commercial resource operation based on subsection C of this section.
   A.   Primary Resource Dwelling Determination: When determining whether a
proposed primary dwelling to be permanently located on the property is
"customarily provided in conjunction" with the farm or ranch use, the following
factors shall be considered:
The size of the entire resource unit including all contiguous land in the same
ownership; the types of farm crops and acreage for each type; operational
requirements for the particular farm activity; the number of other permanent or
temporary dwellings on or serving the entire farm or ranch unit (permanent and
seasonal); the extent and nature of the work to be performed by occupants of
the proposed dwelling.
   B.   Farm Hand Or Secondary Resource Dwelling: When determining whether a
proposed farm hand or secondary dwelling may be provided, the following
criteria shall apply:
An affidavit by the farm owner or operator making it clear the occupant will be
an employee shall be signed and submitted.
   C.   Commercial Resource Determination: When determining whether an existing
or proposed parcel is a commercial farm or ranch unit, the standards of
subsection A shall be met and the following factors shall be considered:
      1.   Soil productivity; drainage; terrain; special soil or land
conditions; availability of water; type and acreage of crops grown; crop
yields; number and type of livestock; processing and marketing practices; and
the amount of land needed to constitute a commercial farm or ranch unit.
      2.   ORS 215.213(1)(g) and 215.283(1)(f) authorize a farm dwelling in an
EFU zone only where it is shown that the dwelling will be situated on a parcel
currently employed for farm use as defined in ORS 215.203. Land is not in farm
use unless the day to day activities on the subject land are principally
directed to the farm use of the land. Where land would be principally used for
residential purposes rather than for farm use, a proposed dwelling would not be
"customarily provided in conjunction with farm use" and could only be approved
according to ORS 215.213(3) or 215.283(3).
   D.   Notice Of Proposed Ministerial Approval: Notice of the proposed
ministerial approval of a dwelling in conjunction with farm use shall be mailed
to adjoining property owners. Within ten (10) days following notice to
adjoining property owners, the application shall be considered for approval by
the planning director. An objection by an adjoining property owner shall
require any further action to be conducted by the planning commission as a
conditional use permit. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3A-5: DIVISION OF LAND:
Subdivisions and planned developments are not consistent with the purpose and
intent of this zone and are prohibited. Proposed lot line adjustments and
partitions of land in an EFU, ERU or EFFU zone are subject to the provisions of
the Malheur County subdivision and partitioning ordinance 1 . In addition,
proposed lot line adjustments and partitions shall meet the following
requirements:
   A.   Resource Use: Persons proposing a division of land to create parcels
for farm or ranch use shall satisfactorily demonstrate to the planning director
in writing photographs, maps, charts, statistics and other easily preserved
means of communication that the proposal will conform to the following
requirements. Facts and collaborating evidence need to be presented in as
concise and accurate a manner as is practical. Failure to bring adequate and
convincing facts to bear on this issue will result in no approval being
granted.
      1.   Is the proposed land division consistent with the state
legislature's agricultural land policy as established in ORS 215.243 and
215.263(2)? How? Address each issue.
      2.   Are the proposed parcels appropriate for the continuation of the
existing commercial agricultural operations in the area based on the evaluation
prescribed in subsection
6-3A-4B? Show substantiation. The evaluation shall include the subject property
and commercial agricultural operations located in the same zone within one mile
of the subject property.
      3.   Are the proposed parcels equal or greater in size than the typical
commercial agricultural units in the area? Substantiate. Are they appropriate
for more intensive commercial agricultural operations such as the growing of
nursery stock, greenhouse or hydroponic products, the raising of small fur-
bearing animals or poultry in large quantity, drylot dairies or feedlots? If
so, submit a management plan for five (5) years and project an outline for the
second or following five (5) years. If not, it must be shown that the proposed
parcels will support commercial farm practices by being used in conjunction
with other farmland in the area. A management plan is also required in this
situation.
      4.   Will the addition and/or proposed location of new structures and
other improvements on the property impose serious limitations on accepted
farming practices on adjacent lands? How will this problem be avoided?
      5.   Will the proposed land division materially alter the stability of
the overall land use pattern of the area, assuming a principal dwelling may be
allowed on the lot? Why not?
   B.   Nonresource Land Partitions: Nonresource land partitions shall be
approved as provided in sections
6-6-8-1 and
6-6-8-2 of this title.
   C.   Financial Partitions:
      1.   Partitions for financial purposes which are eligible may proceed
through foreclosure proceedings after notice to the county planning department.
Lien and sales contracts eligible for financial partitioning are those
established at the time of sale and purchase of the subject land. Following the
1989 date of adoption of this code, all property used as collateral in
conjunction with the sale of property, shall conform to the size, access and
other requirements of the county zoning and land division ordinance in effect
at the time of the property transaction.
      2.   Those parcels created by a financial partition shall be disqualified
from the farm tax deferral and appropriate back taxes paid up unless one or
both meet the criteria of subsection A of this section. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7 of this code.
6-3A-6: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Setbacks: No building or sight obscuring fence, other than a fence or
facility associated with irrigation activities, shall be located closer than
forty feet (40') from a street or road right of way line and fifteen feet (15')
from any other property line. No sight obscuring fence exceeding three feet
(3') in height shall be placed within the forty foot (40') street setback, also
within this setback shrubbery other than trees shall be maintained at heights
not exceeding three feet (3'). Dwellings and inhabitable structures, including
associated sewage disposal facilities and removal of vegetation, shall be
prohibited within one hundred feet (100') of rivers, streams, lakes, reservoirs
and other wetlands, unless topographic features make such setback unnecessary
to protect riparian habitat.
   B.   Lot Area: The criteria in section
6-3A-5 of this article shall be used to determine the appropriate parcel size.
   C.   Contiguous Ownership: Contiguous lots or parcel of land under the same
ownership will be considered as one lot or parcel, except that lots created by
subdivisions or partitions approved in accordance with the subdivision
ordinance 1  will be considered separate lots, regardless of whether they are
under one ownership. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7 of this code.
6-3A-7: CREATION OF MORTGAGE LOTS:
A partitioning of land for the purpose of obtaining financing for farm
dwellings and farm support buildings is allowed subject to the provisions of
this title and the Malheur County subdivision and partitioning ordinance 1 .
The resulting parcel and structure may not be sold separately by the owner from
the parent lot from which it was originally partitioned unless allowed by this
title and state law. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
 
Notes
1 2. See title 7 of this code.
ARTICLE B. RESOURCE LANDS, SECONDARY LANDS OVERLAY ZONE
   (To be adopted when State Statute enables)
ARTICLE C. R-1 RURAL RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
6-3C-1: Purpose
6-3C-2: Permitted Uses
6-3C-3: Conditional Uses
6-3C-4: Dimensional Standards
6-3C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the R-1 rural residential zone is to provide areas for low
density residential development in a rural environment. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3C-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses may be permitted outright in an R-1 zone:
   A.   Single-family residential dwellings (including manufactured dwellings).
   B.   Farm uses as defined in ORS 215.203(2), excluding feedlots.
   C.   Any accessory building greater than two hundred (200) square feet in
lot coverage area shall have a residential appearance. This includes a wide
variety of styles but excludes plain or common galvanized metal buildings which
are utilitarian, lacking a combination of the following features to make them
appear as residential accessory structures:
      1.   An appearance which is consistent with or complementary to the
dwelling to which it is accessory. This is determined by consideration of roof
height, pitch and overhang and by building siding and window styles; or
      2.   Roof overhangs that appear to be in residential proportions to the
height and bulk of the proposed building ranging from one to three (3) or more
feet; or
      3.   Have a mansard or other special roof design with appropriate
overhangs.
   D.   Registered or certified family owned childcare homes operating under
provisions of Oregon law.
   E.   Accessory dwelling unit (ADU) as defined in ORS 215.501; subject to the
following:
      1.   One (1) new ADU, shall be no larger than nine hundred (900) square
feet of useable floor area;
      2.   One (1) single-family dwelling must exist on the lot or parcel;
      3.   Lot or parcel is at least two (2) acres in size;
      4.   Shall be no further than one hundred (100) feet from the existing
single-family dwelling;
      5.   The lot or parcel is not located within a designated urban reserve
area;
      6.   The existing single-family dwelling property on the lot or parcel is
not subject to an order declaring it a nuisance or subject to any pending
actions under ORS 105.550 to ORS 105.560;
      7.   The ADU shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations
relating to sanitation and wastewater disposal and treatment;
      8.   ADU shall be served by the same well, water supply source or water
supply system as the existing single-family dwelling (ORS 215.495 (5));
      9.   If the water supply source for the ADU or associated lands or
gardens will be a well using water under ORS 537.545 (1) (b) or (d), no portion
of the lot or parcel is within an area in which new or existing ground water
uses under ORS 537.545 (1) (b) or (d) have been restricted by the water
resources commission;
      10.   No portion of the lot or parcel is within a designated area of
critical state concern;
      11.   The lot or parcel is served by a fire protection service provider
with professionals who have received training or certification described in ORS
181A.410; and
      12.   The ADU must meet all setbacks in the R-1 Zone and setbacks from
the well as required by the water resources commission or water resources
department.
      13.   Must comply with all fire and specialty structural code laws if the
ADU is on the statewide wildfire hazard map.
      14.   A historic home as defined in ORS 215.501 may be converted to an
ADU upon construction of a new single-family dwelling as long as: (i) the ADU
complies with this section, (ii) the ADU is not altered, renovated or remodeled
to more than one hundred twenty (120) percent of the historic home’s square
footage at the time of construction of the new single family dwelling, (iii)
the ADU may not be rebuilt if lost by fire and (iv) the ADU and the new single
family dwelling must be served by the same water source.
      15.   Other Restrictions And Standards For An ADU:
         a.   An ADU may not be used for vacation occupancy or a commercial
rental.
         b.   An accessory building (i.e. garage or outbuilding) to the ADU is
not permitted.
         c.   No subdivision, partition or any other reconfiguration of the lot
or parcel may be allowed which would situate the existing single-family
dwelling on a different lot or parcel than the ADU.
         d.   A second ADU shall not be permitted on any lot or parcel.
         e.   An ADU must be a detached dwelling. Garage conversions or
attached ADUs are prohibited. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 147, 4-14-2004;
Ord. 184, 10-21-2009; Ord. 237, 7-9-2025)
6-3C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses and their accessory uses may be established when authorized
in accordance with
chapter 6 of this title:
   A.   Residential subdivisions.
   B.   Manufactured dwelling parks.
   C.   Duplexes and multi-family dwellings.
   D.   Cemeteries.
   E.   Public or private schools.
   F.   Churches.
   G.   Repealed.
   H.   Daycare centers.
   I.   Golf courses.
   J.   Grange halls or community centers.
   K.   Governmental structures and uses.
   L.   Kennels or boarding stables.
   M.   Repealed.
   N.   The temporary use of a manufactured dwelling during a family hardship
condition, where such condition is related to the aged, the infirm, or to
persons otherwise incapable of maintaining a completely separate residence
apart from their family. The zoning permit for such use shall note that it is
temporary and subject to renewal annually. In the event the hardship no longer
exists, the removal of the temporary use shall be required. If the temporary
manufactured dwelling is to be connected to an existing sewage system,
compliance with applicable rules of the department of environmental quality
will be required. Application for a temporary manufactured dwelling shall
consist of a letter describing the nature of the hardship and any form required
by the planning department.
   O.   Operations conducted for the exploration, mining and processing of
geothermal resources as defined by ORS 522.005 or exploration, mining and
processing of aggregate and other mineral resources or other subsurface
resources. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 146, 4-14-2004; Ord. 147, 4-14-2004;
Ord. 184, 10-21-2009)
6-3C-4: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
The following dimensional standards shall apply:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum lot area shall be a nominal one acre or a larger
area determined to be in compliance with the applicable department of
environmental quality rules and regulations regarding sewage disposal and water
supplies, provided that:
      1.   All septic tanks, drainfields and wells shall be located on the same
lot with the facility that is being served.
      2.   A department of environmental quality evaluation report from the
authorized department representative shall be required.
   B.   Setbacks: No building or sight obscuring fence, other than a fence or
facility associated with irrigation activities, shall be closer than forty feet
(40') from a street or road right of way line, fifteen feet (15') from any
other property line, twenty feet (20') from any major irrigation canal right of
way. No sight obscuring fence exceeding three feet (3') in height shall be
placed within the forty foot (40') street setback, also within this setback,
shrubbery other than trees shall be maintained at heights not exceeding three
feet (3'). (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
   C.   Residential Density Limitation: The maximum development density of
residential dwellings (single-family, duplex, multi-family and manufactured
dwelling) permitted in any of the rural residential exception areas identified
in the plan shall not exceed one dwelling unit for each one acre of
residentially developed/developable land within the ownership. Detached single-
family dwellings shall be on individual, legally created lots or parcels or may
be part of a condominium development. (Ord. 147, 4-14-2004)
Notwithstanding the average density limitation set forth above, undeveloped
lots and parcels legally created prior to June 1, 1984, including lots in
recorded subdivisions, shall retain the right to one residential dwelling unit,
provided the lot or parcel complies with the site development standards of
subsections A and B of this section. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
ARTICLE D. R-2 RURAL RECREATION ZONE
SECTION:
6-3D-1: Purpose
6-3D-2: Permitted Uses
6-3D-3: Conditional Uses
6-3D-4: Dimensional Standards
6-3D-1: PURPOSE:
The R-2 rural recreation zone is designed to provide areas of public
recreational value that take advantage of forest, water and other leisure
opportunities, and are compatible with adjoining agricultural land uses.
Allowed recreational uses shall encourage the preservation of the value and
natural attractiveness of such areas. This article allows the planning
commission to attach special conditions to certain uses, as delineated in
section
6-3C-3 of this chapter, that have a potentially detrimental effect on
neighboring lands. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3D-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses may be permitted outright in an R-2 zone:
   A.   Any use permitted in an EFU, EFFU or ERU zone, excluding feedlots.
   B.   Open land recreational facilities, both for profit and nonprofit,
including, but not limited to, boating, fishing and hunting facilities, camping
and picnicking facilities, riding stables and dude ranching.
   C.   Resort type residential establishments, both for profit and nonprofit,
associated with or contributing to the accessibility of open land recreational
facilities. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3D-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses and their accessory uses may be established when
authorized in accordance with
chapter 6 of this title:
   A.   All conditional uses permitted in an EFU, EFFU or ERU zone, and the R-
1 zone.
   B.   Dwellings, single-family or multi-family, designed or associated with
and contributing to the accessibility of open land recreational facilities so
long as such dwellings do not detract from general use or accessibility to such
recreational facilities. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3D-4: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
The following dimensional standards shall apply:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum lot area shall be a nominal one acre or a larger
area determined to be in compliance with the applicable department of
environmental quality rules and regulations regarding sewage disposal and water
supplies, provided that:
      1.   All septic tanks, drainfields and wells shall be located on the same
lot with the facility that is being served.
      2.   A department of environmental quality evaluation report from the
authorized department representative shall be required.
   B.   Setbacks: No building or sight obscuring fence, other than a fence or
facility associated with irrigation activities, shall be closer than forty feet
(40') from a street or road right of way line, fifteen feet (15') from any
other property line, twenty feet (20') from any major irrigation canal right of
way. No sight obscuring fence exceeding three feet (3') in height shall be
placed within the forty foot (40') street setback, also within this setback,
shrubbery other than trees shall be maintained at heights not exceeding three
feet (3'). (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
   C.   Residential Density Limitation: The maximum development density of
residential dwellings (single-family, duplex, multi-family and manufactured
dwelling) permitted in any of the rural residential exception areas identified
in the plan shall not exceed one dwelling unit for each one acre of
residentially developed/developable land within the ownership. Detached single-
family dwellings shall be on individual, legally created lots or parcels or may
be part of a condominium development. (Ord. 147, 4-14-2004)
ARTICLE E. UGA URBAN GROWTH AREA ZONE
SECTION:
6-3E-1: Purpose
6-3E-2: Permitted Uses
6-3E-3: Lot Area And Site Development Standards
6-3E-4: Application Filing And Review Procedures
6-3E-5: Adoption Of Growth Management Agreements
6-3E-5-1: Growth Management Agreement Between The City Of Ontario And Malheur
County
6-3E-1: PURPOSE:
The urban growth area zone (UGA) is designed for those lands designated as
urban growth areas in the comprehensive plans for the incorporated cities in
Malheur County. The UGA zone is intended to identify the unincorporated areas
within each city's urban growth area and to provide for joint review and
consideration of land use concerns by Malheur County and the city involved in
order to ensure land use activities on the urban fringe conform to orderly
growth and extension of city services, facilities and land use patterns. The
UGA zone implements the provisions of the growth management agreements that the
county has entered into with each of the cities. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord.
167, 10-24-2007)
6-3E-2: PERMITTED USES:
Uses permitted outright and conditionally, within the UGA of each city shall be
those uses stipulated for the areas in question and set forth in the particular
city's comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance and as provided for in the
growth management agreement, adopted by county ordinance. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993;
amd. Ord. 167, 10-24-2007)
6-3E-3: LOT AREA AND SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Lot area, dimensions, building heights, lot coverage, off street parking and
loading areas, yard requirements and other site development standards shall be
enforced as established in the particular city's plan and ordinances and as
provided for in the growth management agreement adopted by county ordinance.
(Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 167, 10-24-2007)
6-3E-4: APPLICATION FILING AND REVIEW PROCEDURES:
Applications for permits within the UGA of a particular city shall be filed and
reviewed in the manner set forth in the growth management agreement established
between the county and the city and as adopted by county ordinance. The county
court or its designee shall retain final authority for the approval,
disapproval or conditional approval of permit requests. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993;
amd. Ord. 167, 10-24-2007)
6-3E-5: ADOPTION OF GROWTH MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS:
The county shall enter into a growth management agreement with each of the
incorporated cities in Malheur County and shall adopt said agreements by county
ordinance. The agreements shall be adopted as part of this title by reference.
(Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 167, 10-24-2007)
6-3E-5-1: GROWTH MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF ONTARIO AND MALHEUR
COUNTY:
   A.   Purpose Of Agreement: The purpose of this agreement is to establish
joint, cooperative procedures between the city and the county in the adoption
of and administration of the Ontario urban growth boundary (UGB) and the
Ontario urban reserve area (URA). For the purposes of this agreement, the
"Ontario urban growth area (UGA)" shall be defined as the unincorporated area
within the Ontario UGB, and the "Ontario urban reserve area (URA)" shall be the
unincorporated area between the UGB and the URA boundary. The city's and the
county's comprehensive plans for the UGA and URA are incorporated in this
agreement by reference.
      1.   The city of Ontario's comprehensive plan (city plan), urban growth
boundary and urban area land use designations map, and development regulations,
in conjunction with this agreement, shall establish the standards and
procedures for review and action on all land use decisions and other related
matters which pertain to implementing the city plan within the UGA. The city
shall have lead authority in amending the city plan, including UGB amendments.
      2.   The county shall have lead authority to implement and administer the
city plan within the UGA and URA. The county adopts, and incorporates by
reference, the current (current as of the date of this agreement) city plan, as
it applies to the UGA, and the current urban area land use designations map and
implementing development regulations.
      3.   The land use designations shown on the city urban reserve area land
use designations map are conceptual only and shall not apply until land is
added to the city UGB. During the interim period, county rural land use
designations and zoning shall apply.
      4.   All actions as specified by this agreement shall be taken to assure
that the city and county comprehensive plans remain consistent and coordinated
with each other.
      5.   This agreement replaces all prior urban growth area joint management
agreements between the city and the county.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the singular shall include the plural and the masculine
shall include the feminine and neuter. The following words and phrases shall
mean:
   ANNEXATION: An act commenced by a city through a public hearing, the intent
of which is to incorporate additional land into the legal boundaries of the
city.
   CITY: The city of Ontario, Oregon.
   CITY COUNCIL: The duly elected governing body for the city of Ontario,
Oregon.
   COUNTY: The county of Malheur, Oregon.
   COUNTY COURT: The duly elected governing body for Malheur County, Oregon.
   FINAL DECISION: The last scheduled decision making action of the
jurisdiction with authority for the type of action.
   JOINT POLICY REVIEW COMMITTEE (JPRC): An intergovernmental committee of city
and county planning commissioners that reviews and advises governing bodies on
the application of city policies and standards.
   JOINT TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE (JTRC): An intergovernmental committee of
staff members from the city and county planning and public works departments
and other appropriate agencies that provides for staff level coordination on
urban growth matters.
   LAND USE ACTION: A decision regarding the use or development of land
including, but not limited to, partitions, subdivisions, zone changes,
variances, conditional uses, and zoning permits that is subject to the
applicable county or city comprehensive plan and implementing ordinances.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES: Projects, activities, and facilities which are determined
to be necessary for the public health, safety, and welfare.
   URBAN GROWTH AREA (UGA): The unincorporated land outside the city limits but
enclosed by the urban growth boundary.
   URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY (UGB): The defined boundary of the city's growth and
development area encompassing the land deemed needed to support that growth and
development during the planning period.
   URBAN RESERVE AREAS: Lands outside of the urban growth boundary identified
as the highest priority for inclusion in the urban growth area when additional
urbanizable land is needed.
   C.   UGA And URA Administration: The city shall administer all lands within
its corporate limits. The county shall retain responsibility for administration
of all unincorporated lands inside the UGB and URA.
   D.   Land Use Designations And Development Standards:
      1.   The land use designations as shown on the city's urban growth
boundary and urban area land use designations map shall control growth and
development in the UGA. The land use designations shown on the county's
comprehensive plan map shall control growth and development in the URA.
      2.   All uses and development of land in the UGA shall comply with the
appropriate substantive provisions of the city plan and development regulations
including applicable standards for water and sewer facilities, streets, and
other required improvements as specified by the city regulations. All uses and
development of land in rural residential portions of the URA shall comply with
the appropriate substantive provisions of the URA overlay zone and development
regulations including the location of streets and public facilities as shown on
the city "streets and public facilities master plan".
   E.   Roles And Responsibilities:
      1.   The county shall have full decision making authority to review all
land use permits in the UGA and URA. The city shall have automatic standing to
appeal any county decision in the UGA and URA.
      2.   The city shall have full decision making authority for all
comprehensive plan amendments, zone changes, changes to development regulations
that apply in the UGA or the designation of urban reserve areas. The county
shall have automatic standing to appeal any city decision affecting the UGA.
      3.   The city and county shall have joint decision making authority for
amendments to the UGB or URA.
      4.   A joint technical review committee (JTRC) shall be established by
the city and the county to coordinate land use decisions in the UGA and URA.
         a.   At a minimum, the JTRC will consist of representatives from the
planning and public works staffs of the city and the county. In addition, other
representatives may participate as appropriate, including, but not limited to,
the county sanitarian, county assessor, public safety officials, economic
development officials and representatives from special districts such as school
districts or irrigation districts. The chair of individual meetings shall be
the planning director from the jurisdiction with lead authority for the issues
under review.
         b.   The JTRC shall review all land use applications prior to the
preparation of a staff report or administrative decision. The purpose of this
review is to identify and agree on applicable policies and development
standards and specific issues to be addressed by the applicant. This review may
occur prior to the submission of an application, similar to a preapplication
conference.
         c.   If no JTRC meetings are held during a three (3) month period,
then the JTRC shall meet to discuss general urban growth issues and to maintain
communications between the jurisdictions.
         d.   The JTRC shall oversee the preparation and maintenance of a
development review handbook which will identify all of the applicable
comprehensive plan policies, zoning requirements, development regulations,
public facility requirements and urban service standards that are pertinent to
land use decisions in the UGA.
      5.   A joint policy review committee (JPRC) shall serve as an advisory
board to address urban growth policy matters between the city and the county.
         a.   The JPRC shall be a standing committee composed of three (3)
members each from the city and county planning commissions, appointed by either
the mayor or county judge, respectively. Members shall serve on the JPRC for
the length of their terms on their respective planning commissions. The chair
of the committee shall be elected by the members of the committee.
         b.   The JPRC shall meet on an "as needed" basis. A quorum shall
consist of four (4) members, with at least two (2) members from each
jurisdiction.
         c.   The JPRC shall act in an advisory capacity only. The JPRC may
review policy issues related to land use decisions of a planning commission
prior to a hearing by the appropriate governing body. A JPRC review may be
initiated by the mayor or the county judge. Such a review must be based on one
of the following standards:
            (1)   The county planning commission's decision has improperly
applied the city plan policies or development standards.
            (2)   The city planning commission's decision does not comply with
the applicable statewide planning goals, administrative rules, or state law.
         d.   A JPRC review shall be based on the record of the planning
commission decision and shall focus on the application of city standards and
policies and compliance with the statewide planning goals or state law. No new
or additional testimony may be added as part of the JPRC review.
         e.   The JPRC shall make its own recommendations and findings, which
shall be forwarded to the city and county prior to the hearing by the
appropriate governing body.
         f.   JPRC review shall not limit the right of any aggrieved party to
an appeal.
   F.   County Administrative Decisions: In the UGA and URA, permits requiring
administrative review (i.e., require no public hearing and/or notice to
adjacent landowners) shall be reviewed as follows:
      1.   The county shall send notice of the permit application to the city
within five (5) working days of the date that the application is filed with the
county planning department. The county shall refer the permit application to
the JTRC for review before issuing a tentative decision pursuant to county
review procedures.
      2.   After JTRC review, the county shall issue a tentative decision
pursuant to county procedures and provide the applicant and the city a copy of
that tentative decision within three (3) working days of the decision. The
tentative decision of the county shall not become final for ten (10) working
days from the date of the tentative decision to provide the city an opportunity
to informally resolve any disputes. The final decision shall reflect any
changes agreed to by the city, the county and the applicant. If an informal
agreement is not reached within ten (10) working days, the tentative decision
shall become final.
      3.   The final decision of the county may be appealed pursuant to county
procedures. If appealed, a review by the JPRC may be requested prior to the
hearing before the planning commission and/or the county court.
      4.   In the event of an appeal, a JPRC review may be conducted as
provided for in subsection E5 of this section. Notice of the county's final
decision shall be sent to the city within three (3) working days of the date of
the final decision. The county's final decision is appealable according to
state law.
   G.   County Discretionary Decisions: In the UGA and URA, permits requiring
discretionary review (i.e., requires a public hearing and/or notice to adjacent
landowners) shall be reviewed as follows:
      1.   The county shall forward a copy of the application to the city
within five (5) working days of the date the application is filed with the
county. A JTRC meeting shall be scheduled prior to the preparation of the
county staff report to the county planning commission. The city may provide
additional written comments or verbal testimony prior to the closing of the
public record.
      2.   In making its decision the county planning commission shall consider
and is obligated to respond to all comments submitted by the city with regard
to the application. Notice of the county planning commission's decision shall
be provided to the city within three (3) working days of the date of the final
decision. The decision may be appealed to the county court pursuant to county
procedures.
      3.   In the event of an appeal, a JPRC review may be requested as
provided for in subsection E5 of this section. Notice of the county's final
decision shall be sent to the city within three (3) working days of the date of
the final decision. The county's final decision is appealable according to
state law.
   H.   City Land Use Decisions: Comprehensive plan amendments, including UGB
and URA amendments and plan map changes, or changes to development regulations
that affect the UGA or URA, may be initiated by the city, or by an application
from the county or a property owner and shall be reviewed as follows:
      1.   The initial application shall be filed with the city. A copy of the
application shall be forwarded to the county within five (5) working days of
the date the application is filed with the city. A JTRC meeting shall be
scheduled prior to the preparation of the city staff report to the city
planning commission to discuss relevant issues or policies. The county may
provide additional written comments or verbal testimony prior to the closing of
the public record.
      2.   The city planning commission shall review the amendment in a public
hearing. In making its decision the city planning commission shall consider,
and is obligated to respond to all comments submitted by the county with regard
to the application. Notice of the decision shall be provided to the county
within three (3) working days of the city planning commission decision.
      3.   Within ten (10) working days of a decision by the city planning
commission, a review by the JPRC may be requested. The JPRC shall conduct a
review and submit its findings prior to a hearing before the city council.
      4.   In the event the city approves the requested amendment, the final
decision of the city, along with a copy of the findings and record to support
that decision, shall be forwarded to the county within three (3) working days
of the date of the final decision for county adoption. The county review shall
be based on the record of the city's decision.
      5.   Notice of the county planning commission decision shall be forwarded
to the city within three (3) working days of the date of the final decision.
Within ten (10) working days of a decision by the county planning commission,
the city may request a review by the JPRC to resolve any differences between
the city's final decision and the county planning commission's decision.
      6.   The JPRC shall conduct a review and submit its recommendations and
findings prior to a hearing before the county court. Notice of the county court
decision shall be forwarded to the city within three (3) working days of the
date of the final decision. The final decision of the county court is
appealable in the manner prescribed by state law.
      7.   A comprehensive plan amendment shall not be effective until such
time as the county adopts the city's plan amendment as an amendment to the
county comprehensive plan and plan map.
   I.   Annexations: The city shall have lead authority to review all
annexation requests which shall be reviewed as follows:
      1.   All land within the UGB may be subject to future annexation;
however, establishment of a UGB does not imply that all land within the
boundary will be annexed.
      2.   Land may be annexed to the city according to methods allowed by
state law. Annexation proposals must meet the following standards:
         a.   The land is within the UGB.
         b.   The development of the property is compatible with the extension
of urban services to the surrounding areas.
         c.   The city is capable of providing and maintaining a full range of
urban services to the property without negatively impacting existing systems
and the city's ability to adequately serve all areas within the existing city
limits.
      3.   The city may enter into agreements to extend urban services prior to
annexation in exchange for consent to annexation at a later date, in accordance
with state law.
      4.   Requests for annexation to the city of areas outside the UGB shall
not be considered until such time as the UGB is amended to include the subject
land. Once the boundary has been amended, the annexation application can be
processed.
      5.   The annexation application shall be forwarded to the county within
five (5) working days of the date the application is filed with the city. A
JTRC meeting shall be scheduled prior to the preparation of the city staff
report to the city planning commission to discuss relevant issues or policies.
The county may provide additional written comments or verbal testimony prior to
the closing of the public record.
      6.   In making its decision the city planning commission shall consider,
and is obligated to respond to all comments submitted by the county with regard
to the annexation application. Notice of the decision shall be provided to the
county within three (3) working days of the date of the final decision.
      7.   Within ten (10) working days of a decision by the city planning
commission, a review by the JPRC may be requested. The JPRC shall conduct a
review and submit its recommendation and findings prior to a hearing before the
city council. Notice of the city council decision shall be forwarded to the
county within three (3) working days of the date of the final decision. The
final decision of the city is appealable in the manner prescribed by state law.
   J.   Public Facilities And Services:
      1.   The cost of extension or improvements of public facilities and
utilities required as a condition of a permit approval shall be borne by the
developer, unless the city or county agrees to bear all or any portion of the
costs thereof.
      2.   Establishment of a right of way, donation of easements, creation of
new streets, or improvements to existing streets shall conform to the city's
existing street patterns and master plan for the future street system. Until
annexed into the city, road maintenance shall be the responsibility of the
county or appropriate road district after the road is formally accepted into
the road system pursuant to state law.
      3.   The JTRC shall serve as a forum to coordinate issues with respect to
the following items which are within, or adjacent to, or which directly impact,
the Ontario UGB and the UGA, and for which either the city or county has the
ultimate decision making authority:
         a.   Capital improvement programs and major public works projects for
transportation, recreation, sewer, water, or drainage facilities; acquisition
or development of property; or other similar activities.
         b.   Functional plans, or amendments thereto, for utilities, drainage,
solid waste, transportation, recreation, or other similar activities.
         c.   Economic and industrial development plans or policies and other
kinds of special plans.
         d.   Design and engineering standards for urban facilities and
services.
      4.   The JPRC may serve as a forum to discuss policy matters that impact
the city and county prior to final decision by the appropriate jurisdiction.
      5.   The city shall be responsible for preparation and maintenance of
public facilities plans within the Ontario UGB, and "streets and public
facilities master plans" within the URA.
   K.   Urban Services:
      1.   Extension of city services shall be permitted within the UGB only
when consistent with the policies of the city plan and with any adopted
functional plans for urban services. Extension of city services shall not be
permitted within the URA.
      2.   City services such as water, sewer, and street extension or
maintenance shall be provided only to those areas which either annex, agree to
annex to the city, or which enter into an agreement consenting to future
annexation, as provided for in ORS 222.115.
      3.   All city services shall be provided and maintained to city
standards, and under supervision of the city, unless some other arrangement
acceptable to the city has been made for the maintenance and supervision of
said services.
      4.   The city and county may enter into separate intergovernmental
agreements for the application of system development charges or the creation of
local improvement districts in the UGA, as provided for in ORS 223.
   L.   Special District Coordination:
      1.   Special districts situated wholly or partially within the UGA shall
have the opportunity to participate on JTRC and to review and comment on the
land use decisions inside the UGA which affect them.
      2.   Pursuant to ORS 195, the city and county shall negotiate and enter
into urban service agreements with each special district which is situated
either wholly or partially within the UGA as part of the next periodic review
and update of the city plan.
      3.   Under such urban service agreements, the special district shall give
the city and county the opportunity to review and comment on the following
district activities which may apply to the lands in the UGA:
         a.   Major public works projects to be undertaken by the district.
         b.   Plans for establishment, improvement, or extensions of facilities
provided by the district.
         c.   Capital improvement programs and design standards which are being
developed by the district.
   M.   Urban Reserve Areas: Pursuant to ORS 183 and 197, the city and county
shall cooperatively plan for areas outside the urban growth boundary to be
reserved for eventual inclusion in the urban growth area and to protect those
areas from patterns of development which could impede urbanization.
      1.   The city shall designate urban reserve areas as part of the city
plan and urban area land use designation map. However, county rural plan
designations shall control until land within the URA is added to the UGB. The
county shall adopt land development regulations for rural residential land
within the URA to ensure that interim development and land divisions will not
hinder the effective transition to urban land uses and the orderly and
efficient provision of urban services in the future. These designations and
regulations shall be adopted pursuant to the procedures in subsection H of this
section.
      2.   The county shall be responsible for administration of all
incorporated lands, both at the time of the urban reserve area designation and
upon inclusion of these areas within the UGB. Land use decisions within an
urban reserve area shall be pursuant to the procedures in subsections F and G
of this section.
   N.   Review, Amendment, And Termination Of This Agreement:
      1.   This agreement may be reviewed and amended at any time by the mutual
consent of both parties and after public hearings by the city council and
county court. Either governing body may consult their respective planning
commission for a recommendation.
      2.   Proposed amendments to this agreement may be referred to the JPRC
for review. Following initial approval by the city, any amendments shall be
forwarded to the county. Approval by both parties shall be in the form of an
ordinance adopting the revised agreement. Any amendment to the agreement shall
not be effective unless and until both the city and the county approve said
amendment.
      3.   Any modification of this agreement shall be consistent with other
provisions of this agreement, the city and county comprehensive plans, and with
applicable state law.
      4.   This agreement may be terminated by either party under the following
procedure:
         a.   Notice of proposed termination shall be sent to the other
jurisdiction. The notice of proposed termination shall be referred to the JPRC
to provide an opportunity to resolve any disputes.
         b.   The terminating jurisdiction shall schedule a public hearing at
least forty (40) days after the date of the notice of proposed termination.
Public notice of the hearing shall be in accordance with each jurisdiction's
respective ordinance requirements for notice of legislative decisions.
         c.   An established date for termination of the agreement shall be at
least ninety (90) days after the public hearing in order to provide additional
time to resolve disputes and facilitate transition.
   O.   Appeals: Any person or party aggrieved by a decision or ruling pursuant
to this agreement shall have the right of appeal as set forth in the
appropriate ordinance or in state law.
   P.   Enforcement:
      1.   The county shall be responsible for enforcement of all land use
ordinances within the UGA and URA. The county shall have the exclusive right to
decide whether to proceed with any enforcement actions. All enforcement actions
shall be taken in accordance with the enforcement provisions of the county
ordinances.
      2.   The county shall indemnify and hold the city harmless from any
claims for damages arising out of enforcement of the land use ordinances within
the UGA or URA.
      3.   The county shall be responsible for all costs connected with
enforcement of the land use ordinances within the UGA and URA.
   Q.   Fees: Application for land use actions to be filed with the county
shall be accompanied by the fee set forth in appropriate county ordinance.
Applications for comprehensive plan amendments or zone changes shall be filed
with the city and be accompanied by the appropriate fee as specified in city
ordinance.
   R.   Repeal: Acceptance of this agreement by the city and county shall
immediately repeal all prior urban growth area joint management agreements
entered into between the city and the county.
   S.   Severability: The provisions of this agreement are severable. If any
section, sentence, clause or phrase of this agreement is adjudged by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, said decision shall not impair or affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this agreement.
   T.   Enabling Provisions: The following signatures bind all parties of
interest to the terms of this agreement:
   CITY OF ONTARIO
   MALHEUR COUNTY
(Ord. 167, 10-24-2007)
ARTICLE F. RSC RURAL SERVICE CENTER ZONE
SECTION:
6-3F-1: Purpose
6-3F-2: Permitted Uses
6-3F-3: Conditional Uses
6-3F-4: Uses In Specific Areas
6-3F-5: Performance Standards
6-3F-6: Fencing Requirements
6-3F-7: Dimensional Standards
6-3F-1: PURPOSE:
Seventeen (17) small communities throughout Malheur County have been designated
as rural service centers. These communities are Annex, Arock, Brogan, Burns
Junction, Cairo Junction, Farewell Bend, Harper, Ironside, Jamieson, Johnson
Brothers, Juntura, McDermitt, Oregon Slope, Owyhee Corner, Rome, Weiser
Junction and Willowcreek. Each community has developed its own zoning standards
based on the desires of its citizens. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3F-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   The following uses are permitted in all RSC zones, except Oregon Slope,
unless otherwise indicated. The permitted uses in Oregon Slope are described in
section
6-3F-4 of this article.
      1.   Single-family dwellings, including manufactured dwellings.
      2.   Farm uses as defined in ORS 215.203(2), excluding feedlots.
      3.   Public or privately owned parks (except Willowcreek, Johnson
Brothers, Cairo Junction, Harper, Owyhee Corner, Juntura, Arock, Rome and Burns
Junction).
      4.   Residential homes for up to six (6) persons who fit within the
definition of persons listed in ORS 443.400(5) through (10). (Ord. 86, 12-7-
1993; amd. Ord. 147, 4-14-2004)
6-3F-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Unless otherwise indicated, the following conditional uses and their accessory
uses may be established in all RSC zones, except Oregon Slope, when authorized
in accordance with
chapter 6 of this title:
   A.   Duplexes or multi-family dwellings (except Ironside, Willowcreek and
Cairo Junction).
   B.   Manufactured dwelling parks (except Willowcreek).
   C.   Residential subdivisions.
   D.   Public or private schools (except Johnson Brothers).
   E.   Churches (except Johnson Brothers and Cairo Junction).
   F.   Commercial activities, including, but not limited to, eating and
drinking establishments, business and professional offices, and retail services
including sales and display rooms and lots.
   G.   Governmental structures and uses for the promotion of public health,
safety or welfare (except Willowcreek, Johnson Brothers, Cairo Junction, Harper
and Owyhee Corner).
   H.   Industrial uses, including, but not limited to, wholesaling,
manufacturing, processing, warehousing and storage (except Johnson Brothers).
   I.   Recreational facilities (Jamieson, Farewell Bend and Rome only).
   J.   Public and privately owned parks (Juntura, Arock, Rome and Burns
Junction only).
   K.   Kennels and boarding stables.
   L.   Home occupations and home businesses as provided by section
6-6-8-6 of this title.
   M.   The temporary use of a manufactured dwelling during a family hardship
condition where such hardship is related to the aged, the infirm, or to persons
otherwise incapable of maintaining a completely separate residence apart from
their family for health or financial reasons. The zoning permit for such use
shall note that it is temporary and subject to renewal annually without
additional fee. In the event the hardship no longer exists, the removal of the
temporary use shall be required. If the temporary manufactured dwelling is to
be connected to an existing sewage system, compliance with applicable rules of
the department of environmental quality will be required. Application for a
temporary manufactured dwelling shall consist of a letter describing the nature
of the hardship and any form required by the planning department. (Ord. 86, 12-
7-1993; amd. Ord. 147, 4-14-2004; Ord. 184, 10-21-2009)
6-3F-4: USES IN SPECIFIC AREAS:
   A.   Jamieson Area:
      1.   Junkyards and dump sites are neither permitted nor conditional uses
(Jamieson only). (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
   B.   Uses In Oregon Slope RSC Zone:
      1.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted outright in the
Oregon Slope RSC zone:
         a.   Single-family dwellings, including manufactured dwellings.
         b.   Commercial activities, including, but not limited to, eating and
drinking establishments, business and professional offices, and retail services
including sales and display rooms and lots. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 147,
4-14-2004)
      2.   Conditional Uses: No conditional uses are specified for this RSC
zone. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3F-5: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
In all RSC zones the performance standards contained in section
6-3G-4 of this chapter shall apply to all nonresidential and all
nonagricultural activities. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3F-6: FENCING REQUIREMENTS:
Fencing may be required between an RSC zone (except Jamieson) and adjoining
EFU, EFFU or ERU property upon a finding by the planning commission 1  that a
problem exists that can be alleviated by adequate fencing. Upon a complaint
filed by adjoining property owners, a public hearing will be held to determine
if fencing will be required. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-9-1 of this title.
6-3F-7: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
The following dimensional standards shall apply in all RSC zones:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum lot area shall be one acre or a larger area
determined to be in compliance with the applicable department of environmental
quality rules and regulations regarding sewage disposal and water supplies,
provided that:
      1.   All septic tanks, drainfields and wells shall be located on the same
lot with the facility that is being served.
      2.   A department of environmental quality evaluation report from the
authorized DEQ representative shall be required.
   B.   Setbacks: No building or sight obscuring fence, other than a fence or
facility associated with irrigation activities, shall be closer than forty feet
(40') from a street or road right of way line, fifteen feet (15') from any
other property line, twenty feet (20') from any major irrigation canal right of
way. No sight obscuring fence exceeding three feet (3') in height shall be
placed within the forty foot (40') street setback, also within this setback
shrubbery other than trees shall be maintained at heights not exceeding three
feet (3').
   C.   Average Residential Density Limitation: In lieu of establishing a
minimum lot size in the RSC zone for residential use and development, the
following limitations to such development are hereby imposed: (Ord. 86, 12-7-
1993)
      1.   The maximum development of residential dwellings (single- family,
duplex, multi-family and manufactured dwelling) permitted in any RSC area, as
identified in the plan, shall be one dwelling unit per acre of residentially
developed/developable land. (Ord. 147, 4-14-2004)
      2.   The average residential density limitation shall be computed on all
acreage developed to residential use or available to such use and shall exclude
all acreage built and committed to nonresidential use.
      3.   Once an RSC area reaches the maximum residential density, the county
shall cease to accept and review further requests to divide land or develop
land for residential use except as provided in subsection D of this section.
   D.   Undeveloped Parcels: Notwithstanding the average density limitations
set forth above, undeveloped contiguously owned lots and parcels legally
created prior to June 1, 1984, shall retain the right to one residential
dwelling unit, provided the parcel complies with the site development standards
in subsections A and B of this section. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
ARTICLE G. C-1 COMMERCIAL ZONE
SECTION:
6-3G-1: Purpose
6-3G-2: Permitted Uses
6-3G-3: Conditional Uses
6-3G-4: Performance Standards
6-3G-5: Dimensional Standards
6-3G-6: Site Plan Review
6-3G-1: PURPOSE:
The C-1 commercial zone is designed to provide areas for the broad range of
commercial operations and services required for the proper and convenient
functioning of commercial centers. Permitted uses are intended to include all
retail and service operations that may be appropriately located within a
shopping district and are normally required to sustain a community. Attractive,
consolidated commercial developments, which are protected from the intrusion of
noncompatible land uses and developed with adequate and safe parking, traffic
circulation and highway access, are among the desired goals for this zone. This
article provides not only for the planning commission 1  to attach special
conditions to certain uses as delineated in section
6-3G-3 of this article that have a potentially detrimental effect on
neighboring lands, but also for the planning commission to exercise review of
planned permitted uses as delineated by section
6-3G-2 of this article. (Refer to section
6-3G-5 of this article and
chapter 5 of this title.) (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 6-9-1 of this title.
6-3G-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses may be permitted outright in a C-1 zone:
   A.   Business and professional offices.
   B.   Retail stores, including sales and display rooms or lots.
   C.   Machinery sales, service and repair.
   D.   Manufacturing, processing or treatment of products in conjunction with
retail (but not wholesale) sales.
   E.   Residential uses in conjunction with commercial uses. (The intent is to
give owners, operators or security personnel of commercial enterprises the
opportunity to live on or near the location of their businesses.) (Ord. 86, 12-
7-1993)
6-3G-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses and their accessory uses may be established when authorized
in accordance with
chapter 6 of this title:
   A.   Utility facilities.
   B.   Kennels and veterinary or animal hospitals.
   C.   Outdoor amusement or recreational uses.
   D.   Public or private schools.
   E.   Churches.
   F.   Residential uses not in conjunction with commercial uses.
   G.   Governmental structures and land uses for promotion of the public
health, safety or welfare.
   H.   Clubs, lodges, eating and drinking establishments.
   I.   Motels.
   J.   Other uses not listed as conditional or permitted but determined to be
compatible with commercial uses and in accordance with the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 146, 4-14-2004)
6-3G-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Each structure or use permitted or conditionally permitted in a commercial zone
shall meet the following performance standards: (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
   A.   Physical Appearance: With the exception of gasoline pumps, all
operations other than pick ups and deliveries shall be carried on within an
enclosed building; provided, that new materials or equipment in operable
condition may be stored in the open, such as a sales lot. Normal daily wastes
may be stored in containers outside of a building when such containers are not
readily visible from beyond the property line. The provisions of this
subsection shall not be construed to prohibit the display of merchandise or
vehicles for sale or rental, or the storage of automobiles, farm machinery,
trailers, manufactured dwellings or similar equipment in operable condition
when in association with a permitted use. The required yard areas other than
driveway openings shall be landscaped. (Ord. 147, 4-14-2004)
   B.   Hazard: No operation shall be established which fails to meet the state
fire and electrical codes and any other applicable state or federal codes
related to safety. This provision shall not be construed to prohibit the use of
normal heating fuels, and other volatile materials when handled in accordance
with applicable codes.
   C.   Noise: No operation shall be carried on which creates noise in excess
of the normal traffic noise of the adjacent street at the time of daily peak
hour traffic volume. Noise volume generated by the use shall be measured at any
property line. The comparable traffic noise shall be measured at the property
line adjacent to the street. All noises shall be muffled so as not to be
objectionable due to intermittence, beat frequency or shrillness.
   D.   Sewage And Liquid Waste: All operations shall comply with any
applicable regulations of the county, state or federal agencies responsible for
pollution control. No wastes of a chemical, organic or radioactive nature shall
be injected or buried in the ground or stored in the open on the surface except
in approved containers.
   E.   Smoke, Particulate Matter And Gases: No use shall be established which
fails to meet the air quality regulations of the Oregon department of
environmental quality pertaining to emissions of smoke, particulate matter,
fugitive dust, gases and other air contaminants.
   F.   Odor: The emission odors that are generally agreed to be obnoxious to
any considerable number of persons is prohibited. Observations shall be made at
the property line of the establishment generating the odor. As a general guide
to classification of odor, it is deemed that odors of putrefaction, hydrogen
sulfide, fermentation and rendering processes are objectionable while odors
associated with baking, coffee roasting or nut roasting are normally not
considered obnoxious.
   G.   Vibration: All machines shall be mounted so as to minimize vibration
and in no case shall such vibration be perceptible, without the use of
instruments, at the property line.
   H.   Glare And Heat: Any glare producing operations, such as welding arcs,
shall be shielded so that they are not visible from the property line. Surfaces
near the glare source shall be of a type which will minimize the reflection of
such glare beyond the property line.
   I.   Dust: All surfaces used in the operation of the use shall be graveled
or paved with a dust free surface. Gravel surfaces shall be watered down when
conditions of use or weather cause dust to travel toward structures on adjacent
properties.
   J.   Interpretation: Whenever it cannot be decided by reasonable observation
that a performance standard is being met, it shall be the responsibility of the
operator of the use to supply evidence or engineering data to support the
contention that a standard is being met. The standards are designed, except
where referring to other codes, to be judged by ordinary human senses and not
by the minute detail of scientific quality instruments. Until such evidence or
engineering data is supplied and proves to be convincing, the judgment of the
planning director shall be the determining factor. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3G-5: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
The following dimensional standards shall apply:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: Ten thousand (10,000) square feet where facility is
connected to a public sewer system. The lot or parcel shall not be less than
the minimum lot width and minimum lot depth as allowed by this section. In
those cases where septic tank and drainfield is the method of sanitary waste
disposal, minimum lot size is one acre or larger as needed to meet the
requirements of the department of environmental quality.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: One hundred feet (100').
   C.   Maximum Lot Depth: Not more than three (3) times the lot width.
   D.   Setbacks: No building or site-obscuring fence, shrubbery or structure
shall be located closer than thirty feet (30') to a street or road right of
way. No building (nor structure other than fence) shall be located closer to an
interior property line than fifteen feet (15') or one-half (1/2) the building
or structure height, whichever is greater. An exception exists when condominium
structures are proposed requiring zero side yard setbacks.
   E.   Conditional Uses: Conditional use approvals may require greater
dimensional standards than the above when the Commission determines they are
needed in order for the proposed land use to meet the criteria of
Chapter 6 of this Title, Conditional Uses.
   F.   Exceptions: Public utility substations and other facilities are
excepted from the minimum lot area and lot width and maximum lot depth
standards. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3G-6: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
Site plans for all permitted and conditional uses as delineated in Sections
6-3G-2 and
6-3G-3 of this Article must be submitted to the Planning Commission for review
pursuant to
Chapter 5 of this Title. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
ARTICLE H. M-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE
SECTION:
6-3H-1: Purpose
6-3H-2: Permitted Uses
6-3H-3: Conditional Uses
6-3H-4: Performance Standards
6-3H-5: Dimensional Standards
6-3H-6: Site Plan Review
6-3H-7: Compliance With State Regulations
6-3H-1: PURPOSE:
The M-1 light industrial zone is intended to provide areas for industrial uses
having minimal adverse environmental effects. Commercial activities compatible
with industrial uses are allowed as conditional uses. This article provides not
only for the planning commission 1  to attach special conditions to certain
uses as delineated in section
6-3H-3 of this article that have a potentially detrimental effect on
neighboring lands, but also for the planning commission to exercise review of
planned permitted uses as delineated by section
6-3H-2 of this article. (Refer to section
6-3H-6 of this article and
c
hapter 5  of this title.) (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 6-9-1 of this title.
6-3H-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses may be permitted outright in an M-1 zone:
   A.   Warehousing and storage, excluding storage of hazardous products.
   B.   Wholesale distribution and sales outlets.
   C.   Service stations.
   D.   Machinery repair facilities.
   E.   Electronic assembly plants.
   F.   Repealed.
   G.   Radio or television towers and related facilities.
   H.   Freight depots and trucking freight terminals.
   I.   Contractors or building materials businesses.
   J.   Residential uses in conjunction with commercial and industrial uses.
(The intent is to give owners, operators or security personnel of a commercial
or industrial enterprise the opportunity to live on or near the location of
their business.)
   K.   General retail sales and restaurants enclosed within a building, the
floor area of which does not exceed one thousand five hundred (1,500) square
feet. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 146, 4-14-2004)
6-3H-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses and their accessory uses may be established in an M-1 zone
when authorized in accordance with
chapter 6 of this title:
   A.   All conditional and permitted uses allowed in a C-1 zone that are
compatible with light industrial uses.
   B.   Food processing.
   C.   Manufacturing, processing, packaging, repair and storage of goods or
products not in conflict with other provisions of this article.
   D.   Small petroleum storage or distribution facilities.
   E.   Governmental structures and uses for the promotion of the public
health, safety or welfare.
   F.   Uses associated with the storage or disposal of explosives, chemical
products, chemical wastes or radioactive wastes.
   G.   Other uses not listed as conditional or permitted but determined to be
compatible with light industrial uses and in accordance with the comprehensive
plan.
   H.   Recreational vehicle park.
   I.   Utility facilities. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord., 11-8-1994; Ord.
146, 4-14-2004)
6-3H-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Each structure or use permitted or conditionally permitted in the M-1 zone
shall meet the following performance standards: (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
   A.   Physical Appearance: With the exception of gasoline pumps and
recreational parks, all operations other than pick ups and deliveries shall be
carried on within an enclosed building or behind a sight obscuring fence or
hedge. New materials or equipment in operable condition may be stored outside a
building in containers not readily visible from beyond the property line. The
provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to prohibit the display of
merchandise or vehicles for sale or rental, or the storage of automobiles, farm
machinery, trailers, manufactured dwellings or similar equipment in operable
condition when in association with a permitted use. The required yard areas
next to a street shall be landscaped except for driveway openings. (Ord. 147,
4-14-2004)
   B.   Hazard: No operation shall be established which fails to meet the state
fire and electrical codes and any other applicable state or federal codes
related to safety. This provision shall not be construed to prohibit the use of
normal heating fuels, motor fuels and welding gases when handled in accordance
with applicable codes.
   C.   Noise: No operation shall be carried on which creates noise in excess
of the normal traffic noise of the adjacent street at the time of daily peak
hour traffic volume. Noise volume generated by the use shall be measured at any
property line. The comparable traffic noise shall be measured at the property
line adjacent to the street. All noises shall be muffled so as not to be
objectionable due to intermittence, beat frequency or shrillness.
   D.   Sewage And Liquid Waste: All operations shall comply with any
applicable regulations of the county, state or federal agencies responsible for
pollution control. No wastes of a chemical, organic or radioactive nature shall
be injected or buried in the ground or stored in the open on the surface except
in approved containers.
   E.   Smoke, Particulate Matter And Gases: No use shall be established which
fails to meet the air quality regulations of the Oregon department of
environmental quality pertaining to emissions of smoke, particulate matter,
fugitive dust, gases and other air contaminants.
   F.   Odor: The emission odors that are generally agreed to be obnoxious to
any considerable number of persons is prohibited. Observations shall be made at
the property line of the establishment generating the odor. As a general guide
to classification of odor, it is deemed that odors of putrefaction, hydrogen
sulfide, fermentation and rendering processes are objectionable while odors
associated with baking, coffee roasting or nut roasting are normally not
considered obnoxious.
   G.   Vibration: All machines shall be mounted so as to minimize vibration
and in no case shall such vibration be perceptible, without the use of
instruments, at the property line. The use of steam or broad hammers are not
permitted in this zone.
   H.   Glare And Heat: Any glare producing operations, such as welding arcs,
shall be shielded so that they are not visible from the property line. Surfaces
near the glare source shall be of a type which will minimize the reflection of
such glare beyond the property line. No heat from equipment or furnaces shall
raise the temperature of materials or ambient air at the property line more
than three degrees Fahrenheit (3°F).
   I.   Dust: All surfaces used in the operation of the use shall be graveled
or paved with a dust free surface. Gravel surfaces shall be watered down when
conditions of use or weather cause dust to travel toward structures on adjacent
properties.
   J.   Interpretation: Whenever it cannot be decided by reasonable observation
that a performance standard is being met, it shall be the responsibility of the
operator of the use to supply evidence or engineering data to support the
contention that a standard is being met. The standards are designed, except
where referring to other codes, to be judged by ordinary human senses and not
by the minute detail of scientific quality instruments. Until such evidence or
engineering data is supplied and proves to be convincing, the judgment of the
planning director shall be the determining factor. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3H-5: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
The following dimensional standards shall apply:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: One acre or a larger area determined to be in
compliance with the applicable Department of Environmental Quality rules and
regulations regarding sewage disposal and water supplies whether those are to
be installed initially or not.
      1.   Permitted Uses Except Utilities: Twenty two thousand five hundred
(22,500) square feet.
      2.   Utility Facilities: Public utility facilities are exempt from the
minimum lot area requirement, provided they have sufficient area which, in the
opinion of the Planning Commission, will not affect adjacent land uses.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: One hundred fifty feet (150').
   C.   Maximum Lot Depth: Not more than three (3) times the lot width.
   D.   Setbacks: No building or site-obscuring fence, shrubbery or structure
shall be located closer than thirty feet (30') to a street or road right of
way. No building (nor structure other than fence) shall be located closer to an
interior property line than fifteen feet (15') or one-half (1/2) the building
or structure height, whichever is greater. An exception exists when condominium
structures are proposed requiring zero side yard setbacks.
   E.   Conditional Uses: Conditional use approvals may require greater
dimensional standards than the above when the Commission determines they are
needed in order for the proposed land use to meet the criteria of
Chapter 6 of this Title.
   F.   Exceptions: Public utility substations and other facilities are
excepted from the minimum lot area and lot width and maximum lot depth
standards. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3H-6: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
Site plans for all permitted and conditional uses delineated in Sections
6-3H-2 and
6-3H-3 of this Article must be submitted to the Planning Commission pursuant to
Chapter 5 of this Title. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3H-7: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REGULATIONS:
All uses involving manufacturing, repair, storage or processing shall meet all
applicable standards and regulations of the State Board of Health, Department
of Environmental Quality, and any other public agency having appropriate
regulatory jurisdiction. Prior to issuance of a zoning permit for all permitted
and conditional uses, evidence shall be submitted to the Planning Department
indicating the proposed activity has been approved by all appropriate
regulatory agencies. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
ARTICLE I. M-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL ZONE
SECTION:
6-3I-1: Purpose
6-3I-2: Permitted Uses
6-3I-3: Conditional Uses
6-3I-4: Performance Standards
6-3I-5: Dimensional Standards
6-3I-6: Site Plan Review
6-3I-7: Compliance With State Regulations
6-3I-8: Geothermal Areas
6-3I-1: PURPOSE:
The M-2 Heavy Industrial Zone is designed to provide areas suitable for
industrial activities liable to produce noise, smoke, dust, fumes or other
effluents that potentially have a negative effect on adjacent land uses. The M-
2 Zone also protects good industrial sites, which have access to transportation
facilities and power sources, as well as room for future expansion of existing
industries and adequate building sites for new industries. Commercial and light
industrial uses that are compatible with heavy industrial uses are allowed as
conditional uses. This Article provides not only for the Planning Commission 1
to attach special conditions to certain uses as delineated in Section
6-3I-3 that have a potentially detrimental effect on neighboring lands, but
also for the exercise of review of planned permitted uses as delineated by
Section
6-3I-2. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section 6-9-1 of this Title.
6-3I-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses may be permitted outright in an M-2 Zone:
   A.   Manufacturing, fabricating, processing, repairing, packaging or
storage, including but not limited to the following:
      1.   Concrete, ready-mix or diatomite plants.
      2.   Seed processing or fertilizer plants.
      3.   Ice or cold-storage plants.
      4.   Agricultural products storage and processing.
   B.   Railroad facilities.
   C.   Trucking freight terminals.
   D.   Service stations.
   E.   Petroleum products storage and distribution plants.
   F.   Geothermal-related industrial and commercial uses, provided the land is
within the designated geothermal overlay area. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3I-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses and their accessory uses may be established when authorized
in accordance with
Chapter 6 of this Title:
   A.   All conditional and permitted uses allowed in an M-1 Zone that are
compatible with a heavy industrial zone.
   B.   Animal slaughterhouses.
   C.   Rendering plants.
   D.   Livestock sales yards.
   E.   Junkyards or automobile wrecking yards.
   F.   Gravel pits including crushing, screening and washing of extracted
materials.
   G.   Any uses that may possess characteristics injurious to health and
safety due to emissions of smoke, dust, odor, fumes, refuse, noise or other
effluents. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3I-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Each structure or use permitted or conditionally permitted in the M-2 Zone
shall meet the following performance standards:
   A.   Conduct Of Use: No permitted or permissible use shall be conducted in
any manner which would render it noxious or offensive by reason of dust, refuse
matter, odor, smoke, gas fumes, noise, vibration or glare.
   B.   Enclosure: All manufacturing or processing activities shall be
completely enclosed in buildings, except as provided by the conditional use
section of this Article.
   C.   Outdoor Storage: Junk, salvage, auto wrecking and similar operations
shall be fenced, screened or limited in height so as to block substantially any
view of such material from any point located on an abutting street or from any
point less than eight feet (8') above grade within any abutting residential or
commercial zone. However, this subsection C shall not be deemed to require more
than an opaque fence or screen not more than ten feet (10') in height and not
longer than the full perimeter of the subject zoning lot, and further provided,
such screening may be reduced in height so as to avoid shading a solar
collector on adjoining property when so requested by the adjoining property
owner or a government official. No outdoor storage of materials which could be
blown into the air or strewn about by wind shall be permitted.
   D.   Loading: Truck loading and unloading operations shall take place
entirely within the site and shall not be so located as to interfere with
pedestrian routes.
   E.   Fire Hazard: No operation shall be established which constitutes a fire
hazard.
   F.   Noise: Noise shall be muffled as available technology permits so as to
not be objectionable due to intermittence, beat frequency or shrillness and
shall meet any State standards.
   G.   Sewage And Liquid Waste: All operations shall comply with any
applicable regulations of the County, State or Federal agencies responsible for
pollution control. No wastes of a chemical, organic or radioactive nature shall
be injected or buried in the ground or stored in the open on the surface except
in approved containers.
   H.   Odor: The emission odors that are generally agreed to be obnoxious to
any considerable number of people shall be abated with the latest feasible
technology. As a general guide to classification of odor, it is deemed that
odors of putrefaction, hydrogen sulfide, fermentation and rendering processes
are objectionable while odors associated with baking, coffee roasting or nut
roasting are normally not considered obnoxious. To reduce odors, the open air
cooling of products with aromatic emissions shall be avoided. Floors,
machinery, storage containers and other surfaces shall be kept clean of
material which is potentially odor causing.
   I.   Vibration: All machines shall be mounted so as to minimize vibration.
Vibration shall not be so excessive as to interfere with heavy industrial
operations on nearby premises.
   J.   Glare And Heat: Any glare producing operations, such as welding arcs,
shall be shielded so that they are not visible from the property line and
surfaces near the glare source shall be of a type which will minimize the
reflection of such glare beyond the property line. No heat from equipment or
furnaces shall raise the temperature of materials or ambient air at the
property line more than three degrees Fahrenheit (3°F).
   K.   Interpretation: Whenever it cannot be decided by reasonable observation
that a performance standard is being met, it shall be the responsibility of the
operator of the use to supply evidence or engineering data to support the
contention that a standard is being met. The standards are designed, except
where referring to other codes, to be judged by ordinary human senses and not
by the minute detail of scientific quality instruments. Until such evidence or
engineering data is supplied and proves to be convincing, the judgment of the
Planning Director shall be the determining factor. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3I-5: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
The following dimensional standards shall apply:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area:
      1.   Permitted Uses: Forty thousand (40,000) square feet.
      2.   Conditional Uses: As determined under procedure set forth in
Chapter 6 of this Title, but not less than the minimum lot width and minimum
lot depth as allowed by this Section.
      3.   Geothermal Areas: In areas zoned M-2 and within the designated
geothermal overlay area, the minimum lot size shall be twenty (20) acres
unless:
         a.   A specific geothermal-related use is proposed at the time an
application for land division is submitted; or
         b.   The contiguous ownership at the time of enactment of this
regulation is less than twenty (20) acres in size and the parcel meets all
other requirements of this Title as applicable.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: Two hundred feet (200').
   C.   Minimum Lot Depth: Two hundred feet (200').
   D.   Setbacks: No building or sight-obscuring fence, shrubbery or structure
shall be located closer than thirty feet (30') from any street or road right-
of-way and fifteen feet (15') from any other property line. (Ord. 86, 12-7-
1993)
6-3I-6: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
Site plans for all permitted and conditional uses delineated in Sections
6-3I-2 and
6-3I-3 of this Article must be submitted for review to the Planning Commission
pursuant to
Chapter 5 of this Title. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3I-7: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REGULATIONS:
All uses involving manufacturing, repair, storage or processing shall meet all
applicable standards and regulations of the State Board of Health, Department
of Environmental Quality, and any other public agency having appropriate
regulatory jurisdiction. Prior to issuance of a zoning permit for all permitted
and conditional uses, evidence shall be submitted to the Planning Department
indicating the proposed activity has been approved by all appropriate
regulatory agencies. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3I-8: GEOTHERMAL AREAS:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Article, in all areas zoned M-
2 and within the designated geothermal resource area, all proposed uses and
developments not geothermal- related but permitted in the M-2 Zone either
outright or conditionally shall be reviewed by the Commission in a duly noticed
public hearing. In addition to all other review criteria, the Commission shall
review the site plan as required by
Chapter 5 of this Title. In permitting any such use or development, the
Commission shall, in addition to all other required findings, specifically find
the proposed use or development will not seriously interfere with existing or
future development and use of the geothermal resources given the current state
of technology related to geothermal resource utilization. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
ARTICLE I.1 M-3 AGRICULTURAL PROCESSING PLANT INDUSTRIAL ZONE
SECTION:
6-3I.1-1: Purpose
6-3I.1-2: Permitted Uses
6-3I.1-3: Conditional Uses
6-3I.1-4: Performance Standards
6-3I.1-5: Dimensional Standards
6-3I.1-6: Site Plan Review
6-3I.1-7: Compliance With State Regulations
6-3I.1-1: PURPOSE:
The M-3 agricultural processing zone is designed to provide opportunities for
agricultural processing activities that are large enough to become industrial
in nature. The only uses allowed in this particular zone are agricultural
processing plants on a large scale and farm use. This zone will allow large
scale agricultural processing plants which process and add value to
agricultural products grown on lands other than where the plant is sited. It is
anticipated that agricultural produce to be utilized will be provided by other
growers. The principal purpose of the plant siting is for the processing of
agricultural products. Such plants will process agriculture produce from a
variety of sources to develop secondary products for local and export markets.
Placement of this zone on resource lands within the county requires an
exception to statewide planning goals, agricultural goal 3. Site plan review by
the county planning commission is required of all proposed plant sitings after
the exception has been properly taken and the zoning map has been amended and
acknowledged. (Ord. 148, 1-7-2004)
6-3I.1-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses may be permitted outright in an M-3 zone:
   A.   Agricultural product processing.
   B.   Farm use as defined in ORS 215.213 and shall conform to the standard in
section
6-3I.1-4 of this article. (Ord. 148, 1-7-2004)
6-3I.1-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
!!! None. (Ord. 148, 1-7-2004)
6-3I.1-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Each structure or use permitted or conditionally permitted in the M-3 zone
shall meet the following performance standards:
   A.   Conduct Of Use: No permitted or permissible use shall be conducted in
any manner which would render it noxious or offensive by reason of dust, refuse
matter, odor, smoke, gas fumes, noise, vibration or glare from an industrial
use.
   B.   Enclosure: All manufacturing or processing activities shall be
completely enclosed in buildings, except as provided by the site plan review
approval.
   C.   Outdoor Storage: Any industrial outdoor storage shall be fenced,
screened or limited in height so as to block substantially any view of such
material from any point located on an abutting street or from any point less
than eight feet (8') above grade within any abutting residential or commercial
zone. However, this subsection shall not be deemed to require more than an
opaque fence or screen not more than ten feet (10') in height and not longer
than the full perimeter of the subject zoning lot, and further provided, such
screening may be reduced in height so as to avoid shading a solar collector on
adjoining property when so requested by the adjoining property owner or a
government official. No outdoor storage of materials which could be blown into
the air or strewn about by wind shall be permitted.
   D.   Loading: Truck loading and unloading operations shall take place
entirely within the site and shall not be so located as to interfere with
pedestrian routes.
   E.   Fire Hazard: No operation shall be established which constitutes a fire
hazard.
   F.   Noise: Noise shall be muffled as available technology permits so as to
not be objectionable due to intermittence, beat frequency or shrillness and
shall meet any state standards.
   G.   Sewage And Liquid Waste: All operations shall comply with any
applicable regulations of the county, state or federal agencies responsible for
pollution control. No wastes of a chemical, organic or radioactive nature shall
be injected or buried in the ground or stored in the open on the surface except
in approved containers.
   H.   Odor: The emission odors that are generally agreed to be obnoxious to
any considerable number of people shall be abated with the latest feasible
technology. As a general guide to classification of odor, it is deemed that
odors of putrefaction, hydrogen sulfide, fermentation and rendering processes
are objectionable while odors associated with baking, coffee roasting or nut
roasting are normally not considered obnoxious. To reduce odors, the open air
cooling of products with aromatic emissions shall be avoided. Floors,
machinery, storage containers and other surfaces shall be kept clean of
material which is potentially odor causing.
   I.   Vibration: All machines shall be mounted so as to minimize vibration.
Vibration shall not be so excessive as to interfere with heavy industrial
operations on nearby premises.
   J.   Glare And Heat: Any glare producing operations, such as welding arcs,
shall be shielded so that they are not visible from the property line and
surfaces near the glare source shall be of a type which will minimize the
reflection of such glare beyond the property line. No heat from equipment or
furnaces shall raise the temperature of the materials or ambient air at the
property line more than three degrees Fahrenheit (3°F).
   K.   Interpretation: Whenever it cannot be decided by reasonable observation
that a performance standard is being met, it shall be the responsibility of the
operator of the use to supply evidence or engineering data to support the
contention that a standard is being met. The standards are designed, except
where referring to other codes, to be judged by ordinary human senses and not
by the minute detail of scientific quality instruments. Until such evidence or
engineering data are supplied and proves to be convincing, the judgment of the
planning director shall be the determining factor. (Ord. 148, 1-7-2004)
6-3I.1-5: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
The following dimensional standards shall apply:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area:
      1.   Permitted Uses: Forty (40) acres.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: Two hundred feet (200').
   C.   Minimum Lot Depth: Two hundred feet (200').
   D.   Setbacks: No building or sight obscuring fence, shrubbery or structure
shall be located closer than thirty feet (30') from any street or road right of
way and fifteen feet (15') from any other property line. (Ord. 148, 1-7-2004)
6-3I.1-6: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
Site plans for all permitted uses delineated in subsection
6-3I.1-2A of this article must be submitted for review to the planning
commission pursuant to
chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 148, 1-7-2004)
6-3I.1-7: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REGULATIONS:
All uses involving manufacturing, repair, storage or processing shall meet all
applicable standards and regulations of the state board of health, department
of environmental quality, and any other public agency having appropriate
regulatory jurisdiction. Prior to issuance of a zoning permit for all permitted
and conditional uses, evidence shall be submitted to the planning department
indicating the proposed activity has been approved by all appropriate
regulatory agencies. (Ord. 148, 1-7-2004)
ARTICLE J. PM PARK MANAGEMENT ZONE
SECTION:
6-3J-1: Purpose
6-3J-2: Permitted Uses
6-3J-3: Conditional Uses
6-3J-4: Special Provisions
6-3J-1: PURPOSE:
The PM Park Management Zone is designed for publicly owned parks and recreation
areas. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3J-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses may be permitted outright in a PM Zone:
   A.   General maintenance and daily operation of public park or recreation
facilities.
   B.   Replacement or repair of existing facilities that have deteriorated or
become nonfunctional through general use, fire, acts of God, vandalism or
technological obsolescence. This includes roads, picnic tables, bath and toilet
houses and similar structures for visitor service. Such replacement or repair
shall be limited to that which is necessary to provide services to the same
numbers and densities of visitors that were served by the existing facility.
   C.   Minor improvements that enhance functionability or are necessary to
accommodate existing levels of public uses. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3J-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses and their accessory uses may be established when
authorized in accordance with
Chapter 6 of this Title:
   A.   New construction or upgrading of existing facilities that could be
expected to result in an increased overall visitor capacity or that would have
significant land-use impact. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3J-4: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
New public parks or recreation areas may be established by designation of
additional PM Zones in accordance with
Chapter 10 of this Title. A description of the initial development proposed for
the park shall accompany the zone map amendment request. Development authorized
on the proposal shall be allowed outright. After initial development is
completed, further park maintenance and improvement shall comply with Sections
6-3J-2 and
6-3J-3 of this Article. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
ARTICLE J.1. LU LIMITED USE OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
6-3J.1-1: Purpose
6-3J.1-2: Permitted And Conditional Uses
6-3J.1-3: Site Plan Approval
6-3J.1-4: Compliance With State And Federal Regulations
6-3J.1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the LU overlay zone is to limit the list of permitted or
conditional uses in an underlying zone through the taking of an exception to a
statewide land use planning goal under ORS 197.732. This zone will only be
applied when no other existing zone adequately addresses a new use and general
activities of these uses. The zone will apply to specific properties as
comprehensive plan zone changes affected by an exception under ORS 197.732. A
comprehensive plan amendment may or may not include a map amendment to
designate the property LU at the county's discretion. (Ord. 169, 6-20-2007)
6-3J.1-2: PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES:
It is intended that the uses and activities in an LU district will be limited
to those uses and activities specified in the ordinance goal exception adopting
the LU designation for the property. The descriptions of the permitted and
conditional uses may be qualified as necessary to achieve the purpose of the LU
overlay zone. The LU overlay zone, when adopted, shall carry out the
requirement of OAR 660-004-018 and ORS 197.732 that where a goal's exception is
taken, permitted and conditional uses shall be limited to those uses justified
by the exception statement. (Ord. 169, 6-20-2007)
6-3J.1-3: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
The county may require site plan approval by the planning department of the
location of buildings, access, parking, screening and other site plan
considerations to assure the compatibility of the permitted and conditional
uses within the area. Site plan requirements may be added by specific reference
in the LU adopting ordinance. (Ord. 169, 6-20-2007)
6-3J.1-4: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS:
All uses allowed in the LU district shall meet all applicable standards and
regulations of any state or federal agency having appropriate regulatory
jurisdiction. Prior to issuance of a zoning permit for all permitted uses,
evidence shall be submitted indicating the proposed activity has been approved
by all appropriate agencies. (Ord. 169, 6-20-2007)
ARTICLE K. FP FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
6-3K-1: Purpose
6-3K-2: Application To Lands
6-3K-3: Standards
6-3K-1: PURPOSE:
The FP Flood Plain Management Zone is an overlay zone intended to minimize loss
of life or health and damage to public and private property due to recurring
floods. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3K-2: APPLICATION TO LANDS:
The FP Zone applies to those lands lying in the 100-year flood plain as
determined by:
   A.   Federal Emergency Management Agency Flood Hazard Boundary Maps.
   B.   Flood plain information prepared by the U.S. Corps of Army Engineers.
(Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3K-3: STANDARDS:
The following standards shall be applicable to any area designated as being
within the 100-year flood plain:
   A.   Any development shall comply with
Title 5, Chapter 2 of this Code and the Federal Insurance Administration
requirements for minimizing flood hazards.
   B.   Any development shall also comply with the standards of the underlying
primary zone.
   C.   If a conflict in regulations or procedures occurs, the more restrictive
provisions shall govern. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
ARTICLE L. AA AIRPORT APPROACH OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
6-3L-1: Purpose
6-3L-2: Compliance
6-3L-3: Special Definitions
6-3L-4: Permitted Uses
6-3L-5: Conditional Uses
6-3L-6: Procedures
6-3L-7: Limitations
6-3L-1: PURPOSE:
In order to carry out the provisions of this overlay zone, there are hereby
created and established certain zones which include all the land lying beneath
the airport imaginary surfaces as they apply to all currently existing or
future public use airports in Malheur County.
Further, this overlay zone is intended to prevent the establishment of air
space obstructions in air approaches through height restrictions and other land
use controls as deemed essential to protect the health, safety and welfare of
the people of Malheur County. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3L-2: COMPLIANCE:
In addition to complying with the provisions of the primary zoning district,
uses and activities shall comply with the provisions of this overlay zone. In
the event of any conflict between any provisions of this overlay zone and the
primary zoning district, the more restrictive provision shall apply. (Ord. 86,
12-7-1993)
6-3L-3: SPECIAL DEFINITIONS:
   AIRPORT APPROACH SAFETY ZONE: A fan-shaped area twenty feet (20') outward
for each foot upward (20:1), two hundred fifty feet (250') wide beginning two
hundred feet (200') beyond the end of and at the same elevation as the runway
and extending to horizontal distance of five thousand feet (5,000') along the
extended runway center line to a width of one thousand two hundred fifty feet
(1,250').
   AIRPORT HAZARD: Any structure, tree or use of land which exceeds height
limits established by the airport imaginary surfaces.
   AIRPORT IMAGINARY SURFACES: Those imaginary areas in space which are defined
by the airport approach safety zone, transitional zones, horizontal zone, clear
zone and conical surface and in which any object extending above these
imaginary surfaces is an obstruction.
   CLEAR ZONE: Extended from the primary surface to a point where the approach
surface is fifty feet (50') above the runway end elevation.
   CONICAL SURFACE: Extends one foot (1') upward for each twenty feet (20')
outward (20:1) for four thousand feet (4,000') beginning at the edge of the
horizontal surface (5,000 feet from the end of the runway at 150 feet above the
airport elevation) and upward extending to a height of three hundred fifty feet
(350') above the airport elevation.
   HORIZONTAL ZONE: A horizontal plane one hundred fifty feet (150') above the
established airport elevation, the perimeter of which is constructed by
swinging arcs of five thousand feet (5,000') from the center of each of the
primary surfaces of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines
tangent to those arcs.
   NOISE IMPACT: Noise levels exceeding fifty five (55) Ldn.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY: A structure or place which the public may enter
for such purposes as deliberation, education, worship, shopping, entertainment,
amusement, awaiting transportation or similar activity.
   TRANSITIONAL ZONES: Extended one foot (1') upward for each seven feet (7')
outward (7:1) beginning one hundred twenty five feet (125') on each side of the
runway center line (primary surface), which point is the same elevation as the
runway surface, and from the sides of the approach surfaces thus extending
upward to a height of one hundred fifty feet (150') above the airport elevation
(horizontal surface). (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3L-4: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Farm use, excluding the raising and feeding of animals which would be
adversely affected by aircraft passing overhead.
   B.   Landscape nursery, cemetery or recreation areas which do not include
buildings or structures.
   C.   Roadways, parking areas and storage yards located in such a manner that
vehicle lights will not make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between
landing lights and vehicle lights or result in glare, or in any way impair
visibility in the vicinity of the landing approach. Approach surfaces must
clear these areas by a minimum of fifteen feet (15').
   D.   Pipeline.
   E.   Underground utility wire. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3L-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   A structure or building accessory to a permitted use.
   B.   A single-family dwelling, when authorized in the primary zoning
district, provided the landowner signs and records in the deed and mortgage
records of Malheur County a hold harmless agreement and aviation and hazard
easement and submits them to the airport sponsor and County Planning
Department.
   C.   Commercial and industrial uses, when authorized in the primary zoning
district, provided the use does not result in the following:
      1.   Creating electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft.
      2.   Making it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights
or others.
      3.   Impairing visibility.
      4.   Creating bird strike hazards.
      5.   Endangering or interfering with the landing, taking off or
maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
      6.   Attracting a large number of people. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3L-6: PROCEDURES:
An applicant seeking a conditional use under Section
6-3L-5 of this Chapter shall follow procedures set forth in the urban growth
management plan/agreement between the respective city and Malheur County.
Information accompanying the application shall also include the following:
   A.   Property boundary lines as they relate to the airport imaginary
surfaces;
   B.   Location and height of all existing and proposed buildings, structures,
utility lines and roads; and a
   C.   Statement from the Oregon Aeronautics Division indicating that the
proposed use will not interfere with operation of the landing facility. (Ord.
86, 12-7-1993)
6-3L-7: LIMITATIONS:
   A.   To meet the standards and reporting requirements established in FAA
Regulations, part 77, no structure shall penetrate into the airport imaginary
surfaces as defined above under Section
6-3L-3 of this Article.
   B.   No place of public assembly shall be permitted in the airport approach
safety zone.
   C.   No structure or building shall be allowed within the clear zone.
   D.   Whenever there is a conflict in height limitations prescribed by this
overlay zone and the primary zoning district, the lowest height limitation
fixed shall govern; provided, however, that the height limitations here imposed
shall not apply to such structures customarily employed for aeronautical
purposes.
   E.   No glare producing materials shall be used on the exterior of any
structure located within the airport approach safety zone. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
ARTICLE M. EH ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
6-3M-1: Purpose
6-3M-2: Definitions
6-3M-3: Application Of Overlay District
6-3M-4: Expedited Overlay Zoning Amendment Procedure
6-3M-5: Permit Requirements And Procedures
6-3M-6: Relationship To Underlying District
6-3M-7: Permit Review Criteria
6-3M-8: Conditions
6-3M-9: Disclaimer Of Liability
6-3M-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the EH Overlay District is to protect the public health, safety
and environment by regulating future land development and uses of land on or
adjacent to potentially hazardous disposal sites. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3M-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Article, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   DEQ: The Oregon Department of Environmental Quality.
   ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARD NOTICE: A document prepared by DEQ and issued by the
Environmental Quality Commission containing:
   A.   The legal description of the lot or parcel, or lots or parcels, where
the potential hazardous site is located;
   B.   A specific description of the site, if different than the legal
description of subsection A of this definition, for which the notice applies;
   C.   A general map of the area where the site is located;
   D.   A description of the types of waste and levels of contamination
identified or known to be present at the site;
   E.   The use restrictions that apply to the site; and
   F.   Findings which support the decision to issue an environmental hazard
notice for the site.
   POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS SITE: A site where an alteration could create a
condition which is hazardous to the health, safety or welfare.
   SITE: A land disposal site, a hazardous waste disposal site, a disposal site
containing radioactive waste, or an area where a hazardous substance has been
released. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3M-3: APPLICATION OF OVERLAY DISTRICT:
The EH Overlay District shall be applied, or amended to increase or decrease
the area of the District, in accordance with the expedited procedures provided
in this Article. The criteria for applying or amending the EH Overlay District
shall be as follows:
   A.   The County has received a new or modified environmental hazard notice
from DEQ, or absent this notice, the County finds that there is a potentially
hazardous disposal site; and
   B.   The area of the proposed EH Overlay District is the minimum necessary
to protect the public health, safety and environment but is not smaller than
the site identified in the environmental hazard notice; and
   C.   The District will minimize development activities and regulate existing
or proposed uses which could otherwise increase public or environmental
exposure to the potential environmental hazard. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3M-4: EXPEDITED OVERLAY ZONING AMENDMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Purpose: The County Court finds that an expedited overlay zoning
amendment procedure is necessary in order to protect the health of present and
future generations of Malheur County residents.
   B.   Emergency Declaration:
      1.   Declaration: Upon a tentative finding consistent with the criteria
in Section
6-3M-3 the County Court may declare an emergency and stay any development or
construction permits and activities in the area under consideration for
designation with an EH Overlay District.
      2.   Hearing Date: The County Court shall set a hearing date for the
potential adoption of the EH Overlay District within a period of time not
greater than twenty one (21) days from the declaration of emergency. Notice of
the emergency declaration and the date for considering adoption of the EH
Overlay District shall be posted in the Courthouse.
      3.   Failure To Take Action: If the County Court fails to take some type
of specific action on the potential EH Overlay District within twenty one (21)
days following the declaration of emergency that declaration of emergency is
automatically rescinded.
   C.   No Emergency Declaration: If no emergency declaration is made by the
County Court, the Court shall set a public hearing date and publish that date,
time and place in the newspaper at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing and
adoption of the EH Overlay District.
   D.   Effect Of District: Upon passage of the motion to adopt an EH Overlay
District, that District shall be immediately in full force and effect.
   E.   Removal Of District: In order to remove an EH Overlay District, the
notice procedure in subsection C hereof shall be used.
   F.   Notice To DEQ: Notification shall be provided to the Director of DEQ
not less than twenty one (21) days before the final date for submission of
information to the County regarding the proposed adoption, amendment or removal
of the EH Overlay District. If no DEQ comments are received before the final
action is taken, DEQ shall be deemed to have no comment on the action.
   G.   Ordinance Contents: The ordinance applying the EH overlay District to a
site shall include conditions or limitations necessary to ensure that existing
uses are consistent with the review criteria in Section
6-3M-7 of this Article. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3M-5: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Permit Required: Any new use, development or activity or modifications
of an existing use, development or activity in the EH Overlay District shall
require a permit, unless the Planning Director determines in writing that the
use is consistent with the use restrictions in the environmental hazard notice
and any other conditions or limitations imposed by the County in applying the
EH Overlay District under Section
6-3M-3.
A permit may be issued to cover more than one use or activity and may stipulate
conditions which must be met in order for the permit to remain valid and in
effect.
   B.   Application For Permit: A completed permit application, accompanied by
any special studies needed to address the applicable review criteria, shall be
submitted to the Planning Department.
   C.   DEQ Notified Of Appointment: In those cases where the proposed use
appears to be inconsistent with the use restrictions in the environmental
hazard notice for the specific EH District the County shall notify the Director
of DEQ by certified mail of the receipt of a permit application in the EH
Overlay District at least twenty one (21) days before granting a permit. This
notification to DEQ shall include a description of the proposed use,
development or activity or modification to an existing use, development, or
activity, its location and the name of the local government contact person. If
no DEQ comments are received within twenty five (25) days of mailing the
notice, DEQ shall be deemed to have no comment on the application.
   D.   Approval Without Permit: When written approval is issued under
subsection
6-3M-4A, without issuance of a permit, a copy of the written approval shall be
sent to DEQ within ten (10) days of issuance.
   E.   Notice To Property Owners: When notice is required by subsection C
above, the Planning Department shall also provide written notification to all
owners of property within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the identified site
referenced in the application and to all other persons requesting such notice
in writing.
   F.   Processing Applications: In addition to the above procedures, all
applications except those given written approval under subsection A hereof,
shall be processed in accordance with the site plan review procedures, Section
6-3M-7 of this Article.
   G.   Validity And Expiration Of Permit: The permit shall be valid for twelve
(12) months from the date of issuance. If no activity occurs in reliance on the
permit within twelve (12) months, it will be deemed null and void. (Ord. 86,
12-7-1993)
6-3M-6: RELATIONSHIP TO UNDERLYING DISTRICT:
All uses and activities allowed in the EH Overlay District shall be the same as
those allowed in the underlying zoning districts except as otherwise limited or
prohibited by this Title. Where the regulations of uses and activities in an
underlying district conflict with that of the EH Overlay District, the more
restrictive provisions shall apply. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3M-7: PERMIT REVIEW CRITERIA:
All of the following criteria shall be satisfied before approving any permit in
the EH Overlay District. Approval of the proposed permit:
   A.   Will not cause or create any conditions which, if not controlled, would
likely result in the failure of the final cover, liners or any of the other
components of the site's containment and monitoring system; and
   B.   Will not increase the potential hazard to human health, safety or the
environment, or is necessary to reduce the overall threat to human health or
the environment; and
   C.   Has been modified to the extent necessary to address any concerns
raised by DEQ pursuant to notice provided by DEQ under Section
6-3M-5 of this Article; and
   D.   Is consistent with the use restrictions in the DEQ environmental hazard
notice, if one was issued. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3M-8: CONDITIONS:
In applying the EH Overlay District or approving a permit in the EH Overlay
District, the County shall impose conditions requiring compliance with the use
restrictions in the DEQ environmental hazard notice, if one was issued.
In applying the EH Overlay District or approving a permit for a use in the EH
Overlay District, the County may impose additional conditions deemed reasonable
and appropriate for protecting public health, safety and the environment. These
conditions may be based upon, but are not limited to:
   A.   The findings or recommendations of any special studies pertaining to
the property required by the County;
   B.   Comments or recommendations provided by DEQ under Section
6-3M-5 of this Article;
   C.   Comments or recommendations submitted by the public or other
governmental agencies; or
   D.   The review criteria contained in Section
6-3M-7 of this Article. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3M-9: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
   A.   The degree of protection required by this Chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes. Risks to public health, safety and the
environment may result due to unanticipated human caused or natural events
which may disturb or affect the integrity of the site.
   B.   This Article does not imply that uses or activities allowed under the
EH Overlay District will be free from risk or hazard from identified sites.
Similarly, this Article does not imply that there are no other potentially
hazardous sites outside of the area covered by the EH Overlay District.
   C.   This Article shall not create liability on the part of the County or
its employees for any hazard or damage which may result from reliance on the EH
Overlay District or any other decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 86, 12-
7-1993)
ARTICLE N. G GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
6-3N-1: Purpose And Intent
6-3N-2: Definitions
6-3N-3: Scope Of Terms And Conditions
6-3N-4: Compliance Required
6-3N-5: Procedures And Permits
6-3N-5-1: Proposal
6-3N-5-2: Geothermal Production Project
6-3N-5-3: Public Hearing
6-3N-5-4: Conditions Of Permits; Expiration
6-3N-6: Bond And Insurance Requirements
6-3N-7: Premises Conditions And Standards
6-3N-8: Public Access Facilities
6-3N-9: Operation Personnel
6-3N-10: Standards
6-3N-10-1: Planning Standards
6-3N-10-2: Drilling Standards
6-3N-10-3: Production Standards
6-3N-11: Participation In Subsidence Prevention And Detection Program
6-3N-12: Inspections; Entry Powers
6-3N-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The County Court and the Planning Commission have adopted a resolution
stating general public policy surrounding the initiation of geothermal
development within this County. This policy is interim in nature in that it
calls for the development of a general plan for the total development of the
geothermal resource within the County. In addition, this policy provides for
the initiation of geothermal development by allowing various agencies, both
public and private, to commence their own initial development projects.
   B.   It is the intent of this policy to encourage exploration and
development projects and to increase the store of knowledge surrounding this
resource. It is also the intent of this policy that there be coordination of
existing and anticipated data so that the end result may be general planning
that will provide for the optimum development of the available resource.
   C.   The Geothermal Overlay Zone covers all land within Malheur County. It
does not allow commercial or industrial development of the resource which is
not consistent with the primary zone classification.
   D.   In many areas of the State, the geothermal resources are under study
and in one area are already producing energy for heating. Current explorations
in most areas are pointed chiefly at the energy field and property so as there
is much need for a clean source of energy for the development of electrical
power. However, it must not be overlooked that there is a possibility for a new
source of potable water and mineral recovery. Additional research is needed in
all fields if this geothermal resource is to be developed to its ultimate.
   E.   The early studies show that much of the geothermal resource in this
area lies below the floor of the Malheur and Willow Creek Valley. This Valley
is a major agricultural area and its preservation is necessary for the
continued economy of the County and to provide food and fibre for the populace.
   F.   The University of Oregon and other State agencies, several Federal
agencies, most prominently the Department of the Interior, and industry are all
involved in research and study programs surrounding the development of this
geothermal resource. Many industries have stated their desire to continue to
explore and begin production of the resource.
   G.   It is recognized that a general plan providing for total development of
the resource is needed but that it cannot be a comprehensive general plan
without the input of additional research and data.
It is, therefore, the intent of this policy to allow for the complete
development of a series of initial projects in addition to exploratory well
drilling and testing. To accomplish this, the following are terms and
conditions designed: a) to allow these initial developments; b) to provide for
the optimum use of the land; c) to protect the environment; and d) to provide
for cooperation in the development of a comprehensive general plan for
geothermal development through application of this Overlay Zoning district.
(Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3N-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Article, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   EXPLORATORY GEOTHERMAL WELL: Includes the right to explore for the test
geothermal resource within an area designated by the Planning Commission.
G-ZONE: Geothermal Development Zone is a land classification zone overlay
permitting additional uses within other zones including geothermal well
operation (after obtaining a conditional use permit or other permit applicable
to the primary zone).
   GEOTHERMAL PRODUCTION PROJECT: Includes the right to explore for, test
product, process, transport and sell geothermal resources and by-products such
as electrical power.
   OPERATOR: Any person, firm or corporation drilling, maintaining, operating,
pumping or in control of any well or related facilities for power generation,
mineral extraction, desalination or any other use of geothermal resources.
   PERMIT FOR GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: A conditional use permit to
produce geothermal well or wells in EFU, ERU, EFFU, RSC, M-1 and M-2 Zones.
   PERMIT FOR GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATORY WELL: A permit allowable in all zones
within the County.
   TEST FACILITIES: Lines, pumps, separators, metering facilities, ponds and
sumps used during the testing of an exploratory geothermal well or injection
well. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3N-3: SCOPE OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
The terms and conditions prescribed shall be for a particular project and will
pertain to that project only. Future projects may receive additional and/or
different terms and conditions. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3N-4: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Procedures And Standards: All applicants will be required to comply
with governmental procedures and standards applicable to the particular phase
of work.
   B.   Law: The operator engaged in the drilling, production, maintenance and
abandonment of geothermal wells and related facilities including the disposal
of waste products shall comply with all applicable local, State and Federal
laws and ordinances in effect or subsequently duly enacted.
   C.   General Compliance: All well drilling, plant construction, testing and
operations shall be conducted so as to be in harmony with the area and not
conflict with the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare.
   D.   Commencement Of Work: Prior to commencing any operation, all
governmental conditions and standards applicable to the particular phase of
work contemplated shall be complied with.
   E.   Application Reservation: The Planning Commission reserves the right
following rezoning to deny an application for development if it will not be
compatible with the area or that, in its findings, some of the terms and
conditions are not met satisfactorily. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3N-5: PROCEDURES AND PERMITS:
6-3N-5-1: PROPOSAL:
A definite detailed proposal for a geothermal development project shall be
submitted in accordance with the procedures and standards. This proposal shall
include geologic and engineering evidence that gives reasonable assurance of
success. This information may then serve as the basis for attaching this
Geothermal Overlay Zone to the property or portion thereof where development of
the resource is proposed. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3N-5-2: GEOTHERMAL PRODUCTION PROJECT:
   A.   To obtain a geothermal production project permit, an operator must
submit the following to the Planning Department for placement upon the Planning
Commission agenda:
      1.   A rezoning application for the Geothermal "G" Overlay Zone if
necessary.
      2.   A permit application for a geothermal exploratory well or copy of
existing permit.
      3.   A conditional use permit application for a geothermal production
project.
   B.   As a part of the application, the operator must submit to the Planning
Commission for its approval a definite proposal for total development which
includes the following data but is not limited to:
      1.   Name, location, elevation of well or wells to be drilled.
      2.   Name, address and telephone number of the operator's designated
agent.
      3.   A surface plat of the property to be developed including:
         a.   Surface location sites of the proposed well, including the size
and shape of location and access roads;
         b.   North arrow, scale, date and contours of land where the grade
exceeds two percent (2%);
         c.   The locations of existing roads, waterways, and cultural features
including the present use of the property to be developed, and use of the
surrounding property;
         d.   The boundary of the parcel to be explored;
         e.   The location of test facilities including complete engineering
data concerning any holding pond or reservoir proposed in conjunction with
testing and waste discharge requirements; and
         f.   A tentative plan showing the size and location of power
generation, mineral extraction, desalination and other surface facilities
including their relationship to known active faults.
      4.   A general geologic and engineering presentation showing enough data
to demonstrate that the area contains geothermal resources.
      5.   A timetable showing a schedule of projected development.
      6.   Proof that the program for well or wells has been approved by the
State Division of Oil and Gas and that all test and waste discharge operations
have been filed with the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality.
      7.   Submit for approval any additional anticipated land use needs such
as extra facilities and proposed sites for new industry. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3N-5-3: PUBLIC HEARING:
Upon receipt of applications and the required secondary information, the County
Planning Department will set a public hearing for the Planning Commission,
notify appropriate property owners, agencies and individuals of said hearing.
Planning Commission will consider testimony of all interested parties and then
take appropriate action on the various applications. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3N-5-4: CONDITIONS OF PERMITS; EXPIRATION:
All permits shall contain terms and conditions. Abandonment of a project for
six (6) months shall cause the permit then in effect to expire and to become
null and void. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3N-6: BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Bond: Each operator of a geothermal production project and/or
exploratory geothermal well shall file and furnish with the County an indemnity
bond in the sum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for each well drilled or
abandoned well re-entered or a blanket bond in the sum of one hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($150,000.00) for any number of wells drilled or re-entered.
The bond will indemnify the County for any costs incurred by the County in
repairing any drill, test or production facility site, as near as possible to
its original state and in abating any public nuisance caused by the principal's
exploratory, testing or producing operations. This bond shall be submitted for
approval of the County Counsel.
   B.   Insurance: Before commencing or continuing any geothermal operations,
the owner or operator shall show the County Counsel continuing evidence of
insurance against liability in tort in a minimum amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) arising from the production activities or operations incidental
thereto conducted or carried on under, or by virtue of any law or ordinance.
Such insurance shall be kept in full force and effect during the period of such
operations. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3N-7: PREMISES CONDITIONS AND STANDARDS:
   A.   Cleanup: Upon completion of any phase of the project, the site shall be
cleaned up in accordance with the standards, and insofar as practical, the land
returned to its original condition.
   B.   Waste Disposal: All waste, whether liquid or solid, must be disposed of
in compliance with the existing County, State and Federal rules and
regulations.
   C.   Noise And Vibration Suppression: The operation of temporary or
permanent equipment and all other operation performed on the premises shall be
done in a manner so as to suppress all noise and vibration to an acceptable
level.
   D.   Electronic Interference: No operator shall operate electrical equipment
or transmission facilities that will have a detrimental effect on the
transmission of radio or television signals.
   E.   Air Pollution: All operations shall be conducted in compliance with the
requirements of the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality.
   F.   Aesthetic Requirements: All permanent installation and premises
including power, steam and/or fluid transmission lines, shall be harmonious in
appearance with the area and not of obnoxious, undesirable or unsightly
appearance as determined by the Planning Director.
   G.   Land Use: Site development plan and land use shall provide for maximum
surface land usage including preservation of productive farm land and shall be
in accordance with the standards as determined by the Planning Director.
   H.   Odor And Gas Control: All operators shall take steps to insure that no
harmful or obnoxious gases be released as a result of their operations. (Ord.
86, 12-7-1993)
6-3N-8: PUBLIC ACCESS FACILITIES:
If location or site of the proposed project is such as to require additional
public access facilities, the operator shall be required to provide where
necessary, rights of way on property he controls and to provide the necessary
road work. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3N-9: OPERATION PERSONNEL:
All development operations shall be conducted under the direction of a
responsible engineer or agent. The operator shall insure that a maintenance
crew is immediately available to insure compliance with the conditions and
standards required. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3N-10: STANDARDS:
6-3N-10-1: PLANNING STANDARDS:
   A.   Size: All geothermal drilling sites including test facilities and ponds
shall be as small as possible and in no case larger than five (5) acres on
arable land. Exceptions will be allowed if two (2) or more wells are drilled on
the same site.
   B.   Agricultural Preservation; Well Density: Every site shall be designed
to retain the maximum amount of usable agricultural land and the site shall not
interfere with the irrigation and drainage pattern. Drill sites shall be
constructed adjacent to existing roads insofar as possible. Well density shall
be justified and in accordance with good reservoir engineering practices.
   C.   Location Of Wells And Appurtenances:
      1.   Unless specifically waived by the Planning Commission where legally
permissible, the following minimum distances shall be observed in siting a
well:
 Feet
                             Feet
Outer Boundary of Parcel  100
Permanent Public Waterway  50
Public Roads              100
Residence                 300
School                    1,320
Hospital                  5,280
Any other development     500
 
      2.   Production facilities shall, where possible, be located in
centralized areas to serve the maximum number of wells. These shall include but
are not limited to power plants, extraction plants and separators.
      3.   All electrical transmission lines shall be constructed on existing
right of way whenever possible.
   D.   Ponds: The plans for all permanent sumps, brine ponds, waste holding
ponds and any other ponds, shall include a soils investigation and shall be
designed and constructed under the supervision of a registered civil engineer.
The following are considered minimum criteria:
      1.   Pond bottoms and dikes shall be either impervious or shall be lined
to prevent seepage;
      2.   Earthen dikes shall be three to one (3:1) slopes;
      3.   Dikes shall be designed to provide three feet (3') freeboard when at
design capacity;
      4.   Plan should minimize wave and wind erosion; and
      5.   Protect from any flood hazard.
The plans shall be submitted to the County for approval.
   E.   Plot Plan: A reproducible copy of the plot plan shall be submitted on
suitable material. It shall be eighteen inches by twenty six inches (18" x 26")
with an appropriate scale and shall be prepared in accordance with good
engineering and drafting techniques. It shall show all existing topography and
facilities and shall clearly show proposed development. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3N-10-2: DRILLING STANDARDS:
   A.   General Drilling Standards:
      1.   Sign: All geothermal well sites shall have a sign having a surface
of not less than two (2) square feet and not more than six (6) square feet
bearing the current name and number of the well; emergency telephone number of
agent; name and/or insignia of the operator and the owner and this sign shall
be displayed at all times from the commencement of drilling operations until
the well has been abandoned.
      2.   Noise:
         a.   Each operator shall limit the continuous generation of wide band
noise to that shown on the charge. The level shown may be exceeded by ten
percent (10%) if the noise is intermittent and during daylight hours. The noise
levels shall be measured at the parcel boundary.
         b.   Sound pressure levels shall be measured at the points specified
and shall be measured with a sound level meter and associated octave band
analyzer conforming to standards prescribed by the United States of America
Standards Institute.
         c.   The following graph shall conform to standard units of
measurement in accordance with United States of America Standards Institute
Code, S-1.11-1966, Appendix A.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04cc839be80285dd57c20d10adc4984d8c1b9abf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1147.png]
 
      3.   Drilling Wastes: Within sixty (60) days after the completion of the
drilling of a well, all drilling wastes must be removed from the drilling site
and disposed of, in accordance with County and State regulations.
      4.   Sanitary Facilities: Suitable and adequate sanitary facilities as
approved by the Malheur County Department of Environmental Health shall be
installed and maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times.
      5.   Drilling To Continue; Completion: Drilling operations shall be
diligently pursued until each well is completed or abandoned. All drilling
equipment including derrick shall be removed from the premises within sixty
(60) days after completion of any well.
      6.   Abandonment Of Drilling Site: Prior to abandonment, it shall be the
responsibility of the operator to comply with all regulations of the geothermal
resources law of the State in regards to subsurface sections. In addition, the
following surface requirements are imposed. These surface requirements shall
also apply when the well or wells go on production and auxiliary facilities are
no longer necessary:
         a.   The derrick and all appurtenant equipment thereto shall be
removed;
         b.   All tanks, towers, other surface installations shall be removed;
         c.   All concrete, pipe, wood or other foreign materials shall be
removed from the drill site to a depth of six feet (6') below grade;
         d.   All holes and depressions shall be filled and packed with native
earth. All waste material shall be removed from the drill site;
         e.   In agriculture or potential agriculture areas, any brine holding
ponds shall be purged of brine, the salts shall be removed from the dikes and
bottom and the berms leveled to the satisfaction of the County.
   B.   Additional Drilling Standards Applicable To Sites Within One-Half Mile
Of A Residence:
      1.   Hours Of Operation:
         a.   All work in preparation of the site for drilling shall be done
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
         b.   The delivery or removal of equipment or material shall be limited
to the hours from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.,
except in the case of emergencies.
         c.   No drill pipe shall be racked or made up except between the hours
of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. Exception to this is
allowed where soundproofing is provided or in case of emergency.
      2.   Fences: All unattended well sites shall be enclosed by a steel chain
link type fence, six feet (6') high. There shall be no opening below such fence
greater than four inches (4"). The gate shall be placed at a nonhazardous
location and shall be locked at all times.
      3.   Noise Control:
         a.   The Department of Environmental Quality shall direct which noise
level curve as shown on the chart shall apply. Each operator shall limit the
continuous generation of wide band noise to that required. The level may be
exceeded to ten percent (10%) for any one occurrence if the noise is
intermittent and during daylight hours.
         b.   Sound pressure levels shall be measured at the points specified
and shall be measured with a sound level meter and associated octave band
analyzer conforming to standards prescribed by the United States of America
Standards Institute.
         c.   The following graph shall conform to standard units of
measurement in accordance with United States of America Standards Institute
Code, S-1.11-1966, Appendix A.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04cc839be80285dd57c20d10adc4984d8c1b9abf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1149.png]
      4.   Off-Street Parking: Off-street parking shall be provided with not
less than five (5) spaces for each well site.
      5.   Lighting: All lights shall be directed or shielded so as to confine
the direct rays to the site.
      6.   Dust And Mud: The drilling site shall be treated to eliminate dust
and mud.
      7.   Twenty Four Hour Drilling: Drilling may be on a twenty four (24)
hour basis providing above is met. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3N-10-3: PRODUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   General Production Standards:
      1.   Compliance With Drilling Standards: All requirements imposed by the
drilling standards of Section
6-3N-10-2 of this Article shall remain in effect.
      2.   Building Permit: All construction work will require a building
permit. The fees and procedures will be based on the current Building Code
adopted by the State of Oregon.
      3.   Construction Plans: All construction plans shall be prepared in
accordance with the architectural design requirements of Malheur County.
      4.   Noise Control: Continuous and intermittent sound shall be controlled
to the levels listed under subsection
6-3N-10-2B3a of this Article, Drilling Noise Standards for Class 1.
      5.   Benchmark: The operator shall install a minimum of one permanent
benchmark per well as directed by the County Surveyor in order to participate
in the subsidence detection program. The benchmark shall be constructed of
concrete and firmly set. A brass cap as furnished by the County Surveyor shall
be placed in the monument. The operator shall tie this benchmark into the
nearest point of the USGS level net by first order leveling techniques.
      6.   Power Lines: Power lines shall be constructed on existing power
right of ways where possible. Efforts shall be made to share existing
facilities. Any new power line installations shall conform with County optimum
land use and aesthetic requirements.
      7.   Paved Roads And Parking Areas: All on-site roads and parking areas
shall be paved. On-site parking shall be provided for all employees, customers
or clients.
      8.   Landscaping Shrubs: Shrubs, trees and ground cover shall be planted
and maintained to complement the appearance of the project where soil
conditions permit.
   B.   Additional Production Standards Applicable To Sites Within One-Half
Mile Of A Residence:
      1.   Compliance With Drilling Standards: All applicable requirements
imposed by the drilling standards of Section
6-3N-10-2 of this Article shall remain in effect.
      2.   Collection Pipelines: All off-site collection pipe lines shall be
buried and shall utilize and share existing dedicated right of ways. On-site
collection pipe lines shall be painted and/or landscaped to blend with the
environment. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3N-11: PARTICIPATION IN SUBSIDENCE PREVENTION AND DETECTION PROGRAM:
Any operator of a geothermal production project shall participate in a
geothermal subsidence prevention and detection program developed by the County,
State or Federal government. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-3N-12: INSPECTIONS; ENTRY POWERS:
The County reserves the right to enter the premises under the control of the
operator of any geothermal operation to make appropriate inspections to
determine if the conditions of this policy are being fulfilled. (Ord. 86, 12-7-
1993)
ARTICLE O. URBAN RESERVE AREA OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
6-3O-1: Purpose
6-3O-2: Definitions
6-3O-3: Permitted And Conditional Uses
6-3O-4: City Streets And Public Facilities Master Plan
6-3O-5: Interim Development Standards
6-3O-1: PURPOSE:
To provide interim rural residential land use and development standards within
the city of Ontario's urban reserve area until such time as the land is
included within Ontario urban growth boundary. These regulations are intended
to apply to lands within the county zoned rural residential and within
Ontario's urban reserve area. They are intended to facilitate urban level
development and the efficient provision of urban services in the future. Rural
residential land uses allowed by the underlying county rural residential zone
shall continue to be permitted, subject to additional development standards set
forth in this article. (Ord. 167, 10-24-2007)
6-3O-2: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions found in
chapter 1 of this title, the definitions contained in subsection
6-3E-5-1B of this chapter apply to the urban reserve area overlay zone. (Ord.
167, 10-24-2007)
6-3O-3: PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES:
Permitted and conditional uses and their accessory uses in the underlying
county rural residential zone shall be allowed, subject to additional interim
development standards set forth in section
6-3O-5 of this article. (Ord. 167, 10-24-2007)
6-3O-4: CITY STREETS AND PUBLIC FACILITIES MASTER PLAN:
The city's "streets and public facilities master plan" shall be used by the
county in reviewing land use applications within the URA overlay zone. To be
deemed complete, the application must show the location of planned facilities
on the subject property and on adjacent properties. (Ord. 167, 10-24-2007)
6-3O-5: INTERIM DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
In addition to the applicable lot size and siting standards of the underlying
county rural residential zone, the following siting standards shall apply to
all uses and developments in the URA overlay zone. These standards shall
control if there is a conflict between these standards and the standards in the
underlying rural residential zone.
   A.   The minimum lot size standard for development shall be five (5) acres.
However, lots and parcels, or a combination of the same under one ownership,
legally existing as of the effective date of this provision that are less than
five (5) acres in size may be utilized for any use allowed in the URA overlay
zone, subject to the provisions of the underlying rural residential zone.
   B.   Any proposal for land division or the siting of a new residence must
meet the following requirements:
      1.   Parcel size and configuration must allow future urban development of
the subject property and adjacent properties assuming a minimum lot size of
eight thousand (8,000) square feet and eighty foot (80') lot frontages, and
must not impede future development or division of any new parcels or of
adjacent properties.
      2.   The proposed development shall be compatible with the city's
"streets and public facilities master plan". Improvements shall not be placed
in the path of planned streets or utility rights of way and shall be set back a
minimum of twenty feet (20') from planned right of way locations.
      3.   The applicant shall enter into an agreement with the city to
dedicate all needed right of way for streets or any other easements such as
utilities, etc., prior to annexation to the city in the future.
      4.   Provision of city water or sewer service shall not be permitted
until the property is within the city's urban growth boundary. (Ord. 167, 10-
24-2007)
ARTICLE P. URA URBAN RESERVE AREA ZONE
SECTION:
6-3P-1: Purpose
6-3P-2: Permitted Uses
6-3P-3: Conditional Uses
6-3P-4: Limitations For Future Urban Development
6-3P-5: Farmland
6-3P-1: PURPOSE:
The URA urban reserve area zone implements the Malheur County comprehensive
plan for those areas designated as urban reserve. The URA maintains lands for
rural uses in accordance with state law, but in a manner that ensures a range
of opportunities for the orderly, economic, and efficient provision of urban
services when these lands are included in the Ontario urban growth boundary.
The urban reserve area applies to all lands within the Ontario urban reserve
area except those with an underlying county zone of rural residential. (Ord.
167, 10-24-2007)
6-3P-2: PERMITTED USES:
Uses permitted outright in the URA shall be those identified in the underlying
zoning district. (Ord. 167, 10-24-2007)
6-3P-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Uses permitted conditionally in the URA shall be those identified as
conditional uses in the underlying zoning districts. Conditional uses shall be
subject to all conditions of those zones. (Ord. 167, 10-24-2007)
6-3P-4: LIMITATIONS FOR FUTURE URBAN DEVELOPMENT:
The following limitations apply to uses allowed by sections
6-3P-2 and
6-3P-3 of this article when the land is within an exception area:
   A.   Zone changes and plan amendments that propose more intensive uses,
including higher residential density, than currently allowed are prohibited.
   B.   The creation of new parcels shall not be less than five (5) acres.
   C.   City water and sewer services shall not be permitted until the property
is within the city's urban growth boundary. (Ord. 167, 10-24-2007)
6-3P-5: FARMLAND:
Land that is zoned EFU and included in the URA shall continue to be planned and
zoned for permitted and conditional uses consistent with statewide planning
goal 3, agriculture lands. (Ord. 167, 10-24-2007)
CHAPTER 4
SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-4-1:   Authorization Of Similar Uses
6-4-2:   Accessory Uses
6-4-3:   Temporary Uses
6-4-4:   Farmstead Lots
6-4-5:   Clear Vision Areas
6-4-6:   Residential Homes And Residential Facilities
6-4-7:   Mining In Exclusive Farm Use Zone
6-4-8:   Transportation Improvements
6-4-9:   Lot Or Parcel Of Record Dwellings
6-4-10:    Residential Trailer, Mobile Home And Manufactured Dwellings
6-4-11:    Recreational Vehicles
6-4-1: AUTHORIZATION OF SIMILAR USES:
A use not listed in this title may be permitted, provided the use is of the
same general type as the uses expressly permitted in the zone in which the use
is to be established. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-4-2: ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   An accessory use shall comply with all requirements for a principal
use, except as this title specifically allows to the contrary.
   B.   Boats and trailers, travel trailers, pickup campers or coaches,
motorized dwellings, similar recreation vehicles, tents and other structures
may be stored but not occupied on a lot as an accessory use to a single-family
dwelling in any zone. However, recreation vehicles may be temporarily occupied
for hunting, fishing or other recreational purposes and may be used as a
temporary guest cottage for which no monetary compensation is received by the
owner for fourteen (14) days in a thirty (30) day period. This time period is
to be intermittent, and not a regular, routine, constant or continuous basis.
(Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 220, 7-3-2019)
6-4-3: TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   Purpose: A temporary use permit is to allow, on a temporary basis,
structures, activities or uses that are temporary or seasonal in nature. No
temporary use permit shall be issued that would have the effect of permanently
rezoning or granting a special privilege not shared by other properties in the
same zone. Temporary contractor yards and temporary gravel pit, crushing and
asphalt mixing sites are examples of uses that may be approved by the planning
director or may be referred by the director to the planning commission.
   B.   Criteria For Temporary Permit: A temporary permit shall be approved,
denied or conditionally approved upon a finding that the proposed structure,
activity or use:
      1.   Will not be contrary to the public interest or the intent and
purpose of this section and the particular zone involved;
      2.   Will not cause a substantial adverse effect upon property values or
environmental conditions in the immediate vicinity or in the zone in which the
property of the applicant is located;
      3.   Is requested under such circumstances or conditions that are not the
result of any act of the applicant subsequent to the adoption of the particular
zoning regulations from which relief is sought; and
      4.   Will relate only to property that is under control of the applicant.
   C.   Conditions For Temporary Permit: Reasonable conditions may be imposed
by the planning director or commission 1  in connection with the temporary
permit as necessary to meet the purposes of the applicable zone. Guarantees and
evidence may be required that such conditions will be or are being complied
with. Any temporary permit shall clearly indicate the time period for which the
permit is issued, not to exceed two (2) years. No temporary permit shall be
transferable to any other owner or occupant, but may be renewable upon the
approval of the planning commission.
   D.   Application Procedure: An application for a temporary permit shall be
made to the planning department on a form prescribed by this title, together
with a letter of intent. The application will be processed according to
chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-9-1 of this title.
6-4-4: FARMSTEAD LOTS:
   A.   Criteria For Farmstead Lots: A parcel with a principal dwelling may be
partitioned to create a farmstead lot on which the principal dwelling remains,
provided that:
      1.   The farmstead lot created to accommodate the principal dwelling may
include up to two (2) acres. Depending on soil conditions, topography, or other
unique circumstances, a larger area may be partitioned.
      2.   No new dwelling shall be placed on the remaining parcel unless it
complies with the dimensional standards set forth in subsection
6-3A-4A of this Title.
      3.   If the remaining parcel is provided with a dwelling in compliance
with this Title, it will not be eligible for further partitioning under these
farmstead lot provisions for a period of ten (10) years.
      4.   The following criteria are met and no objector convincingly
establishes that the creation of a farmstead lot does not meet the following
criteria:
The use is compatible with farm uses; it does not interfere with accepted
farming practices on adjacent lands; it does not materially alter the stability
of the overall land use pattern of the area; and it is situated on generally
unsuitable land for the production of farm crops or livestock considering the
terrain, adverse soil or land conditions, drainage and flooding, location and
size of tract.
      5.   The creation of the farmstead lot will subject it to the provisions
of ORS 308.370, which may require removal from farm use assessment to a nonfarm
use assessment.
   B.   Procedure For Authorization: The procedure for authorization of a
farmstead partition shall be as follows:
      1.   The property owner shall file a notice of intent to create a
farmstead lot, using forms provided by the Planning Department.
      2.   The applicant shall pay a filing fee as prescribed pursuant to
subsection
6-9-5B of this Title.
      3.   Within ten (10) working days of filing, the Planning Director shall
circulate notice of the pending application in the following manner:
         a.   By publication in at least one newspaper of general circulation
published in the County; and
         b.   By individual notice mailed to all record owners of real property
within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the parent parcel for which the
application has been made.
      4.   The notice shall contain a brief description of the application and
the period, not less than ten (10) or more than thirty (30) days, within which
written objections and/or requests for a hearing are required to be submitted
to the Planning Department.
      5.   Within ten (10) working days of receipt of written objections and/or
requests for a hearing, the Planning Director shall schedule a hearing before
the County Court, prepare a staff report and provide notice pursuant to Section
6-10-3. The County Court shall hold the public hearing and make findings as
provided in Section
6-10-8.
      6.   If no written objections and/or requests for a hearing are received
within the time prescribed, the Planning Director shall provide the applicant
with written notice of the decision. That decision may be appealed as provided
in
Chapter 13 of this Title. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-4-5: CLEAR VISION AREAS:
   A.   Definition: A clear vision triangle at the intersection of two (2)
vehicular travelways shall be that area formed when a specified distance is
measured along each property line or property line and edge of driveway
beginning at the corner of the intersection, and then sighting a line between
the ends of these measured distances thus forming a triangle.
Specified dimensions of clear vision triangles are the following:
      1.   Intersection of driveway and street, road or highway: thirty feet
(30') along street, road or highway and ten feet (10') along driveway.
      2.   Intersecting streets or roads: thirty feet (30') and thirty feet
(30').
      3.   Intersecting street or County road and U.S. highway or State
highway: forty feet (40') along highway and thirty feet (30') along street or
road.
   B.   Protection Of Vision Areas: It is the intent of this provision to
protect the vision areas at intersecting travelways and driveways without
requiring a topographic survey of the clear vision triangle. To effect this
intent, the judgment of the planning director or his designate shall prevail
unless the owner of the property can demonstrate with a string line or a
written statement from a licensed land surveyor an error in the estimated
height of the topography where the sign or vegetation is proposed.
   C.   Vegetation: Within a clear vision triangle, vegetation, other than
trees and signs, shall not exceed two and one-half feet (21/2') in height where
topography is approximately flat. If topography rises, allowable sign and
vegetation height reduces accordingly.
   D.   Trees: Trees are permitted within the clear vision triangle, provided
they are pruned in such a way that the mass of sight obscuring foliage or
needles are ten feet (10') or higher above the clear vision triangle. (Ord. 86,
12-7-1993)
6-4-6: RESIDENTIAL HOMES AND RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES:
   A.   Residential homes shall be permitted in the same manner that single-
family dwellings are permitted under this title. For the purposes of this title
the term "dwelling" or "single- family dwellings" shall be synonymous with term
"residential home".
   B.   Residential facilities shall be permitted in the same manner that
multi-family dwellings are permitted under this title. For the purpose of this
title the term "multi-family dwellings" shall be synonymous with term
"residential facility".
   C.   In any application for a residential home or residential facility, the
applicant shall not be required to supply any information concerning the
existence of or the nature or severity of any handicap (as the term is defined
under the fair housing act) of the prospective residents. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-4-7: MINING IN EXCLUSIVE FARM USE ZONE:
   A.   A land use permit is required for mining more than one thousand (1,000)
cubic yards of material or excavation preparatory to mining of a surface area
of more than one acre.
   B.   A permit for mining of aggregate shall be issued only for a site
included on an inventory in the Malheur County comprehensive plan. (Ord. 86,
12-7-1993)
6-4-8: TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Permitted Improvements: The following transportation improvements shall
be permitted outright in all zoning districts other than EFU (exclusive farm
use zone), ERU (exclusive range use zone) EFFU (exclusive farm-forest use
zone):
      1.   Normal operation, maintenance, repair, and preservation activities
of existing transportation facilities.
      2.   Installation of culverts, pathways, medians, fencing, guardrails,
lighting, and similar types of improvements within the existing right of way.
      3.   Projects specifically identified in the transportation system plan
as not requiring further land use regulation.
      4.   Landscaping as part of a transportation facility.
      5.   Emergency measures necessary for the safety and protection of
property.
      6.   Acquisition of right of way for public roads, highway, and other
transportation improvements designated in the transportation system plan except
for those that are located in exclusive farm use or forest zones.
      7.   Construction of a street or road as part of an approved subdivision
or land partition approved consistent with the applicable land division
ordinance.
   B.   Conditional Improvements: The following transportation improvements may
be established as a conditional use in all zoning districts other than EFU
(exclusive farm use zone), ERU (exclusive range use zone), EFFU (exclusive
farm-forest use zone) when authorized in accordance with
chapter 7 of this title:
      1.   Construction, reconstruction or widening of highways, roads, bridges
or other transportation projects that are: a) designated in the transportation
system plan but for which no site specific decisions have been made or b) not
designed and constructed as part of a subdivision or planned development
subject to the site plan and/or conditional use review. These projects shall
comply with the transportation system plan and applicable standards, and shall
address the following criteria. For state projects that require an
environmental impact statement (EIS) or EA (environmental assessment), the
draft EIS or EA shall be reviewed and used as the basis for findings to comply
with the following criteria:
         a.   The project is designed to be compatible with existing land use
and social patterns, including noise generation, safety, and zoning.
         b.   The project is designed to minimize avoidable environmental
impacts to identified wetlands, wildlife habitat, air and water quality,
cultural resources, and scenic qualities.
         c.   The project preserves or improves the safety and function of the
facility through access management, traffic calming, or other design features.
         d.   Project includes provision for bicycle and pedestrian circulation
as consistent with the comprehensive plan and other requirements of this title.
      2.   Construction of rest areas, weigh stations, temporary storage, and
other transportation related sites.
      3.   Other transportation improvements deemed by the county engineer as
appropriate and consistent with the adopted Malheur County transportation
system plan and Malheur County comprehensive plan.
      4.   If review under this section indicates that the use or activity is
inconsistent with the transportation system plan, the procedure for a plan
amendment shall be undertaken prior to or in conjunction with the conditional
permit review.
   C.   Time Limitation On Transportation Related Conditional Use Permits:
Authorization of a conditional use for a transportation project permitted
pursuant to subsection B of this section shall be void after a period specified
by the applicant as reasonable and necessary based on season, right of way
acquisition, and other pertinent factors. This period shall not exceed three
(3) years. (Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
6-4-9: LOT OR PARCEL OF RECORD DWELLINGS:
   A.   The Malheur County planning director may allow the establishment of a
single-family dwelling on a lot or parcel located within an exclusive farm use
zone, exclusive range use zone or exclusive farm-forest use zone as set forth
in this section and ORS 215.710(1), (5) and (6), after the director has
notified the county assessor that the dwelling will be allowed. A dwelling
under this section may be allowed if:
      1.   The lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited was lawfully
created and was acquired by the present owner:
         a.   Prior to January 1, 1985; or
         b.   By devise or by interstate succession from a person who acquired
the lot or parcel prior to January 1, 1985.
      2.   The tract on which the dwelling will be sited does not include a
dwelling.
      3.   The proposed dwelling is not prohibited by, and will comply with,
the requirements of the Malheur County comprehensive plan, this code and other
provisions of law.
      4.   The lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited, if zoned for
farm use, is not on that high value farmland described in ORS 215.710 except as
provided in subsections B and C of this section.
      5.   When the lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited lies
within an area designated in Malheur County's comprehensive plan as habitat of
big game, the siting of the dwelling is consistent with the limitations on
density upon which the Malheur County comprehensive plan and land use
regulations intended to protect the habitat are based.
      6.   When the lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited is part
of the tract, the remaining portions of the tract are consolidated into a
single lot or parcel when the dwelling is allowed.
   B.   1.   Notwithstanding the requirements of subsection A4 of this section,
a single-family dwelling not in conjunction with farm use may be sited on high
value farmland if:
         a.   It meets the other requirements of ORS 215.705 to 215.750 that
apply to Malheur County;
         b.   The lot or parcel is protected as high value farmland as
described under ORS 215.710(1); and
         c.   Malheur County planning commission determines that:
            (1)   The lot or parcel cannot practicably be managed for farm use,
by itself or in conjunction with other land, due to extraordinary circumstances
inherent in the land or its physical setting that do not apply generally to
other land in the vicinity.
            (2)   The dwelling will comply with the provisions of ORS 215.296
(1).
            (3)   The dwelling will not materially alter the stability of the
overall land use pattern in the area.
      2.   The Malheur County planning department shall provide notice of all
applications for dwellings allowed under this subsection to the state
department of agriculture. Notice shall be provided in accordance with the
county's land use regulations but shall be mailed at least twenty (20) calendar
days prior to the public hearing before the planning commission.
   C.   For the purposes of subsection A1 of this section, "owner" includes the
wife, husband, son, daughter, mother, father, brother, brother-in-law, sister,
sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, mother-in-law, father-in-law, aunt,
uncle, niece, nephew, stepparent, stepchild, grandparent or grandchild of the
owner or a business entity owned by any one or combination of these family
members.
   D.   When an application for a single-family dwelling under the provisions
of this section are approved, the application may be transferred by a person
who has qualified under this section to any other person after the effective
date of the land use decision. (Ord. 145, 4-14-2004)
6-4-10: RESIDENTIAL TRAILER, MOBILE HOME AND MANUFACTURED DWELLINGS:
   A.   Installation of a "residential trailer", as defined in section
6-1-3 of this title, which was not previously placed in the county and not on
the county assessment rolls since 2003 shall not be installed in the county.
   B.   Installation of a "mobile home", as defined in section
6-1-3 of this title, which was not previously placed in the county and not on
the county assessment rolls since 2003 shall not be installed in the county.
   C.   Residential trailers and mobile homes, as defined in section
6-1-3 of this title, currently placed in the county and on the county
assessment rolls since 2003 may continue to be used as residential structures
and can be moved within the county and receive building permits.
   D.   Manufactured dwellings, as defined in
6-1-3 of this title, which are currently placed or new to the county and in
compliance with federal manufactured dwelling construction and safety standards
(24 CFR section 3280) can be issued building permits.
   E.   Except for on lands zoned industrial, residential trailers, mobile
homes and manufactured dwellings shall not be stored in the county. (Ord. 147,
4-14-2004)
6-4-11: RECREATION VEHICLES:
   A.   Recreation vehicles may not be occupied as a permanent dwelling in any
zone within Malheur County. Nothing herein, however, shall be construed to
violate ORS 197.493.
   B.   A recreational vehicle may be occupied temporarily, without a permit or
fee, on a vacant lot, parcel or tract for a period not to exceed thirty (30)
days in any twelve (12)-month period in the rural residential, rural service
center and exclusive farm or ranch zones.
   C.   When building a permanent home, a recreational vehicle may be occupied,
without a permit or fee, as a temporary residence during construction of the
permanent residence as long as the building permit for the permanent residence
is active and occupancy in the recreational vehicle does not exceed six (6)
months may be permitted if due diligence and progress on the permanent home is
demonstrated for a period not to exceed six (6) months. The occupancy of the
recreational vehicle as a temporary residence shall cease within two (2) weeks
of issuance of an occupancy permit for the permanent dwelling.
   D.   In certain circumstances, subject to special provisions, permits and
fees as set out in the Malheur County Code and state law (i.e. connect to an
existing sewage disposal system; conditional use permit, MCC 6-6-8-7)
recreational vehicles may be occupied in a manufactured dwelling park, mobile
home park or recreational vehicle park or as a medical hardship dwelling.
   E.   Recreational vehicles may not be occupied as a residence for security
personnel or seasonal farm housing.
   F.   Tents Or Recreational Vehicles As An Accessory Use/Second Dwelling:
Occupying a tent or a recreational vehicle for additional living space is not
allowed. Temporary guests, when no monetary compensation is received by the
landowner, may occupy a recreational vehicle for up to fourteen (14) days in a
thirty (30) day period. This time period is to be intermittent, and not a
regular, routine, constant or continuous basis.
   G.   Occupation of recreational vehicles within the UGB is also subject to
the joint management agreement between City of Ontario and Malheur County
codified at Malheur County Code 6-3E; as well as the joint management agreement
between Malheur County and City of Nyssa and Malheur County and City of Vale.
   H.   Notwithstanding the limitations set out herein, temporary permits,
under MCC 6-4-3, may be issued to allow the occupancy of an RV for the
following: in an emergency, to seasonal fire fighters, construction workers,
and volunteers.
   I.   The civil infraction for violation of this section can be found at 1-
9A-3C of this code. (Ord. 220, 7-3-2019)
CHAPTER 5
D DESIGN REVIEW OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
6-5-1:   Application
6-5-2:   Site Plan Requirements
6-5-3:   Traffic Impact Analysis
6-5-4:   Building Plan Requirements
6-5-5:   Conditions Of Approval
6-5-6:   Procedures For Approval
6-5-1: APPLICATION:
Site and building plans must be reviewed for all developments in all zones
which have this overlay zone attached. In most cases there will be commercial
and industrial zones. The D overlay zone may be attached to partitions,
residential and resource zones because of their historic, scenic, cultural or
other resource values, or as may be required to comply with provisions of this
title or the comprehensive plan.
The criteria in this chapter shall be applicable to all conditional use
applications in all zones, and by specific reference in a zone without first
being applied as an overlay zone. Final action on applications which are filed
in complete form shall be taken within one hundred twenty (120) days in accord
with the provisions and exceptions of ORS 215.428. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-5-2: SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
A site plan, drawn to scale, and accompanying specifications shall include the
following information, as appropriate. Transportation related requirements such
as bicycle parking, pedestrian access and circulation are required only on
developments in commercial, light industrial zones and within rural service
centers. (Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
   A.   Lots: Lot dimensions and setbacks.
   B.   Structures: Sizes and locations of all existing and proposed
structures.
   C.   Use: Intended use of each structure.
   D.   Relationship: Relationship of the property to the surrounding area.
   E.   Designation: Designation of the property in the comprehensive plan.
   F.   Traffic Patterns: Proposed traffic patterns indicating access, type of
streets or roads and status of road ownership.
   G.   Parking: Proposed parking areas.
   H.   Landscaping: Landscaping and watering system using common names for
trees and plants proposed.
   I.   Water: Proposed method of water supply, sewage disposal, drainage and
fire protection. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
   J.   Bicycle Parking: For multi-family developments and new development in
rural service center, commercial and light industrial zoning districts, the
site plan shall include the number and type of bicycle parking facilities
required in the bicycle parking standards, subsection
6-5-5I of this chapter. The location and design of bicycle parking facilities
shall be indicated on the site plan.
   K.   Additional Requirements: For new development in the rural service
center, commercial and light industrial zoning districts the following
additional requirements shall apply:
      1.   Pedestrian Access And Circulation: Internal pedestrian circulation
shall be provided in new commercial, office, and multi-family residential
developments through the clustering of buildings, construction of hard surface
walkways, landscaping, accessways, or similar techniques.
      2.   Commercial Development Standards: Where appropriate, new commercial
retail shopping and office buildings shall be oriented to the street, near or
at the setback line. A main entrance shall be oriented to the street. For lots
with more than two (2) front yards, the building(s) shall be oriented to the
two (2) busiest streets. Off street parking (industrial and commercial) shall
be located at the side or behind the building(s).
      3.   Internal And External Connections: All site plans (industrial and
commercial) shall clearly show how the site's internal pedestrian and bicycle
facilities connect with external or planned facilities or systems.
   L.   Other: Other information that may be relevant for review to assure
compliance with the purpose of this chapter. (Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
6-5-3: TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS:
For proposed developments that are likely to generate more than four hundred
(400) average daily motor vehicle trips (ADTs), the applicant may be requested
to provide adequate information, such as a traffic impact study or traffic
counts, to demonstrate the level of impact to the surrounding street system.
The county may require the developer to mitigate impacts attributable to the
project. The determination of impact or effect and the scope of the impact
study should be coordinated with the provider of the affected transportation
facility. (Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
6-5-4: BUILDING PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
Plans drawn to scale which show the floor plan and building elevations shall
include the following information:
   A.   Building dimensions in the plan and height.
   B.   Exterior building materials.
   C.   Exterior colors.
   D.   Location and design of proposed signs. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord.
125, 6-20-2000)
6-5-5: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
Both permitted and conditional uses shall be subject to the provisions of this
section. Before a use may be substantially changed, a new use added, an
existing building substantially enlarged or altered, or a new building
constructed, or a new sign design mounted, a site and structure development
plan shall be submitted to the planning department for approval in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. Construction and development of the site
shall be in substantial conformance to the approved plans. In approving a site
development plan for a proposed use, consideration shall be given to:
minimizing the impact of the proposed use on nearby property; the capacity of
the streets and roads to carry the volume of traffic so that such capacity is
not exceeded; and, the appearance of the use so that it is compatible with
surrounding uses to the maximum extent practicable. Any of the following may be
required as conditions of site plan approval: (Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
   A.   An Increase In The Required Setbacks: Setbacks shall be adequate to the
use proposed, but the requirements imposed by the planning director or
commission 1  shall not be greater than double that required as minimum in the
respective underlying zone except when abutting upon a resource or residential
zone.
   B.   Additional Off Street Parking: Off street parking shall be adequate for
the use provided, but requirements imposed by the planning director or
commission 2  shall not exceed or go below the following:
 
R-2 zone          Not less than 1 space nor more than 3 spaces for each
                  dwelling unit.
C-1 zone          1 space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area.
                  Not less than 1 space for each 2 employees on the largest
M-1 and M-2 zones shift, or more than 1 space for each employee on the largest
                  shift.
 
   C.   Landscaping And Watering Systems: Increased landscaping with attendant
watering system.
   D.   Screening: Screening of the proposed use by a fence or landscaping. If
a fencing requirement is imposed, the fencing shall be site obscuring and shall
not be required to be more than eight feet (8') in height. It need not enclose
any buffer or setback area.
   E.   Architectural And/Or Color Coordination: Exterior building appearance,
architectural and/or color coordination. The avoidance of large flat exterior
walls and roofs with little or no overlay may be required. Variation in wall
texture and exterior color is desirable and may be required. Because of the
normal long life of a building, its appearance needs to be carefully considered
so that it will be a long term contributor to the appearance and value of the
community.
   F.   Limitations On Signs Or Lighting: Artificial lighting shall be
shielded, deflected or reduced in intensity to avoid shining into adjoining
dwellings and shall not create a hazard to the traveling public on any road or
street.
   G.   Curb Cuts: Limitations on the number and location of curb cuts. The
number and location of curb cuts, if provided, shall minimize traffic
disruption, but in any case shall not exceed one curb cut per two hundred feet
(200') of road or street frontage.
   H.   Fencing: Fencing to block the view to storage items or to provide
privacy for neighboring property owners may be required. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993;
amd. Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
   I.   Bicycle Parking; General Provisions:
      1.   Bicycle parking and storage provisions are intended to provide
bicycle parking facilities to accommodate bicycle travel and encourage
additional bicycle trips. Bicycle parking facilities shall be either lockable
enclosures in which the bicycle is stored or stationary racks which accommodate
bicyclist's locks securing the frame and both wheels. Bicycle racks or lockers
shall be securely anchored to the surface or to a structure.
      2.   Bicycle parking shall be separated from motor vehicle parking and
maneuvering areas by a barrier or sufficient distance to prevent damage to
parked bicycles.
      3.   New multi-family, commercial or public facility construction that
requires county review should bring the property into conformance with the
bicycle parking standards. For building expansions, the additional required
bicycle parking improvements shall be related to the expansion only.
      4.   Fractional numbers of spaces shall be rounded up to the next whole
space. For facilities with multiple uses (such as commercial center), the
bicycle parking requirements shall be calculated by using the total number of
motor vehicle parking spaces for the entire development and may be clustered in
one or several locations.
      5.   Bicycle parking shall have direct access to both the public right of
way and to a main entrance of the principal use. Bicycle parking may also be
provided inside a building in suitable, secure and accessible locations.
   J.   Bicycle Parking; Standards:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) bicycle parking spaces per use (1 sheltered and
1 unsheltered) shall be required.
      2.   The following special minimum standards shall be considered as
supplemental requirements for the number of required bicycle parking spaces:
         a.   Multi-Family Residences: Every residential use of four (4) or
more dwelling units shall provide at least one sheltered bicycle parking space
for each unit. Sheltered bicycle parking spaces may be located within a garage,
storage shed, basement, utility room or similar area. In those instances in
which the residential complex has no garage or other easily accessible storage
unit, the required bicycle parking spaces shall be sheltered under an eave,
overhang, an independent structure, or similar cover.
         b.   Parking Lots: All new public and commercial parking lots shall
provide a minimum of one bicycle parking space for every ten (10) motor vehicle
parking spaces.
         c.   Rural Schools, Service Centers, And Industrial Parks: Rural
schools, service centers, and industrial parks shall provide a minimum of one
bicycle parking space for every ten (10) motor vehicle parking spaces. A
minimum of two (2) bicycle parking spaces per use shall be required.
   K.   Pedestrian Walkway Connections In Multi-Family Developments: If
applicable, a safe, convenient and direct pedestrian walkway shall connect all
building entrances with pedestrian access to walkways, sidewalks, multiuse
paths, alleyways, or any other pedestrian connection in order to accommodate
access to neighborhood activity centers (schools, parks, shopping areas, etc.).
Safe and convenient routes are those that are:
      1.   Reasonably free from hazards, and
      2.   Provide a reasonably direct route of travel between destination,
considering that the optimum travel distance is one-half (1/2) mile for
pedestrians and three (3) miles for bicyclists.
   L.   Pedestrian Walkway Design Standards: Pedestrian walkways shall be at
least five feet (5') of impervious surface in width, except walkways bordering
parking spaces which shall be at least seven feet (7') wide unless concrete
bumpers, bollards or curbing and landscaping or other similar improvements are
provided which prevent parked vehicles from obstructing the walkway.
   M.   Exceptions To Pedestrian Walkway Standards: A required walkway or
walkway connection need not be provided where an alternate route of travel is
reasonably direct. A reasonably direct route is one that does not deviate
unnecessarily from a straight line or a route that does not involve a
significant amount of out of direction travel for likely users. (Ord. 125, 6-
20-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-9-1 of this title.
2 2. See section
  6-9-1 of this title.
6-5-6: PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL:
   A.   Approval By Planning Director: The planning director or his designate
is authorized to approve minor site improvements and small scale alterations
and structures that have an approximate construction cost of less than fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00). Except as above provided, all site development
plans must be approved by the planning commission.
   B.   Approval By Planning Commission: The applicant may propose more
restrictive standards than those set forth herein, and these shall become part
of the approved site development plan. At a minimum, in approving the site
development plan, the planning commission shall apply the standards of section
6-5-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
CHAPTER 6
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
6-6-1:   Purpose
6-6-2:   Ex Parte Contact
6-6-3:   Notice To Airport Owner
6-6-4:   Authorization To Grant Or Deny Conditional Uses
6-6-5:   Application Procedures
6-6-6:   Summary Of Application Procedure
6-6-7:   General Criteria To Evaluate Suitability
6-6-8:   Specific Criteria To Evaluate Suitability
6-6-8-1:   Nonresource Dwellings In An EFU, ERU Or EFFU Zone
6-6-8-2:   Nonresource Partition In An EFU, ERU Or EFFU Zone
6-6-8-3:   Temporary Use Of A Manufactured Dwelling Or Recreational Vehicle
During Family Hardship
6-6-8-4:   Mineral, Aggregate Or Geothermal Resource Exploration, Mining And
Processing
6-6-8-5:   Junkyards And Auto Wrecking Yards
6-6-8-6:   Minor Home Occupations, Home Occupations, And Home Businesses
6-6-8-7:   Recreational Vehicle Parks
6-6-8-8:   Wireless Telecommunication Facilities
6-6-9:   Nonconforming Uses
6-6-9-1:   Continuation Of Nonconformance
6-6-9-2:   Alteration
6-6-9-3:   Restoration, Replacement Or Change
6-6-9-4:   Discontinuance
6-6-9-5:   Completion Of Nonconforming Structures
6-6-10:   Additional Conditions
6-6-11:   Assurance Requirements
6-6-12:   Time Limit On Authorization
6-6-1: PURPOSE:
A conditional use is a use of land expressly authorized if the general and
specific criteria set forth in this chapter are met. The applicant for the
conditional use must show that the use will not create problems that call for
denial or special conditions. The use should be in character with existing
development in the zone and approval may be conditioned with requirements which
are intended to make the use and the facilities it requires an asset to the
area. Public notice and hearings procedure is contained in
chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-6-2: EX PARTE CONTACT:
Ex parte contact is discouraged because of the severe consequences it can have
for all persons involved. However, no decision or action of the planning
commission or the county court shall be invalid due to ex parte contact or bias
resulting from ex parte contact with a member of the decision making body, if
the member of that body receiving the contact:
   A.   Places on the record the substance of any written or oral ex parte
communications concerning the decision or action; and
   B.   Has a public announcement of the content of the communication and of
the party's right to rebut the substance of the communication made at the first
hearing following the communication where action will be considered or taken on
the subject to which the communication related. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-6-3: NOTICE TO AIRPORT OWNER:
Pursuant to ORS 215.416 and 215.223, a notice shall be given to the owner of an
airport when a proposed development will have structures in excess of thirty
five feet (35') in height located within five thousand feet (5,000') of the
side or end of a "visual airport" or ten thousand feet (10,000') of the side or
end of an "instrument airport". (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-6-4: AUTHORIZATION TO GRANT OR DENY CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses listed in this title may be permitted, enlarged or altered
upon authorization by the planning commission in accordance with the criteria
and procedures set forth in this chapter and in the article for the specific
zone in which the conditional use is to be established. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-6-5: APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
The application forms shall contain instructions which are substantially the
same as the following:
   A.   Conference: A preapplication conference with the planning director is
necessary. This is usually a very informal meeting or discussion during which
the applicant explains his proposal in detail. The planning director can then
assist the applicant by explaining difficulties between this title and the
proposal. In some cases the planning director may have ideas on what should be
emphasized for the best advantage.
   B.   Application Form: The application form shall be filled out as
completely as possible. A letter which describes the proposal the way the
applicant believes it should be understood by persons who will be reading and
hearing about it for the first time and must then make a decision to approve
it, approve it with conditions or deny it, shall always be attached.
   C.   Tax Assessment Map: A current tax assessment map showing the parcel for
which the application is proposed and all parcels within two hundred fifty feet
(250') of the subject parcel with the names and mailing addresses of the owners
shall be obtained and attached to the application. The parcel for which the
application is proposed must be shaded or colored on the tax map.
   D.   Plot Map: A plot map of the parcel, with accurate dimensions,
indicating the following information, shall be included in the application:
      1.   The location of all structures on the parcel.
      2.   The location of all wells on the parcel.
      3.   The location of all septic tanks and drainfields on the property.
      4.   The location of all road rights of way and access easements on or
adjacent to the parcel.
      5.   Accurate dimensions of the property lines.
      6.   Accurate dimensions of the property lines that would be created by
the proposed partition.
      7.   The location of any proposed structures.
      8.   The location of any irrigation or drainage ditches or canals
including any underground irrigation or drainage structures.
   E.   Other Agencies: Other agencies have responsibilities which proposed
changes on the applicant's property may affect. A letter must be received by
the planning department indicating that the specific proposal will not
adversely affect those agency responsibilities or that with certain
improvements, easements, or rights of way provided by the applicant, the proper
end result will be achieved.
Very Important: With rare exception, the application will not be considered
complete until the planning office receives a recommendation from the following
agencies as may be applicable in the applicant's case:
      1.   The appropriate irrigation district.
      2.   The appropriate road district.
      3.   The appropriate drainage district.
      4.   The nearby city if the property is within or near that city's urban
growth boundary.
      5.   The affected fire protection district or agency that will need to
fight fires that may spread from the applicant's land.
The agency should mail its comments directly to the planning office. That
agency must have a copy of the proposal the applicant intends to submit to the
planning commission or the applicant will otherwise experience unnecessary
delay or a negative recommendation. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
   F.   Notice: In addition to any notice required by this title, the county
shall provide notice to the Oregon department of transportation (ODOT) as
required by OAR 660-12-045(2)(f) of the following land use actions:
      1.   Land use applications that require public hearings;
      2.   Subdivision and partition applications;
      3.   Other applications which affect private access to state roads;
      4.   Other applications within airport overlay zones.
   G.   Fee: Payment of the required application fee must accompany the
application. (Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
   H.   Scheduling: Applications must be submitted at least one month prior to
the planning commission meeting date. The planning commission meets once a
month on the fourth Thursday except when that date falls near a holiday, in
which case the third Thursday is often used. Meetings are generally not held
when no applications are received prior to the agenda closing date (1 month
previous).
   I.   Meetings:
      1.   Location Of Meetings: The council chambers of Ontario city hall, at
the intersection of SW 4th Avenue and SW 4th Street, Ontario, Oregon, is the
customary location for planning commission meetings.
      2.   Time Of Meetings: Meetings are routinely held in the evenings.
Beginning time is generally seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. during the winter (short
daylight period) and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. during the summer (long daylight
period). Check with the planning office for specific time of any particular
meeting. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
6-6-6: SUMMARY OF APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
The procedure for applying for authorization of a conditional use shall be as
follows:
   A.   The property owner shall file an application with the planning
department, using forms prescribed pursuant to section
6-10-5 of this title.
   B.   The applicant shall make payment of a filing fee as prescribed pursuant
to subsection
6-9-5B of this title.
   C.   The application shall be filed no less than thirty (30) days prior to
the next regularly scheduled planning commission meeting.
   D.   Before the planning commission may act on a conditional use
application, it shall hold a public hearing thereon.
   E.   Generally, the decision is rendered during the first meeting at which
the application is considered.
   F.   A decision may be deferred to a specific date, but not longer than one
hundred twenty (120) days from application submittal without applicant's
agreement.
   G.   An aggrieved party has ten (10) days to appeal the decision.
   H.   Generally, within ten (10) working days after a decision has been
rendered, the planning department provides the applicant with written notice of
the planning commission's decision. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-6-7: GENERAL CRITERIA TO EVALUATE SUITABILITY:
In considering the suitability of proposed conditional uses, the planning
commission shall base its decision upon the following criteria:
   A.   Comprehensive Plan Goals: Comprehensive plan goals and policies, as
applicable.
   B.   Specific Plans: Specific plan recommendations.
   C.   Developments And Viewpoints: Existing development and viewpoints of
property owners in the surrounding area.
   D.   Services And Utilities: Availability of services and utilities.
   E.   Effect: The effect of the proposed use on the stability of the
community's social and economic characteristics.
   F.   Fish And Wildlife: It does not interfere with traditional fish and
wildlife use of habitats determined critical or sensitive in the fish and
wildlife habitat protection plan for Malheur County. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
   G.   General Criteria:
      1.   Increasing setbacks of structures to reduce possibilities of
overshadowing adjoining property, noise, odor or night lighting nuisances.
      2.   Landscaping improvements for the visual benefit of the subject site
and for the improved appearance of the neighborhood and county.
      3.   Location and size of driveway access points and right of way
widening and improvement for present and future traffic circulation consistent
with the adopted county road standards or the standards of the appropriate road
district and the access management standards of the Malheur County
transportation system plan.
      4.   Visual screening of outdoor waste and storage areas.
      5.   Control and focusing of outdoor lighting to avoid glare being
directed beyond property limits.
      6.   Special criteria listed below, as applicable. (Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
   H.   Allowance Of Certain Uses: A use allowed under section
6-3A-3 of this title shall be approved only where it is found that the use will
not:
      1.   Force a significant change in accepted farm or forest practices on
surrounding lands devoted to farm or forest use; or
      2.   Significantly increase cost of accepted farm or forest practices on
surrounding lands devoted to farm or forest use. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-6-8: SPECIFIC CRITERIA TO EVALUATE SUITABILITY:
In addition to the general criteria above, the specific criteria listed below
and the standards for the zone in which the conditional use is to be
established shall govern the following conditional uses. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-6-8-1: NONRESOURCE DWELLINGS IN AN EFU, ERU OR EFFU ZONE:
   A.   Conditions For Allowance: The use:
      1.   Is compatible with farm uses and is consistent with ORS 215.243; and
      2.   Does not interfere seriously with accepted farming practices on
adjacent lands; and
      3.   Does not materially alter the stability of the overall land use
pattern of the area; and
      4.   Is situated on generally unsuitable land for the production of farm
crops or livestock considering the terrain, adverse soil or land conditions,
drainage and flooding, location and size of tract.
   B.   Chain Of Title: As a condition of approval, the owner is required to
allow the following statement to be entered into the chain of title for the
nonfarm parcel:
The property herein described is situated in or near a resource (farm or ranch)
zone, where the intent is to encourage agricultural use and minimize conflicts
with nonresource uses. Nonresource residents may be subjected to common,
customary and accepted farm and ranch practices that are conducted in
accordance with Federal and State laws but ordinarily and necessarily produce
noise, dust, smoke and other impacts. The grantees, including their heirs,
assigns and lessees, by the recording of this statement, and in return for
allowing a nonresource dwelling on this property, hereby accept the potential
impacts of accepted farm and ranch practices as normal and necessary and part
of the risk of establishing a dwelling in this area, and grantee acknowledges
the need to avoid activities that conflict with nearby resource uses.
   C.   Evidence: Evidence shall be provided showing the lot or parcel upon
which the dwelling is proposed to be located has been disqualified for
valuation at true cash value for farm use under ORS 308.370. (Ord. 86, 12-7-
1993)
6-6-8-2: NONRESOURCE PARTITION IN AN EFU, ERU OR EFFU ZONE:
   A.   Nonfarm Use: The creation of all new parcels intended for nonfarm use
shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Is the proposed use compatible with agriculture uses and is it
consistent with ORS 215.243. How? Address each issue; and
      2.   Is the proposed use located where it may interfere seriously with
accepted farming practices on adjacent lands? What conditions exist to avoid
this problem? and
      3.   Will the proposed use materially alter the stability of the overall
land use pattern of the area? Explain; and
      4.   Is the proposed use situated on generally unsuitable land for the
production of agricultural crops or livestock considering the terrain, adverse
soil or land conditions, drainage and flooding, location and size of tract? If
so, the following factors must be met:
         a.   If located on range or agricultural lands, are the proposed
nonresource parcels only as large as necessary to accommodate the use and
provide any buffer area needed to ensure compatibility with adjacent
agricultural uses? The intent is that Class I through IV soils be included
within nonagricultural parcels only when the limited extent or physical
configuration of such soils make it impractical to keep them consolidated in an
agricultural parcel.
         b.   Are the proposed parcels located on land with predominantly low
productivity V through VII soils not suited for agricultural use and are large
enough to accommodate the use and provide any buffer area needed to ensure
compatibility with adjacent agricultural uses? How so? and
      5.   A new nonfarm parcel shall not be approved for a use that will have
a significant adverse impact on the quality of farm or range land, watersheds,
fish and wildlife habitat, soil and slope stability, air and water quality, or
outdoor recreation areas. In what ways do the proposed parcels avoid conflict
with these items? or
      6.   Is an existing dwelling used as a residential home for up to six (6)
persons who fit within the definition of persons listed in ORS 443.400(5)
through (10)? or
      7.   Is an alternative dwelling used so that a historical dwelling may be
preserved without occupation as provided by ORS 215.263(8)(b).
   B.   Nonresource Partition Approval: As a condition of a nonresource
partition approval, the owner shall be required to sign and allow the following
statement to be entered into the chain of title for the nonagricultural parcel:
The property herein described is situated in or near a resource (farm or ranch)
zone, where the intent is to encourage agricultural use and minimize conflicts
with nonresource uses. Nonresource residents may be subjected to common,
customary and accepted farm and ranch practices that are conducted in
accordance with Federal and State laws but ordinarily and necessarily produce
noise, dust, smoke and other impacts. The grantees, including their heirs,
assigns and lessees, by the recording of this statement, and in return for
allowing a nonresource dwelling on this property, hereby accept the potential
impacts of accepted farm and ranch practices as normal and necessary and part
of the risk of establishing a dwelling in this area, and grantee acknowledges
the need to avoid activities that conflict with nearby resource uses.
   C.   Evidence Of Disqualification: Evidence shall be provided showing the
lot or parcel upon which the dwelling is proposed to be located has been
disqualified for valuation at true cash value for farm use under ORS 308.370
and as required by ORS 215.236.
   D.   Application Of Provisions: This section shall not apply to divisions of
land resulting from lien foreclosures or foreclosures of recorded contracts for
the sale of real property. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-6-8-3: TEMPORARY USE OF A MANUFACTURED DWELLING OR RECREATIONAL VEHICLE
DURING FAMILY HARDSHIP:
Temporary use of a manufactured dwelling or recreational vehicle during a
family hardship may be permitted under the following conditions: (Ord. 147, 4-
14-2004)
   A.   A bona fide medical hardship must exist.
   B.   Tenancy shall be limited to a member or members of the property owner's
immediate family and a person who is directly responsible for care of the owner
or members of the owner's immediate family.
   C.   The permit shall be subject to annual renewal; the use shall be
terminated when the hardship no longer exists.
   D.   The planning commission may attach any other conditions that it deems
necessary. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-6-8-4: MINERAL, AGGREGATE OR GEOTHERMAL RESOURCE EXPLORATION, MINING AND
PROCESSING:
   A.   Submitted plans and specifications shall contain sufficient information
to allow the planning commission to set standards pertaining to:
      1.   Noise, dust, traffic and visual screening.
      2.   Setbacks from property lines.
      3.   Location of vehicular access points.
      4.   Fencing needs.
      5.   Prevention of the collection and stagnation of water at all stages
of the operation.
      6.   Rehabilitation of the land upon termination of the operation.
   B.   In zones where processing is permitted, it shall be located no closer
than two hundred feet (200') from residential or commercial uses.
   C.   Equipment and access roads shall be constructed, maintained and
operated in such a manner as to eliminate, as far as is practicable, noise,
vibration or dust that is injurious or substantially annoying to livestock
being raised in the vicinity. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-6-8-5: JUNKYARDS AND AUTO WRECKING YARDS:
Junkyards and auto wrecking yards may be permitted under the following
conditions:
   A.   A junkyard or auto wrecking yard shall be fully enclosed by a sight
obscuring fence, maintained in good condition, not less than six feet (6') in
height, and of a design approved by the planning commission.
   B.   All automobiles, wrecked or otherwise, shall be kept inside the fenced
area at all times, except that vehicles belonging to customers may be parked
outside the fence while they are at the establishment or business.
   C.   All sales, display, storage, repair or other handling of products,
merchandise, equipment and other articles shall occur within an enclosed
building or the fenced area. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-6-8-6: MINOR HOME OCCUPATIONS, HOME OCCUPATIONS, AND HOME BUSINESSES:
   A.   Minor Home Occupation: A minor home occupation shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   Location: Any zone, not excluded below, in which a minor home
occupation is a conditional use.
      2.   Scale: A minor home occupation must fit within the dwelling without
expanding the structure or within an existing residential garage or accessory
building, and must be incidental to the use of the dwelling as a residence and
incidental to the original uses of the residential garage or accessory
building.
      3.   Participants: No persons other than family members living on the
property shall be engaged in the minor home occupation.
      4.   Character: The property upon which the minor home occupation exists
shall be kept in a clean, neat, orderly fashion. There shall be no visible
evidence of the conduct of a minor home occupation from outside the property
except as otherwise allowed by this section.
      5.   Storage: All materials associated with the minor home occupation
shall be contained within the allowed dwelling, garage or accessory building.
      6.   Display: There shall be no display of products visible from outside
the allowed dwelling or accessory structure.
      7.   Signs: Notwithstanding
chapter 7 of this title, there shall be no signs advertising or identifying the
minor home occupation.
      8.   Traffic: Customer, client and/or business traffic shall not exceed
five (5) trips per day. Business delivery vehicles shall not exceed gross
vehicle weight of eleven thousand (11,000) pounds. U.S. postal service
deliveries are exempt from this requirement.
      9.   Parking: Vehicles owned, leased or operated by the participants of a
minor home occupation shall not be parked or stored on the street or in the
public right of way.
      10.   Noise And Other Nuisance Factors:
         a.   Noise: Noise shall be kept to a minimum at all times, especially
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
Equipment that creates a shrill or penetrating sound shall, at all times, be
operated only within an enclosure that effectively prevents noise measured at
the nearest dwelling exceeding the otherwise ambient noise level of the
neighborhood. Where a question arises regarding noise levels, the planning
director's determination shall be final.
         b.   Odors: Odors shall not be detectable from any boundary of a minor
home occupation property at any time.
         c.   Electrical Interference: A minor home occupation shall not create
visual or audible electrical interference in any radio, television, or other
electrical device off the subject property or cause fluctuations in line
voltage off the subject property.
   B.   Home Occupation: A home occupation shall comply with the following
standards:
      1.   Location: Any zone, not excluded below, in which a home occupation
is a conditional use.
      2.   Scale: A home occupation must fit within the dwelling and must be
incidental to the use of the dwelling as a residence. If there is no existing
accessory structure one may be built, provided the side walls are no higher
than ten feet (10') from the elevation of the floor and the building covers no
more than eight hundred (800) square feet in area.
      3.   Participants: Family members living on the property and a
combination of no more than five (5) full time employees are the only persons
that may be employed in a home occupation.
      4.   Character: The property upon which a home occupation exists shall be
and kept in a clean, neat, orderly fashion. There shall be no visible evidence
of the conduct of a home occupation from outside the property except as
otherwise allowed by this section.
      5.   Storage: All materials associated with a home occupation shall be
contained within the allowed dwelling or accessory structure.
      6.   Display: There shall be no display of products visible from outside
the dwelling or allowed accessory structure.
      7.   Signs: Notwithstanding
chapter 7 of this title, one sign not bigger than three (3) square feet in
silhouette area, excluding the post, is permitted in association with the home
occupation. Colors used shall be muted so as to be unobtrusive and serve only
for identification purposes, not advertising purposes. Signs shall meet the
setback requirements for the zone, but in no event shall a sign be placed
closer than ten feet (10') from any existing road right of way. The top of the
sign shall not be higher than eight feet (8') above the ground if freestanding.
A sign placed upon the dwelling or accessory structure of the minor home
occupation shall not be above the roof/eave height.
      8.   Traffic: Customer, client and/or business traffic shall not exceed
five (5) trips per day. Business delivery vehicles shall not exceed gross
vehicle weight of eleven thousand (11,000) pounds. U.S. postal service
deliveries are exempt from this requirement.
      9.   Parking: Vehicles owned, leased or operated by the participants of a
home occupation shall not be parked or stored on the street or in the public
right of way.
      10.   Noise And Other Nuisance Factors:
         a.   Noise: Noise shall be kept to a minimum at all times, especially
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
Equipment that creates a shrill or penetrating sound shall, at all times, be
operated only within an enclosure that effectively prevents noise measured at
the nearest dwelling exceeding the otherwise ambient noise level of the
neighborhood. Where a question arises regarding noise levels, the planning
director's determination shall be final.
         b.   Odors: Odors shall not be detectable from any boundary of a home
occupation property at any time.
         c.   Electrical Interference: A home occupation shall not create
visual or audible electrical interference in any radio, television, or other
electrical device off the subject property or cause fluctuations in line
voltage off the subject property.
   C.   Home Business: A home business shall comply with the following
standards:
      1.   Location: Any zone, not excluded below, in which a home business is
a conditional use.
      2.   Scale: A home business must fit within the dwelling and must be
incidental to the use of the dwelling as a residence. If there is no existing
accessory building, one may be built, provided the side walls are no higher
than ten feet (10') from the elevation of the floor and the building covers no
more than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet in area.
      3.   Participants: Family members living on the property and a
combination of no more than ten (10) full time employees are the only persons
that may be employed in a home business.
      4.   Character: The property upon which a home business exists shall be
and kept in a clean, neat, orderly fashion.
      5.   Storage: All materials associated with a home business shall be
screened from view or contained within the allowed dwelling or accessory
structures of the home business.
      6.   Display: There shall be no display of products visible from outside
the allowed dwelling or accessory structures of the home business.
      7.   Signs: A home business must comply with
chapter 7 of this title.
      8.   Traffic: Customer, client and/or business traffic shall not exceed
fifteen (15) trips per day. Business delivery vehicles shall not exceed gross
vehicle weight of eleven thousand (11,000) pounds. U.S. postal service
deliveries are exempt from this requirement.
      9.   Parking: Vehicles owned, leased or operated by the participants of a
home business shall not be parked or stored on the street or in the public
right of way.
      10.   Noise And Other Nuisance Factors:
         a.   Noise: Noise shall be kept to a minimum at all times, especially
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
Equipment that creates a shrill or penetrating sound shall, at all times, be
operated only within an enclosure that effectively prevents noise measured at
the nearest dwelling exceeding the otherwise ambient noise level of the
neighborhood. Where a question arises regarding noise levels, the planning
director's determination shall be final.
         b.   Odors: Odors shall not be detectable from any boundary of a home
business property at any time.
         c.   Electrical Interference: A home business shall not create visual
or audible electrical interference in any radio, television, or other
electrical device off the subject property or cause fluctuations in line
voltage off the subject property.
   D.   Application Requirements:
      1.   Minor home occupations, home occupations, and home businesses are
subject to the application requirements in section
6-6-5 of this chapter and shall be reviewed as a conditional use land use
action.
      2.   Notwithstanding the application requirements of section
6-6-5 of this chapter and the public hearing requirements of
chapter 11 of this title, an applicant proposing to operate a minor home
occupation or home occupation must submit to the planning director a letter of
intent to operate and pay applicable fees. After issuance of a public notice as
well as notice to nearby landowners and opportunity for comment, the planning
director may schedule a public hearing before the planning commission. If,
based on public comment, the planning director determines a public hearing is
not warranted a letter of authorization to operate may be issued.
      3.   An application for a business shall be in accordance with the
application requirements of section
6-6-5 of this chapter and the public notice and hearing requirements of
chapter 11 of this title.
      4.   At any time during the application process, the planning director
may request any additional information relevant to the establishment or
operation of a minor home occupation, home occupation, or home business.
   E.   Prohibitions:
      1.   The following shall not be permitted:
         a.   Home businesses in rural residential land use zones.
         b.   Retail sales, showroom activities, or storefront operations
conducted on the site of a minor home occupation, home occupation, or home
business.
         c.   Automotive repair, including engine, body, painting, of more than
one vehicle at a time owned by a person not residing at the site, regardless of
compensation paid for the service.
         d.   Outdoor storage associated with auto repair under this chapter of
more than one vehicle at a time not owned by a person or persons residing at
the site.
         e.   Household appliance sales, repair, or rehabilitation.
         f.   Ministorage facilities operated as a minor home occupation, home
occupation, or home business.
         g.   Junkyards operated as a minor home occupation, home occupation,
or home business.
         h.   Nothing in this section authorizes construction of any structure
without a building permit and that would not otherwise be allowed in the zone
in which the home occupation or business is to be established.
         i.   Minor home occupations, home occupations and home businesses
shall not involve the manufacture or generation of materials deemed hazardous
by other local, state, or federal law or regulation. Hazardous materials and
hazardous wastes shall be stored in accordance with state and federal laws and
regulations.
         j.   Minor home occupations, home occupations and home businesses
shall not be transferred to another person or site without first applying for a
new permit.
   F.   Exclusions: This section shall not apply to:
      1.   A childcare provider who regularly provides childcare in the
provider's home, in the family living quarters, for no more than three (3)
children other than the person's own children, or for children from only one
family other than the person's own family.
      2.   Farm or ranch use as defined by ORS 215.203(2) where the business
activities of the farm or ranch are conducted in a home or office on the
property.
      3.   Hobby or collection activities associated with automobile or
aircrafts, including sales, barters or trades among hobbyist who are in
compliance with Malheur County code public nuisance ordinances. (Ord. 184, 10-
21-2009)
6-6-8-7: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
   A.   Performance And Dimensional Standards: A recreational vehicle park
shall conform to state standards in effect at the time of construction and the
following conditions:
      1.   The space provided for each recreational vehicle shall be not less
than seven hundred (700) square feet exclusive of any space used for common
areas such as roadways, general use structures, walkways, parking spaces for
vehicles other than recreational vehicles and landscaped areas.
      2.   Roadways shall be not less than thirty feet (30') in width if
parking is permitted on the margin of the roadway, or not less than twenty feet
(20') in width if parking is not permitted on the edge of the roadway and shall
be covered with crushed gravel or paved with asphalt, concrete or similar
impervious surface and designed to permit easy access to each recreational
vehicle space.
      3.   A space provided for a recreational vehicle shall be covered with
crushed gravel or paved with asphalt, concrete, or similar material and be
designed to provide for the control of runoff of surface water. The part of the
space which is not occupied by the recreational vehicle, not intended as an
accessway to the recreational vehicle or part of an outdoor patio, need not be
paved or covered with gravel provided the area is landscaped or otherwise
treated to prevent dust or mud.
      4.   A recreational vehicle space shall be provided with piped potable
water service. Unless the park is designed for self- contained recreational
vehicles only, each recreational vehicle space shall also be provided with
sewage disposal service. Sewage disposal service when required by this section
shall consist of all spaces equipped for full sewage hookup or a minimum of
twenty five percent (25%) of the available spaces equipped for full sewage
hookup and a recreational vehicle dumping station on site.
      5.   A recreational vehicle space shall be provided with electrical
service.
      6.   Trash receptacles for the disposal of solid waste materials shall be
provided in convenient locations for the use of guests of the park and located
in such number and of such capacity that there is no uncovered accumulation of
trash at any time.
      7.   No recreational vehicle shall remain in the park for more than
thirty (30) days in any sixty (60) day period.
      8.   The total number of parking spaces in the park, except for the
parking provided for the exclusive use of the manager or employees of the park,
shall be one space per recreational vehicle space. Parking spaces shall be
covered with crushed gravel or paved with asphalt, concrete or similar
material.
      9.   Unless the park is designed for self-contained recreational vehicles
only, the park shall provide one toilet and one lavatory for each sex for each
fifteen (15) recreational vehicle spaces.
      10.   The park shall provide one utility building or room containing one
clothes washing machine, one clothes drying machine and fifteen (15) square
feet of space for clothes drying lines for each ten (10) recreational vehicle
spaces or any fraction thereof, unless such facilities are available within a
distance of three (3) miles and are adequate to meet these standards.
      11.   Building spaces required by subsections A9 and A10 of this section
shall be lighted at all times of the night and day, shall be ventilated, shall
be provided with heating facilities which shall maintain a minimum room
temperature of sixty five degrees Fahrenheit (65°F), shall have floors of
waterproof material, and shall have sanitary ceiling, floor and wall surfaces.
Floor drains adequate to permit easy cleaning are recommended but not required.
      12.   A neat appearance shall be maintained at all times. Except for
vehicles, there shall be no outside storage of materials or equipment belonging
to the park or to any guest of the park.
      13.   Evidence shall be provided that the park will be eligible for a
certificate of sanitation as required by state law.
      14.   Access to the recreational vehicle park shall be from an arterial
or collector street. (Ord., 11-8-1994)
6-6-8-8: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES:
   A.   Siting Prioritization:
      1.   All wireless telecommunication facilities shall be sited in
accordance with the following priorities, in order of preference:
         a.   Collocation by placement of antenna or other transmission and
reception devices on an existing tower, building or other structure such as a
utility pole or tower, water tank or similar facility.
         b.   Use of alternate technology whereby transmission and reception
devices are placed on new or existing structures which are consistent in height
with and sited similarly to types normally found in the surrounding area, such
as telephone, electrical, or light poles.
         c.   Siting of a new tower in a visually subordinate manner. As used
in this subsection "visually subordinate" means the relative visibility of a
wireless telecommunication facility where that facility does not noticeably
contrast with the surrounding landscape. Visually subordinate facilities may be
partially visible, but not visually dominant in relation to their surroundings
as viewed from residences, highways and other vantage points.
         d.   Siting of a new tower in a visually dominant location, but
employing concealment technology. As used in this subsection a "concealment
technology" means technology through which a wireless telecommunication
facility is designed to resemble an object present in the natural environment
or to resemble a building of a type typically and customarily found in the
area.
         e.   Siting of a new tower in a visually dominant manner without
employing concealment technology.
   B.   Height, Setback And Access Requirements:
      1.   Wireless telecommunication facilities shall be limited to the height
necessary to provide the service.
      2.   Notwithstanding the setback requirements in the zone in which the
facility is to be located, the following setbacks apply. Telecommunications
towers shall be:
         a.   Set back from the property line at least the height of the tower
plus ten percent (10%). A "tract" (contiguous property under the same
ownership) shall be considered a single parcel for purposes of setbacks.
         b.   Except as provided in subsection B2b(1) of this section, the plot
leased by the licensed carrier for the wireless telecommunication facility
shall be at least six hundred feet (600') from residences and schools not on
the applicant's tract, or as far away from nearby residences and schools as it
is sited from the closest dwelling on the applicant's tract.
            (1)   A facility may be sited closer to a school when the school
district makes a request and demonstrates the facility is necessary for
educational purposes.
   C.   Construction Standards:
      1.   The following construction standards shall apply to all new or
replacement telecommunication facilities:
         a.   No lighting of wireless telecommunication facilities is allowed,
except as required by the federal aviation administration, Oregon department of
aviation or as a condition of approval by the Malheur County planning
commission.
         b.   Based on the existing conditions and vegetation at the proposed
site, the wireless telecommunication facility shall be constructed or surfaced
with materials to reduce visibility of the facility by the use of nonreflective
materials that minimize glare and blend the structure into the surrounding
environment.
         c.   Antenna(s) and associated equipment located on the same structure
as the antenna shall be surfaced in a nonreflective material color to match the
structure on which it is located.
         d.   Warning and safety signs, up to three (3) square feet in area,
are allowed. All other signs are prohibited.
         e.   Equipment areas must be enclosed by a chainlink fence or
equivalent with or without slats for screening.
         f.   Nothing in this subsection preempts the coloring requirements of
the federal aviation administration or the Oregon department of aviation.
   D.   Application Requirements:
      1.   All new or replacement wireless telecommunication facilities
proposed on lands, other than those under ORS 215.283(1)(d) or prohibited under
this section, shall be reviewed as a conditional land use action and subject to
the application requirements in section
6-6-5 of this chapter, this section and applicable provisions of ORS 215.296.
      2.   Conditional use applications for new or replacement wireless
telecommunication facilities will be accepted only from carriers licensed by
the federal communications commission or from authorized agents of licensed
carrier.
      3.   All new or replacement wireless telecommunication facilities
proposed on lands where they are a permitted use under ORS 215.283(1)(d) are
subject to the application requirements in section
6-6-5 of this chapter and this section.
      4.   All new or replacement wireless telecommunication facilities
proposed on lands where they are a permitted use under ORS 215.283(1)(d) must
demonstrate the facility is necessary in accordance with ORS 215.275 and OAR
660-033-0130 16(a).
      5.   The collocation of a wireless telecommunication facility on an
existing structure or building is not subject to the application process
specified in this section or section
6-6-5 of this chapter. However, the applicant must submit to the planning
director a letter of intent to collocate, pay applicable fees, and receive a
letter of authorization from the director.
      6.   In addition to the application procedures specified in section
6-6-5 of this chapter, applications for wireless telecommunication facilities
shall include:
         a.   A location map showing:
            (1)   The applicant's proposed facility site;
            (2)   Other sites in the vicinity evaluated for the proposed
facility; and
            (3)   Other similar existing facilities in the area.
         b.   A photographic simulation showing how the facility will appear on
the landscape.
         c.   A site specific study of the wireless telecommunication facility
identifying the proposed color and surfacing of the facility and associated
fixtures.
         d.   Technical information reasonably justifying the need to locate
the proposed facility in the requested location.
         e.   Documentation from the federal aviation administration, the
Oregon department of aviation, the federal communications commission and any
other local or state agency with jurisdiction that the tower has been reviewed
and is not determined to be a hazard to life, health or property if constructed
as proposed.
      7.   At any time during the application process, the planning director
may request any additional information relevant to the construction of the
wireless telecommunication facility.
      8.   All applications for wireless telecommunication facilities shall be
heard before the Malheur County planning commission.
   E.   Permit Renewal And Expiration Requirements:
      1.   Permit renewal is based on:
         a.   The applicant submitting documentation that the wireless
telecommunication facility is in compliance with nonionizing electromagnetic
radiation (NIER) emission standards as established by the federal
communications commission (FCC);
         b.   Demonstration that the wireless telecommunication facility was
constructed and placed into service within one year of issuance of the final
approval by the county; and
         c.   Demonstration that the wireless telecommunication facility has
been used as such for a period of one year.
      2.   If the wireless telecommunication facility is not in compliance with
this section, all facilities shall be removed. The property owner shall bear
the ultimate responsibility for removal of the facilities. After the county
makes a determination of discontinued or nonuse, the property owner shall,
within six (6) months, complete removal operations.
   F.   Performance: The county will require a performance bond not to exceed
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) from the applicant to provide for removal of
a wireless telecommunication facility should the facility be nonoperational for
a period of one year.
   G.   Exclusions:
      1.   Wireless telecommunication facilities shall not be permitted in land
use zones designated rural residential (R-1), rural service center (RSC), and
airport approach overlay (AA).
      2.   This section does not apply to commercial and public radio and
television transmission towers. (Ord. 146, 4-14-2004)
6-6-9: NONCONFORMING USES:
6-6-9-1: CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMANCE:
The lawful use of any building, structure or land existing at the time of the
enactment or amendment of this title may be continued. Any alteration,
restoration or replacement of those uses shall be in accordance with the
following provisions, and shall be determined by the planning commission at a
public hearing pursuant to ORS 215.130 and the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 86,
12-7-1993)
6-6-9-2: ALTERATION:
Alteration or completion of any nonconforming use or related structure may be
permitted as follows:
   A.   When necessary to reasonably continue the use.
   B.   When necessary to comply with any lawful requirement for alteration in
the use.
   C.   When alteration or extension of a nonconforming use does not cause the
structure to deviate further from the standards of this title.
   D.   When a structure is determined to be suitable for only nonconforming
uses, and proposed new uses are determined to be no more detrimental to
surrounding properties than the use to be replaced. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-6-9-3: RESTORATION, REPLACEMENT OR CHANGE:
   A.   Time For Restoration After Disaster: Restoration or replacement of a
nonconforming use shall be permitted when the restoration is made necessary by
fire, other casualty or natural disaster. Restoration or replacement shall be
commenced within one year from the occurrence of the fire, casualty or natural
disaster. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
   B.   Manufactured Dwelling Replacement: Removal of a nonconforming
manufactured dwelling and replacement thereof with another manufactured
dwelling for the purpose of upgrading the residence shall not be considered a
change or alteration of the use. (Ord. 147, 4-14-2004)
   C.   Change: If a nonconforming use is replaced by another use, the new use
shall conform to this title. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-6-9-4: DISCONTINUANCE:
If a nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of three (3) years,
including leaving such property vacant, further use of the property shall
conform to this title. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-6-9-5: COMPLETION OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Nothing in this title shall require any change in the plans, construction,
alteration or designated use of a structure for which construction has
commenced prior to the adoption of this title, except that if the designated
use will be a nonconforming use, it shall, for the purpose of section
6-6-9-4 of this chapter, be a discontinued use if not in operation within three
(3) years of the date of issuance of the building permit. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-6-10: ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS:
In authorizing a new conditional use or the alteration of an existing
conditional use, the planning commission may impose, in addition to those
standards and requirements expressly set forth in this title, any other
conditions that the planning commission considers necessary to protect the best
interests of the surrounding area or the county as a whole. (Ord. 86, 12-7-
1993)
6-6-11: ASSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
The county may require an applicant to furnish the county with a performance
bond or such other forms of assurance that the county deems necessary and
reasonable to guarantee development in accordance with the standards
established and conditions attached in granting a conditional use. (Ord. 86,
12-7-1993)
6-6-12: TIME LIMIT ON AUTHORIZATION:
   A.   Authorization of a conditional use shall be void after two (2) years or
such lesser time as the planning commission may specify, unless substantial
construction pursuant thereto has taken place. However, the planning commission
may extend authorization for additional periods, on request or on its own
motion, without the necessity of following any formal procedures such as those
set out in this chapter and in
chapter 10 of this title.
   B.   Authorization for a proposed residential development on lands zoned
exclusive farm use, exclusive range use, or exclusive farm-forest use shall be
valid for four (4) years.
      1.   An extension of this authorization shall be valid for two (2) years.
      2.   For purposes of this section, "residential development" only
includes dwellings provided for under ORS 215.283(1)(s), 215.284, 215.705(1) to
(3) and section
6-4-9, "Lot Or Parcel Of Record Dwellings", of this title. (Ord. 145, 4-14-
2004)
CHAPTER 7
SIGNS
SECTION:
6-7-1:   Purpose And Scope
6-7-2:   Types Of Signs
6-7-3:   Limitations On Signs
6-7-4:   Automobile Service Station Signs
6-7-5:   Signs Within An Urban Growth Area Zone
6-7-6:   Nonconforming Signs
6-7-7:   Variances
6-7-8:   Application Material
6-7-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to maintain or improve the
aesthetic quality of the county's agricultural, residential and business
environment, to promote traffic safety through the regulation of the design,
placement, quality of materials, construction, location, electrification,
illumination and maintenance of all signs visible from public property, public
rights of way, and private areas open to public vehicular traffic.
   B.   Scope: Signs are structures, rigid panels or fabrics which are
regulated as different types of land uses dependent upon factors including
general types of message, size and location. Billboards, marquees and some
types of temporary or manually changeable copy signs are recognized as types of
land use that serve a general advertising purpose rather than the
identification and directional purpose of the majority of signs regulated by
this chapter. These regulations are not intended to, and do not, dictate or
limit the content of those signs allowed for general advertising purposes
except those that may carry an obscene message or may provide an illegal
product or action.
   C.   Sign Regulation: Except for a type 1 or type 2 sign, no sign shall
hereafter be erected, moved or structurally altered without a zoning permit,
and without being in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. Official
signs of the state, county or municipalities are exempt from all provisions of
this chapter. All signs shall be on the same lot as the subject matter of the
sign, except as specifically allowed otherwise. Permitted signs in the various
zones are indicated by the following tables (see section
6-7-2, "Types Of Signs", of this chapter):
Zone Types Of Signs Permitted
Zone Types Of Signs Permitted
EFU  1, 2, 3, 4
ERU  1, 2, 3, 4
EFFU 1, 2, 3, 4
R-1  1, 2, 3, 4
R-2  1, 2, 3, 4
RSC  1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 10
C-1  2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10
M-1  2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10
M-2  2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10
PM   2, 3, 4
 
(Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-7-2: TYPES OF SIGNS:
   A.   Type 1: One nameplate not exceeding three (3) square feet in area for
each dwelling unit, indicating the name of the homesite, or the name of the
occupant, providing that the nameplate or sign is attached to the house or is
set back from the property line at least ten feet (10').
   B.   Type 2: Signs permitted in all zones and exempt from zoning permit
requirements. Type 2 signs include:
      1.   Plaques, Cornerstones, Nameplates: Building plaques, cornerstones,
nameplates and similar building identifications attached to the building, but
not a commercial nature;
      2.   House Numbers: House and building numbers; (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
      3.   Political And Civic Signs: Temporary signs in connection with
political and civic campaigns; provided, that such signs are removed within
fifteen (15) days following conclusion of the campaign. These signs shall not
exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area or eight feet by four feet (8' x
4'); (Ord. 127, 10-3-2000)
      4.   Proposed Or Existing Construction: Temporary signs identifying
proposed or existing construction;
      5.   "For Sale" Or "Lease" Signs: Signs indicating property or structures
for sale, lease or rent;
      6.   Protection Of Property: Signs for the purpose of protection of
property, such as no hunting, trespassing or dumping signs; or signs warning of
potential danger due to physical or health hazards;
      7.   Garage Sale Signs:
         a.   Shall not exceed four (4) square feet in silhouette area per
sign.
         b.   Shall not be located in the public right of way (i.e., on
telephone poles, street signs and traffic signs).
         c.   Shall not be located on a property containing another temporary
sign other than a real estate sign.
         d.   Only one on premises sign and five (5) temporary off premises
signs (1 per off site tax lot) are permitted.
         e.   Shall include the name, address and telephone number of the
resident holding the garage sale. Absent this identification, a sign may be
removed without warning.
         f.   Shall be removed upon close of the sale and such garage sale
shall not extend beyond three (3) consecutive days, and shall not be held in
any one residence more than three (3) times during the calendar year.
         g.   Shall not be artificially illuminated. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
      8.   Agricultural Product Signs: One sign not greater than thirty two
(32) square feet promoting or advertising agricultural products or livestock
grown, raised or produced on the parcel or tract on which the sign is located
and the parcel or tract is zoned EFU or ERU.
      9.   Commercial Activity In Conjunction With Farm Use Signs: One sign not
greater than thirty two (32) square feet for a commercial activity in
conjunction with farm use approved in accordance with
chapter 6 of this title. Additional signs, not to exceed three (3) signs, may
be approved by the planning director on a case by case basis provided the signs
are necessary for the operation or location of the commercial activity in
conjunction with farm use. (Ord. 163, 1-17-2007)
Except for political and civic signs, type 2 signs shall not exceed sixteen
(16) square feet in area. Type 2 signs shall not be placed or extended into a
road right of way. Type 2 signs shall not require a zoning permit. (Ord. 127,
10-3-2000)
   C.   Type 3: One temporary sign per tract of land or subdivision advertising
the sale of the tract or the lots, and not exceeding thirty two (32) square
feet in area nor twelve feet (12') in height providing that the sign is located
at least ten feet (10') from the property line.
   D.   Type 4: Signs not exceeding twelve (12) square feet in area, directing
vehicular traffic to places of interest which would otherwise be difficult to
find, or directing vehicular traffic so as to avoid traffic safety problems.
The planning director may allow a maximum of three (3) such signs; provided,
that no more than two (2) signs are located on the property. The planning
director may allow two (2) of the three (3) signs to be off premises signs;
provided, that the signs face opposite traffic directions. A type 4 sign shall
be set back ten feet (10') from property lines.
   E.   Type 5: One sign not exceeding sixty (60) square feet in area for
buildings other than dwellings; provided, that such sign shall be attached to
and parallel with the front walls of the building.
   F.   Type 6: One sign facing each bordering street, not exceeding thirty two
(32) square feet in area nor eight feet (8') in height above the roofline of
the building for buildings other than dwellings providing that the sign is
attached to the building and does not project into a road right of way.
   G.   Type 7: Signs identifying the use of the premises or the sale of
products produced on the premises; provided, that any such sign shall be
attached to, parallel with, and no larger than the wall on which it is mounted.
   H.   Type 8: One projecting or freestanding sign not to exceed twenty feet
(20') in height nor sixty five (65) square feet in area for each face. The
minimum setback for any part of a sign shall be ten feet (10'), or shall be at
the discretion of the planning director and shall be measured horizontally from
the lot line to the nearest part of the sign. A projecting or freestanding sign
shall be allowed only by a ruling of the planning director and shall be limited
to those businesses for which an attached flat sign is not suitable due to the
nature of the business or the characteristics of the lot.
   I.   Type 9: One off premises freestanding sign (billboard) not to exceed
six hundred (600) square feet in area for each face nor twenty feet (20') in
elevation as measured from the ground level below the sign or the level of
abutting roadway surface, whichever is higher. No billboard shall be allowed to
have more than four (4) steel exposed supports and all illumination devices
shall be concealed within the nonstructural trim. The minimum setback for any
part of a sign shall be ten feet (10') and shall be measured horizontally from
the lot line to the nearest part of the sign. Billboards allowed in the county
shall be subject to the requirements of ORS chapter 377 and shall be approved
by the planning director.
   J.   Type 10: One on premises sign identifying two (2) or more businesses
that may occupy one building or one off premises sign identifying two (2) or
more businesses that may be located so that another sign allowed by this
chapter would not be visible from main traveled routes. The total square
footage of the sign shall not exceed six (6) square feet per business described
on the sign, and the sign shall be set back ten feet (10') from the property
line. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-7-3: LIMITATIONS ON SIGNS:
   A.   No sign shall be placed as to interfere with visibility or
effectiveness of any official traffic sign or signal, with the driver vision at
any access point or intersection;
   B.   No sign shall be illuminated by flashing lights;
   C.   No sign shall contain, include or be composed of any conspicuous
animated part;
   D.   Light from signs shall be directed away from and not be reflected upon
adjacent premises;
   E.   Signs shall be removed by the property owner within sixty (60) days
after the advertising business, product or service is abandoned or no longer in
use;
   F.   In addition to the limitations on signs as provided in subsections A
through C of this section, additional sign restrictions may be required as
determined by the planning commission in approved conditional uses, as provided
by the planning director in approving a type 4, type 8, type 9 or type 10 sign.
(Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-7-4: AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION SIGNS:
Automobile service stations may have one additional freestanding changeable
fuel price sign for the single purpose of advertising the price of fuel. The
sign will be limited to twelve (12) square feet in silhouette area. (Ord. 86,
12-7-1993)
6-7-5: SIGNS WITHIN AN URBAN GROWTH AREA ZONE:
Signs located within an urban growth area zone will comply with the applicable
sign regulations of the city within whose urban growth area zone it is located.
If the city does not have sign regulations, county regulations will apply.
(Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-7-6: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   An existing sign shall be brought into conformance with this chapter
upon substantial change in the nature of the business it serves or if a change
is made in design of the sign frame or supporting structure. A change in
plastic face plate of a nonconforming sign will not require replacement of the
total sign, but the new sign face shall conform as fully as possible to the
standards of this chapter. Examples of substantial changes in the nature of the
business are: a change from professional office such as a doctor, attorney or
accountant to a retail outlet; or, a change from retail outlet to a service
business such as a plumbing or auto repair shop.
   B.   Any sign which is structurally altered, relocated or replaced shall
immediately be brought into compliance with all the provisions of this chapter,
except the signs that are temporarily removed to allow remodeling of the
premises and shall be allowed to be relocated upon the completion of
remodeling. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-7-7: VARIANCES:
   A.   Minor Variance: A minor variance not greater than ten percent (10%) of
the applicable dimensional standard for signs may be granted by the planning
director as per subsection C of this section.
   B.   Other Variances: All other sign variances shall be pursuant to the
provisions of
chapter 8 of this title, and will include the standards of subsection C of this
section.
   C.   Variance Standards: In addressing the standards in
chapter 8 of this title, the granting authority shall additionally consider
whether the architectural design of a building, the location of a building site
or location of a building thereon, or some other circumstance relating to the
sign proposal is unusual or unique and that, because of this, a hardship will
be created in that the applicant will be denied an opportunity to identify his
business or location relatively equal to the opportunity accorded other members
of the community not burdened with such unusual or unique architectural design,
building site or other circumstance. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-7-8: APPLICATION MATERIAL:
An applicant shall submit with his application for a zoning permit for a sign,
in addition to the site plan required for the zoning permit, a plan and
elevations of the sign itself. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
CHAPTER 8
VARIANCES
SECTION:
6-8-1:   Purpose
6-8-2:   Circumstances For Granting Variances
6-8-3:   Application Procedure
6-8-4:   Time Limit On Authorization For Variance
6-8-1: PURPOSE:
The Planning Commission may authorize variances from the requirements of this
Title where it can be shown that, owing to special and unusual circumstances
related to a specific lot, strict application of the ordinance provisions would
cause an undue or unnecessary hardship. In granting a variance, the Planning
Commission may attach conditions that it finds necessary to protect the
interest of the surrounding property or vicinity and otherwise achieve the
purposes of this Title. The variance provisions of this Chapter are intended to
provide specific relief from dimensional standards of this Title, such as
building setbacks. A variance shall not be granted for a change in the allowed
land uses of any zoning district. Final action on applications which are filed
in complete form shall be taken within one hundred twenty (120) days in accord
with the provisions and exceptions of ORS 215.428. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-8-2: CIRCUMSTANCES FOR GRANTING VARIANCES:
A variance may be granted only in the event that the circumstances in
subsections A through D below have clearly been met.
   A.   Exceptional or extraordinary circumstances apply to the property that
do not generally apply to other properties in the same zone or vicinity,
resulting from lot size or shape, topography or other circumstances over which
the owners of property since enactment of this Title have had no control; or
   B.   The variance is necessary for the preservation of a property right of
the applicant substantially the same as owners of other property in the same
zone or vicinity possess; and
   C.   The variance would not be materially detrimental to the purpose of this
Title, or to property in the same zone or vicinity in which the property is
located, or otherwise conflict with the objectives of any County plan or
policy; and
   D.   The variance requested is the minimum variance that would alleviate the
hardship. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-8-3: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
The procedure for applying for a variance shall be as follows:
   A.   The property owner shall file an application with the Planning
Department, using forms prescribed pursuant to Section
6-9-5 of this Title.
   B.   The applicant shall make payment of a filing fee as prescribed pursuant
to subsection
6-9-5B of this Title.
   C.   The variance application shall be filed no less than thirty (30) days
prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission 1 .
   D.   Before the Planning Commission may act on a variance request, it shall
hold a public hearing thereon.
   E.   Within ten (10) working days after a decision has been made on a
variance request, the Planning Department shall provide the applicant with
written notice of the Planning Commission's decision. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  6-9-1 of this Title.
6-8-4: TIME LIMIT ON AUTHORIZATION FOR VARIANCE:
Authorization of a variance shall be void after one year or such lesser time as
the authorization may specify unless substantial construction pursuant thereto
has taken place. However, the Planning Commission may extend authorization for
an additional period not to exceed one year, on request or on its own motion,
without the necessity of following any formal procedures as set out in this
Chapter and in
Chapter 10 of this Title. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
CHAPTER 9
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
6-9-1:   Planning Commission
6-9-2:   Administration
6-9-3:   Zoning Permits
6-9-4:   Authority To Make Final Decisions
6-9-5:   Application Requirements
6-9-6:   Acceptance Of Application
6-9-7:   False Statements On Applications And Supporting Documents
6-9-8:   Applicable Standards
6-9-9:   Notice To Division Of State Lands
6-9-10:   Notice To Oregon Department Of Transportation (ODOT)
6-9-11:   Conflicting Procedures
6-9-12:   Time Computation
6-9-13:   Record Of Actions
6-9-14:   Review Of Ordinance
6-9-15:   Statutory Remedies
6-9-16:   Proposed Order
6-9-17:   Reapplication Limits
6-9-18:   Decision
6-9-19:   Notice Of Decision
6-9-1: PLANNING COMMISSION:
   A.   Under the authority of ORS 215.020, there is hereby established a
Malheur County planning commission.
   B.   The planning commission shall consist of nine (9) members, each to
serve a term of four (4) years.
   C.   A minimum of five (5) members present at a scheduled meeting or hearing
shall represent a quorum of the planning commission.
   D.   The planning commission shall make decisions by a majority of the
quorum present. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-9-2: ADMINISTRATION:
The county court may appoint planning staff to issue zoning and other permits
and to assist the planning commission as authorized by ORS 215.020 – 215.042.
(Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-9-3: ZONING PERMITS:
Prior to the construction or change of use of any structure or change of use of
any lot, a zoning permit for such construction or change of use shall be
obtained from the planning staff. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-9-4: AUTHORITY TO MAKE FINAL DECISIONS:
   A.   The planning director may make administrative decisions on outright
permitted uses as provided in
chapter 3 of this title, and site development plan as provided in
chapter 5 of this title. The planning director may make land use decisions as
provided in
chapter 12 of this title.
   B.   The decisions of the planning director on site development plans as
provided in
chapter 5 and on outright permitted uses as provided in
chapter 3 of this title shall be ministerial decisions under ORS 197.015(10)(b)
and not land use decisions, and shall be reviewable by the planning commission.
   C.   The planning commission shall be the final hearing body and make final
decisions on conditional uses, variances, nonconforming uses and administrative
decisions referred by the planning director. The planning commission shall be
the hearings body of appeals of planning director administrative decisions.
   D.   The county court shall be the final hearings body for legislative
hearings, and the final hearings body of quasi- judicial decisions when
appealed. The county court's hearings shall be held on the record. If the
applicant or a party provides information that shows good cause, the county
court hearings may be held de novo.
   E.   Final decisions of the county court may be appealed to the land use
board of appeals. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-9-5: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Property Owner: For the purpose of this section, the term "property
owner" shall mean the owner of record or the contract purchaser, and does not
include a person who holds a security interest.
   B.   Applications: Applications for development or land use actions shall:
      1.   Be submitted by the property owner or a person who represents in
writing that he or she has authority from the "property owner" as defined
herein to make the application;
      2.   Be completed on a form prescribed by the planning director;
      3.   Include supporting information required by the zoning ordinance and
that information necessary to demonstrate compliance with applicable criteria;
and
      4.   Be accompanied by the appropriate filing fee, unless such fees are
waived by the planning commission.
   C.   Exception: The following applications are not subject to the ownership
requirement set forth in subsection B1 of this section:
      1.   Applications submitted by or on behalf of a public entity or public
utility having the power of eminent domain with respect to the property subject
to the application; or
      2.   Applications for development proposals sited on lands owned by the
state or federal government. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-9-6: ACCEPTANCE OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Development action and land use action applications shall not be
accepted until the planning director has determined that: 1) the requirements
of section
6-9-5 of this chapter have been met; and 2) the application is complete or the
application is deemed to be complete under state law.
   B.   An application is complete when, in the judgment of the planning
director, all applicable issues have been adequately addressed in the
application.
   C.   Acceptance of an application as complete shall not preclude a
determination at a later date that additional criteria need to be addressed, or
a later determination that additional information is needed to adequately
address applicable criteria. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-9-7: FALSE STATEMENTS ON APPLICATIONS AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS:
If the applicant or the applicant's representative or apparent representative
makes a misstatement of fact on the application regarding property ownership,
authority to submit the application, acreage or any other fact material to the
acceptance or approval of the application and such misstatement is relied upon
by the planning director or hearings body in making a decision whether to
accept or approve the application, the planning director may, upon notice to
the applicant and subject to the applicant's right to a hearing, declare the
application void. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-9-8: APPLICABLE STANDARDS:
With respect to the acknowledged portions of the county's comprehensive plan,
the standards and criteria applicable to an application shall be the standards
and criteria applicable at the time the application was first submitted if the
application and requested information, if any, are received within one hundred
eighty (180) days of the time the application was first submitted. (Ord. 86,
12-7-1993)
6-9-9: NOTICE TO DIVISION OF STATE LANDS:
In addition to any notice required by this title, the county shall provide the
notices required by ORS 215.418 concerning state identified wetlands within ten
(10) days of the acceptance of an application as complete. This section shall
not become operative until the division of state lands has provided to the
county a copy of applicable portions of the statewide wetlands inventory. (Ord.
86, 12-7-1993)
6-9-10: NOTICE TO OREGON DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (ODOT):
In addition to any notice required by this title, the county shall provide
notice to ODOT as required by OAR 660-12-045(2)(f) of the following land use
actions:
   A.   Land use applications that require public hearings;
   B.   Subdivision and partition applications;
   C.   Other applications which affect private access to state roads;
   D.   Other applications within airport noise corridors and imaginary
surfaces which affect airport operations. (Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
6-9-11: CONFLICTING PROCEDURES:
Except as set forth in this section, where other provision of the Malheur
County ordinances specify procedures with greater opportunity for public notice
and comment, those procedures shall apply. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 125,
6-20-2000)
6-9-12: TIME COMPUTATION:
Except when otherwise provided, the time within which an act is required to be
done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last day,
unless the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or any day on which
the county is not open for business pursuant to a county ordinance, in which
case it shall also be excluded. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
6-9-13: RECORD OF ACTIONS:
A complete file including the application form, maps, letters and other
relevant documents, findings of fact and minutes of hearings shall be
maintained by the planning department for each application and made available
to the public. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
6-9-14: REVIEW OF ORDINANCE:
At the time of the county's periodic review as set forth in the land
conservation and development commission's OAR 660 division 25, or more
frequently if required or desired, the planning director shall submit to the
planning commission an evaluation of the effectiveness of this title and
suggestions for modification, if necessary. The planning commission shall
process any necessary changes through
chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
6-9-15: STATUTORY REMEDIES:
Any person violating a provision of this title shall be subject to the
provisions of ORS 215.185 and 215.190, in addition to other remedies provided
by law 1 . (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-9A-3C of this code.
6-9-16: PROPOSED ORDER:
The hearings body may require that any prevailing party draft a set of proposed
findings and conclusions. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
6-9-17: REAPPLICATION LIMITS:
If a specific application is denied, no reapplication for substantially the
same proposal may be made for six (6) months following the date of the final
decision. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
6-9-18: DECISION:
Approval or denial of a land use action shall be based upon and accompanied by
a brief statement that explains the criteria and standards considered relevant
to the decision, states the facts relied upon in rendering the decision and
explains the justification for the decision based upon the criteria, standards
and facts set forth. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
6-9-19: NOTICE OF DECISION:
A hearings body's decision shall be in writing and mailed to all parties,
however, one person may be designated by the hearings body to be the recipient
of the decision for a group, organization, group of petitioners or similar
collection of individual participants. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 125, 6-
20-2000)
CHAPTER 10
LEGISLATIVE AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
6-10-1:   Authorization To Initiate Amendments
6-10-2:   Hearing Required
6-10-3:   Notice
6-10-4:   Initiation Of Legislative Changes
6-10-5:   Hearings Body
6-10-6:   Final Decision
6-10-7:   Compliance With Comprehensive Plan
6-10-8:   Notice And Record Of Actions
6-10-1: AUTHORIZATION TO INITIATE AMENDMENTS:
An amendment to the text of this title or to the zoning maps may be initiated
by the county court, the planning commission, the planning director or by
application of a property owner. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-10-2: HEARING REQUIRED:
Public hearings before the planning commission shall be set at the discretion
of the planning director, unless otherwise required by state law. (Ord. 86, 12-
7-1993)
6-10-3: NOTICE:
   A.   Published Notice:
      1.   Notice of a legislative change shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county at least twenty (20) days prior to each
public hearing.
      2.   The notice shall state the time and place of the hearing and contain
a statement describing the general subject matter of the ordinance under
consideration.
   B.   Posted Notice: Notice shall be posted at the discretion of the planning
director, and where necessary to comply with ORS 203.045.
   C.   Individual Notice: Individual notice to property owners, as defined in
section
6-11-3 of this title, is not required unless the planning director or planning
commission determines otherwise.
   D.   Media Notice: Copies of the notice of hearings shall be transmitted to
other newspapers published in Malheur County. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-10-4: INITIATION OF LEGISLATIVE CHANGES:
A legislative change may be initiated by application of individuals upon
payment of required fees as well as by the county court or the planning
commission. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-10-5: HEARINGS BODY:
   A.   The following shall serve as hearings or review body for legislative
changes in this order:
      1.   The planning commission.
      2.   The county court.
   B.   Any legislative change initiated by the county court shall be reviewed
by the planning commission prior to action being taken by the county court.
(Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-10-6: FINAL DECISION:
All legislative changes shall be adopted by ordinance. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-10-7: COMPLIANCE WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
In considering an amendment to the text or the zoning maps, the planning
commission and county court shall determine the following:
   A.   That the proposed change is consistent with the comprehensive plan.
   B.   That the level of development in other locations has reached the point
whereby additional land is needed for the proposed use(s), and that the area of
the proposed change can best meet such needs.
   C.   That adequate rural services are available and will not be
overburdened.
   D.   That amendments to the text or zoning map which significantly affect a
transportation facility shall assure that allowed land uses are consistent with
the function, capacity, and level of service of the facility identified in the
transportation system plan. This shall be accomplished by one of the following:
      1.   Limiting allowed land uses to be consistent with the planned
function of the transportation facility;
      2.   Amending the transportation system plan to ensure that existing,
improved or new transportation facilities are adequate to support the proposed
land uses consistent with the requirement of the transportation planning rule;
or
      3.   Altering land use designations, densities, or design requirements to
reduce demand for automobile travel and meet travel needs through other modes.
A text or zoning map amendment significantly affects a transportation facility
if it:
      1.   Changes the functional classification of an existing or planned
transportation facility;
      2.   Changes standards implementing a functional classification system;
      3.   Allows types or levels of land use that would result in levels of
travel or access what are inconsistent with the functional classification of a
transportation facility; or
      4.   Would reduce the level of service of the facility below the minimum
acceptable level identified in the transportation system plan. (Ord. 125, 6-20-
2000)
6-10-8: NOTICE AND RECORD OF ACTIONS:
Notice and record for the county court's final actions will be made in the
following manner:
   A.   A copy of the final court order on the action shall be sent within five
(5) working days to the applicant and any other party to the proceedings
leading to the adoption, and whomever requested notice in writing. The final
order shall be filed in the office of the Malheur County clerk.
   B.   Amendments to the zoning maps shall be made on certified copies of the
Malheur County zoning maps and filed in accordance with sections
6-3-2 and
6-3-3 of this title.
   C.   Additional copies of final order, amended zoning maps and a record of
all minutes of the hearing pertaining to the adoption of such amendments shall
be maintained by the planning department and made available to the public.
   D.   Pursuant to ORS 197.615(1) and OAR 660-18-040, four (4) copies of any
amendment and findings to support its adoption shall be submitted to the
director of the Oregon department of land conservation and development within
five (5) working days after the final decision by the county court. (Ord. 86,
12-7-1993)
CHAPTER 11
QUASI-JUDICIAL LAND USE HEARINGS
SECTION:
6-11-1:   Filing Of Staff Report For Hearing
6-11-2:   Hearings Body
6-11-3:   Notice Of Hearing
6-11-4:   Contents Of Notice
6-11-5:   Burden Of Proof
6-11-6:   Nature Of Evidence
6-11-7:   Limitations On Oral Presentations
6-11-8:   Standing
6-11-9:   Record
6-11-10:   Disclosure Of Ex Parte Contacts
6-11-11:   Challenge For Bias, Prejudgment Of Personal Interest
6-11-12:   Hearings Procedure
6-11-13:   Continuances (Rep. by Ord. 148, 4-14-2004)
6-11-14:   Close Of The Record (Rep. by Ord. 148, 4-14-2004)
6-11-15:   Objection To Jurisdiction, Procedure, Notice Or Qualifications
6-11-1: FILING OF STAFF REPORT FOR HEARING:
   A.   At the time an application, that in the judgment of the planning
director requires a hearing, is complete, a hearing date shall be set.
   B.   A staff report shall be completed seven (7) days prior to the hearing.
   C.   A copy of the staff report shall be mailed to the applicant, made
available to such other persons who request a copy and shall be filed with the
hearings body.
   D.   Oral or written modifications and additions to the staff report shall
be allowed prior to or at the hearing. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-11-2: HEARINGS BODY:
   A.   The following shall serve as the hearings body in this order:
      1.   Planning director.
      2.   Planning commission, where the planning commission initiates a
review of an administrative action or planning director's decision pursuant to
section
6-12-1 of this title.
      3.   County court.
   B.   Where the planning director must decline to hear a matter on the
grounds of a conflict of interest, the planning commission shall substitute for
the planning director. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-11-3: NOTICE OF HEARING:
   A.   Individual Mailed Notice:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided for herein, notice of a land use
application, other than for a utility facility line, shall be mailed at least
twenty (20) days prior to the hearing for those matters set for hearing, or
within twenty (20) days after receipt of a complete application for those
matters to be processed administratively with notice. Written notice shall be
sent by mail to the following persons:
         a.   The applicant.
         b.   Owners of record of property as shown on the most recent property
tax assessment roll of property located:
            (1)   Within one hundred feet (100') of the property that is the
subject of the notice where any part of the subject property is within an urban
growth boundary.
            (2)   Within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the property that is
the subject of the notice where the subject property is outside an urban growth
boundary and not within a resource lands zone.
            (3)   Within five hundred feet (500') of the property that is the
subject of the notice where the subject property is within a resource lands
zone.
         c.   The owner of a public use airport if the airport is located
within ten thousand feet (10,000') of the subject property.
         d.   The tenants of a manufactured home park when the application is
for the rezoning of any part or all of a manufactured home park.
         e.   The planning commission.
         f.   The Oregon department of transportation (ODOT). (Ord. 125, 6-20-
2000)
      2.   Notwithstanding subsection A1b(1) of this section, all owners of
property within five hundred feet (500') of property that is the subject of a
plan amendment application or zone change application shall receive notice.
      3.   The failure of a property owner to receive mailed notice shall not
invalidate any land use approval.
   B.   Published Notice: In addition to notice by mail and posting, notice of
a hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county at least twenty (20) days prior to the hearing.
   C.   Media Notice: Copies of the notice of the hearing shall be transmitted
to other newspapers published in Malheur County. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-11-4: CONTENTS OF NOTICE:
   A.   All mailed notices of a land use action hearing or a land use action
application subject to administrative decision shall:
      1.   Describe the nature of the application and the proposed use or uses
which could be authorized;
      2.   List the applicable criteria from this title and the comprehensive
plan that apply to the application at issue;
      3.   Set forth the street address or other easily understood geographical
reference to the subject property;
      4.   State the date, time and location of the hearing, or the date by
which written comments must be received;
      5.   State that any person may comment in writing and include a general
explanation of the requirements for submission of testimony and the procedures
for conduct of testimony;
      6.   If a hearing is to be held, state that any interested person may
appear;
      7.   Statement that the failure of an issue to be raised in a hearing, in
person or by letter, or failure to provide sufficient specificity to afford the
decision maker an opportunity to respond to the issue precludes appeal to the
county court or the land use board of appeals based on that issue;
      8.   The telephone number of the director and that the director is the
person to contact for additional information;
      9.   A statement that a copy of the application, all documents and
evidence relied upon by the applicant and applicable criteria are available for
inspection at no cost and will be provided at reasonable cost;
      10.   A statement that a copy of the staff report will be available for
inspection at no cost at least seven (7) calendar days prior to the hearing and
will be provided at reasonable cost; and
      11.   All mailed notices shall contain the following statement:
NOTICE TO MORTGAGEE, LIENHOLDER, VENDOR, OR SELLER: ORS CHAPTER 215 REQUIRES
THAT IF YOU RECEIVE THIS NOTICE, IT MUST PROMPTLY BE FORWARDED TO THE
PURCHASER.
   B.   All mailed and published notices for hearing shall contain a statement
that recipients may request a copy of the staff report.
   C.   All mailed and published notices concerning applications and
necessitating an exception to one of the statewide land use planning goals
shall state that a goal exception is proposed and shall summarize the issues in
an understandable manner. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-11-5: BURDEN OF PROOF:
The burden of proof is upon the one seeking change. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-11-6: NATURE OF EVIDENCE:
All relevant evidence shall be received. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-11-7: LIMITATIONS ON ORAL PRESENTATIONS:
The hearings body may set reasonable time limits on oral testimony. (Ord. 86,
12-7-1993)
6-11-8: STANDING:
   A.   Any interested person may appear and be heard in a land use action
hearing.
   B.   Any person appearing on the record at the hearing or presenting written
evidence in conjunction with an administrative action or hearing, and gives his
or her name and address, shall have standing and be a party. (Ord. 86, 12-7-
1993)
6-11-9: RECORD:
   A.   A magnetic tape recording of the hearing shall be made.
   B.   All exhibits presented shall be marked to show the identity of the
person offering the exhibit.
   C.   Exhibits shall be numbered in the order presented in two (2)
categories, proponents and opponents, and shall be dated.
   D.   When exhibits are introduced, the proponent or opponent exhibit number
or letter shall be read into the record. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-11-10: DISCLOSURE OF EX PARTE CONTACTS:
Prior to making a decision, the hearings body or any member thereof shall not
communicate directly or indirectly with any party or his representative in
connection with any issue involved in a pending hearing except upon notice and
opportunity for all parties to participate. Should such communication - whether
written or oral - occur, the hearings body member shall:
   A.   Publicly announce for the record the substance of such communication;
and
   B.   Announce the parties' right to rebut the substance of the ex parte
communication during the hearing.
Communication between County staff and the hearings body shall not be
considered to be an ex parte contact. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-11-11: CHALLENGE FOR BIAS, PREJUDGMENT OF PERSONAL INTEREST:
Prior to or at the commencement of a hearing, any party may challenge the
qualification of the hearings body, or a member thereof, for bias, prejudgment
or personal interest. The challenge shall be made on the record and be
documented with specific reasons supported by facts. Should qualifications be
challenged, the hearings body or the member shall disqualify itself, withdraw
or make a statement on the record of its capacity to hear. A Planning
Commission member with a conflict identified under ORS 215.035 must disqualify
him or herself after disclosure. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-11-12: HEARINGS PROCEDURE:
A hearing shall be conducted as follows:
   A.   Explanation Of Purpose: The hearings body shall explain the purpose of
the hearing and announce the order of the proceedings, including reasonable
time limits on presentations by parties.
   B.   Statement: A statement by the hearings body regarding pre-hearing
contacts, bias, prejudice or personal interest shall be made.
   C.   Facts Received Outside Of Hearing: Any facts received, noticed or
recognized outside of the hearing shall be stated for the record.
   D.   Challenges: Challenges to the hearings body's qualifications to hear
the matter shall be stated and challenges entertained.
   E.   Applicable Substantive Criteria: The hearings body shall list
applicable substantive criteria, explain that testimony and evidence must be
directed toward that criteria or other criteria in the Comprehensive Plan or
land use regulations that the person believes to apply to the decision, and
that failure to address an issue with sufficient specificity to afford the
decision-maker and the parties an opportunity to respond precludes appeal to
the Land Use Board of Appeals based on that issue.
   F.   Order Of Presentation:
      1.   Open the hearing.
      2.   Staff report.
      3.   Proponent's presentation.
      4.   Opponent's presentation.
      5.   Proponent's rebuttal. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
      6.   Staff comment.
      7.   Questions from or to the Chair may be entertained at any time at the
hearings body's discretion.
      8.   Close the hearing. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993; amd. Ord. 218, 1-30-2019)
   G.   Record Available: The record shall be available for public review at
the hearing. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-11-13: CONTINUANCES:
(Rep. by Ord. 148, 4-14-2004)
6-11-14: CLOSE OF THE RECORD:
(Rep. by Ord. 148, 4-14-2004)
6-11-15: OBJECTION TO JURISDICTION, PROCEDURE, NOTICE OR QUALIFICATIONS:
Any objections not raised prior to the close of the oral testimony are waived.
(Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
CHAPTER 12
PLANNING DIRECTOR DECISIONS
SECTION:
6-12-1:   Planning Director Action On Land Use Applications
6-12-2:   Limitations On Planning Director Actions
6-12-3:   Administrative Decision
6-12-1: PLANNING DIRECTOR ACTION ON LAND USE APPLICATIONS:
   A.   The Planning Director may make land use decisions as set forth in
Section
6-12-2 of this Title without prior notification, as prescribed under Section
6-12-3, or he may refer the application to the Planning Commission for a
hearing. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-12-2: LIMITATIONS ON PLANNING DIRECTOR ACTIONS:
The Planning Director may make administrative decisions on the following land
use actions:
   A.   Farmstead lots as allowed in Section
6-4-4 of this Title.
   B.   Mining of aggregate resources as allowed in subsection
6-3A-3E3 of this Title.
   C.   Hardship dwellings as allowed in subsection
6-3A-3Q of this Title.
   D.   Partitions. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-12-3: ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION:
   A.   The Planning Director's decision to approve, deny or send to a hearing
shall be made within thirty (30) days after an application is accepted as
complete. This time limit may be waived by the written consent of the
applicant.
   B.   Notice of the Planning Director's decision and the appeal period shall
be sent as set forth in subsection
6-11-3A1a through e of this Title.
   C.   The notice of decision shall contain the applicable information
required by Section
6-11-4 of this Title.
   D.   Any party can appeal the decision to the Planning Commission in
accordance with
Chapter 13 of this Title. On appeal, a de novo hearing shall be held by the
Planning Commission. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
CHAPTER 13
APPEALS
SECTION:
6-13-1:   Who May Appeal
6-13-2:   Appellate Authority
6-13-3:   Filing Appeals
6-13-4:   Notice Of Appeal
6-13-5:   Hearing On Appeal
6-13-6:   Rehearing
6-13-1: WHO MAY APPEAL:
   A.   The following persons may file an appeal:
      1.   A party;
      2.   In the case of an appeal of an administrative decision without prior
notice, a person entitled to notice; and
      3.   A person to whom notice is mailed is deemed notified even if notice
is not received. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-13-2: APPELLATE AUTHORITY:
   A.   The appellate body for appeals from administrative determinations of
the Director shall be the Planning Commission.
   B.   The appellate body for appeals from final decisions of the Planning
Commission shall be the County Court.
   C.   Appeals from decisions of the County Court shall be in conformance with
the applicable ORS provisions. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-13-3: FILING APPEALS:
   A.   To file an appeal, an appellant must file a completed notice of appeal
on a form prescribed by the Planning Department, an appeal fee, and the
appellant must pay for the transcription of the hearing appealed from and
submit the transcript to the County Planning Department. No transcript is
required for appeals from the decision of the Planning Director.
   B.   The notice of appeal and appeal fee must be received at the office of
the Malheur County Planning Department no later than five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
on the tenth day following mailing of the decision. Notices of appeals may not
be received by facsimile machine.
   C.   The transcript of the hearing may be submitted to the Planning
Department within ten (10) days after the date notice of appeal is filed, or
within ten (10) days after the hearing tape is mailed or given to the
appellant, whichever is later. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-13-4: NOTICE OF APPEAL:
Every notice of appeal shall include:
   A.   A statement raising any issue relied upon for appeal with sufficient
specificity to afford the hearings body an adequate opportunity to respond to
and resolve each issue.
   B.   A request that the Planning Department supply appellant with a copy of
the magnetic tape record of any hearing before the Planning Commission unless
such tape has already been requested. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-13-5: HEARING ON APPEAL:
   A.   All persons filing a notice of appeal shall be a party to an appeal.
   B.   All parties shall be mailed notice of the hearing on appeal at least
ten (10) days prior to the hearing.
   C.   The review on appeal of the decision of the Planning Director shall be
de novo and shall be heard as provided in "Land Use Action Hearings", of this
Title. All appeals from the Planning Commission's final decision shall be based
on the record made before the Commission.
   D.   The order of the hearings body shall be as provided in this Title.
   E.   The record of the proceeding from which appeal is taken shall be a part
of the record on appeal. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
6-13-6: REHEARING:
Rehearings shall not be allowed. (Ord. 86, 12-7-1993)
TITLE 7
SUBDIVISIONS AND LAND PARTITIONING
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSES, GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1:   Adoption, Title And Revision Policy
7-1-2:   Purposes
7-1-3:   Ordinance Relationships
7-1-4:   Construction Of Words
7-1-5:   Definitions
7-1-1: ADOPTION, TITLE AND REVISION POLICY:
There is hereby adopted, as provided herein, a subdivision and partitioning
ordinance for Malheur County, a political subdivision of the state of Oregon.
This title shall be known as the SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE OF MALHEUR COUNTY and
shall be reviewed and, if necessary, revised to keep consistent with
legislative change and the changing needs and desires of the citizens of
Malheur County. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
7-1-2: PURPOSES:
In accordance with the provisions of ORS chapters 92 and 215, this title sets
forth the minimum standards governing the approval of land development,
including subdivisions and partitions, within Malheur County as necessary to
carry out the county's comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance 1  and to
promote the public health, safety and general welfare. The purposes of these
provisions and regulations are to:
   A.   Encourage well planned subdivision and partition development so that
good livable neighborhoods with all needed facilities and amenities may be
provided.
   B.   Encourage development in harmony with the natural environment and
within the carrying capacities of natural resources.
   C.   Safeguard the interests of the public, the applicant and the future lot
owner.
   D.   Improve land records and boundary monuments.
   E.   Ensure equitable processing of subdivision plats and partitioning
plans.
   F.   Provide for orderly and efficient development, and to coordinate
development with public facility and service plans and capabilities.
No person may subdivide or partition land within the county of Malheur except
in accordance with ORS chapters 92 and 215, and the provisions of this title
and title 6 of this code. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6 of this code.
7-1-3: ORDINANCE RELATIONSHIPS:
   A.   To The Comprehensive Plan: A subdivision plat shall conform to the
policies of the comprehensive plan, as adopted by the county court.
   B.   To The Comprehensive Plan Map And Transportation System Plan: A
subdivision plat shall conform with plans for the location, widening or
extension of streets, highways and for other projects of a similar nature as
shown on the comprehensive plan map and in the Malheur County transportation
system plan, as adopted by the county court.
   C.   To The Zoning Ordinance: A subdivision plat shall conform in all
respects with applicable regulations of the zoning ordinance 1 , as adopted by
the county court. (Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6 of this code.
7-1-4: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
The following rules of construction shall apply unless inconsistent with the
plain meaning of the context of this title:
   A.   Tense: Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   B.   Number: Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and words
used in the plural shall include the singular.
   C.   Shall And May: The word "shall" is mandatory. The word "may" is
permissive.
   D.   Gender: The masculine shall include the feminine and neuter.
   E.   Headings: In the event there is any conflict or inconsistency between
the heading of an article, section or paragraph of this title and the context
thereof, the said heading shall not be deemed to affect the scope, meaning or
intent of such context. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
7-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms used herein are defined
as follows:
   ACCESS: The place, means or way by which pedestrians and vehicles shall have
safe, adequate and usable ingress and egress to a property. Access management
guidelines are located in table 7-2 of the Malheur County transportation system
plan.
   ACCESSWAY: A walkway that provides pedestrian and bicycle passage either
between streets or from a street to a building or other destination such as
school, park, or transit stop. Accessways generally include a walkway and
additional land on either side of the walkway and additional land on either
side of the walkway, often in the form of an easement or right of way, to
provide clearance and separation between the walkway and adjacent uses.
Accessways through parking lots are generally physically separated from
adjacent vehicle parking or parallel vehicle traffic by curbs or similar
devices and include landscaping, trees, and lighting. Where accessways cross
driveways, they are generally raised, paved, or marked in manner that provides
convenient access for pedestrians.
   BICYCLE: A vehicle designed to operate on the ground on wheels, propelled
solely by human power, upon which any person or persons may ride, and with two
(2) tandem wheels at least fourteen inches (14") in diameter. An adult tricycle
is considered a bicycle.
   BICYCLE FACILITIES: A general term denoting improvements and provisions made
to accommodate or encourage bicycling, including parking facilities and all
bikeways.
   BIKEWAY: Any road, path, or way that is some manner specifically open to
bicycle travel, regardless of whether such facilities are designated for the
exclusive use of bicycles or are shared with other transportation modes. The
five (5) types of bikeways are:
   A.   Multiuse Path: A paved ten (10) to twelve foot (12') wide way that is
physically separated from motorized vehicular traffic; typically shared with
pedestrians, skaters, and other nonmotorized users.
   B.   Bike Lane: A four (4) to six foot (6') wide portion of the roadway that
has been designated by permanent striping and pavement markings for the
exclusive use of bicycles.
   C.   Shoulder Bikeway: The paved shoulder of a roadway that is four feet
(4') or wider; typically shared with pedestrians in rural areas.
   D.   Shared Roadway: A travel lane that is shared by bicyclists and motor
vehicles.
   E.   Multiuse Trail: An unpaved path that accommodates all terrain bicycles;
typically shared with pedestrians.
   BLOCK: A contiguous series of lots bounded on all sides by streets, railroad
right of way, or subdivided land.
   BUILDING LINE: A dashed line on a plat restricting the location of buildings
or structures or that distance as prescribed by the zoning ordinance, when
applicable.
   CONTIGUOUS LAND: Two (2) or more parcels or units of land including water
under a single ownership which are not separated by an intervening parcel of
land under separate ownership.
   DEVELOPER: Any person, corporation, partnership or other legal entity who
creates or proposes to create a subdivision, partition or other land
development, and includes any agent of a developer.
   DEVELOPMENT: The construction, installation or change of a building or other
structure; the division of land into two (2) or more parcels; any building or
mining operation; or the creation or termination of rights of access.
   DWELLING UNIT: A structure providing complete independent living facilities
for one family, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating,
cooking and sanitation. A dwelling unit shall have a minimum habitable floor
area of four hundred (400) square feet.
   EASEMENT: A grant of right to use land for specific purposes, but in which
ownership of the land is not transferred.
   FAMILY: As defined in section
6-1-3 of this code, zoning ordinance.
   FINANCIAL PARTITION: An exception in exclusive agricultural zones in effect
only during a foreclosure on property in accord with section
7-7-12 of this title.
   FLAG LOT: A parcel of land created by a subdivision or partition which
includes a narrow projection to a public road for purposes of access to the
main portion of the parcel. The projection is commonly known as the "flagpole".
   LANE: A term used to indicate or suggest that a road or street is, or may
be, privately owned.
   LEGAL DESCRIPTION: The method by which the outer boundaries of a site or
premises and all appurtenant easements and applicable restrictions or covenants
are described or established by reference to established points, monuments,
etc.
   LOT: A unit of land created by a subdivision or partitioning of land and is
a unit for disposition, transfer of ownership or interest or for development.
   LOT AREA: The total horizontal net area within the lot lines of a lot.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
   LOT DEPTH: The depth of a lot shall be the horizontal length of a straight
line connecting the bisecting points of the front and rear lot lines.
   LOT LINE, FRONT: In the case of an interior lot, a line separating the lot
from the street. In the case of a corner lot, the line separating the street
frontages of the lot from the street.
   LOT LINE, REAR: A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front
lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot boundary line not a front line or a rear lot line.
   LOT, THROUGH OR DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel
or approximately parallel streets other than alleys.
   LOT WIDTH: The average horizontal distance between the side lot lines,
measured at right angles to the lot depth.
   MAP, PARTITION MAP: The diagram, drawing and associated writing which
depicts a partition.
   MASTER PLAN: A map, sketch, or other presentation filed with the planning
commission 1  showing the ultimate development layout of a parcel of property
that is to be developed in successive stages of subdivision. The plan need not
be completely engineered but shall be of sufficient detail to illustrate the
property's inherent features and probable development pattern thereon. The
master plan will, therefor, be used as a guide in each successive stage of the
development until its completion.
   NEIGHBORHOOD ACTIVITY CENTER: An attractor or destination for residents of
surrounding residential areas. Includes, but is not limited to, existing or
planned schools, parks, shopping areas, transit stops, employment areas.
   NOMINAL ONE ACRE: An approximate one-six-hundred-fortieth (1/640) of the
public lands survey section in which it is located. In no case shall a nominal
acre be less than thirty five thousand (35,000) square feet.
   OFFICIAL MAP: The comprehensive plan map as adopted by the planning
commission and county court.
   OPEN SPACE: Those lands within a subdivision which have been dedicated, in
common to the ownership within the subdivision or to the public, specifically
for the purpose of providing places for recreational uses or for scenic
purposes.
   OWNER: The individual, firm, association, syndicated partnership or
corporation having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be
subdivided or partitioned to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide or
partition the same under this title.
   PARCEL: As defined in section
6-1-3 of this code, zoning ordinance.
   PARTITION: The act of partitioning land, or an area or tract of land which
is partitioned.
Major Partition: A partition which includes the actual creation of a road or
street to serve one of the parcels in the partition.
Minor Partition: A partition which does not require the creation of a road or
street. Dedication of right of way may be required in order to acquire or
preserve access to other lands.
   PARTITION LAND: To divide an area or tract of land into two (2) or three (3)
parcels within a thirty six (36) month period when such area or tract of land
exists as a unit or contiguous units of land under single ownership at the time
of the first partitioning. "Partition land" does not include any adjustment of
a lot line by the relocation of a common boundary where an additional parcel is
not created and where the existing parcel reduced in size by the adjustment is
not reduced below the minimum lot size unless better field management or
irrigation control will result. "Partition land" does not include the sale of a
lot in a recorded subdivision, even though the lot may have been acquired prior
to the sale with other contiguous lots or property by a single owner.
"Partition land" does not include the creation of cemetery lots.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A land area designed as a unified combination of
land uses; generally with a mixture of residential, single- and multi-family
types, open space or recreation areas for the direct use and benefit of all the
lot owners within the development and sometimes shopping or community
facilities. A planned development includes a "planned unit", a "homeowners'
association" and "common property" which are defined as follows:
    Common Property: A parcel or parcels of land together with the improvements
thereon, the use and enjoyment of which are shared by the owners and occupants
of the individual sites in the planned unit.
    Homeowner Association: An incorporated, nonprofit corporation to operate
under recorded land agreements through which: a) each lot owner in a planned
unit or other described land area is automatically a member, and b) each lot is
automatically subject to a charge for the expenses for the organization's
activities, such as maintaining a common property.
    Planned Unit: A land area which: a) has both individual building sites and
open space, known as common property such as park and b) is designed and
organized as a separate entity without necessarily having participation of
other building sites or other common property.
   PLAT: A final map, diagram, drawing, replat or other writing containing all
the descriptions, locations, specifications, dedications, provisions and
information concerning a subdivision.
   PUBLIC HEARING: A public forum of the planning commission or the county
court in which, after public notification, the commission or court hear
testimony from all concerned citizens regarding the action which is the cause
of the hearing. Public hearings shall be conducted when prescribed by this
title, and may be conducted at the request of the commission or court at other
times.
   PUBLIC NOTIFICATION: Each notice of hearing authorized by this title shall
be published in newspaper of general circulation in the county at least ten
(10) days prior to the date of hearing. Notice shall also be mailed to all
owners of property within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the subject
property. The notice of hearing shall be mailed at least ten (10) days prior to
the date of hearing. Failure of a person to receive the prescribed notice shall
not impair the validity of the hearing.
   RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land, usually one foot (1') in width, across the
end or along the edge of a street, roadway or alley, which is reserved or held
by the county for the purpose of controlling access, or for future street,
roadway or alley extension or widening.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The area between the boundary lines of an alley, easement,
street or highway.
   ROAD OR STREET: A public or private way that is created to provide ingress
or egress for persons to one or more lots, parcels, areas or tracts of land,
excluding a private way that is created to provide ingress or egress to such
land in conjunction with the use of such land for forestry, mining or
agricultural purposes.
    Cul-De-Sac (Dead End Street): A short street having one end open to traffic
and being terminated by a vehicle turnaround.
    Half Street: A portion of the width of a street usually along the edge of a
subdivision, where the remaining portion of the street could be provided in
another subdivision.
    Marginal Access Street: A minor street parallel and adjacent to a major
arterial street providing access to abutting properties, but protected from
through traffic.
    Rural Arterial: A roadway that provides linkage between population centers
within the region and connection to state and national highways, serving
primarily through traffic with limited access.
    Rural Collector: A roadway that provides both local access and circulation
within rural areas of the county, distributing trips from the arterials through
the area to their ultimate destinations, often serving abutting uses directly.
    Rural Local: A roadway having the primary function of providing access to
immediately adjacent land and serving little to no through traffic.
    Stubbed Street: A street having only one outlet for vehicular traffic and
which is intended to be extended or continued to serve future subdivisions or
developments on adjacent lands.
    Walkway: A hard surfaced are intended and suitable for pedestrians,
including sidewalks and the surfaced portions of accessways.
   SUBDIVIDE LAND: To divide an area or tract of land into four (4) or more
lots within a thirty six (36) month period when such area or tract of land
exists as a unit or contiguous units of land under a single ownership at the
beginning of the first division.
   SUBDIVIDER: A generalized term meaning any person, firm, corporation,
partnership or association who causes the land to be divided into lots or
parcels as defined herein. It is synonymous with "developer".
   TENTATIVE PLAN: A clearly legible drawing of the proposed layout of streets,
blocks, lots and other elements of a subdivision which shall help furnish a
basis for the planning commission's approval or disapproval of the general
layout of the subdivision or major partition.
   TRACT: A generalized, all inclusive term used to describe any area of land.
   USE: The purpose for which land or a structure is designed, arranged or
intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd.
1989 Code; Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See
  title 6, chapter 11  of this code.
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND TECHNICAL REVIEW
SECTION:
7-2-1:   Scope Of Regulations
7-2-2:   Minimum Standards
7-2-3:   Technical Review Conferences
7-2-4:   Technical Review Factors
7-2-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Regulations Mandatory: Any map, subdivision, plat, replat, partition or
plan hereafter made of any subdivision or partition lying within the
territorial limits of Malheur County, with the exception of areas within
incorporated cities or towns, shall be presented for approval and recorded as
prescribed by this title. No such subdivision map, plat, partition or plan
shall be recorded or have validity unless it shall have the approval of the
county planning commission 1  or such other approvals as required by this
title. An exception exists within the designated urban growth area of a city in
which the urban growth area agreement may transfer these powers to that city.
If so stated in the agreement, the city's regulations shall apply within the
UGA.
   B.   Public Hearing: All subdivision preliminary plats and major partition
proposals shall be subject to subdivision review before the planning
commission. In the event of review by the county court, the court may also hold
a subdivision review.
   C.   Note: A partitioner whose action in dividing land may result in a
series of partitions may be required to make filings with the Oregon real
estate commissioner as required in ORS 92.305 through 92.495 prior to sale or
advertising for sale the subject parcels. Because of this, it is recommended
that the partitioner acquaint himself with the regulations of the Oregon real
estate commissioner before proceeding with a subdivision or series partition.
(Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See
  title 6, chapter 11 of this code.
7-2-2: MINIMUM STANDARDS:
No proposed subdivision or partition shall be approved unless said subdivision
or partition complies with the comprehensive plan for the county, the
applicable zoning, and the requirements and standards set forth in this title
and ORS chapter 92. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
7-2-3: TECHNICAL REVIEW CONFERENCES:
The planning director may schedule a technical review conference with the
county engineer and the subdivider and/or his engineer or surveyor.
Representatives of other agencies may attend and shall be encouraged by the
planning director to attend. As a result of the discussion between the
subdivider and/or his engineer or surveyor and the planning director, the
subdivider or the planning director may request additional meetings as
necessary.
Because of scheduling difficulties in attempting to meet at one time and place
among the various affected departments, agencies and jurisdictions and utility
companies, it is expedient and necessary that the subdivider, developer or
partitioner contact each directly prior to formal submission of a proposal to
the county planning department. This will greatly reduce the potential for
oversights or problems to emerge during formal review. Failure to have made
these checks may result in an application being rejected for further
consideration as being incomplete. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
7-2-4: TECHNICAL REVIEW FACTORS:
In review of proposed subdivisions, the planning director or his designate
shall confirm that the following factors have been considered:
   A.   Conformance to the comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance.
   B.   Preliminary plat requirements.
   C.   Quantity and quality of existing or proposed water supply, adequacy of
the existing or proposed sewage system, and the capability of the soil for long
term support of proposed subsurface sewage systems.
   D.   Relationship to the existing and future road network as identified in
the transportation system plan, including roads within and contiguous to the
development in reference to right of way width, roadway width and construction
standards, and functional road classifications as identified in the
transportation system plan.
   E.   Avoidance or remedy of possible adverse effects on the development
caused by natural hazards such as floods, slides or faults.
   F.   Recognition and remedy of unusual conditions of the property such as
high water table, slope, bedrock or other topographic or geologic conditions
that might limit the capability to build on the land using ordinary and
reasonable construction techniques.
   G.   Owner of record.
   H.   Evidence that each and every parcel can be used for the purpose for
which they are intended.
   I.   Agreements or bylaws to provide for management, construction,
maintenance or other services pertaining to common facilities or elements in
the development.
   J.   Protective covenants or deed restrictions.
   K.   The erosion potential, stability and bearing qualities of the soil.
   L.   The effect of the proposed development upon the immediate area's storm
water drainage pattern, the impact of the proposed development upon downstream
areas, and the effect on ground water supply.
   M.   Conformance with the access management guidelines for rural roadways.
   N.   Development of bicycle and pedestrian facilities providing safe, direct
and convenient access to neighborhood activity centers, where appropriate.
(Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
CHAPTER 3
TENTATIVE PLAN FOR SUBDIVISION
SECTION:
7-3-1:   Pre-Application Procedure
7-3-2:   Filing Procedure
7-3-3:   Form And Scale Of Tentative Plan
7-3-4:   Contents Of Tentative Plan
7-3-5:   Statement To Accompany Tentative Plan
7-3-6:   Lands Subject To Hazardous Conditions
7-3-7:   Tentative Subdivision Approval
7-3-8:   Appeal To County Court
7-3-9:   Termination Of Tentative Approval
7-3-1: PRE-APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
The following procedure shall be followed whenever land is to be subdivided:
Prior to submitting a preliminary plan, the subdivider is encouraged to submit
a sketch plan to the Planning Department and discuss the property to be
subdivided, with respect to the standards of this Title, the requirements of
State law, existing private and public developments, relationship to the
Comprehensive Plan, and any special problems that may be encountered. Changes
or modifications in the sketch plan shall be discussed if the plan, as
submitted, does not meet the objectives of these regulations. (Ord. 25, 3-2-
1983; 1989 Code)
7-3-2: FILING PROCEDURE:
   A.   The subdivider shall prepare a tentative plan in accordance with the
provisions of this Title which shall be filed with the County Planning
Department sixty (60) days prior to the Commission meeting at which a
subdivision review is desired. Such filing shall be made prior to the
initiation of any construction work within the proposed subdivision which might
be affected by change in the tentative plan.
   B.   The subdivider shall provide a statement from the administrative
officer of any incorporated city within six (6) miles of the proposed
subdivision or development stating any recommendations planning, engineering or
other appropriate staff of the city have regarding the proposed subdivision.
   C.   The time of filing shall be construed to be the time when the tentative
plan, complete with required information, is filed with and officially received
by the County Planning Department. The required information must demonstrate
accuracy throughout the review process. Failure to do so followed by written
notice of the technical information inadequacy constitutes a denial of the
proposed development. If the corrections are submitted to the County Planning
Department within thirty (30) days of notice of inadequacy, the proposal is
considered to be resubmitted, starting the schedule calendar anew but with
application fees waived. Technical information inadequacies may be grounds for
ultimate denial of the proposed land development.
   D.   The subdivider shall file ten (10) copies of tentative plan, together
with an application in writing, form to be provided by the Planning Department,
with the Planning Department.
   E.   In conformance with ORS 215.428, all land development applications
shall be processed within one hundred twenty (120) days. This time schedule
will be affected by conditions explained in subsection C of this Section. (Ord.
25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-3-3: FORM AND SCALE OF TENTATIVE PLAN:
The tentative plan shall be clearly and legibly drawn and shall show all
pertinent information to scale in order that the Planning Commission may have
adequate understanding of what is proposed during the review process. The scale
of the preliminary plat shall be appropriate to depict necessary detail on
eighteen inch by twenty four inch (18" x 24") sheets. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989
Code)
7-3-4: CONTENTS OF TENTATIVE PLAN:
The following information shall be shown on the tentative subdivision plan or
provided in accompanying materials. Tentative plans shall contain the following
information. If, after review of the tentative plan, additional information is
required, such information shall be submitted by the applicant. He shall be
given an appropriate time to compile the requested information, and all
deadlines shall be modified to accommodate the additional time required.
   A.   General Information:
      1.   A subdivision name which does not conflict with the name of an
existing subdivision, or any name on a recorded plat.
      2.   Name and address of the owner and/or subdivider.
      3.   Name and address of the licensed surveyor who prepared the plat.
      4.   Date of preparation, north point, scale, approximate acreage and
boundary lines.
      5.   Appropriate identification clearly stating that the map is a
tentative plan.
      6.   Section, range, township in which proposed subdivision is located.
   B.   Existing Conditions:
      1.   The location, names and widths of improved and unimproved streets
within or adjacent to the subdivision.
      2.   The location, width, and use or purposes of any easements on the
property.
      3.   Contour lines sufficient to show the direction and general grade of
land slope. Contours shown on United States geological maps may be superimposed
for this purpose.
      4.   The location and direction of natural watercourses and areas subject
to flooding.
      5.   The location of structures, irrigation canals and ditches, pipelines
and railroads and any natural features such as rock outcroppings and cover
which are of an area or size sufficient to influence the design of the
subdivision.
      6.   The location of city boundary lines and the boundary lines of public
districts which lie within the subdivision or within five hundred feet (500')
of the exterior boundaries of the subdivision.
      7.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed subdivision
to surrounding development, streets, any public sewer and water utilities,
extent and availability of electric and gas utility facilities.
      8.   Zoning classification of land and adjoining land. (Ord. 25, 3-2-
1983; amd. 1989 Code)
   C.   Information Concerning Proposed Development: Information concerning
proposed development shall conform to
chapter 4 of this title. Among the items to be considered are the following:
      1.   The location, name, width, approximate grades and curve radii of all
proposed streets.
      2.   Statement pertaining to type and dimensions of roads and who will be
responsible for their maintenance.
      3.   The location, width and purpose of proposed easements.
      4.   The location and approximate dimensions of lots, proposed lot and
block numbers.
      5.   An outline of the areas proposed for partial recording of a final
plat if phased recording is contemplated.
      6.   The relationship of the proposed subdivision to future streets on
adjacent land controlled by the subdivider.
      7.   A shadow subdivision layout of abutting undeveloped lands to
illustrate that the subject proposed land development adequately and
appropriately extends streets to its borders.
      8.   Source and method of water supply to serve the subdivision, and a
statement of any and all water rights.
      9.   Any proposed restrictions and covenants affecting the plat.
      10.   The location and design of all proposed pedestrian and bicycle
facilities, including accessways. (Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
7-3-5: STATEMENT TO ACCOMPANY TENTATIVE PLAN:
The tentative plan shall be accompanied by written statements giving essential
information regarding the following matters:
   A.   Water Supply: A statement of water rights and a statement of the
proposed method of water supply including source, quality and method of
distribution.
Where the proposed source of water is by individual or community wells,
demonstration of an adequate supply of water for all anticipated needs of the
platted area shall be presented. Demonstration of an adequate supply of water
may consist of:
      1.   Test wells drilled with adequate frequency to demonstrate the
general availability of water.
      2.   Documentation of the availability of water and the general history
of wells in the area.
   B.   Sewage Disposal: A statement of tentative approval of feasibility on
the proposed method of sewage disposal from the appropriate state and/or county
agencies.
   C.   Estimated Time: When improvements are proposed to be made or installed.
   D.   Public And Private Utilities: A letter from each of the utility
companies serving the area in which the subdivision is located stating that
each is able and willing to serve the subdivision as proposed, and that
satisfactory arrangements have been made as to the cost for financing the
utility installations.
   E.   Fire Protection: A letter indicating the proposed method of fire
protection.
   F.   Irrigation District: A map of the irrigation rights involved and an
irrigation management system, such as a district which will be responsible for
distribution and management of the irrigation water within the subdivision.
This organization shall have the legal authority to settle disputes concerning
the handling of water in the development. (The proposal for establishment of
such an organization must be approved by the appropriate irrigation district
and is subject to review by the county court.)
   G.   Proof Of Ownership: A subdivision guarantee prepared under provisions
of the Oregon real estate commission.
   H.   School District: A letter from the superintendent of the school
district in which the subdivision is located indicating the ability of school
facilities to accommodate the estimated number of additional students. (Ord.
25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
7-3-6: LANDS SUBJECT TO HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS:
Land which appears to be technically unsuitable for development due to
flooding, bad drainage, steep slopes, rock formations or other features likely
to be harmful to the safety and general health of the future residents shall
not be developed for building purposes and shall be used for open space unless
adequate methods for overcoming these conditions are submitted by an
appropriate state licensed engineer and approved by all agencies which regulate
the technical unsuitability in coordination with the planning director. (Ord.
25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
7-3-7: TENTATIVE SUBDIVISION APPROVAL:
   A.   Technical Review Conference: Within twenty one (21) days of receipt of
the proposal, the planning director shall convene a conference as specified in
chapter 2 of this title and shall prepare for the planning commission written
reports of his recommendations regarding the proposed subdivision.
Written reports to the planning commission on the technical review conference
shall be submitted by the planning director as a part of the regular commission
agenda packet.
   B.   Subdivision Review Authorization: Within sixty (60) days of submission
of a tentative subdivision plan, as required by section
7-3-2 of this chapter, the planning commission shall conduct a subdivision
review of said tentative subdivision plan. The subdivision review shall be
conducted in conformance with subsections C through F of this section.
   C.   Subdivision Review Criteria: Subdivision review shall consist of an
analysis of the tentative plan proposal as it relates to the following:
      1.   The planning director's report on the consideration of the factors
listed in section
7-2-4 of this title.
      2.   Tentative subdivision plan presentation as prescribed by section
7-3-4 of this chapter.
      3.   Statements to accompany tentative plan as required by section
7-3-5 of this chapter.
      4.   Proposals for excluding or overcoming land subject to natural hazard
as discussed in section
7-3-6 of this chapter.
      5.   Public comments received by the planning department which relate
only to compliance of the tentative plan proposal with subsections C2 through
C4 of this section. Comments which do not address these items will not be
entered into the record. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
   D.   Notification Of Subdivision Review: Prior to the planning commission
meeting at which the commission receives a tentative plan proposal, the
following public notices shall be provided:
      1.   A notice in the legal notice column of a newspaper of general
circulation at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting at which the
subdivision review is to be initiated. Said notice to briefly describe the
proposal, give the location of the property involved, a list of the sections of
this title which are pertinent to the subdivision review, the time and location
of the meeting, and other information necessary to adequately describe the
proposal and the responses desired.
      2.   Individual notification by first class mail to property owners of
record within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the subject property. In
addition to the information listed in subsection D1 of this section, individual
notice shall include a map of the area of sufficient scale and detail to locate
the subject property relative to surrounding property.
Failure to receive individual notification will not invalidate the procedure
conducted under this section if a good faith attempt has been made to provide
such notice.
      3.   Notice to the Oregon department of transportation (ODOT) as required
by OAR 660-12-045(2)(f). (Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
   E.   Action Resulting From Subdivision Review:
      1.   Decision Required: Following such subdivision review, the commission
may approve, modify or disapprove the plan proposal, and shall set forth
findings for said decision. If no action is taken by the commission within
sixty five (65) days of the commission meeting at which the commission received
the tentative plan, the tentative plan as filed shall be deemed to be approved
and it shall be the duty of the commission secretary to certify such approval.
The commission may, however, upon declaration of a need for additional
information, clarification of submitted material, or a need for modification or
redesign of submitted plan and in agreement with the subdivider, initiate a
second sixty five (65) day period which shall be considered to commence upon
the day of agreement for such.
      2.   Placing Of Conditions And Relationship To Final Plat: If the
tentative plan is approved subject to conditions, conditions shall relate only
to the authority granted to the planning commission by this title and the
zoning ordinance. The ordinance and provisions used to place such conditions
shall be specified in the findings.
Approval of the tentative plan shall not constitute final acceptance of the
plat of the proposed subdivision for recording; however, approval of such
tentative plan shall be binding upon the county for purposes of the preparation
of the final plat.
   F.   Review By County Court: Within five (5) days after the date of the
planning commission's action, the planning director shall transmit the complete
record of its review and action to the county court. Upon receipt of the
record, the county court may review the decision of the planning commission on
its own initiative, as permitted by
chapter 9 of this title.
The county court may affirm, reverse or modify the decision of the planning
commission provided that such decision is not in conflict with the provisions
and intent of this title. If the decision is modified or reversed, the court
shall construct findings relating to the provisions of this title which were
used to arrive at the decision to modify or reverse.
Unless the applicant is notified of the court's intent to review the decision
of the planning commission within twenty one (21) days, the decision of the
planning commission shall be affirmed. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
7-3-8: APPEAL TO COUNTY COURT:
If the applicant or an interested party is dissatisfied with any action of the
planning commission with respect to the tentative plan, he may, within fifteen
(15) days of such action, appeal the action of the planning commission to the
county court.
For the purposes of this section, "interested party" shall mean those
individuals entitled to notice under this title or those who have participated
in the hearing(s) before the planning commission.
Appeals should be filed and administered in accordance with
chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
7-3-9: TERMINATION OF TENTATIVE APPROVAL:
Failure by the developer to submit a final plat within twelve (12) calendar
months of the date of approval or conditional approval of the tentative plan by
the planning commission and county court, shall terminate all proceedings;
provided however, that upon application of the developer in writing, an
extension of time not exceeding six (6) calendar months may be granted by the
planning commission. In the event the planning commission denies a developer's
application for extension, the developer may appeal to the county court. Where
proceedings have terminated because of failure to receive extension by the
planning commission and the county court, a new tentative plan shall be filed
in accordance with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989
Code)
CHAPTER 4
SUBDIVISION DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
7-4-1:   Required Design Improvements Standards
7-4-2:   Streets
7-4-3:   Utility Lines
7-4-4:   Domestic Water
7-4-5:   Irrigation Water
7-4-6:   Drainage
7-4-7:   Stream Easements
7-4-8:   Sewage Disposal
7-4-9:   Blocks
7-4-10:   Lots
7-4-11:   Flag Lots
7-4-12:   Lot Boundary Or Right Of Way Lines
7-4-13:   Fire Protection
7-4-14:   Other Improvements
7-4-1: REQUIRED DESIGN IMPROVEMENTS STANDARDS:
All subdivisions, developments and major partitions which are developed
pursuant to this title shall at minimum be developed in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter. In those cases where a centralized or public
sanitary waste system is available or is proposed, the efficient and
aesthetically pleasing qualities of a planned unit development is recommended
and may be required by the planning director. In this case, the standards of
chapter 5 of this title shall also be met. Within the urban growth area of a
city, the more restrictive or greater standards of the respective city shall
supersede these standards. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
7-4-2: STREETS:
   A.   Relation To Adjoining Street System: A subdivision or major partition
shall provide for the continuation of the principal streets existing in
adjoining subdivisions and for their proper projection when adjoining property
is not subdivided, and such streets shall be of a width not less than the
minimum requirements set forth in this title and the transportation system
plan. Where, in the opinion of the commission, topographic conditions make such
continuation or on a formation or conformity impractical, exception may be
made.
Where the plat submitted covers only a part of the subdivider's tract, a
drawing of the prospective future street system of the entire tract shall be
furnished.
Also, taking topography into consideration, a shadow subdivision layout shall
be prepared for abutting undeveloped property to demonstrate the adequacy and
appropriateness of streets within the proposed development which are to be
provided for future extension.
   B.   Access: The dividing of the land shall be such as to provide each lot
or parcel access by means of a public street, with satisfactory access to an
existing public street or to a proposed street as shown in the proposed plat.
New public streets and private drives shall meet the access management
guidelines for rural roadways.
   C.   Existing Streets: Whenever existing streets adjacent to or within a
development are of inadequate width, additional right of way shall be required
at the time of division. In those cases where improvement of the road is below
standard, improvement may be required including paving.
   D.   Road Widths: Unless otherwise indicated on the official map, the width
of rights of way and roadway improvements shall be in compliance with the
following:
      1.   Rural Minor Arterial: A right of way width of sixty to eighty feet
(60–80') measured from property line to property line.
      2.   Rural Major Collector: A right of way width of sixty feet (60').
      3.   Rural Minor Collector: A right of way width of fifty to sixty feet
(50–60').
      4.   Rural Local: A right of way width of forty to fifty feet (40–50')
except in cases where the topography or other physical conditions make such a
width impractical. This determination shall be at the discretion of the county
engineer.
      5.   Cul-De-Sac: A right of way width of fifty feet (50') and shall
terminate in a turnaround with a minimum property line radius of fifty feet
(50').
   E.   Road Improvement Standards:
      1.   Compliance: Standards for all design and road improvements shall be
in accordance with those specifications and requirements prescribed by the
county road department in the adopted "county road standards" or by the
appropriate road district.
      2.   Street Or Road Acceptance: Any street or road which is not
constructed to standards prescribed by the county shall not be accepted for
maintenance by the county. The county court must determine whether a road or
street is to be accepted by the county.
      3.   Connection To Existing Roads: Property which is developed so as to
include the creation of a road shall have connection to an existing road which
is maintained by public agency. This connector road shall be built to county or
appropriate road district standards by the developer.
      4.   Street Alignment: Streets located on opposite sides of an
intersecting street shall have their centerline directly opposite each other
where possible, otherwise, the centerline shall be separated by not less than
two hundred feet (200').
      5.   Intersection Angles: Street intersection shall be as near right
angles as possible except where topography requires a lesser angle, but in no
case shall the acute angle be less than sixty degrees (60°).
   F.   Streets Adjacent To Railroads: When the proposed division of land
contains or is adjacent to a railroad, a street parallel to the railroad may be
required on each side of such railroad. A land strip of not less than twenty
five feet (25') in width shall be provided along such railroad right of way for
screen planting between the railroad and residential lots.
   G.   Future Extension Of Streets: Where necessary to give access to or
permit a satisfactory future division of adjoining land, streets shall be
extended to the boundary of the subdivision and the resulting dead end streets
may be approved without a permanent turnaround. Reserve strips and street plans
may be required to preserve the objectives of street extension.
   H.   Street Grades: Street grades shall not exceed eight percent (8%),
except where under unavoidable topographic conditions grades to ten percent
(10%) may be permitted.
   I.   Street Names: Street names shall not duplicate the name of any other
street or way within the county or the larger emergency service area.
   J.   Cul-De-Sacs And Accessways: Cul-de-sacs, courts or similar type streets
shall be permitted; however, through streets are encouraged except where
topographical, environmental, or existing adjacent land use constraints make
connecting streets infeasible. The maximum length of cul-de-sacs shall be no
more than one thousand feet (1,000') from the entrance to the center of the
turnaround radius of fifty feet (50') at the property line and not less than
forty feet (40') at the curb line or traveled way.
Where cul-de-sacs are planned, accessways shall be provided connecting the ends
of cul-de-sacs to each other, to other streets, or to neighborhood activity
centers. The hearings body or planning director may determine, based upon
evidence in the record, that an accessway is impracticable. Such evidence may
include, but is not limited to:
      1.   Physical or topographic conditions make an accessway connection
impractical. Such conditions include, but are not limited to, freeways,
railroads, extremely steep slopes, wetlands, or other bodies of water where a
connection cannot reasonably be provided.
      2.   Buildings or other existing development on adjacent lands physically
preclude a connection now or in the future, considering potential for
redevelopment.
      3.   Where accessways would violate provisions of leases, easements,
covenants, restrictions, or other agreements existing as of June 20, 2000, that
preclude a required accessway connection.
   K.   Pedestrian And Bicycle Circulation: On site facilities shall be
provided that accommodate safe and convenient pedestrian and bicycle access
within new subdivisions, multi- family developments, planned development,
shopping centers, and commercial districts, and connecting to adjacent
residential areas and neighborhood activity centers within one-half (1/2) mile
of the development. Residential developments shall include streets with
sidewalks and accessways. Pedestrian circulation through parking lots shall be
provided in the form of accessways.
Bikeways shall be required along arterial and collectors with ADTs greater than
three thousand (3,000). Sidewalks shall be required along arterials,
collectors, and most local streets, except that sidewalks are not required
along controlled access roadways (freeways). (Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
7-4-3: UTILITY LINES:
Where such services and utilities are available, water, electrical, phone and
TV cable shall be installed when property is developed. Such installation shall
be underground if possible. Lines shall be laid and stubbed to the property
lines before road surfacing is placed. Easements for utility lines need to be
wide enough to accommodate trenching and service equipment. This should not be
less than ten feet (10') in width and in many cases may need to be fifteen feet
(15') or more wide dependent upon the number and depth of utilities anticipated
to be placed there. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
7-4-4: DOMESTIC WATER:
   A.   Central water distribution systems may be installed in all subdivisions
or major partitions and where available shall connect to a public distribution
system.
   B.   A statement of all water rights shall be provided.
   C.   All water systems and/or wells shall meet the standards of the
following agencies, when applicable:
      Oregon state health division,
      County health department, and
      Other state or federal agencies which have requirements applicable to
wells and water systems.
   (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
7-4-5: IRRIGATION WATER:
Where the property being partitioned or subdivided has a water right, a water
rights division plan shall be approved by the appropriate irrigation district.
(Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
7-4-6: DRAINAGE:
The subdivider shall provide such drainage structures or improvements necessary
to prevent the ponding of surface water within the roadway of a street, and to
assure the unimpeded flow of water within natural drainage courses transversed
by a street. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
7-4-7: STREAM EASEMENTS:
The reservation of an easement along any stream or surface drainage course
located in the area for the purpose of widening, deepening, sloping, improving
or protecting the stream or drainage course. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989
Code; Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
7-4-8: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
The method of sewage disposal for each lot within a land division shall be in
accordance with the requirements and standards for sewage disposal administered
by and under the jurisdiction of the following agencies when applicable:
   Oregon state department of environmental quality,
   County health department, and
   Other state or federal agencies which have regulations applicable to septic
tank/drainfields, community disposal.
   Subdivider shall be responsible for providing the necessary information
required to determine the adequacy of the method of sewage disposal proposed.
(Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
7-4-9: BLOCKS:
The width of blocks shall be such as to allow two (2) tiers of lots unless
exceptional conditions are, in the opinion of the commission, such as to render
this requirement undesirable and that makes a relatively short length of double
frontage lots unavoidable. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 125, 6-20-
2000)
7-4-10: LOTS:
   A.   Lots shall not be greater in average depth than three (3) times their
average width. A ten percent (10%) variation in depth may be allowed to
accommodate irregular topography or other factors. Where individual septic
systems are to be used, the buildable area of the lots or parcels shall be a
nominal (approximate) one acre. Where a public or central septic system will be
used, lot area may be reduced to one-quarter (1/4) of a nominal (approximate)
acre or as specified in the specific zone of the proposed division of land.
   B.   Lots shall have frontage upon a dedicated public road or street of not
less than seventy five percent (75%) of their average lot width. Exceptions
exist: flag lots as provided in section
7-4-11 of this chapter, and lots around the end of a cul-de-sac, and lots
around the external radius of a ninety degree (90°) or similar sharp street
corner. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
7-4-11: FLAG LOTS:
Flag lots offer an opportunity to utilize ground which might otherwise go to
waste within a residential district. The access stem of a flag lot shall not be
less than twenty feet (20') in width. In addition to other setbacks, a fifty
foot (50') radius shall be provided from the end point of the access stem
nearest the buildable portion of the lot. This is to secure adequate turnaround
for emergency vehicles, guests and errant vehicles. One flag lot is prohibited
from being placed behind another flag lot unless a canal, river, major
topographical obstruction or existing development makes a public street or cul-
de-sac impracticable in the judgment of the planning director. (Ord. 125, 6-20-
2000)
7-4-12: LOT BOUNDARY OR RIGHT OF WAY LINES:
No lot shall be divided by the boundary line of a county or city, school
district or other taxing district or by the right of way or easement of an
irrigation facility or utility line. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code; Ord.
125, 6-20-2000)
7-4-13: FIRE PROTECTION:
   A.   If the development or subdivision is not within an existing fire
protection district, the subdivider shall make prospective buyers aware of that
fact.
   B.   Fire hydrants connected with the public water supply shall be installed
in all land divisions with central water supply.
   C.   Provisions for fire protection shall be made where forest or other
vegetation is likely to constitute a fire hazard as follows:
      1.   Fire Breaks: Fire breaks shall be provided as may be specified by
the appropriate fire protection agency. Access roads may be used as fire breaks
where provided at suitable locations.
      2.   Emergency Access: Two (2) or more improved all weather access points
from the development, subdivision or major partition may be required by the
commission for the purpose of fire protection egress and ingress to ensure
public safety as may be specified by the appropriate fire protection agency.
(Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
7-4-14: OTHER IMPROVEMENTS:
In addition to the improvements required by the provisions of this title, the
subdivider may be required to provide other improvements because of specific
features of the land, or the design of the subdivision or major partition.
Improvements such as bridges, culverts and the fencing of watercourses, right
of way and the creation of recreation areas and facilities may be required
where necessary for health, safety and general welfare of residents of the
subdivision or major partition. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 125,
6-20-2000)
CHAPTER 5
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUD)
SECTION:
7-5-1:   Purpose
7-5-2:   Aesthetic Considerations Of Planned Unit Developments
7-5-3:   Development Standards
7-5-4:   Owners' Or Renters' Association
7-5-5:   Tentative Plan
7-5-6:   Common Open Spaces
7-5-7:   Review And Approval
7-5-1: PURPOSE:
The planned unit development concept is established to allow development of
tracts of land that are large enough to allow creativity and flexibility to be
exercised to a greater extent than is possible in a conventional subdivision
setting. Deviation from specific site development standards of this Title and
the Zoning Ordinance, Title 6 of this Code, is allowed; provided that, the
general intent of the provisions of this Title and applicable zoning
regulations are observed. The basis of this approach is to utilize the economy
of shared services, encourage the grouping of compatible uses, and to take the
highest advantage of the following:
   A.   Recognition and resolution of problems created by increasing population
density.
   B.   A comprehensive approach to development which results in a better
placement and use of buildings, open spaces, circulation and parking
facilities, and other improvements that would result from a traditional
subdivision approach.
   C.   Economic incentives which could encourage a developer to set aside
increasing percentages of open space, or to develop recreation or other
amenities to higher levels. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-5-2: AESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
The developer of a planned unit development shall include the appropriate
architectural and site development plans which shall show proposed building
location, specific landscaping; prominent existing trees; ground treatment,
sight-obscuring fences or hedges; off-street parking; vehicular and pedestrian
circulation; major exterior elevations of buildings showing their exterior
treatment, materials and color; elevational design of advertising structures,
showing their message, materials and color. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-5-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Densities in a planned unit development may be in excess of the density
specified in the zone in which the land is located. In order to encourage
provision of open space, the number of dwelling units that might have been
provided on land set aside for open space are allowed to be located elsewhere
in the development. This increases the density in the built up portions of the
PUD. Based upon the following criteria, the number of dwellings transferable
from the open space land may be increased:
      1.   A five percent (5%) increase in density for an approved common open
space program if it is to be maintained in a clean and natural appearance by
the developer or home owners' association and is dedicated to the public.
      2.   A ten percent (10%) increase if the approved open space program is
to be improved by the developer and dedicated to the public.
      3.   A fifteen percent (15%) increase in density for distinctiveness and
excellence in setting, design and landscaping which will provide unusual
enhancement to the development and a perceivable benefit to the community as a
whole.
   B.   The Planning Commission may prohibit or limit any increase in density
by the amount necessary to avoid undue burdens on public services, or if
density increase would substantially reduce livability in the proposed
development.
   C.   Construction of roads, placement of utilities and provision of any
amenities shall be provided in conformance with Chapters 4, 6 and 8 of this
Title unless such provisions are not applicable to the proposed development.
(Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-5-4: OWNERS' OR RENTERS' ASSOCIATION:
A tentative plan for a planned unit development shall be accompanied by a
proposed owners' or renters' association agreement which shall address the
following considerations at a minimum:
   A.   Method for insuring adequate financial support for all common areas and
facilities.
   B.   Any and all provisions necessary to maintain the development as an
asset to itself and the community.
   C.   Procedures for amendment for sufficient cause. Such amendments are
reviewable by the Planning Commission. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-5-5: TENTATIVE PLAN:
A tentative plan for a planned unit development shall:
   A.   Be prepared and reviewed in conformance with Sections
7-2-2,
7-2-3,
7-2-4,
7-3-1,
7-3-2,
7-3-3 and
7-3-4 of this Title.
   B.   Contain information described in Sections
7-3-5 and
7-3-6 of this Title.
   C.   Contain the following information concerning the proposed development:
      1.   A map to scale showing street systems, lot or partition lines and
other divisions of land for management, use or allocation purposes.
      2.   Areas proposed to be conveyed, dedicated or reserved for public
streets, parks, parkways, playgrounds, school sites, public buildings, and
similar public and semi-public uses and facilities.
      3.   A development schedule indicating:
         a.   The approximate date when construction of the project can be
expected to begin.
         b.   The stages in which the project will be built and the approximate
date when construction of each stage can be expected to begin.
         c.   The anticipated rate of development.
         d.   The approximate dates when each stage in the development will be
completed.
         e.   The area, location and degree of development of common open space
that will be provided at each stage.
      4.   Agreements, provisions or covenants which govern the use,
maintenance, financial support, and continued protection of the planned unit
development and any of its common open space areas.
   D.   In addition to the above requirements for a tentative plan, the final
plan shall contain a plot plan for each building site and common open space
area, showing the location of buildings, structures and other improvements and
indicating the open spaces around buildings and structures. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983;
1989 Code)
7-5-6: COMMON OPEN SPACES:
   A.   An acceptable common open space program shall meet the following
criteria:
      1.   The location, size and authorized uses are appropriate to the
character of the proposed development.
      2.   Open space shall be improved for the use intended and shall be
completed on a schedule coordinated with the residential construction in the
development.
      3.   The developer shall post a bond or other approved assurance that the
improvements in the common open space will be completed within a specified
period of time. The County shall release the bond or other assurance when the
improvements have been completed according to the development plan.
   B.   Open space management shall conform to one of the following:
      1.   Common open space shown on the final development plan shall be
conveyed to an association of owners or tenants, created as a nonprofit
corporation under the laws of the State. There shall be restrictions in the
deed which provide that failure of the association to provide maintenance
during the growing season and to protect grass, shrubbery and trees for the
following periods of time, ownership and control is automatically vested in the
County:
         a.   Lack of water - one week.
         b.   Lack of insect pest control - one month.
         c.   Lack of weed control - one growing season.
         d.   Lack of recreation facility maintenance and serviceability - one
growing season.
The association shall adopt and impose articles of incorporation and bylaws and
adopt and impose a declaration of covenants and restrictions on the common open
space that is acceptable to and approved by the County. Such an association
shall be formed and continued for the purpose of maintaining the common open
space and all improvements. Such provisions shall be set forth as a part of
each sale, lease or rental contract or deed involving any lot, parcel,
facility, component or interest in the subject development.
      2.   In lieu of the above, the common open space may be dedicated to the
public. The home owners' association may act as an advisory body to the County
on the types and quality of maintenance and improvements proposed within these
common open space areas. In this case, the home owners' association shall,
before the beginning of April each year, pay the County for the maintenance
costs incurred the previous growing season. Special funding and payment
schedules may be mutually agreed to between the County and the home owners'
association for new capital improvements to the open space sponsored by that
association.
   C.   In the event the home owners' association becomes ineffective, the
County shall create a special service district controlled by the County to
provide for payment of maintenance and improvements carried out by the County
on the open space.
   D.   No common open space may be put to a use not specified in the final
development plan unless the final development plan is first amended to permit
the use. However, no change of use may be authorized as a waiver of any of the
covenants limiting the use of common open space areas and all rights to enforce
these covenants against any use permitted are expressly reserved by the County.
(Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-5-7: REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
Review and decision procedures by the Planning Department, Planning Commission
and County Court will be conducted in conformance with Chapters 2, 3 and 6 of
this Title. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
CHAPTER 6
FINAL SUBDIVISION AND PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES
SECTION:
7-6-1:   Final Application And Approval
7-6-2:   Filing Procedure
7-6-3:   Oregon Real Estate Commissioner
7-6-4:   Form Of Final Plat
7-6-5:   Contents Of Final Plats
7-6-6:   Review By County Surveyor
7-6-7:   Final Plat Monument Standards
7-6-8:   Final Plat Affidavit Of Survey
7-6-9:   Bond For Interior Monuments
7-6-10:   Certification On A Final Plat Of A Subdivision Or Development
7-6-11:   Dedications And Public Utility Requirements
7-6-12:   Designation And Conveyance Of Reserve Strips As Lots
7-6-13:   Improvements
7-6-14:   Water And Sewage Requirements
7-6-15:   Recording Of Final Plat
7-6-16:   Partitioning Of Lots In Platted Subdivisions And Planned Unit
Developments
7-6-1: FINAL APPLICATION AND APPROVAL:
Within one year from the date of any approval or conditional approval of the
proposed plan, the subdivider may submit a final plat conforming to this
chapter and
chapters 4 and
8 of this title. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
7-6-2: FILING PROCEDURE:
The subdivider shall file with the county planning department one complete set
of original tracings, four (4) copies from the tracings, and one copy of deed,
deed restrictions, covenants, homeowners' association agreements, bonding
agreements for improvements and any other relevant documents and information.
(Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
7-6-3: OREGON REAL ESTATE COMMISSIONER:
The subdivider shall provide a statement from the real estate commissioner's
office indicating that appropriate documentation has been received by that
office to conform to ORS 92.305 to 92.495. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
7-6-4: FORM OF FINAL PLAT:
The final plat shall be prepared in accordance with ORS 92.080. All plats
subdividing any tracts of land in the county and dedications of streets or
roads and other writings made a part of such plats offered for record in the
county shall be made in permanent black India ink, upon material that is
eighteen inches by twenty four inches (18" x 24") in size, is a good quality
linen, tracing cloth, Mylar or other suitable drafting material having the same
or better capabilities of strength, stability and transparency, and is suitable
for binding and copying purposes. The scale of the plat and the lettering shall
be of such a size as will be clearly legible but no part shall come nearer than
one inch (1") to any edge of the sheet. The plat may be placed on as many
sheets as necessary but a face sheet and index page shall be included for plats
placed upon three (3) or more sheets. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
7-6-5: CONTENTS OF FINAL PLATS:
The final plat shall show the following:
   A.   Number And Name: The plat number and name of the development or
subdivision, date of preparation, north point and scale.
   B.   Legal Description: A legal description of all the property being
developed or subdivided, by reference to recorded subdivisions and sectional
surveys.
   C.   Documentation: Affidavits, certificates, acknowledgments, endorsements,
acceptance of dedication and notarial seals required by state law and by this
title.
   D.   Streets: The locations, names and widths of streets and rights of way.
   E.   Pedestrian And Bicycle Facilities: The locations, design and widths of
pedestrian and bicycle facilities, including accessways.
   F.   Open Space: The locations and dimensions of all open space, public
areas and the net acreage of each.
   G.   Easements: The widths and side lines of all easements to which the lots
are subject, and the book and page number of the county records in which any
previously existent easement appears. Easement for utilities and other similar
purposes shall be denoted by broken lines.
   H.   Locations And Widths: Locations and widths of drainage channels,
irrigation canals, railroad rights of way, reserve strips, streets, alleys and
pedestrianways adjacent to the proposed development or subdivision.
   I.   Rights Of Access: Limitations on rights of access to and from streets
and lots and other parcels of land; dedications of access rights to specific
lots where appropriate.
   J.   City Boundary Lines: City boundary lines, near or adjacent to the
subdivision.
   K.   High Water Lines: Normal high water lines for any creek, river or other
body of water.
   L.   Dimensions: The net dimensions of each lot. Ditto marks may be used
where lot dimensions are repetitively identical. Sufficient data shall be shown
to determine readily the bearing and length of each lot line.
   M.   Lot Numbers: Lot numbers beginning with the number "1" and numbered
consecutively in each block; block numbers beginning with the number "1" and
continuing consecutively without omission or duplication throughout the
subdivision. Block numbers in an addition to a subdivision of the same name
shall be a continuation of the number of the original subdivision.
   N.   For Planned Unit Developments: Appropriate architectural and site
development plans drawn to scale which shall show proposed subsurface sewage
system disposal locations or locations of other means of sewage disposal; water
well locations; building locations; specific landscaping; prominent existing
trees; ground treatment; sight obscuring fences and hedges; off street parking;
vehicular, bicycle and pedestrian circulation; major exterior elevations of
buildings, design of advertising structures in conformance with sign standards
in the zoning ordinance 1 .
   O.   Additional Information: Additional information required by the planning
commission as a condition of tentative plat approval.
   P.   Surveying Data: The following surveying data:
      1.   The radius, length, central angle, long chord distance and bearing
and tangent of all curves.
      2.   The location of all permanent monuments within the proposed
subdivision.
      3.   Ties to and names of adjacent subdivisions.
      4.   Ties to boundary lines and section or one-quarter (1/4) section
corners immediately surrounding the plat.
      5.   Adequate boundary control surveys and/or sectional subdivisions and
proper monumentation according to ORS chapter 92. (Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See
   title 6, chapter 7 of this code.
7-6-6: REVIEW BY COUNTY SURVEYOR:
The county surveyor shall examine the plat for compliance with requirements for
accuracy and completeness and shall collect such fees as are provided by state
law. He may make checks in the field to verify that the map is sufficiently
correct on the ground and he may enter the property for this purpose. If he
determines that there has not been full conformity, he shall advise the
subdivider of the changes or additions that must be made and afford the
subdivider an opportunity to make such changes or additions. When the county
surveyor determines that full conformity has been made, he shall so certify and
return the plat to the planning office. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
7-6-7: FINAL PLAT MONUMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   The initial point of all final plats shall be marked with a monument,
either of stone, concrete or galvanized iron pipe. If stone or concrete is
used, it shall not be less than six inches by twenty four inches (6" x 24"). If
galvanized iron pipe is used, it shall not be less than two inches (2") in
diameter and three feet (3') long. The monument shall be set or driven six
inches (6") below the surface of the ground. The location of the monument shall
be with reference to some known corner established by the United States survey.
   B.   The intersections of all streets and roads and all points on the
exterior boundary where the boundary line changes direction shall be marked
with monuments either of stone, concrete, galvanized iron pipe, or iron or
steel rods. If stone or concrete is used, it shall not be less than one inch
(1") in diameter and thirty inches (30") long, and if iron or steel rods are
used, they shall not be less than five-eighths inch (5/8") in least dimension
and thirty inches (30") long.
   C.   All lot corners except lot corners of cemetery lots shall be marked
with monuments of either galvanized iron pipe not less than one-half inch (1/
2") in diameter or iron or steel rods not less than one-half inch (1/2") in
least dimension and twenty four inches (24") long.
   D.   Points shall be plainly and permanently marked upon monuments so that
measurements may be taken to them to within one-tenth of a foot (.10').
   E.   All monuments for the exterior boundaries of a subdivision shall be
marked and such monuments shall be referenced on the plat of the subdivision
before the plat of the subdivision is offered for recording. However, interior
monuments for the subdivision need not be set prior to the recording of the
plat of the subdivision if the engineer or land surveyor performing the survey
work certifies that the interior monuments will be set on or before a specified
date as provided in subsection
7-6-8B of this Chapter and if the person subdividing the land furnished to the
County Court a bond or cash deposit guaranteeing the payment of the cost of
setting the interior monuments for the subdivision as provided in Section
7-6-9 of this Chapter. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-6-8: FINAL PLAT AFFIDAVIT OF SURVEY:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this Section, all final plats shall
have attached thereon an affidavit of the surveyor having surveyed the land
represented on the plat, to the effect that he has correctly surveyed and
marked with proper monument as provided in Section
7-6-7 of this Chapter indicating the initial point of such monument, and its
location with reference to some known corner established by the United States
survey, or giving two (2) or more objects for identifying its location, and
accurately describing the tract of land upon which the lot and blocks are laid
out.
   B.   If the person subdividing any land has complied with Section
7-6-9, the surveyor may prepare the plat of the subdivision for recording with
only the exterior monuments referenced thereon as submitted for recording.
There shall be attached to any such final plat the affidavit of the surveyor
that the interior monuments for the subdivision will be marked on or before a
specified date in accordance with Section
7-6-7 and referenced on the plat for the subdivision as approved by the County.
   C.   After the interior monuments for a subdivision have been marked as
provided in an affidavit submitted under subsection B of this Section, the
surveyor performing such work shall:
      1.   Within five (5) days after completion of such work, notify the
person subdividing the land involved, the County Surveyor and the County Court.
      2.   Reference such monuments on an exact copy of the subdivision plat as
previously recorded.
      3.   Upon approval of such plat copy under ORS 92.100, file such plat
copy with the County Court.
   D.   Upon receipt of a plat copy filed pursuant to subsection C of this
Section, the County Clerk shall record such plat copy and endorse the recording
reference for such plat copy upon the plat of the subdivision previously
recorded. The recording reference for such plat copy shall operate as reference
to the interior monuments referenced on such plat and shall constitute
constructive notice of such monument references for all purposes as though such
monuments had been referenced on the plat of the subdivision as previously
recorded. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-6-9: BOND FOR INTERIOR MONUMENTS:
   A.   If the interior monuments for a subdivision are to be marked on or
before a specified date after the recording of the plat of the subdivision, the
person subdividing the land described in such plat shall furnish, prior to
recording the plat, to the County Court a bond or cash deposit, at the option
of the Board, in an amount equal to not more than one hundred twenty percent
(120%) of the estimated cost of performing the work for the interior
monumentation.
   B.   If the person subdividing the lands described in subsection A of this
Section pays the surveyor for performing the interior monumentation work and
notifies the County Court of such payment, the Court, within three (3) months
after such notice, shall release the bond or return the cash deposit upon
finding that such payment has been made. Upon written request from the person
subdividing the land, the Court may pay the surveyor from monies within a cash
deposit, if any, to such person.
   C.   In the event of the death, disability or retirement from practice of
the surveyor charged with the responsibility for setting interior monuments for
a subdivision or upon the failure or refusal of such surveyor to set such
monuments, the County Court may direct the County Surveyor in his official
capacity or contract with a surveyor in private practice to set such monuments
and reference such monuments for recording as provided in ORS 92.070. Payment
of the fees of a County Surveyor or private surveyor performing such work shall
be made as otherwise provided in this Section. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-6-10: CERTIFICATION ON A FINAL PLAT OF A SUBDIVISION OR DEVELOPMENT:
The following certificates and acknowledgments and others required by State law
shall appear on the final plat. Such certificates may be combined where
appropriate:
   A.   A certificate of ownership, signed and acknowledged by the record owner
and all parties owning an interest in the property, consenting to the
preparation and recordation of the final plat, offering for dedication all
parcels of land, streets, alleys, pedestrianways, drainage channels, easements
and other rights of way intended for public use, and offering for dedication
rights of access to and from prescribed streets, lots and parcels of land.
   B.   A certificate of the registered engineer or licensed surveyor who
prepared the survey and the final plat specifying that it is an accurate survey
as prescribed in this Title and in accordance with State law.
   C.   A certificate for execution by the chairman of the Planning Commission.
   D.   A certificate for execution by the irrigation and/or drainage district,
where applicable water control district, water improvement district, drainage
district or irrigation district; otherwise, a statement of water rights.
   E.   A certificate of execution by the County Surveyor.
   F.   A certificate of execution by the County Tax Collector.
   G.   A certificate of execution by the County Assessor.
   H.   A certificate for execution by the irrigation district, where
applicable.
   I.   A certificate for execution by the County Court.
   J.   A certificate for execution by the Water Master regarding any water
right.
   K.   A certificate for execution by the mayor of an incorporated city within
six (6) miles verifying city council approval of the plat. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983;
1989 Code)
7-6-11: DEDICATIONS AND PUBLIC UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All parcels of land shown on the final plat as intended for public use
shall be offered for dedication for public use at the time the proposed final
plat is filed, except those parcels which are intended for the exclusive use of
lot owners in the subdivision, their licensees, visitors, tenants and servants,
and except parcels of land reserved for public use under the provision of
Section
7-6-12. Lands to be devoted to public use are subject to utility or other
easements.
   B.   All streets, pedestrianways, drainage channels, easements and other
rights of way shown on the final plat as intended for public use shall be
offered for dedication for public use at the time the final plat is filed.
   C.   All rights of access to and from streets, lots and parcels of land
shown on the final plat intended to be surrounded shall be offered for
dedication at the time the final plat is filed. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-6-12: DESIGNATION AND CONVEYANCE OF RESERVE STRIPS AS LOTS:
One foot (1') reserve strips provided across the end of stubbed streets
adjoining unsubdivided land or along half streets adjoining unsubdivided land
may be designated; provided, however, that such reserve strip lots shall be
exempt from all other provisions of this Title which govern the size or shape
of lots or which are otherwise applicable to lots. Reserve strips shall be
deeded to the County. The sole lawful purpose of reserve strips is to prevent
access to abutting property only until such time as corresponding right of way
is dedicated adjacent to the reserve strip upon that abutting property. At such
time the restrictions upon the respective reserve strip or portion thereof
shall automatically become null and void. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
7-6-13: IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The subdivider shall improve, or shall agree to improve and provide
bonds accordingly, all lands dedicated for streets, alleys, pedestrianways,
drainage channels, easements and other rights of way; all parks and recreation
areas; as a condition precedent to acceptance thereof and approval of the final
plat.
   B.   Improvements shall conform with the specifications of design and
materials prescribed by the adopted county road standards or the standards of
the appropriate road district. The subdivider shall give notice to the county
planning department and road department and appropriate road district prior to
the commencement of construction of improvements. (Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
   C.   The subdivider shall place or bear the cost of placement of all other
public utilities such as electrical service, water, sewer, etc. Such utilities
shall be stubbed to each lot line to be serviced before the road is
constructed.
   D.   The county shall have the right to enter upon the sites of improvements
for the purpose of inspecting them. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
   E.   Any required improvements, plans and profiles and specifications of
proposed road, water and sewage improvements shall be submitted to the
appropriate county department for approval at the time the final plat is
submitted for checking if this had not been previously done. Such plans and
profiles shall show the full details of the proposed improvements. In the event
that the developer wishes to construct improvements prior to the filing of the
final plat, the county planning director may authorize initiation of such
construction, upon submission by the developer of plans and profiles giving
full details of the proposed improvements which conform substantially to the
approved tentative plat as modified through the approval procedure following
written concurrence by the county road department or appropriate road district
1 . (Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
   F.   Any performance agreement required plus four (4) copies of the same
shall be submitted to the planning director to be distributed to, and reviewed
by the county engineer, roadmaster, district attorney and environmental health
director on forms provided by the planning department. Based upon the
recommendations of other departments, the planning director shall require a
security amount adequate to cover the cost of all required improvements and
related work. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-3-7 of this title.
7-6-14: WATER AND SEWAGE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Evidence Of Water Supply: In developments to be served by individual or
community wells, documentation of test wells or other hydrologic testing which
demonstrate an adequate supply for all anticipated needs of the development
will be required before final approval is given.
   B.   Evidence Of Sewage Disposal: Written certification of an available
method of sewage disposal as required by the department of environmental
quality adequate to serve each lot intended for sewage disposal shall be
provided prior to approval of final plat by the county court.
   C.   Drainage: Where topographical and drainage conditions warrant, improved
drainageways and drainage works may be required. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989
Code)
7-6-15: RECORDING OF FINAL PLAT:
   A.   No plat shall have any force or effect until the same has been finally
approved by the county court. No title to any property described in any offer
of dedication shall pass until the final plat has been recorded.
   B.   No plat shall be recorded unless all ad valorem taxes and all special
assessments fees or other charges required by law to be placed upon the tax
roll, which have become a lien upon the subdivision or which will become a lien
during the calendar year, have been paid.
   C.   The developer shall also submit with the final plat an exact copy
thereof, made with permanent black India type ink or silver halide, permanent
photocopy upon a good quality of linen, tracing cloth, Mylar, or other suitable
drafting material having the same or better characteristics of strength,
stability and transparency. The engineer or surveyor who made the plat shall
make an affidavit to indicate that the photocopy or tracing is an exact copy of
the plat. The copy shall be filed with the county recorder and shall be filed
in the archives of the county, and be preserved by filing without folding. The
applicant shall provide without cost, prints from such copy to the county
assessor, environmental health director, county engineer, county planning
department and appropriate postal and fire protection agencies.
The final plat shall be accompanied by a filing fee as set by the county court.
(Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
7-6-16: PARTITIONING OF LOTS IN PLATTED SUBDIVISIONS AND PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENTS:
Lots described on subdivision plats that have been filed under this title shall
not be partitioned under
chapter 7 of this title. Property in a platted subdivision may be redivided
only if the property is replatted according to the provisions of this chapter
or
chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
CHAPTER 7
LAND PARTITIONING
SECTION:
7-7-1:   Applicability Of Regulations
7-7-2:   Procedures And Requirements For Filing
7-7-3:   Requirements For Tentative Or Conditional Approval
7-7-4:   Improvement Requirements
7-7-5:   Administrative Record Of Partitioning
7-7-6:   Approval Requirements For Creation Of A Fourth Parcel By Partitioning
7-7-7:   Final Map Of Partition
7-7-8:   Certification Of Final Approval
7-7-9:   Application Review
7-7-10:   Appeal
7-7-11:   Special Partitioning Regulations
7-7-12:   Partitioning For Financial Purposes
7-7-13:   Notice And Effect Of Violation
7-7-1: APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Review: All land partitioning within the county shall be reviewed by
the planning director or his designate as provided by section
7-2-3 of this title. The planning director may issue tentative approval of the
partition if the proposal is in conformance with requirements of this chapter,
and it does not require referral to the planning commission as provided by
sections
7-7-3 and
7-7-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Tentative Approval: The planning director or his designate may, at his
discretion, refer any partition proposal to the planning commission for
tentative approval after completion of the technical review.
   C.   Objectives: It is one of the objectives of this chapter to encourage or
require that the partitioning of land contribute to the betterment of the
respective neighborhood and the county as a whole. Irrespective of the zone
district, a partition proposal may be required to meet the standards of
chapters
4,
5 and
6 of this title which are appropriate, by virtue of surrounding development or
requirements of the comprehensive plan, to the specific site. The most common
requirement to be met will be the requirement to grant right of way for the
transportation network.
   D.   Note: A partitioner must prepare filings with the Oregon real estate
commissioner as required in ORS 92.305 through 92.485 prior to sale or
advertisement for sale of any lot within an approved subdivision. Because of
this, it is recommended that the partitioner acquaint himself with the
regulations of the Oregon real estate commissioner before proceeding with a
partition within a subdivision or a series partition. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd.
1989 Code)
7-7-2: PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS FOR FILING:
Any person proposing a land partition, or his authorized agent or
representative, shall provide the following documents, in the manner prescribed
below, along with the appropriate filing fee to the planning department:
   A.   One copy of a completed Malheur County partition application, and
either subsection B or C of this section, whichever is applicable. The design
standards of
chapter 4 of this title shall apply.
   B.   Proposal for partition of land in an EFU, ERU or EFFU zone shall submit
one copy of a tentative map for partitioning as provided below:
      1.   The tentative map for partitioning may be submitted on the Malheur
County assessor's map which includes the property to be partitioned.
      2.   A plan of the proposed partitioning drawn in on the assessor's map
which shows the dimensions and legal descriptions of the parcels to be created,
location of all existing and proposed easements, and location of existing
residential structures on the subject parcel.
      3.   Name and address of the applicant, the landowner (if different),
intended owner of new parcels (if known), present use of property, and any
intended changes of use. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
      4.   For partitioning to accommodate legally existing dwelling site:
intended access route to county road or state highway and legal description of
access easement. For all other partitions: intended route of proposed new road
right of way necessary to provide frontage upon a public road or street for all
parcels created and to serve lands beyond, and a legal description of that
proposed right of way. Location of any proposed right of way shall be agreed to
by the planning director after consultation with the county engineer and shall
be consistent with the transportation system plan. Direct preliminary
discussion with the county engineer is recommended. (Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
      5.   Date of preparation, signature of preparer and signature of
landowner.
   C.   Proposals for land partitioning in all zones other than those specified
in subsection B of this section at minimum shall submit a tentative map for
partitioning as provided below:
      1.   A vicinity map locating the proposed partitioning in relation to
adjacent subdivisions, roadways and adjoining land use and ownership patterns.
The map must include names of all existing roadways shown therein. (An
assessor's tax lot map may be used for this item.)
      2.   A plan of the proposed partitioning on forms provided by the
planning department, showing approximate tract boundaries and dimensions, the
approximate area of each tract or parcel, locations of all easements, and the
names, right of way widths and improvement standards of existing roads.
      3.   Names and addresses of the landowner, the applicant (if different),
a mortgage if applicable, and the engineer or surveyor employed or to be
employed to make necessary surveys and prepare the legal descriptions of each
parcel to be created.
      4.   A statement regarding contemplated water supply, sewage disposal,
fire protection and access.
      5.   North point, scale and date of map, and property identification by
tax lot, section, township and range.
      6.   Statement regarding past, present and intended use of the parcels to
be created, or the use for which the parcels are to be offered.
      7.   If a tract of land has water rights, the application shall be
accompanied by a water rights division plan approved by the irrigation district
or other water district holding the water rights, or when there is no such
district, by the county water master.
      8.   Location of all existing buildings, canals, ditches, septic tanks
and drainfields.
      9.   Location of any topographical feature which could impact the
partition, such as canyons, bluffs, rock outcroppings, natural springs and
floodplains. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
      10.   For partitioning to accommodate legally existing dwelling site:
intended access route to county road or state highway and legal description of
access easement. For all other partitions: intended route of proposed new road
right of way necessary to provide frontage upon a public road or street for all
parcels created and to serve lands beyond, and a legal description of that
proposed right of way. Location of any proposed right of way shall be agreed to
by the planning director after consultation with the county engineer and shall
be consistent with the transportation system plan. Direct preliminary
discussion with the county engineer is recommended.
      11.   Location, width, name, approximate location and approximate grade
of all proposed rights of way.
      12.   The location and design of all proposed pedestrian and bicycle
facilities, including accessways if required by this title or the zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
7-7-3: REQUIREMENTS FOR TENTATIVE OR CONDITIONAL APPROVAL:
   A.   No application for partitioning in any zone shall receive tentative
approval unless the following minimum requirements are met:
      1.   A minimum of five (5) years since the subject land was last involved
in a partition creating three (3) parcels. If only two (2) parcels were
created, the third parcel may be created without resetting the five (5) year
clock. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
      2.   Proposal is in compliance with the comprehensive plan,
transportation system plan and applicable zoning.
      3.   Proposal does not conflict with acquired public access easements
within or adjacent to the partition and contributes its appropriate share to
widening, extension and improvement of public rights of way and easements.
(Ord. 125, 6-20-2000)
      4.   Each parcel is suited for the use intended or offered.
      5.   An approved water rights division plan is provided if water rights
are involved in the action.
      6.   A statement from the administrative officer of any incorporated city
within six (6) miles of the proposed partition stating any recommendations
planning, engineering or other appropriate staff of the city have regarding the
proposed partition.
   B.   In addition to the requirements specified in subsection A of this
section, no partition in any zone other than EFU, ERU or EFFU shall receive
tentative approval unless all required public services and facilities are
available and adequate or are proposed to be provided by the petitioner. (Ord.
25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
   C.   The planning director or his designate shall complete his technical
review of partition proposals and then forward to the planning commission all
partition proposals which create lots for which a street or road dedication is
necessary in order to provide the frontage each parcel must have upon a public
road or street (a major partition).
   D.   The county shall provide notice to the Oregon department of
transportation (ODOT) as required by OAR 660-12-045(2)(f). (Ord. 125, 6-20-
2000)
7-7-4: IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minor Partitions: Inside all zones other than EFU, ERU or EFFU,
available public utilities shall be provided as prescribed by subsection
7-6-13C of this title, to all parcels created by the proposed partitioning.
(Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
   B.   Major Partitions:
      1.   Inside all zones other than EFU, ERU or EFFU, available public
utilities shall be provided, as prescribed by section
7-6-13 of this title to parcels created by the proposed partitioning.
      2.   In all zones, partitions which do not have frontage on a county or
public road shall provide a road from the nearest county or public road to the
parcels which are to be created by the partitioning. Exception: Those cases
where a single flag lot can be used to provide necessary frontage on an
existing public road or street, the nearest one-half (1/2) right of way of
which conforms to the width standards of this title. The road shall be
constructed to the standards specified by the road department for the area of
the county in which the property is located, and by the adopted road standards
and access management guidelines, or by the standards of the appropriate road
district.
Major partition roads shall be dedicated to the public, and may be accepted
into the county road system. Said roads shall be provided as prescribed by
section
7-6-13 of this title.
      3.   The dedication of additional right of way and widening of the
existing streets adjacent to or within a tract shall be required where such
existing facilities do not conform to dimensional standards herein or are
inadequate to safely accommodate traffic anticipated by the county road
department.
Through lanes, turn lanes, frontage roads or walkways may be required to ensure
traffic and pedestrian safety and to ensure efficient traffic flow. (Ord. 125,
6-20-2000)
7-7-5: ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD OF PARTITIONING:
The planning department shall implement a current record of all partitioning
approved in the county. This record may be the recorded records of the county
clerk. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; amd. 1989 Code)
7-7-6: APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CREATION OF A FOURTH PARCEL BY PARTITIONING:
When any property which exists as a unit of ownership at the date of adoption
of this title (regardless of intervening ownership changes of the entire
property of new parcels) is partitioned into three (3) parcels, the application
for creation of the fourth parcel on the property shall be administered in
conformance with the following provisions:
   A.   The planning director shall review the application for compliance with
this title and shall transmit the partition application and his comments to the
planning commission. The planning director shall not have the authority to
approve a partitioning application for creation of a fourth parcel from a unit
of ownership which existed at the date of adoption of this title.
   B.   When a partitioning application is referred to the planning commission
as provided in this section, the planning commission review shall be conducted
as follows:
      1.   The applicant shall submit a master plan for future development of
the entire property. This plan shall be constructed in conformance with
sections
7-3-1 through
7-3-6 of this title.
      2.   The commission shall conduct a master plan review in conformance
with section
7-3-7 of this title.
      3.   Appeal and termination of a master plan approval shall be conducted
in conformance with Sections
7-3-8 and
7-3-9 of this Title.
   C.   The approved master plan shall be kept on file in the Planning
Department, and shall guide future development of the property unless changes
are approved by the Commission.
   D.   Once a master plan has been approved as required in subsection B of
this Section, further partitionings may be approved by the Planning Director,
or his designate, provided that all further partitioning requests are in
substantive conformance with the approved master plan.
   E.   All partitions processed under this Section shall be surveyed. (Ord.
25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-7-7: FINAL MAP OF PARTITION:
Following approval of the tentative plan for a proposed partitioning, the
applicant shall prepare and submit to the Planning Department the final map or
drawing for the subject partitioning. Such filing shall be completed within six
(6) months from the date of the approval, or the approval shall be void. The
final map or drawing shall be prepared in accordance with the following
requirements and submitted to the Planning Department:
   A.   Final Map In EFU, EFFU Or ERU Zones: In EFU, EFFU or ERU Zones, the
tentative map may act as the final map if no changes are required by the
Planning Director, or his designate or the Planning Commission.
   B.   Final Map In Zones Other Than EFU, EFFU Or ERU: In zones other than
EFU, EFFU or ERU, the final map shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Maps shall be drawn on eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2"
x 11") sheets or forms provided by the Planning Department.
      2.   They shall be drawn to scale sufficient to show necessary detail.
      3.   Name of the owner, developer and engineer or surveyor shall be shown
on the map or drawing.
      4.   Date, scale, north point, legal description of boundaries and a tie
by actual survey to a section or donation land claim corner.
      5.   Parcel boundary lines, with dimensions and bearings and the area of
each parcel shall be shown. Horizontal closure of all parcel boundaries shall
be one in ten thousand (10,000) or better.
      6.   An affidavit by the engineer or surveyor having surveyed the land.
      7.   A certification of acceptance of any public dedication.
      8.   A guarantee of approved or required improvements, including
identification of maintenance responsibilities for proposed or existing roads
and streets.
      9.   A statement of availability of water rights. Also, assignment of
water right to each parcel shall be indicated on the map or drawing and
certification of approval thereof.
      10.   Certification of approval for execution by the parties specified in
Section
7-7-8 of this Chapter. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
   C.   Validity: In all cases, no such partition map, plat or plan shall be
recorded or have validity unless it shall have the approval of the County
Planning Director, the County Surveyor and the County Assessor. Approval shall
be by dated signature in permanent black ink. (Ord. 96A, 1-2-1996)
7-7-8: CERTIFICATION OF FINAL APPROVAL:
A final map shall be considered to have final approval upon completion of the
following:
   A.   Minor Partitions: Minor partitions must meet the following for final
approval:
      1.   Execution of a certification of approval by the Planning Director or
his designate.
      2.   Execution of a certification of approval by the chairman of the
Planning Commission if the proposal has been referred to the Commission.
      3.   Completion or satisfactory guarantee of completion of all conditions
or requirements specified in the tentative approval.
      4.   A statement of water rights.
   B.   Major Partitions: Major partitioning must meet the following for final
approval:
      1.   Execution of a certification of approval by the Planning Director or
his designate.
      2.   Execution of a certification of approval by the chairman of the
Planning Commission.
      3.   Execution of a certification of approval by the County Court.
      4.   Execution of a certification of approval by the city council of any
city within six (6) miles.
      5.   Completion or satisfactory guarantee of completion of all conditions
and requirements specified in the tentative approval.
      6.   A statement of water rights. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-7-9: APPLICATION REVIEW:
   A.   Within ten (10) working days after receiving an application for a land
partitioning, the Planning Director shall, after consultation with the County
Surveyor, initiate review of the application and tentative map, and shall give
tentative approval, deny or refer the proposal to the Planning Commission.
   B.   When an application is referred to the Planning Commission by the
Planning Director under provisions of Section
7-7-1 of this Chapter, the Commission shall either give tentative approval,
deny or require modification in the proposal. Such action shall take place at
the next regular meeting after referral from the Planning Director.
   C.   When an application is referred to the Planning Commission under
provisions of Section
7-7-3 of this Chapter, action shall proceed as specified in Section
7-7-6 of this Chapter.
   D.   The Planning Commission may, of its own initiative, review a tentative
approval by the Planning Director. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-7-10: APPEAL:
An appeal of decision or requirements of the Planning Director or Planning
Commission shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 9 of this Title. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-7-11: SPECIAL PARTITIONING REGULATIONS:
   A.   The partitioning of a tract of land in which not more than one parcel
is created and transferred to a public or semi-public agency for the purpose of
a road, railroad, electric substation or canal right of way may be approved by
the Planning Director. A filing fee may be required.
   B.   The adjustment of a lot line by the relocation of a common boundary may
be approved by the Planning Director. Such adjustments shall be presented on
the same partition map as required for the zone in which the property is
located.
A boundary adjustment does not include any of the following:
      1.   Creation of an additional parcel, ownership or tax lot.
      2.   Reduction of a parcel below the minimum lot size required by the
applicable zoning other than EFU, ERU and EFFU classifications. Within the EFU,
ERU and EFFU Zones, the lot line adjustment shall be subject to the land
division criteria of Section
6-3A-5 of the Zoning Title of this Code.
      3.   Transfer of dwellings from one ownership to another.
   C.   A memorandum of partition may be recorded with the County Clerk, on a
form prescribed by the Planning Director, indicating that a partition has been
made in accordance with the provisions of this Title, and that the survey maps
have been filed with the Clerk. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-7-12: PARTITIONING FOR FINANCIAL PURPOSES:
   A.   Upon application to the Planning Director, a special permit may be
granted authorizing the creation of a security interest in a parcel of land
which is in an EFU, EFFU or ERU Zone.
   B.   Permits issued under the authority of this Section shall be subject to
the following limitations and restrictions:
      1.   A parcel possessed or subject to a right of possession by a person
under the terms of a foreclosure of a security interest, and the remaining
parcels, must remain in the same legal use the parcels were in at the time the
interest became possessory, except the parcels may be put into agricultural
use; but in no case may an additional structure or improvement, other than that
which is the subject of the applicable security interest, be added to any
parcel by the authority of the permit authorized in subsection A of this
Section. In order to establish uses other than agriculture or to erect
structures other than farm accessory structures, the owner of the parcel must
secure a land partitioning approval as otherwise required by this Title.
      2.   The permit authorized in subsection A of this Section shall be valid
only for the time of the life of the security interest, except in the case of
default and foreclosure upon the interest. In the case of default and
foreclosure, the permit shall be valid only until a land partitioning permit is
granted or the parcels are rejoined in a contiguous unit of land under the same
ownership.
      3.   At the expiration of the security interest if there is no default or
foreclosure, the parcels shall be deemed to be rejoined into a contiguous unit
of land under one ownership and shall be reunited or combined into a single tax
lot and this permit authorization automatically becomes void.
The owner of the property shall be in violation of this Title if he has not,
within thirty (30) days of the permit becoming void, made written application
to the County Assessor for the combination of the parcels into a single tax
lot.
   C.   No permit may be issued under this Section until the owners of the
subject property and the holder of the security interest sign a statement
indicating that all parties agree to comply with the limits being placed upon
the permit.
   D.   The permit issued under this Section shall be immediately void if the
owner of the property attempts any transfer of the subject parcels except as
provided by the terms of the permit or of this Title and the Zoning Ordinance,
Title 6 of this Code.
   E.   The partitioning permit authorized by this Section shall be granted
only if the applicant certifies and the Planning Director finds that:
      1.   The intended partitioning is temporary and not created for the
purpose of evasion of the requirements of this Title, other County ordinances
or regulations or State law.
      2.   The partitioning will not result in the need for additional roads or
other access.
      3.   The partitioning will not result in the need for additional
improvements.
      4.   The partitioning will not interfere with adjoining and area land
uses.
      5.   The partitioning will not violate any provisions of applicable
zoning or policies of the Comprehensive Plan.
   F.   In those situations where foreclosure of less than the full property
was not contemplated at the time of financing, and in situations where the
lender is willing to allow the landowner to retain his dwelling and not more
than three (3) acres, and the landowner will be resident in the dwelling for at
least one year, the Planning Director may apply the provisions of this Section
retroactively. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-7-13: NOTICE AND EFFECT OF VIOLATION:
   A.   Any property action which is subject to partitioning and which is not
approved by the procedures prescribed in this Chapter is a violation of this
Title.
   B.   Notification of such violation will be made by certified return-receipt
mail. The violator will be given adequate opportunity to correct the offending
action. Failure by the County to discover the violation or give notice shall
not change the legal status of the violation.
   C.   If the action is not corrected within the specified time, a document
will be filed with the Malheur County Clerk. This document will reference the
property which is in violation, and will encumber the title to the property.
Specifically, use of the property for any further development will be
forbidden. The purchaser (if one is involved) will obtain no rights pertaining
to ownership or utilization of the property.
   D.   Penalties for violation as prescribed in this Title may also be pursued
by the County. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
CHAPTER 8
VARIANCES
SECTION:
7-8-1:   Variances Authorized
7-8-2:   Application
7-8-3:   Referrals
7-8-4:   Action Of Planning Commission
7-8-5:   Appeal Of Variance Decision
7-8-1: VARIANCES AUTHORIZED:
   A.   Specific variances, unrestricted or conditional, to the regulations
prescribed by this Title may be authorized by the Planning Commission in
accordance with the procedures prescribed in Section
7-8-4 of this Chapter.
   B.   Application for a variance shall be deemed to constitute a request for,
and consent to a waiver of the statutory one hundred twenty (120) day
application processing time provided in ORS 215.428. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989
Code)
7-8-2: APPLICATION:
   A.   Application for a variance shall be made to the Planning Director in
writing. The subdivider/partitioner shall state fully the grounds of the
application, the facts relied upon and any other data pertinent to the findings
prerequisite to the granting of a variance as prescribed in Section
7-8-4 of this Chapter. The application shall be filed at the time of filing the
preliminary plat of the subdivision or partition.
   B.   The applicant shall submit a statement and supporting facts for each of
the findings to be made by the Commission in Section
7-8-4 of this Chapter. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-8-3: REFERRALS:
The Planning Director shall transmit copies of the application for a variance
to the County Engineer. The Planning Director shall forward the County
Engineer's comments to the Planning Commission together with a recommendation
on the proposed variance. Any variance requested by the subdivider or
partitioner shall be made the subject of study and report by the Planning
Commission. Because of the additional time the Commission may be required to
properly evaluate a variance request in addition to other work, submission of a
variance request by the developer shall automatically extend the time for
Commission action on a subdivision or partition. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-8-4: ACTION OF PLANNING COMMISSION:
   A.   The Planning Commission shall consider the application for a variance
at the same meeting at which it considers the tentative plan. A specific
variance may be granted unqualifiedly, or may be granted subject to prescribed
conditions on matters other than those relative to health and safety, provided
that the Commission shall make all of the following findings:
      1.   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property that do not normally apply to other property and that such
circumstances or conditions make it impossible or impractical to comply with
this Title.
      2.   That the variance is necessary for the proper design and/or function
of the subdivision or partition.
      3.   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to the other property in the area in which the
property is situated.
   B.   The granting of any variance by the Planning Commission shall be
invalid unless a specific explanation of the Commission's conclusion on each of
the necessary findings is made a part of the approval and entered into the
official minutes of the Planning Commission. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-8-5: APPEAL OF VARIANCE DECISION:
Planning Commission action on an application for a variance may be made the
subject of an appeal by the applicant or an affected person. Such action shall
be conducted in conformance with
Chapter 9 of this Title. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
CHAPTER 9
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT 1
SECTION:
7-9-1:   Interpretation
7-9-2:   Administration Of Title
7-9-3:   Notice Of Decisions
7-9-4:   Appeals To A Hearing Body
7-9-5:   Form Of Petitions, Applications And Appeals
7-9-6:   Notice Of Public Hearing
7-9-7:   Rules For Conduct Of Hearing
7-9-8:   Fees
7-9-9:   Abatement And Penalty
7-9-10:   Notice Of Violation
 
Notes
1 1. These provisions as per ORS 92.205 through 92.245.
7-9-1: INTERPRETATION:
Where the conditions imposed by a provision of this Title are less restrictive
than comparable conditions imposed by the provisions of any other title which
are more restrictive, the more restrictive shall govern. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983;
1989 Code)
7-9-2: ADMINISTRATION OF TITLE:
The County Planning Director shall have the power and the duty to enforce the
provisions of this Title. The County Court may appoint agents to issue zoning
permits and to otherwise assist the Planning Director in the processing of
applications. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-9-3: NOTICE OF DECISIONS:
Approval or denial of an application for a use permitted by this Title shall be
based upon and accompanied by a brief statement that explains the criteria and
standards considered relevant to the decision, and explains the justification
for the decision based on the criteria, standards and facts set forth. (Ord.
25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-9-4: APPEALS TO A HEARING BODY:
A person may appeal to the County Court from a decision or requirements made by
the Planning Commission. A person may appeal to the Planning Commission from a
decision or requirements made by the Planning Director.
Written notice of the appeal must be filed with the County within fifteen (15)
days after the decision or requirement is made. The notice of appeal shall
state the nature of the decision or requirement and the grounds for action of
the appeal shall be as follows:
   A.   The appropriate hearing body shall hold a hearing on the appeal within
thirty (30) days from the time the appeal is filed. The body may continue the
hearing for a good cause.
   B.   The hearing body may review a lower decision upon its own motion after
giving ten (10) days' notice to the parties involved in the decision, and if
such review is initiated within fifteen (15) days of receipt of notice of said
lower decision.
   C.   An appeal of review proceeding shall be based on, but not limited to
the record of the decision being appealed or reviewed. In appeals of
subdivision or partition review proceedings, the hearing and record shall be
limited to the subdivision or partition review criteria listed in subsection
7-3-7C or Section
7-7-3 of this Title as appropriate.
   D.   Following the hearing, the County Court or Planning Commission may
affirm, overrule or modify any decision or requirement and shall set forth
findings for such decision.
   E.   The procedure, public notice and type of hearing for an appeal or
review shall be in the same manner as required for the original application.
(Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-9-5: FORM OF PETITIONS, APPLICATIONS AND APPEALS:
Petitions, applications and appeals provided for in this Title shall be made on
forms prescribed by the County. Applications shall be accompanied by plans and
specifications, drawn to scale, showing the actual shape and dimensions of the
property in question; the sizes and locations on the lot of all existing and
proposed structures; the intended use of each structure; the number of
families, if any, to be accommodated thereon; the relationship of the property
to the surrounding area, and such other information as is needed to determine
conformance with this Title. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-9-6: NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Each notice of hearing or subdivision review authorized by this Title
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the County at least
ten (10) days prior to the date of hearing.
   B.   In addition, a notice of hearing for subdivision or partition review
shall be mailed to all owners of property within two hundred fifty feet (250')
of the property for which the variance, subdivision, partition or other land
use has been requested. The notice of hearing shall be mailed at least ten (10)
days prior to the date of hearing.
   C.   Failure of a person to receive the notice prescribed in this Section
shall not impair the validity of the hearing.
   D.   The notice provisions of this Section shall not restrict the giving of
notice by other means, including mail, the posting of property or the use of
radio and television. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-9-7: RULES FOR CONDUCT OF HEARING:
   A.   Conduct At Hearings:
      1.   When the hearing body is conducting a hearing, there shall be no
audience demonstration or other conduct which would disrupt the hearing.
      2.   Persons may speak only after being recognized by the chair and must
state their full name and address for the record.
      3.   The hearing body considers only testimony and information that is
relevant to the issue of the requested change, and will not allow immaterial or
repetitious testimony.
      4.   Public input and comment on the subject at hand shall be presented
in the form and manner prescribed by published County Court or Commission
policy.
   B.   Decision Of The Hearing Body: Upon closing the hearing, the hearing
body will deliberate the question and reach a decision or continue the matter
for further study or decision, to a time and place then announced.
   C.   Subdivision Review: The hearing body is conducting the subdivision
review to determine compliance of a subdivision or planned unit tentative plan
proposal with specific provisions of this Title. The factors under review are
listed in Sections
7-3-2 through
7-3-7 or
7-7-2 through
7-7-4 of this Title. Only information addressed by those Sections will be heard
and/or entered into the record. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
7-9-8: FEES:
Application required by this Title shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount
established and published by the County Court 1 . (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-9A-3C of this Code.
7-9-9: ABATEMENT AND PENALTY:
Violation of any provision of this Title or of any amendment of this Title is
enforceable under either of the following options at the discretion of Malheur
County:
   A.   Enforcement through civil proceedings under provisions of local
ordinance enforcement which shall provide for a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) per violation.
   B.   Each and every day in which a location, erection, maintenance, repair,
alteration or use of a building or structure, or the subdivision, partitioning
or other use of land, is in violation of this Title constitutes a separate
violation 1 .
   C.   Enforcement through statutory authority under ORS Chapter 92 or other
appropriate statutes. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-9A-3C of this Code.
7-9-10: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Notice of a violation of a provision of this Title shall be in the form of a
certified return receipt letter from the County or hand delivered written
notice. Such notice shall identify the property upon which the violation is
located, a description of the violation, and an explanation of the action
necessary to gain compliance with this Title.
This notice shall be mailed to the last known owner of record of the subject
parcel according to the tax account roles of the Malheur County Assessor.
The owner shall be given ten (10) days from the date of receipt to contact
Malheur County concerning remedy of the infraction. If there is no such
contact, violation will commence on the eleventh day after receipt of
notification; the Planning Director may establish a date for remedy of the
infraction. If the infraction is not remedied by the date established,
violation will commence on the following day. (Ord. 25, 3-2-1983; 1989 Code)
 
