MONROE, OREGON
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
FOREWORD: MUNICIPAL HOME RULE AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION OF OREGON
   The Legislative Assembly shall not enact, amend of repeal any charter or act
of incorporation for any municipality, city or town. The legal voters of every
city and town are hereby granted power to enact and amend their municipal
charter, subject to the Constitution and criminal laws of the State of Oregon.
[Article XI, section 2]
   The initiative and referendum powers reserved to the people by subsections
(2) and (3) of this section are further reserved to the qualified voters of
each municipality and district as to all local, special and municipal
legislation of every character in or for their municipality or district. The
manner of exercising those powers shall be provided by general laws, but cities
may provide the manner of exercising those powers as to their municipal
legislation. In a city, not more than 15 percent of the qualified voters may be
required to propose legislation by the initiative, and not more than 10 percent
of the qualified voters may be required to order a referendum of legislation.
[Article IV, section 1(5)]
PREAMBLE
   We, the people of Monroe, Oregon, in order to avail ourselves of self-
determination in municipal affairs to the fullest extent now or hereafter
possible under the constitutions and laws of the United States and the State of
Oregon, through this charter confer upon the city the following powers, subject
it to the following restrictions, prescribe for it the following procedures and
governmental structure, and repeal all previous charter provisions of the city.
CHAPTER I: NAMES AND BOUNDARIES
SECTION 1. TITLE OF CHARTER.
   This charter may be referred to as the 2000 Monroe Charter.
SECTION 2. NAME OF CITY.
   The City of Monroe, Oregon, continues under this charter to be a municipal
corporation with the name City of Monroe.
SECTION 3. BOUNDARIES.
   The city includes all territory within its boundaries as they now exist or
hereafter are modified pursuant to state law. The custodian of the city’s
records shall keep an accurate, current description of the boundaries and make
a copy of it available for public inspection in the city during regular city
office hours.
CHAPTER II: POWERS
SECTION 4. POWERS OF THE CITY.
   The city has all powers that the constitutions, statutes, and common law of
the United States and of this state now or hereafter expressly or impliedly
grant or allow the city, as fully as though this charter specifically
enumerated each of those powers.
SECTION 5. CONSTRUCTION OF POWERS.
   In this charter, no specification of a power is exclusive or restricts
authority that the city would have if the power were not specified. The charter
shall be liberally construed, so that the city may exercise fully all its
powers possible under this charter and under United States and Oregon law. All
powers are continuing unless a specific grant of power clearly indicates the
contrary.
SECTION 6. DISTRIBUTION OF POWERS.
   Except as this charter prescribes otherwise and as the Oregon Constitution
reserves municipal legislative power to the voters of the city, all powers of
the city are vested in the Council.
CHAPTER III: FORM OF GOVERNMENT
SECTION 7. COUNCIL.
   The Council consists of a Mayor and six Councilors nominated and elected
from the city at large or, in case of one of more vacancies in the Council, the
Council members whose offices are not vacant.
SECTION 8. COUNCILORS.
   The term of office of a Councilor in office is when this charter is adopted
is the term of office for which the Councilor has been elected before adoption
of the charter (or is elected at the time of the adoption). At each general
election after the adoption, three Councilors shall be elected, each for a
four-year term.
SECTION 9. MAYOR.
   The term of office of the Mayor in office is when this charter is adopted
continues until the beginning of the first odd-numbered year after that time.
At each subsequent general election, a Mayor shall be elected for a two-year
term.
SECTION 10. TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of an elective officer who is elected at a general
election begins at the first Council meeting of the year immediately after the
election and continues until the successor to the office assumes the office.
SECTION 11. APPOINTIVE OFFICES.
   A majority of the Council may:
   (1)   Create, abolish, and combine appointive city offices; and
   (2)   Except as the majority prescribes otherwise, fill such offices by
appointment and vacate them by removal.
CHAPTER IV: COUNCIL
SECTION 12. RULES.
   The Council shall, by ordinance, prescribe rules to govern its meeting and
proceedings.
SECTION 13. MEETINGS.
   The Council shall meet in the city regularly at least once a month at a time
and place designated by Council’s rules, and may meet at other times in
accordance with the rules.
SECTION 14. QUORUM.
   A majority of the Council constitutes a quorum for its business, but a
smaller number of the Council may meet and compel attendance of absent
Councilors as prescribed by Council rules.
SECTION 15. RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS.
   A record of Council proceeding shall be kept and authenticated in a manner
prescribed by the Council.
SECTION 16. MAYOR’S FUNCTIONS AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (1)   When present at Council meetings, the Mayor shall:
      a.   Preside over deliberations of the Council;
      b.   Preserve order;
      c.   Enforce Council rules; and
      d.   Determine the order of business under the rules.
   (2)   Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, the Mayor may
temporarily cease to chair a Council meeting and delegate the functions
described in subsection (1) to another Council member.
   (3)   The Mayor shall vote only in the event of a tie.
SECTION 17. COUNCIL PRESIDENT.
   (1)   At its first meeting after this charter takes effect and at its first
meeting of each odd-numbered year, the Council shall appoint a president from
its Councilors.
   (2)   Except in voting on questions before the Council, the president shall
function as Mayor when the Mayor is:
      a.   Absent from a Council meeting; or
      b.   Unable to function as Mayor.
SECTION 18. VOTE REQUIRED.
   Except as this charter may specifically prescribe otherwise, the express
concurrence of a majority of the Council members present and constituting a
quorum is necessary to decide affirmatively a question before the Council.
SECTION 19. VACANCIES: OCCURRENCE.
   The office of a member of the Council becomes vacant:
   (1)   Upon the incumbent’s:
      a.   Death;
      b.   Adjudicated incompetence; or
      c.   Recall from the office; or
   (2)   Upon declaration by the Council of the vacancy in case of the
incumbent’s:
      a.   Failure, following election of appointment to the office, to qualify
for the office within ten days after the time for his or her term of office to
begin;
      b.   Absence from the city for 30 days without the Council’s consent or
from all meetings of the Council within a 60-day period;
      c.   Ceasing to reside in the city;
      d.   Ceasing to be a qualified elector under state law;
      e.   Conviction of a public offense punishable by loss of liberty; or
      f.   Resignation from the office.
SECTION 20. VACANCIES: FILLING.
   A vacancy in the Council shall be filled by appointment by a majority of the
Council. The appointee’s term of office runs from the time of his or her
qualifying for the office after the appointment and until expiration of the
term of the predecessor who has left the office vacant. During a Council
member’s disability to serve on the Council or during a member’s absence from
the city, a majority of the other Council members may by appointment fill the
vacancy pro tem.
CHAPTER V: POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS
SECTION 21. MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall appoint:
   (1)   Members of committees established by Council rules; and
   (2)   Other persons required by the Council to be so appointed.
SECTION 22. MUNICIPAL COURT AND JUDGE.
   (1)   If the Council creates the office of municipal judge and fills it by
appointment, the appointee shall hold, within the city at a place and times
that the Council specifies, a court known as the Municipal Court for the City
of Monroe, Council Chambers, Benton County, Oregon.
   (2)   Except as this charter or city ordinance prescribes to the contrary,
proceedings of the court shall conform to general laws of this state governing
justices of the peace and justice courts.
   (3)   All area within the city and, to the extent provided by state law,
area outside the city is within the territorial jurisdiction of the court.
   (4)   The municipal court has original jurisdiction over every offense that
an ordinance of the city makes punishable. The court may enforce forfeitures
and other penalties that such ordinances prescribe.
   (5)   The municipal judge may:
      a.   Render judgments and, for enforcing them, impose sanctions on
persons and property within the court’s territorial jurisdiction;
      b.   Order the arrest of anyone accused of an offense against the city;
      c.   Commit to jail or admit to bail anyone accused of such an offense;
      d.   Issue and compel obedience to subpoenas;
      e.   Compel witnesses to appear and testify and jurors to serve in the
trial of matters before the court, if so needed;
      f.   Penalize contempt of court;
      g.   Issue process necessary to effectuate judgments and orders of the
court;
      h.   Issue search warrants; and
      i.   Perform other judicial and quasi-judicial functions prescribed by
ordinance.
   (6)   The Council may authorize the municipal judge to appoint municipal
judges pro tem for terms of office set by the judge or the Council.
   (7)   Notwithstanding this section, the Council may transfer some or all of
the functions of the municipal court to appropriate state court.
CHAPTER VI: PERSONNEL
SECTION 23. QUALIFICATIONS.
   (1)   An elective city officer shall be qualified elector under the state
constitution and shall have resided in the city during the twelve months
immediately before being elected or appointed to the office. In this subsection
“city” means area inside the city limits at the time of the election or
appointment.
   (2)   No person may be a candidate at a single election for more than one
elective city office.
   (3)   An elective officer may be employed in a city position that is
substantially volunteer in nature. Whether the position is so may be decided by
the municipal court at the request of the Council or in some other manner,
whichever the Council prescribes.
   (4)   Except as subsection (3) of this section provides to the contrary, the
Council is the final judge of the election and qualifications of its members.
   (5)   The qualifications of appointive officers of the city are whatever the
Council prescribes or authorizes.
SECTION 24. COMPENSATION.
   The Council shall prescribe the compensation of city officers. The Council
may prescribe a plan for reimbursing city personnel for expenses that they
incur in serving the city.
SECTION 25. EMPLOYMENT STATUS.
   All employees of the city serve at the discretion and pleasure of the City
Council. The City Council shall prescribe rules for all personnel of the city.
The City Council may assign, as they see fit, supervisory functions to various
city positions. All city employees are “at will”, subject to the rights of any
collective bargaining agreement or specific contracts entered into by the
Council.
SECTION 26. OATH.
   Before assuming city office, an officer shall take an oath or shall affirm
that he or she will faithfully perform the duties of the office and support the
constitution and laws of the United States and of the State of Oregon.
CHAPTER VII: ELECTIONS
SECTION 27. STATE LAW.
   Except as this charter or a city ordinance prescribes to the contrary, a
city election shall conform to state law applicable to the election.
SECTION 28. NOMINATIONS.
   A person may be nominated in a manner prescribed by general ordinance to run
for an elective office of the city.
CHAPTER VIII: ORDINANCES
SECTION 29. ORDAINING CLAUSE.
   The ordaining clause of an ordinance shall be “The city of Monroe ordains as
follows:”
SECTION 30. ADOPTION BY COUNCIL.
   (1)   Except as subsection (2) of this section allows adoption at a single
meeting and subsection (3) of this section allows reading by title only, an
ordinance shall be fully and distinctly read in open Council meeting on two
different days before being adopted by the Council.
   (2)   Except as subsection (3) of this section allows reading by title only,
the Council may adopt an ordinance at a single meeting by the express unanimous
votes of all Council members present, provided the ordinance is read first in
full and then by title.
   (3)   A reading of an ordinance may be by title only if:
      a.   No Council member present at the reading requests that the ordinance
be read in full; or
      b.   At least one week before the reading:
         i.   A copy of the ordinance is provided for each Council member;
         ii.   Three copies of the ordinance are available for public
inspection in the office of the custodian of city records; and
         iii.   Notice of their availability is given by written notice posted
at the City Hall and two other public places in the city.
   (4)   An ordinance read by title only has no legal effect if it differs
substantially from its terms as it was filed prior to the reading unless each
section so differing is read fully and distinctly in open Council meeting
before the Council adopts the ordinance.
   (5)   Upon the adoption of an ordinance, the ayes and nays of the Council
members shall be entered in the record of Council proceedings.
   (6)   After adoption of an ordinance, the custodian of city records shall
endorse it with its date of adoption and the endorser’s name and title of
office.
SECTION 31. EFFECTIVE DATE.
   A non-emergency ordinance takes effect on the 30th day after its adoption or
on a later day the ordinance prescribes. An ordinance adopted to meet an
emergency may take effect as soon as adopted.
CHAPTER IX: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION 32. PROCEDURE.
   (1)   The procedure for making, altering, vacating, or abandoning a public
improvement shall be governed by general ordinance or, to the extent not so
governed, by applicable state law. Proposed action on a public improvement that
is not declared by two-thirds of the Council present to be needed at once
because of an emergency shall be suspended for six months upon remonstrances by
owners of land to be specially assessed for the improvement. The number of
owners necessary to suspend the action shall be prescribed by general
ordinance. A second such remonstrance suspends the action only with the consent
of the Council.
   (2)   In this section “owner” means the record holder of legal title or, as
to land being purchased under a land-sale contract that is recorded or verified
in writing by the record holder of legal title, the purchaser.
SECTION 33. SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The procedure for fixing, levying, and collecting special assessments
against real property for public improvements or other public services shall be
governed by general ordinance.
CHAPTER X: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION 34. DEBT.
   The city’s indebtedness may not exceed debt limits imposed by state law. A
city officer or employee who creates or officially approves indebtedness in
excess of this limitation is jointly and severally liable for the excess. A
charter amendment is not required to authorize city indebtedness.
SECTION 35. CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   Insofar as consistent with this charter, and until amended or repealed, all
ordinances in force when the charter takes effect retain the effect they have
at that time.
SECTION 36. REPEAL.
   All charter provisions adopted before this charter takes effect are hereby
repealed.
SECTION 37. SEVERABILITY.
   The terms of this charter are severable. If a part of the charter is held
invalid, that invalidity does not affect another part of the charter, except as
the logical relation between the two parts requires.
SECTION 38. TIME OF EFFECT.
   This charter takes effect January 1, 2001.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.18   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances”,
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BUSINESS DAY. Any 24-hour day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or federal
or state legal holiday.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The area within the
corporate boundaries of the city as presently established or as amended by
ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a future time. The term CITY
when used in this code may also be used to refer to the City Council and its
authorized representatives.
      CODE,THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Benton County, Oregon.
      DAY. Calendar day unless otherwise indicated as business day or working
day.
      GOVERNING BODY. City Council.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oregon.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the City
Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   ANDorOR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, the spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.10  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.11  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean at least 24-hours’ notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the City Council shall take effect as provided in
the city charter. If there is no city charter, all ordinances passed by the
City Council shall take effect as provided by the City Council or applicable
state law.
§ 10.15  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any amending ordinances are listed following
the text of the code section.
Example: (Ord. 161, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 170, passed 1-2-1979; Ord. 185,
passed 4-1-1990)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:  (O.R.S. 192.410)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see O.R.S. 192.314
§ 10.18  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into, or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this code for which no other
specific penalty is provided shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not
to exceed $500, subject to division (B) below.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this code which is identical to
a state statute containing a penalty shall, upon conviction, be punished by the
penalty prescribed by state statute.
   (C)   Each calendar date on which a violation occurs constitutes a separate
violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
31.   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
      
32.   CITY POLICIES
      
33.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
34.   CITY COUNCIL
      
35.   DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS REAL PROPERTY
CHAPTER 30:  MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
30.01   Creation
   
30.02   Territorial jurisdiction
   
30.03   Authority and functions of court
   
30.04   Municipal judge
   
30.05   Trial by jury; juror selection
   
30.06   Court costs
Cross-reference:
Charter provisions concerning municipal judge and court, see
Charter Section 22
§ 30.01  CREATION.
   There is hereby created a municipal court for the City of Monroe, Benton
County, Oregon, and the office of municipal judge to act as judicial officer
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 30.01)  (Ord. 88, passed 4-3-1967)
§ 30.02  TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The territorial jurisdiction of the municipal court shall be coextensive
with and include all territory embraced within the boundaries of the city. The
court shall exercise original and exclusive jurisdiction of all crimes and
offenses defined and made punishable by ordinances of the city and of all
actions brought to recover or enforce forfeitures or penalties defined or
authorized by the ordinances of the city, and any and all other rights and
powers provided by the charter of the city and by state law.
(Prior Code, § 30.02)  (Ord. 88, passed 4-3-1967)
§ 30.03  AUTHORITY AND FUNCTIONS OF COURT.
   The court, and the municipal judge thereof, shall have the authority to
issue process for the arrest of any person accused of any offense against the
ordinances of the city, to commit such person to jail or admit such person to
bail pending trial, to issue subpoenas, to compel witnesses to appear and
testify in court on the trial of any cause within the jurisdiction of said
court, to issue any process necessary to carry into effect the judgments of the
court, and to punish witnesses and others for contempt of court. When not
governed by ordinances or the charter, all proceedings in the municipal court
for the city shall be governed by applicable general laws of the state
governing justices of the peace and justice courts. Trials in the municipal
court may be held with juries under proper application.
(Prior Code, § 30.03)  (Ord. 88, passed 4-3-1967)
§ 30.04  MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   The municipal judge shall be a competent person who shall be appointed by
the Mayor with the approval of the Council, and shall hold office for the term
coextensive with the Mayor; except that such person may be removed by the Mayor
with the consent of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.04)  (Ord. 88, passed 4-3-1967; Ord. 123, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 30.05  TRIAL BY JURY; JUROR SELECTION.
   (A)   Right to trial by jury. Every person charged with any offense defined
and made punishable by the city charter or any ordinance of the city shall only
have the right to trial by jury:
      (1)   If the ordinance or charter violated provides for the right of
trial by jury; or
      (2)   If such violation of the charter or ordinance would constitute a
violation of a statute of the state, which is not materially different in the
proscription or penalty from the applicable charter or ordinance of the city,
and the violation of such statute would entitle the defendant to a trial by
jury under the statutes and/or constitution of the state; and
      (3)   If the party requesting the trial by jury has given written notice
to the municipal judge at least six days, excluding Sundays and legal holidays,
prior to the trial date set by the municipal court.
   (B)   Number of jurors. The jury shall consist of six persons duly sworn to
try the cause for which they are called; and the jurors shall be selected as
hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Term of court. The term of municipal court shall be for a period of 12
months, beginning on January 1 of each year following passage of this section.
   (D)   Jury list. Upon passage of this section and on January 1 thereafter,
beginning on January 1, 1981, the Court Clerk shall prepare a preliminary jury
list, by lot, of 48 names of persons taken from the latest tax roll and
registration books used at the last city election. The Court Clerk, in
preparing the preliminary jury list, shall place thereon only those names of
persons who are known or believed to be eligible to serve, as provided in
O.R.S. 10.030.
   (E)   Jury panels. The jury panel for each trial shall be selected at least
seven days prior to the trial day, and the Court Clerk shall select 12 names of
persons, by lot, from the preliminary jury list to serve as a jury panel until
the forth panel is selected. No person shall be required to serve more than one
term during any calendar year. The jury panel shall be selected by the Court
Clerk. No challenge shall be made or allowed to the panel, and substantial
compliance with this section for selecting the panel shall be sufficient.
   (F)   Selection of the trial jury. The time and place of the selection of
the jury shall be designated by the court. The Court Clerk shall then select by
lot six names of persons from the jury panel. Each party may take two
peremptory challenges of the prospective jurors. The order of challenges shall
be that the defendant or his or her attorney may challenge one and then the
City Attorney may challenge one, and then the defendant or his or her attorney
may again challenge one, and then the City Attorney may challenge one.
Additional names shall be selected by lot to replace those jurors challenged.
   (G)   Conduct of trials. Trials shall be conducted as trials in justice
courts, and the rules shall be the same as in the state courts and shall
include applicable statutes of the state regarding the introduction or
admission of evidence.
   (H)   Verdicts. All jurors sworn to try the cause must concur to render a
verdict.
   (I)   Payment of jurors. Those jurors notified and who appear at trial shall
receive compensation from the city in the amount of $7.50 for each day of
attendance upon the municipal court if they are chosen to hear the case and $5
for all other jurors.
   (J)   Powers of the municipal judge. The municipal judge shall have all
inherent and statutory powers and duties of a justice of the peace within the
jurisdictional limits of the city. The Chief of Police shall assist the judge
in the serving of subpoenas, notices of jury duty, and such other orders of the
court necessary for the proper conduct thereof. The municipal judge may hold
any prospective juror who disregards the notice of jury duty in contempt of
court and may punish said juror by a fine of not more than $100, or by
imprisonment in the city jail for not more than 50 days, or both.
   (K)   Costs and disbursements. In all cases tried before the municipal
court, both with a jury and without a jury, the judge shall add the costs and
disbursements to the fine, penalty, or sentence imposed, in a sum not less than
$5.
(Prior Code, § 30.05)  (Ord. 164, passed 8-4-1980)
§ 30.06  COURT COSTS.
   (A)   Court costs of $35 are due to the city, in addition to regular fines,
is hereby established for all cases of law infringement coming before the
municipal judge of the city.
   (B)   In no case may court costs be suspended or refunded.
(Ord. 11-270, passed 12-19-2011)
CHAPTER 31:  PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Initiation of proceedings and report from City Engineer
   
31.02   Council’s action on City Engineer’s report
   
31.03   Resolution and notice of hearing
   
31.04   Hearing
   
31.05   Call for bids
   
31.06   Assessment ordinance
   
31.07   Method of assessment and alternative methods of financing
   
31.08   Remedies
   
31.09   Notice of assessment
   
31.10   Lien records and foreclosure proceedings
   
31.11   Errors in assessment calculations
   
31.12   Deficit assessment
   
31.13   Rebates
   
31.14   Abandonment of proceedings
   
31.15   Curative provisions
   
31.16   Reassessment
System Development Charges
   
31.30   Purpose and classification; emergency clause
   
31.31   Definitions
   
31.32   Establishment of program
   
31.33   Methodology to establish or modify a reimbursement fee
   
31.34   Authorized expenditures
   
31.35   Expenditure restrictions
   
31.36   Improvement plans
   
31.37   Collection of charge
   
31.38   Delinquent charges; hearing
   
31.39   Installment payments
   
31.40   Exemptions
   
31.41   Credits
   
31.42   Notice
   
31.43   Use of revenue
   
31.44   Refunds
   
31.45   Implementing regulations; amendments
   
31.46   Appeals; procedure
   
31.47   Prohibited connection
 
   
31.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  INITIATION OF PROCEEDINGS AND REPORT FROM CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   Whenever the Council shall deem it necessary, upon its own motion or
upon the written petition of the owners of property upon which more than 33% of
the total amount of the assessment is levied, to make any street, sewer,
sidewalk, drain, or other public improvement to be paid for in whole or in part
by special assessment according to benefits, then the Council shall, by motion,
direct the City Engineer to make a survey and written report for such project
and file the same with the City Recorder.
   (B)   Unless the Council shall direct otherwise, such report shall contain
the following matters:
      (1)   A map or plat showing the general nature, location, and extent of
the proposed improvement and the land to be assessed for the payment of any
part of the cost thereof;
      (2)   Plans, specifications, and estimates of the work to be done;
provided, however, that where the proposed project is to be carried out in
cooperation with any other governmental agency, the Engineer may adopt the
plans, specifications, and estimates of such agency;
      (3)   An estimate of the probable cost of the improvement, including any
legal, administrative, and engineering costs attributable thereto;
      (4)   An estimate of the unit cost of the improvement to the specially
benefitted properties;
      (5)   A recommendation as to the method of assessment to be used to
arrive at a fair apportionment of the whole or any portion of the cost of the
improvement to the properties specially benefitted;
      (6)   The description and assessed value of each lot, parcel of land, or
portion thereof, to be specially benefitted by the improvement, with the names
of the record owners thereof and, when readily available, the names of the
contract purchasers thereof; and
      (7)   A statement of outstanding assessments against property to be
assessed.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)  (Ord. 120, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 31.02  COUNCIL’S ACTION ON CITY ENGINEER’S REPORT.
   After the City Engineer’s report shall have been filed with the City
Recorder, the Council may thereafter by motion approve the report, modify the
report, and approve it as modified, require the Engineer to supply additional
or different information for such improvement, or it may abandon the
improvement.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)  (Ord. 120, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 31.03  RESOLUTION AND NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   After the Council shall have approved the Engineer’s report as
submitted or modified, the Council shall, by resolution, declare its intention
to make such improvement, provide the manner and method of carrying out the
improvement, and shall direct the Recorder to give notice of such improvement
by two publications one week apart in a newspaper of general circulation within
the city, and by mailing copies of such notice by registered or certified mail
to the owners to be assessed for the costs of such improvement.
   (B)   Said notice shall contain the following matters:
      (1)   The report of the City Engineer is on file in the office of the
Recorder and is subject to public examination;
      (2)   The Council will hold a public hearing on the proposed improvement
on a specified date, which shall not be earlier than 30 days following the
first publication of notice pursuant to O.R.S. 223.117, at which objections and
remonstrances to such improvement will be heard by the Council; and that if
prior to such hearing there shall be presented to the Recorder valid written
remonstrances of the owners of property upon which more than 33% of the total
amount of the assessment is levied, then the improvement will be abandoned;
      (3)   A description of the property to be specially benefitted by the
improvement, the owners of such property, and the Engineer’s estimate of the
unit cost of the improvement to the property to be specially benefitted, and
the total cost of the improvement to be paid for by special assessments to
benefitted properties; and
      (4)   The Council may provide in the improvement resolution that the
construction work may be done in whole, or in part by the city, by a contract,
or by any other governmental agency, or by any combination thereof.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)  (Ord. 120, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 31.04  HEARING.
   At the time of the public hearing on the proposed improvement, if the
written remonstrances shall represent less than the amount of property required
to defeat the proposed improvement, then, on the basis of said hearing of
written remonstrances and oral objections, if any, the Council may, by motion,
at the time of said hearing or within 60 days thereafter, order said
improvement to be carried out in accordance with the resolution; or the Council
may, on its own motion, abandon the improvement.
(Prior Code, § 31.04)  (Ord. 120, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 31.05  CALL FOR BIDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Council may, in its discretion, direct the City Recorder to
advertise for bids for construction of all, or any part of the improvement
project on the basis of the Council-approved Engineer’s report and before the
passage of the resolution, or after the passage of the resolution and before
the public hearing on the proposed improvement, or at any time after the public
hearing; provided, however, that no contract shall be let until after the
public hearing has been held to hear remonstrances and oral objections to the
proposed improvement.
      (2)   In the event that any part of the work of the improvement is to be
done under contract bids, then the Council shall determine the time and manner
of advertisement forbids; and the contracts shall be let to the lowest
responsible bidder, provided that the Council shall have the right to reject
all bids when they are deemed unreasonable or unsatisfactory. The city shall
provide for the bonding of all contractors for the faithful performance of any
contract let under its authority; and the provisions thereof, in case of
default, shall be enforced by action in the name of the city.
   (B)   If the Council finds, upon opening bids for the work of such
improvement, that the lowest responsible bid is substantially in excess of the
Engineer’s estimate, it may, in its discretion, provide for holding a special
hearing of objections to the proceeding with the improvement on the basis of
such bid; and it may direct the City Recorder to publish one notice thereof in
a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
(Prior Code, § 31.05)  (Ord. 120, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 31.06  ASSESSMENT ORDINANCE.
   (A)   If the Council determines that the local improvement shall be made,
when the estimated cost thereof is ascertained on the basis of the contract
award or city departmental cost, or after the work is done and the cost thereof
has been actually determined, the Council shall determine whether the property
benefitted shall bear all or a portion of the cost.
   (B)   (1)   The City Recorder shall prepare the proposed assessment to the
respective lots within the assessment district and file it in the appropriate
city office.
      (2)   Notice of such proposed assessment shall be mailed or personally
delivered to the owner of each lot proposed to be assessed, which notice shall
state the amounts of assessment proposed on that property and shall fix a date
by which time objections shall be filed with the Recorder. Any such objection
shall state the grounds thereof.
   (C)   The Council shall consider such objections and may adopt, correct,
modify, or revise the proposed assessments and shall determine the amount of
assessment to be charged against each lot within the district, according to the
special and peculiar benefits accruing thereto from the improvement, and shall
by ordinance spread the assessments.
(Prior Code, § 31.06)  (Ord. 120, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 31.07  METHOD OF ASSESSMENT AND ALTERNATIVE METHODS OF FINANCING.
   The Council, in adopting a method of assessment of the costs of the
improvement, may:
   (A)   Use any just and reasonable method of determining the extent of any
improvement district consistent with the benefits derived;
   (B)   Use any method of apportioning the sum to be assessed as is just and
reasonable between the properties determined to be specially benefitted;
   (C)   Authorize payment by the city of all, or any part of the cost of any
such improvement when, in the opinion of the Council, the topographical or
physical conditions, or unusual or excessive public travel, or other character
of the work involved warrants only a partial payment or no payment by the
benefitted property of the costs of the improvement; and/or
   (D)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall preclude the Council from
using any other available means of financing improvements, including federal or
state grants-in-aid, sewer charges or fees, revenue bonds, general obligation
bonds, or any other legal means of finance. In the event that such other means
of financing improvements are used, the Council may, in its discretion, levy
special assessments according to the benefits derived to cover any remaining
part of the costs of the improvement.
(Prior Code, § 31.07)  (Ord. 120, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 31.08  REMEDIES.
   (A)   Subject to the curative provisions of §
31.15 and the rights of the city to reassess as provided in §
31.16, proceedings for writs of review and suits in equity may be filed not
earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days after the filing of written
objections as provided herein. A property owner who has filed written
objections with the City Recorder prior to the public hearing may have the
right to apply for a writ of review based upon the Council exercising its
functions erroneously or arbitrarily or exceeding its jurisdiction to the
injury of some substantial right of such owner, if the facts supporting such
claim have been specifically set forth in the written objections.
   (B)   A property owner who has filed written objections with the City
Recorder prior to the public hearing may commence a suit for equitable relief
based upon a total lack of jurisdiction on the part of the city; and if notice
of the improvement shall not have been sent to the owner, and if the owner did
not have actual knowledge of the proposed improvement prior to the hearing,
then the owner may file written objections alleging lack of jurisdiction with
the City Recorder within 30 days after receiving notice or knowledge of the
improvement.
   (C)   No provision of this section shall be construed so as to lengthen any
period of redemption or so as to affect the running of any statute of
limitation. Any proceeding on a writ of review or suit in equity shall be
abated, if proceedings are commenced and diligently pursued by the Council to
remedy or cure the alleged errors or defects.
(Prior Code, § 31.08)  (Ord. 120, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 31.09  NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Within ten days after the ordinance levying assessments has been
passed, the City Recorder shall send by registered or certified mail a notice
of assessment to the owner of the assessed property, and shall publish notice
of such assessment twice in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, the
first publication of which shall be made not later than ten days after the date
of the assessment ordinance.
   (B)   The notice of assessment shall recite the date of the assessment
ordinance and shall state that upon the failure of the owner of the property
assessed to make application to pay the assessment in installments within ten
days from the date of the first publication of notice, or upon the failure of
the owner to pay the assessment in full within 30 days from the date of the
assessment ordinance, then interest will commence to run on the assessment and
that the property assessed will be subject to foreclosure; and said notice
shall further set forth a description of the property assessed, the name of the
owner of the property, and the amount of each assessment.
(Prior Code, § 31.09)  (Ord. 120, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 31.10  LIEN RECORDS AND FORECLOSURE PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   After passage of the assessment ordinance by the Council, the City
Recorder shall enter in the docket of city liens a statement of the amounts
assessed upon each particular lot, parcel of land, or portion thereof, together
with a description of the improvement, the name of the owners, and the date of
the assessment ordinance.
   (B)   Upon such entry in the lien docket, the amount so entered shall become
a lien and charge upon the respective lots, parcels of land, or portions
thereof, which have been assessed for such improvement. All assessment liens of
the city shall be superior and prior to all other liens or encumbrances on
property insofar as the laws of the state permit. Interest shall be charged at
the rate of 7% per annum until paid on all amounts not paid within 30 days from
the date of the assessment ordinance; and after expiration of 30 days from the
date of such assessment ordinance the city may proceed to foreclose or enforce
collection of the assessment liens in the manner provided by the general law of
the state; provided, however, that the city may, at its option, enter a bid for
the property being offered at a foreclosure sale, which bid shall be prior to
all bids except those made by persons who would be entitled under the laws of
the state to redeem such property.
(Prior Code, § 31.10)  (Ord. 120, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 31.11  ERRORS IN ASSESSMENT CALCULATIONS.
   Claimed errors in the calculation of assessments shall be called to the
attention of the City Recorder, who shall determine whether there has been an
error in fact. If the Recorder shall find that there has been an error in fact,
he or she shall recommend to the Council an amendment to the assessment
ordinance to correct such error; and upon enactment of such amendment, the City
Recorder shall make the necessary correction in the docket of city liens and
send a correct notice of assessment by registered or certified mail.
(Prior Code, § 31.11)  (Ord. 120, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 31.12  DEFICIT ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   In the event that an assessment shall be made before the total cost of
the improvement is ascertained, and if it is found that the amount of the
assessment is insufficient to defray the expenses of the improvement, the
Council may, by motion, declare such deficit and prepare a proposed deficit
assessment.
   (B)   The Council shall set a time for a hearing of objections to such
deficit assessment and shall direct the City Recorder to publish one notice
thereof in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. After such hearing,
the Council shall make a just and equitable deficit assessment by ordinance,
which shall be entered in the docket of city liens as provided by this chapter;
and notices of the deficit assessment shall be published and mailed; and the
collection of the assessment shall be made in accordance with §§
31.09 and
31.10 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 31.12)  (Ord. 120, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 31.13  REBATES.
   (A)   If, upon the completion of the improvement project, it is found that
the assessment previously levied upon any property is more than sufficient to
pay the costs of such improvements, then the Council must ascertain and declare
the same by ordinance; and when so declared, the excess amounts must be entered
on the lien docket as a credit upon the appropriate assessment.
   (B)   In the event that any assessment has been paid, the person who paid
the same, or his or her legal representative, shall be entitled to the
repayment of such rebate credit, or the portion thereof which exceeds the
amount unpaid on the original assessment.
(Prior Code, § 31.13)  (Ord. 120, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 31.14  ABANDONMENT OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The Council shall have full power and authority to abandon and rescind
proceedings for improvements made under this chapter at any time prior to the
final completion of such improvements; and if liens have been assessed upon any
property under such procedure, they shall be canceled; and any payments made on
such assessments shall be refunded to the person paying the same, his or her
assigns, or legal representatives.
(Prior Code, § 31.14)  (Ord. 120, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 31.15  CURATIVE PROVISIONS.
   No improvement assessment shall be rendered invalid by reason of a failure
of the Engineer’s report to contain all of the information required by §
31.01 of this chapter, or by reason of failure to have all of the information
required to be in the improvement resolution, the assessment ordinance, the
lien docket, or notices required to be published and mailed, nor by the failure
to list the name of, or mail notice to the owner of any property as required by
this chapter, or by reason of any other error, mistake, delay, omission,
irregularity, or other act, jurisdictional or otherwise, in any of the
proceedings or steps herein specified, unless it appears that the assessment is
unfair or unjust in its effect upon the person complaining; and the Council
shall have the power and authority to remedy and correct all such matters by
suitable action and proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 31.15)  (Ord. 120, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 31.16  REASSESSMENT.
   Whenever any assessment, deficit, or reassessment for any improvement which
has been made by the city has been, or shall be, set aside, annulled, declared
or rendered void, or its enforcement restrained by any court of this state, or
any federal court having jurisdiction thereof, or when the Council shall be in
doubt as to the validity of such assessment, deficit assessment, or
reassessment, or any part thereof, then the Council may make a reassessment in
the manner provided by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 31.16)  (Ord. 120, passed 2-1-1971)
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES
§ 31.30  PURPOSE AND CLASSIFICATION; EMERGENCY CLAUSE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the system development charge is to impose an
equitable share of the public costs of capital improvements for water, sewers,
and wastewater drainage, streets, flood control, and parks upon those
developments and redevelopments that create the need for, or increase the
demands on, capital improvements.
   (B)   Scope. The system development charges as imposed by this section are
separate from, and in addition to, any applicable tax, assessment, charge, fee
in lieu of assessment, exaction, dedication, or fee otherwise provided by law
or imposed as a condition of development approval application.
   (C)   Classification. Any fee, rates, or charges imposed by this subchapter
are not a tax subject to the property tax limitations of Oregon State
Constitution Article XI, § 11(b).
   (D)   Emergency clause. Whereas passage of this subchapter is deemed to be
necessary for the preservation of the public health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of the city, an emergency is hereby declared to exist, and this
subchapter shall be in full force and effect upon its passage by the City
Council and approval of the Mayor.
§ 31.31  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGE. The amount charged to each development to cover the
cost of developing the methodologies, providing an annual accounting of system
development charge expenditures, implementation, and operational costs
associated with the system development charge program.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT. Public facilities or assets used for the following:
      (1)   Water supply, treatment, and distribution;
      (2)   Wastewater collection, transmission, treatment, and disposal;
      (3)   Drainage and flood control;
      (4)   Transportation, including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks,
bicycle lanes, multi-use paths, street lights, traffic signs and signals,
pavement markings, street trees, swales, public transportation, vehicle
parking, and bridges; or
      (5)   Parks and recreation, including, but not limited to, community
parks, public open space and trail systems, recreational buildings, courts,
fields, and other like facilities.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT. Does not include costs of the operation or routine
maintenance of CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   DEVELOPER. The person, builder, applicant, permittee, or firm developing
land, making the improvement, or building or modifying a structure.
   DEVELOPMENT. All improvements on a site, including buildings, other
structures, parking and loading areas, landscaping, paved or graveled areas,
and areas devoted to exterior display, storage, or activities, any building
permit resulting in increased usage of capital improvements, and any new
connection or increased size connection for a capital improvement.
      (1)   DEVELOPMENT includes the redevelopment of property.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT also includes improved open areas, such as plazas and
walkways, but does not include natural geologic forms or unimproved lands.
   IMPROVEMENT FEE. A fee for costs associated with capital improvements to be
constructed after the date the fee is adopted pursuant to §
31.32.
   LAND AREA. The area of a parcel of land as measured by projection of the
parcel boundaries upon a horizontal plane, with the exception of a portion of
the parcel within a recorded right-of-way or easement subject to a servitude
for a public street or for a public scenic or preservation purpose.
   OWNER. The owner or owners of record, title, or the purchaser or purchasers
under a recorded land sales agreement, and other persons having an interest of
record in the described real property.
   PARCEL OF LAND. A lot, parcel, block, or other tract of land that is
occupied, or may be occupied, by a structure or structures or other use, and
that includes the yards and other open spaces required under the zoning,
subdivision, or other development ordinances.
   QUALIFIED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS. A capital improvement that is required as a
condition of development approval, identified in the plan adopted pursuant to §
31.36; and either:
      (1)   Not located on, or contiguous to, property that is the subject of
the development approval; or
      (2)   Located in whole or in part on, or contiguous to, property that is
the subject of development approval and required to be built larger, or with
greater capacity than is necessary, for the particular development project to
which the improvement fee is related.
   REIMBURSEMENT FEE. A fee for costs associated with capital improvements
already constructed, or under construction when the fee is established, for
which the City Council determines that capacity exists.
   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE. A reimbursement fee, an improvement fee, or a
combination thereof, assessed or collected at the time of increased usage of a
capital improvement or issuance of a development permit, building permit, or
connection to the capital improvement.
      (1)   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE includes the portion of a sewer or water
system connection charge that is greater than the amount necessary to reimburse
the city for its average cost of inspecting and installing connections with
water and sewer facilities.
      (2)   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE does not include any fees assessed or
collected as part of a local improvement district or a charge in lieu of a
local improvement district assessment, or the cost of complying with
requirements or conditions imposed upon a land use decision, expedited land use
division, or limited land use decision.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021)
§ 31.32  ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.
   (A)   System development charges shall be established and may be revised by
resolution of the City Council. The resolution shall set the amount of the
charge through a methodology developed pursuant to §
31.33 herein, the type of permit to which the charge applies, and, if the
charge applies to a geographic area smaller than the entire city, the
geographic area subject to the charge. Changes in the system development
charges shall also be adopted by resolution, excepting those changes resulting
solely from inflationary cost impacts.
   (B)   All system development charges will be indexed. The indexing will be
based on the Engineering News Record Construction Cost Index for Seattle,
Washington for December of each year, and they will be increased on April 1
each subsequent year.
   (C)   Unless otherwise exempted by the provisions of this subchapter, or by
other local or state law, a system development charge is hereby imposed upon
all development within the city upon issuance of permit, as stated in §
31.37 herein, or upon the act of making a connection to the city’s water or
sewer system within the city, whichever occurs first, and upon all development
outside the boundary of the city that connects to, or otherwise uses, the sewer
facilities, storm sewers, or water facilities of the city.
   (D)   Administrative costs for the city’s system development charge program
are estimated and include the periodic and on-going direct and indirect costs
associated with complying with the requirement of state law and the cost of
administering system development charges. An administrative charge shall be
incurred when one of the following occurs.
      (1)   When a redevelopment occurs that changes the use of a building in
its entirety, and it is determined that usage of any capital improvement is
increased or there is need of additional capital improvements, the associated
administrative fee will be calculated as either a percentage rate of the net
charge after credits are applied, or at a flat rate, whichever is higher, as
listed in division (E) below.
      (2)   When a redevelopment permit application (other than for
redevelopment that changes the use of a building in its entirety) requires a
detailed review to determine that there will be no increased usage of any
capital improvement and no additional capital improvements will be needed, the
associated administrative fee will be applied at a flat rate as listed in
division (E) below.
      (3)   When an system development charge is imposed for all other
development, the associated administrative fee will be calculated as a
percentage rate of the net charge after credits for previous use and impact
reduction are applied, or at a flat rate, whichever is higher, as listed in
division (E) below.
   (E)   The administration fees charged in accordance with division (D) above
will be as follows:
      (1)   If based on percentage, as described in division (D) above: 5%; or
      (2)   If based on flat rate, as described in division (D) above: $100.
   (F)   An administrative charge calculated shall not exceed a maximum amount
of $30,000 for a single permit issued. If multiple permits are issued for
different phases of the same development, the maximum administrative charge
shall be applied to each permit independently.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021)
§ 31.33  METHODOLOGY TO ESTABLISH OR MODIFY A REIMBURSEMENT FEE.
   (A)   The methodology used to establish or modify a reimbursement fee shall
promote the objective of future system users contributing not more than an
equitable share to the cost of existing facilities and be available for public
inspection. The methodology used to establish or modify a reimbursement fee
shall, where applicable, be based on:
      (1)   Ratemaking principles employed to finance publicly-owned capital
improvements;
      (2)   Prior contributions by existing users;
      (3)   Gifts or grants from federal or state government or private
persons;
      (4)   The value of unused capacity available to future system users or
the cost of the existing facilities; and
      (5)   Other relevant factors identified by the City Council.
   (B)   The methodology used to establish or modify an improvement fee shall,
where applicable, demonstrate consideration of the estimated cost of projected
capital improvements identified in an improvement plan (see §
31.36) that are needed to increase the capacity of the systems to which the fee
is related. The methodology shall be calculated to obtain the cost of capital
improvements for the projected need for available system capacity for future
system users.
   (C)   The methodology used to establish or modify a reimbursement fee or
improvement fee shall be contained in a resolution adopted by the City Council
and reviewed annually.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021)
§ 31.34  AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   Reimbursement fees shall be spent only on capital improvements
associated with the systems for which the fees are assessed, including
expenditures relating to repayment of indebtedness.
   (B)   (1)   Improvement fees shall be spent only on capacity increasing
capital improvements, including expenditures relating to repayment of debt for
such improvements. An increase in system capacity may be established if a
capital improvement increases the level of performance or service provided by
existing facilities or provides new facilities.
      (2)   The portion of the improvements funded by improvement fees must be
related to the need for increased capacity to provide service for future users.
   (C)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B) above, system development charge
revenues may be expended on the direct costs of complying with the provisions
of this subchapter, including the costs of developing system development charge
methodologies and providing an annual accounting of system development charge
expenditures.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021)
§ 31.35  EXPENDITURE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   System development charges may not be expended for costs associated
with the construction of administrative office facilities that are more than an
incidental part of other capital improvements, or for the expenses of the
operation or maintenance of the facilities constructed with system development
charge revenues.
   (B)   Any capital improvement being funded wholly or in part with system
development charge revenues must be included in the plan and list adopted by
the City Council pursuant to O.R.S. 223.309 and §
31.36.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021)
§ 31.36  IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Prior to the establishment of a system development charge, the City
Council shall prepare a capital improvement plan, public facilities plan,
master plan, or other comparable plan that includes:
      (1)   A list of the capital improvements that the City Council intends to
fund, in whole or in part, with revenues from improvement fees;
      (2)   The estimated cost of construction of each improvement and the
percentage of that cost eligible to be funded with improvement fee revenue; and
      (3)   A description of the process for modifying the plan.
   (B)   In adopting a plan under division (A) above, the City Council may
incorporate by reference all, or a portion of, any capital improvement plan,
public facilities plan, master plan, or other comparable plan that contains the
information required by this section.
   (C)   The City Council may modify such plan and list, as described in §
31.36(A), at any time. If a system development charge will be increased by a
proposed modification to the list to include a capacity increasing public
improvement, the City Council will:
      (1)   At least 30 days prior to the adoption of the proposed
modification, provide written notice to persons who have requested notice
pursuant to §
31.40; and
      (2)   Hold a public hearing if a written request for a hearing is
received within seven days of the date of the proposed modification.
   (D)   A change in the amount of a reimbursement fee or an improvement fee is
not a modification of the system development charge if the change in amount is
based on the periodic application of the indexing provisions of this subchapter
or a modification to any of the factors related to the rate therein that are
incorporated in the established methodology.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021)
§ 31.37  COLLECTION OF CHARGE.
   (A)   The system development charge is payable upon the issuance of:
      (1)   A building permit;
      (2)   A development permit;
      (3)   A development permit for development not requiring the issuance of
a building permit;
      (4)   A permit or approval to connect to the water system;
      (5)   A permit or approval to connect to the sewer system; or
      (6)   A right-of-way access permit.
   (B)   If no building, development, or connection permit is required, the
system development charge is payable at the time the usage of the capital
improvement is increased, based on changes in the use of the property unrelated
to seasonal or ordinary fluctuations in usage.
   (C)   If development is commenced or connection is made to the water or
sewer systems without an appropriate permit, the system development charge is
immediately payable upon the earliest date that a permit was required, and it
will be unlawful for anyone to continue with the construction or associated use
until the system development charge has been paid. The City Recorder shall
collect the applicable system development charge from the permittee when a
permit that allows building or development of a parcel is issued or when a
connection to the water or sewer system of the city is made. The applicable
charge is the charge in place at the time of collection, not the time of the
permit application.
   (D)   The applicant for a connection permit shall be required to state, in
writing, the intended use of the building in sufficient detail to enable the
city to determine the appropriate category of use. If the use of a building
changes, or if the use stated is incorrect, the occupant shall report the
change of use to the city within 30 days and promptly pay any additional system
development charges. If the occupant fails to report a correct statement of use
or a change of use within 30 days, or fails to pay the additional system
development charge within ten days after invoice, the occupant shall pay a
penalty of 10% of the balance due plus interest on the unpaid balance at the
rate of 1.5% per month.
   (E)   The City Recorder shall not issue such permit or allow such connection
until the charge has been paid in full, or until provision for installment
payments has been made pursuant to §
31.39, or unless an exemption is granted pursuant to §
31.40.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021)  Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.38  DELINQUENT CHARGES; HEARING.
   (A)   When, for any reason, the system development charge has not been paid,
the City Manager shall report to the City Council the amount of the uncollected
charge, the description of the development to which the charge is attributable,
the date upon which the charge was due, and the name of the developer.
   (B)   The City Council shall schedule a public hearing on the matter and
direct that notice of the hearing be given to each developer with a copy of the
City Manager’s report concerning the unpaid charge. Notice of the hearing shall
be given either personally or by certified mail, return receipt requested, or
by both personal and mailed notice, and by posting notice on the parcel at
least ten days before the date set for the hearing.
   (C)   At the hearing, the City Council may accept, reject, or modify the
determination of the City Recorder as set forth in the report. If the City
Council finds that a system development charge is unpaid and uncollected, it
shall direct the City Recorder to enter the unpaid and uncollected system
development charge in the lien docket. Upon completion of the docketing, the
city shall have a lien against the described land for the full amount of the
unpaid charge, together with interest at the legal rate of 10% and with the
city’s actual cost of serving notice of the hearing on the owners. The lien
shall be enforceable in the manner provided in O.R.S. Chapter 223.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021)
§ 31.39  INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS.
   (A)   An owner of property obligated to pay a system development charge in
an amount exceeding $2,500 may apply to pay the charge in semiannual
installments over a period not to exceed ten years, but will pay minimum
semiannual installments of not less than $1,250. Installments shall include
interest on the unpaid balance at the rate equal to 3% per annum above the
prime rate of interest quoted by the Wall Street Journal as of January 2 of the
year in which the charge is imposed, in accordance with O.R.S. Chapter 223.
   (B)   The City Recorder shall provide application forms for installment
payments, which shall include a waiver of all rights to contest the validity of
the lien, except for the correction of computational errors.
   (C)   An applicant for installment payments shall have the burden of
demonstrating the applicant’s authority to assent to the imposition of a lien
on the parcel and that applicant’s property interest in the parcel is adequate
to secure payment of the lien.
   (D)   The City Recorder shall report to the City Council the amount of the
system development charge, the dates on which payments are due, the name of the
owner, and the description of the parcel.
   (E)   The City Recorder shall docket the lien. From the time the lien is
docketed, the city shall have a lien upon the described parcel for the amount
of the system development charge, together with interest on the unpaid balance
at a rate established by the City Council via resolution. The lien shall be
enforceable in the manner provided in O.R.S. Chapter 223.
   (F)   Upon written request of the City Council, the City Recorder is
authorized to cancel assessments of system development charges, without further
City Council action, where a new development approved by a building permit is
not constructed and the building permit is cancelled. Any system development
charges paid to the city pursuant to the cancelled permit shall be refunded
upon request of the applicant. Such refund will be in the amount paid at the
time of the payment to the city, unadjusted for inflation.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021)
§ 31.40  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Structures and uses established and legally existing on or
before the effective date of this subchapter, March 22, 2021, are exempt from a
system development charge, except water and sewer charges, to the extent of the
structure or use then existing and to the extent of the parcel of land as it is
constituted on that date.
      (2)   Structures and uses affected by this section shall pay the water or
sewer charges pursuant to the terms of this subchapter upon the receipt of a
permit to connect to the water or sewer system.
   (B)   Additions to single-family dwellings that do not constitute the
addition of a dwelling unit, as defined by the State’s Uniform Building Code,
are exempt from all portions of the system development charge.
   (C)   An alteration, addition, replacement, or change in use that does not
increase a parcel’s or structure’s use of the public improvement facility are
exempt from all portions of the system development charge.
   (D)   Up to two low- or moderate-income single-family residential projects
for certified nonprofit entities per calendar year will be granted a waiver for
wastewater and water system development charges by the City Manager on a first
come, first served basis.
   (E)   Except as provided in division (D) above, no waiver of system
development charges shall be made.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021)
§ 31.41  CREDITS.
   (A)   A system development charge shall be imposed when a change of use of a
parcel or structure occurs, but credit shall be given for the computed system
development charge to the extent that prior structures existed and services
were established on or after the effective date of the ordinance. The credit so
computed shall not exceed the calculated system development charge. No refund
shall be made on account of such credit.
   (B)   The city will grant to an applicant a credit against any improvement
fee assessed when the applicant, or the developer from whom the applicant
purchased a lot, constructs, or dedicates a qualified public improvement as
part of the development. The initial determination on all credit requests shall
be a decision by the City Recorder, and the applicant bears the burden of
evidence and persuasion in establishing entitlement to a system development
charge credit and the amount of credit in accordance with the requirements of
this section. The city may deny the credit provided for in this section if the
city demonstrates that the application does not meet the requirements of this
section or if the improvement for which credit is sought was not included in
the improvement plan.
   (C)   To obtain a system development charge credit, the applicant must make
the request, in writing, prior to the city’s issuance of the first building
permit for the development in question. In the request, the applicant must
state the following:
      (1)   Identify the improvement for which the credit is sought;
      (2)   Explain how the improvement is a qualified public improvement; and
      (3)   Document, with credible evidence, the value of the improvement for
which credit is sought.
   (D)   The system development charge credit shall be an amount equal to the
fair market value of the improvement. Fair market value shall be determined by
the City Recorder based on credible evidence of the following:
      (1)   For dedicated lands, value shall be based upon a written appraisal
of fair market value by a qualified, professional appraiser based upon
comparable sales of similar property between unrelated parties in an arms-
length transaction;
      (2)   For a qualified public improvement yet to be constructed, value
shall be based upon the anticipated cost of construction. Any such cost
estimates shall be certified by a registered professional architect or engineer
or based on a fixed price bid from a contractor ready and able to construct the
improvement(s) for which the system development charge credit is sought;
      (3)   For a qualified public improvement already constructed, value shall
be based on the actual cost of construction as verified by receipts submitted
by the applicant; or
      (4)   For a qualified public improvement located on, or contiguous to,
the site of the development, only the over-capacity portion as described in the
definition of qualified public improvement is eligible for a system development
charge credit. There is a rebuttable presumption that the over-capacity portion
of such a qualified public improvement is limited to the portion constructed
larger, or of greater capacity, than the city’s minimum standard facility
capacity or size needed to serve the particular development.
   (E)   When given, system development charge credits will be for a particular
dollar value as a credit against a system development charge assessed on a
development. Credits may only be used to defray or pay the system development
charge for the particular capital improvement system to which the qualified
public improvement is related (e.g., credit from a qualified public improvement
for sewers may only be used to pay or defray a sewer system development
charge).
   (F)   Where the amount of a system development charge credit approved under
this section exceeds the amount of a system development charge assessed on a
development for a particular capital improvement system, the excess credit may
be carried forward pursuant to the following rules.
      (1)   A system development charge credit carry-forward will be issued by
the City Recorder for a particular dollar value to the developer who earned the
system development charge credit, and may be used by the developer to satisfy
system development charge requirements for any other development applied for by
the developer within the city. System development charge credit carry-forwards
are not negotiable or transferable to any party other than the one to whom they
are issued.
      (2)   The city will accept a system development charge credit carry-
forward presented by a developer as full or partial payment for the system
development charge due on any of the developer’s developments.
      (3)   System development charge credit carry-forwards are void and of no
value if not redeemed with the city for payment of a system development charge
of the same type of capital improvement system for which the credit was issued
within five years of the date of issuance.
      (4)   System development charge credits cannot be indexed for inflation
or redeemed for cash.
   (G)   For all other system development charge credits not carried forward,
the applicant must formally request the system development charge credit to the
City Recorder no later than 60 days after the later of the following two
conditions occurs:
      (1)   Acceptance of the applicable improvement by the city; and
      (2)   The applicant paying sufficient system development charges for the
development to cover the approved system development charge credit.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021)
§ 31.42  NOTICE.
   (A)   The city shall maintain a list of persons who have made a written
request for notification prior to adoption or modification of a methodology for
any system development charge. Written notice shall be mailed to persons on the
list at least 90 days prior to the first hearing to establish or modify a
system development charge. The methodology supporting the system development
charge shall be available at least 60 days prior to the first hearing to adopt
or amend a system development charge. The failure of a person on the list to
receive a notice that was mailed does not invalidate the action of the city.
   (B)   The city may periodically delete names from the list, but at least 30
days prior to removing a name from the list, the city must notify the person
whose name is to be deleted that a new, written request for notification is
required if the person wishes to remain on the notification list.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021)
§ 31.43  USE OF REVENUE.
   (A)   All funds derived from a particular type of system development charge
are to be segregated by accounting practices from all other funds of the city.
That portion of the system development charge calculated and collected on
account of a specific facility system shall be used for no purpose other than
that set forth in §
31.34.
   (B)   The City Recorder shall provide the City Council with an annual
accounting, by January 1 of each year, for system development charges showing
the total amount of system development charge revenue collected for each type
of facility and the projects funded from each account in the previous fiscal
year. A list of the amount spent on each project funded, in whole or in part,
with system development charge revenue shall be included in the annual
accounting.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021)
§ 31.44  REFUNDS.
   (A)   Refunds shall be given by the City Recorder upon finding that there
was a clerical error in the calculation of a system development charge.
   (B)   Refunds shall not be allowed for failure to timely claim a credit
under §
31.41, or for failure to seek an alternative system development charge rate
calculation at the time of submission of an application for a building permit.
   (C)   The city shall refund to an applicant any system development charge
revenues not expended within ten years of receipt from the applicant. Such
refund will be in the amount paid at the time, unadjusted for inflation.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021)
§ 31.45  IMPLEMENTING REGULATIONS; AMENDMENTS.
   The City Council delegates to the City Recorder the authority to adopt
necessary procedures to implement the provisions of this subchapter. All rules
developed pursuant to that delegated authority shall be filed with the office
of the City Recorder and be available for public inspection.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021)
§ 31.46  APPEALS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A person challenging the propriety of an expenditure of system
development charge revenue may appeal the decision or the expenditure to the
City Council by filing a written appeal petition with the City Recorder
pursuant to division (D) below. An appeal of an expenditure must be filed
within two years of the date of the subject expenditure.
   (B)   A person challenging the propriety of the methodology adopted by the
City Council pursuant to §
31.33 may appeal the decision or the expenditure to the City Council by filing
a written appeal petition with the City Recorder pursuant to division (D)
below. An appeal petition challenging the adopted methodology shall be filed
not later than 60 days from the date of the adoption of the methodology.
   (C)   A person challenging the calculation of a system development charge
must file a written appeal petition to the calculation of the system
development charge with the City Recorder within 30 days of assessment of the
system development charge.
   (D)   Any person submitting an appeal petition pursuant to divisions (A)
through (C) above must describe, with particularity, the basis for the appeal,
and include:
      (1)   The name and address of the appellant;
      (2)   The nature of the expenditure, methodology, or calculation being
appealed;
      (3)   The reason the expenditure, methodology, or calculation is
allegedly incorrect; and
      (4)   What the correct determination of the appeal should be, or how the
correct calculation should be derived.
   (E)   If the appeal petition is untimely or fails to meet the requirements
of division (D) above, the appeal shall be dismissed by the City Council
without a hearing.
   (F)   If the appeal petition is timely filed and submitted in accordance
with division (D) above, the City Council shall order an investigation and
direct that within 60 days of receipt of the appeal petition, a written report
be filed by the City Recorder recommending appropriate action. Within 30 days
of receipt of that report, the City Council shall conduct a hearing to
determine whether the expenditure, methodology, or calculation was proper. The
City Council shall provide notice and a copy of the report to the appellant at
least 14 days prior to the hearing. The appellant shall have a reasonable
opportunity to present appellant’s position at the hearing.
   (G)   The appellant shall have the burden of proof. Evidence and argument
shall be limited to the grounds specified in the petition. The City Council
shall issue a written decision stating the basis for its conclusion and
directing appropriate action to be taken.
   (H)   The City Council shall render its decision within 15 days after the
hearing date, and the decision of the City Council will be final. The decision
will be in writing, but written findings shall not be made or required unless
the City Council, in its discretion, elects to make findings for precedential
purposes. If the City Council determines that there was an improper expenditure
of system development charge funds, the City Council shall direct that a sum
equal to the misspent amount be deposited within one year of the date of the
decision to the account of the fund from which it was spent.
   (I)   Any legal action contesting the City Council’s decision on the appeal
must be filed within 60 days of the City Council’s decision. Review of the City
Council’s decision shall be by writ of review pursuant to O.R.S. 34.010 to
34.100.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021)
§ 31.47  PROHIBITED CONNECTION.
   No person may connect to the water or sewer systems of the city unless the
appropriate system development charge has been paid or the lien or installment
payment method has been applied for and approved.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021)  Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §
31.47 constitutes a violation and is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500
per day.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-22-2021)
CHAPTER 32:  CITY POLICIES
Section
Claims Processing
   
32.01   Purpose
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Claim for compensation
   
32.04   Claim completeness review
   
32.05   City Recorder review and recommendation
   
32.06   Opportunity to comment
   
32.07   Notice
   
32.08   Record
   
32.09   Final decision
   
32.10   Burden of proof and record
   
32.11   Ex parte contracts, conflict of interest, bias
   
32.12   Reconsideration of claim
   
32.13   Procedural error
No Smoking Regulations
   
32.25   Definitions
   
32.26   Where smoking is prohibited
   
32.27   Posting signs
 
   
32.99   Penalty
CLAIMS PROCESSING
§ 32.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish procedures governing new
Measure 49 claims filed under O.R.S. 195.305 and 195.310 to 195.336. These
provisions are in addition to and not in lieu of any such statutory
requirements.
(Ord. 08-255, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 32.02  DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions for Measure 49, set forth in O.R.S. 195.300, are hereby
incorporated by this reference.
(Ord. 08-255, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 32.03  CLAIM FOR COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Filing. All claims shall be filed with the City Recorder in person or
by United States mail. The filing date is the date the claim is received by the
city.
   (B)   Submittal requirements. All claims:
      (1)   Shall be submitted for review upon forms established by the city
and must include all information as required by O.R.S. 195.312; and
      (2)   Must be accompanied by a fee in an amount as set by Council
resolution.
(Ord. 08-255, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 32.04  CLAIM COMPLETENESS REVIEW.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a claim, the city shall:
      (1)   Deny the claim if:
         (a)   It is not filed within five years from the date the land use
regulation was enacted;
         (b)   An application for a comprehensive plan or zoning amendment is
approved for the subject property; or
         (c)   Any submittal requirements are not met as set forth in §
32.02.
      (2)   Determine whether a claim is complete within 60 days after
receiving the claim; and/or
      (3)   Notify the claimant of any missing information within 60 days after
receiving the claim.
   (B)   After providing notice of missing information, the city shall:
      (1)   Deem the application complete if:
         (a)   The claimant provides the missing information and the required
fee; or
         (b)    The claimant provides the required fee and a written statement
that some or all of the missing information will not be provided.
      (2)   Deem the application complete if the city fails to notify the
claimant of missing information within 60 days after receiving the claim; and/
or
      (3)   Deem the application withdrawn if the claimant fails to provide the
fee and the missing information, or a written statement that some or all of the
information will not be provided within the time specified in the notice of
missing information.
(Ord. 08-255, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 32.05  CITY RECORDER REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATION.
   (A)   Once a claim is deemed complete, the City Recorder shall investigate
the validity of the claim. After reviewing all required material and
information, the City Recorder may:
      (1)   Further investigate;
      (2)   Recommend denial of the claim; or
      (3)   Forward a recommendation of approval of the claim to the City
Council.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the options in division (A) above, the City Recorder
may choose to forward any claim to the City Council for a public hearing and
decision in accordance with this subchapter. In making this determination, the
City Recorder may consider factors including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The amount of compensation at issue;
      (2)   The nature of the proposed use or development, if any; and
      (3)   The impact of the proposed use or development.
   (C)   The decision of the City Recorder to forward a claim to the Council is
final and not subject to appeal. The Council, however, may summarily and
without notice or hearing elect to return the claim to the City Recorder for a
final decision on the claim.
(Ord. 08-255, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 32.06  OPPORTUNITY TO COMMENT.
   (A)   Where the City Recorder determines to recommend City Council approval
of a claim, a public hearing shall be held to allow an opportunity for public
comments.
   (B)   Where the City Recorder determines denial is merited based upon the
submitted application material and any additional investigation conducted, the
City Recorder will provide an opportunity for written public comment.
(Ord. 08-255, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 32.07  NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice of the claim and the City Recorder’s recommendation will be
provided at least 30 days before a public hearing on the claim or, if there
will not be a public hearing, at least 30 days before the deadline for
submission of written comments to:
      (1)   All owners identified in the claim;
      (2)   Owners of record of property on the most recent property tax
assessment role where such property is located within 250 feet of the perimeter
of the subject property;
      (3)   Neighborhood groups or community organizations officially
recognized by the City Council and whose boundaries include the subject
property;
      (4)   The Department of Land Conservation and Development, unless the
claim was filed with that Department; and
      (5)   The county in which the property is located, unless the claim was
also filed with the county.
   (B)   The notice required under division (A) above must describe the claim
and state:
      (1)   Whether a public hearing will be held on the claim; the date, time,
and location of the hearing, if any; and the final date for submission of
written evidence and arguments relating to the claims;
      (2)   Judicial review of the city’s final determination on the claim is
limited to the written evidence and arguments submitted to the city; and
      (3)   Judicial review is available only for issues that are raised with
sufficient specificity to afford the city an opportunity to respond.
(Ord. 08-255, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 32.08  RECORD.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, written evidence and
arguments in proceedings on the claim must be submitted to the city not later
than:
      (1)   The close of the final public hearing on the claim; or
      (2)   If a public hearing is not held, the date that is specified by the
city in the notice required under division (A) above.
   (B)   The claimant may request additional time to submit written evidence
and arguments in response to testimony or submittals. The request must be made
before the close of testimony or the deadline for submission of written
evidence and arguments. The city, in its sole discretion, may choose to grant
or deny the claimant’s request.
   (C)   The city shall make the record on review of a claim, including any
staff reports, available to the public before the close of the record as
described in divisions (C) and (D) above.
(Ord. 08-255, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 32.09  FINAL DECISION.
   (A)   Either the City Recorder or the Council shall issue a final decision
on a claim, after providing notice and an opportunity to comment, within 180
days from the claim is deemed completed. The Council may waive some regulations
identified in the claim and deny waiver of others. The Council may waive
regulations that are not otherwise specified in the claim. The City Recorder or
Council may impose reasonable conditions on a waiver to protect the public
interest. Failure to comply with any condition of approval is grounds for
revocation of the City Recorder’s or Council’s decision.
   (B)   The final decision shall be in writing and signed by the City
Recorder, or the Mayor, if the decision was referred to the Council. The city
shall mail a copy of the final determination to the claimant and to any person
who submitted written evidence or arguments before the close of the record. The
city shall forward to the county, and the county shall record, a memorandum of
the final determination in the deed records of the county in which the property
is located.
   (C)   The decision of either the City Recorder or Council, if referred to
the Council, is final and not subject to local appeal. Judicial review is
available only as provided by O.R.S. 195.318.
(Ord. 08-255, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 32.10  BURDEN OF PROOF AND RECORD.
   (A)   The claimant shall have the burden of proof on all matters under this
subchapter.
   (B)   The claimant bears sole responsibility for ensuring that the record
before the city contains all information and evidence necessary to support the
claim.
   (C)   The claimant shall be precluded from submitting information or raising
new issues in any subsequent proceeding unless the claimant demonstrates that
the information or issue could not reasonably have been entered into the record
or raised before the city.
(Ord. 08-255, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 32.11  EX PARTE CONTRACTS, CONFLICT OF INTEREST, BIAS.
   The following rules govern any challenges to the City Recorder’s or member
of the City Council’s participation in the processing of any claim.
   (A)   Any factual information obtained by the City Recorder or a member of
the City Council outside the information provided by city staff, or outside the
formal written comments process or hearing will be deemed an ex parte contact.
The City Recorder or a member of the City Council that has obtained any
material factual information through an ex parte contact must declare the
content of that contact, and allow any interested party to rebut the substance
of that contact. This rule does not apply to contacts between city staff and
the City Recorder or member of the City Council.
   (B)   Whenever the City Recorder or member of the City Council, or any
member of their immediate family or household, has a direct financial interest
in the outcome of a particular demand or lives within the area entitled to
notice of the claim, the City Recorder or member of the City Council shall not
participate in the deliberation or decision on that demand.
   (C)   All decisions on claims must be fair, impartial, and based on the
applicable review standards and the evidence in the record. The City Recorder
or a member of the City Council who is unable to render a decision on this
basis must refrain from participating in the deliberation or decision on that
claim.
(Ord. 08-255, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 32.12  RECONSIDERATION OF CLAIM.
   The Council may, in its sole discretion, reconsider a decision on a claim if
it appears that the decision is inconsistent with a subsequent court ruling,
administrative rule, or other change in the law; relating to Measure 49. The
decision to reconsider may be made without notice or hearing, but the decision
on reconsideration shall be made only after notice and opportunity to be heard
consistent with the requirements for claim review provided under this
subchapter for Council review. At the conclusion of the process, the City
Recorder or Council may affirm, modify, or revoke the earlier decision. If the
Council modifies or revokes a decision to waive one or more land use
regulations, it shall issue an order setting forth such remedy as it deems
appropriate to protect the public interest.
(Ord. 08-255, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 32.13  PROCEDURAL ERROR.
   No procedural defect in processing a claim shall invalidate any proceeding
or decision unless the party alleging the error demonstrates prejudice to a
substantial right. Inadvertent failure to provide notice or complete notice
shall not be grounds for invalidating a decision.
(Ord. 08-255, passed 3-4-2008)
NO SMOKING REGULATIONS
§ 32.25  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Any electronic oral device, such as one composed
of a heating element, battery, and/or electronic circuit, which provides a
vapor of nicotine or any other substances, and the use of inhalation of which
simulates smoking. The term shall include any such device, whether
manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-
pipe, e-hookah, or under any other product name of descriptor and any cartridge
or other component of the device or related product.
   SMOKING. Any inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, pipe, weed, plant, or other tobacco like product or substance
in any manner or in any form. SMOKING also includes the use of an electronic
smoking device which creates a vapor, in any manner or in any form.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco or is derived from
tobacco and is intended to be introduced into the human body. TOBACCO PRODUCT
includes any electronic smoking device. TOBACCO PRODUCT does not mean any
product that the United States Food and Drug Administration has approved as a
tobacco use cessation product.
(Ord. 2015-002, passed 6-22-2015)
§ 32.26  WHERE SMOKING IS PROHIBITED.
   Smoking shall be prohibited on all city-owned property, including, but not
limited to, the following places in public places.
   (A)   Smoking shall be prohibited in all city-owned or managed parks and
recreational facilities, including all parks, trails, open space, and special
use areas. This does not include designated parking areas.
   (B)   (1)   Smoking shall be prohibited on all of the city-owned grounds,
patios, plazas, steps, ramps, and facilities for the city’s public library,
City Hall, and Legion Hall.
      (2)   This prohibition includes the parking lots. This prohibition
includes any sidewalk, pedestrian way, driveway, planting area, public right-
of-way, street curb, or gutter within 20 feet of the exterior of the buildings.
(Ord. 2015-002, passed 6-22-2015)  Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.27  POSTING SIGNS.
   ‘No smoking’ signs or the international ‘no smoking’ symbol (consisting of a
pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a
red bar across the cigarette) shall be clearly, sufficiently, and conspicuously
posted at every building or other area where smoking is prohibited by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-002, passed 6-22-2015)
§ 32.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
32.25 to
32.27 shall be subject to the penalties of up to $500.
(Ord. 2015-002, passed 6-22-2015)
CHAPTER 33:  BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
33.01   Purpose and authority
   
33.02   Membership
   
33.03   Organization
   
33.04   Meetings
   
33.05   Voting
   
33.06   Conflict of interest
   
33.07   Amendments to the by-laws
   
33.08   Parliamentary authority
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.01  PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   The purpose of the Planning Commission is to prepare recommendations for the
City Council regarding proposed amendments to the county’s land use and
development regulations and to make decisions on quasi-judicial land use
matters, in accordance with O.R.S. 227.020.
(Prior Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.02  MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members appointed by
the City Council for staggered, four-year terms or until their successors have
been named. Terms shall commence on January 1.
   (B)   Vacancies shall be filled by the City Council. Appointees shall serve
only for the remainder of the term for the position to which appointed.
   (C)   No more than two members of the Commission may be city officers, and
who shall serve as ex officio non-voting members.
(O.R.S. 227.030(1))  (Prior Code, § 33.02)  (Ord. 10-262, passed 3-22-2010)
§ 33.03  ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall be elected by majority vote
of the Planning Commission members at the regularly scheduled January meeting.
Terms of office shall begin on February 1 of each year.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall maintain a written and taped record of
all meetings.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall establish subcommittees as it deems
necessary and assign each committee specific duties and functions. All
subcommittee actions shall be subject to ratification by the full Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 33.03)
§ 33.04  MEETINGS.
   (A)   All Planning Commission meetings shall be open to the public and shall
be scheduled on the first Monday of each month and at other times as the
Commission deems necessary. All foreseeable absences should be reported
promptly in advance to the Planning Commission Chair and/or City Recorder.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson, the Vice-
Chairperson in his or her absence, or by a majority of the membership, provided
each member is notified at least three days in advance. Action to convene a
meeting need not be taken at a public meeting.
   (C)   A quorum shall consist of four members of the Commission.
   (D)   If both the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson are absent at any
meeting, the Commission shall elect a temporary Chairperson for that particular
meeting.
   (E)   The order of business at all meetings shall be set forth in a rule of
procedure to be adopted by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 33.04)
§ 33.05  VOTING.
   (A)   Motions may be made and seconded by any member of the Planning
Commission except the Chairperson.
   (B)   Each member shall vote unless there is a recognized conflict of
interest. A silent vote shall count as an affirmative vote.
   (C)   A majority vote of those present shall be required to pass any motion
before the Commission.
   (D)   All voting shall be by calling of the roll by the Recording Secretary.
The Chairperson shall vote last and shall never vote to create a tie.
(Prior Code, § 33.05)
§ 33.06  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   A member of a Planning Commission shall not participate in any
Commission proceeding or action in which any of the following has a direct or
substantial financial interest: the member or member’s spouse, brother, sister,
child, parent, in-law, partner, any business in which the member is then
serving or has served within the previous two years, or any business with which
the member is negotiating for or has an arrangement or understanding concerning
prospective partnership or employment. Any actual or potential interest shall
be disclosed at the meeting of the Commission where the action is being taken.
(O.R.S. 227.035).
   (B)   All potential conflicts of interests shall be disclosed upon the
opening of a public hearing and prior to the presentation of the staff report
on a particular issue.
(Prior Code, § 33.06)
§ 33.07  AMENDMENTS TO THE BY-LAWS.
   Amendments to these by-laws may be proposed by the Planning Commission at
any regular meeting of the Committee by a two-thirds vote of the membership,
provided that the recommended amendment has been submitted in writing at the
previous regular meeting. The proposed amendments shall be forwarded to the
City Council for their review and approval. Final authority to amend these by-
laws rests with the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 33.07)
§ 33.08  PARLIAMENTARY AUTHORITY.
   All aspects of Planning Commission procedural activity not covered by these
rules shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order.
(Prior Code, § 33.08)
CHAPTER 34:  CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Authority
   
34.02   Council meetings
   
34.03   Agenda and order of business
   
34.04   Procedure for Council meetings
   
34.05   Council relations with city staff
   
34.06   Committees and commissions
   
34.07   Miscellaneous provisions
Contracting Rules
   
34.20   Contract Review Board
   
34.21   Definitions
   
34.22   Public contracts for goods and services
   
34.23   Public improvement contracts
   
34.24   Offeror disqualification
   
34.25   Personal services contracts
   
34.26   Adoption of code and rules
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01  AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The rules adopted in this subchapter shall be in effect upon their
adoption by the Council and until such time as they are amended, added to,
deleted, or replaced in the manner provided by the city charter.
   (B)   These rules apply equally to the Mayor and Council members.
   (C)   These rules are to be observed in addition to and may not be
contradictory to the current city charter.
(Ord. 10-261, passed 2-22-2010)
§ 34.02  COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   All meetings of the City Council shall comply with the most current
State Public Meetings Law, being O.R.S. Chapter 192, which is hereby
incorporated by reference into these rules.
   (B)   The Council shall hold regular meetings at least once each month at a
time and date convenient to the Council in the Council Chambers at the City
Hall unless otherwise specified by the Council.
   (C)   The place, time, and date of the regular Council meeting may be
changed for holidays, for special circumstances, to facilitate work sessions or
in order to have a quorum of Council members at the meeting. Regular meeting
notice requirements shall be followed.
   (D)   Special meetings of the Council may be called upon the request of
three Council members, by the Mayor, or the Council President in the Mayor’s
absence, by giving notice of the meeting to the Council members and public at
least 24 hours’ in advance of the set meeting time. An attempt to contact the
media or other interested persons to inform them of special meetings is also
required.
   (E)   Emergency meetings may be called on less than 24 hours’ notice. An
actual ‘emergency’ must exist, as described by the minutes for that meeting,
justifying less than 24 hours’ notice (O.R.S. 192.640(3)). The Mayor, or
Council President in the Mayor’s absence, may call an emergency meeting by
telephone or personal notice to each Council member. An attempt to contact the
media and other interested persons to inform them of emergency meetings is also
required.
   (F)   Council members should inform the Mayor or City Hall if they are
unable to attend any Council session. The Mayor will inform the Council
President if he or she will be unable to attend.
   (G)   Regular, special, and emergency meetings of the City Council will be
recorded in accordance with the Public Meetings Law, being O.R.S. Chapter 192.
(Ord. 10-261, passed 2-22-2010)
§ 34.03  AGENDA AND ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   An agenda for each meeting will be developed by the presiding officer
and city staff. The Mayor and Council committees may direct specific items to
be placed on the agenda. The public may request items be placed on the agenda.
Preference will be given to public agenda requests received in writing prior to
the meeting. Verbal requests received at a meeting may be set to the next
meeting’s agenda at the Council’s discretion.
   (B)   The agenda, financial and supplemental information should be delivered
to the individual Council members at least four days before the regular
meeting.
   (C)   The normal order of business for a regular Council meeting shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Determine quorum;
      (3)   Flag salute;
      (4)   Public input for items not on the agenda;
      (5)   Staff reports;
      (6)   Consent agenda: minutes of prior session, financial report and
state of the budget, bills;
      (7)   Prearranged presentations;
      (8)   Old business;
      (9)   New business;
      (10)   Council member and Council committee reports;
      (11)   Mayor’s report;
      (12)   Executive session (if needed); and
      (13)   Action as result of executive session (if required).
   (D)   The Mayor may move agenda items out of order for the efficient
management of the meeting.
(Ord. 10-261, passed 2-22-2010)
§ 34.04  PROCEDURE FOR COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Presiding Officer of the meeting may utilize Robert’s Rules to
govern Council meeting procedures, as deemed necessary in the presiding
officer’s discretion.
   (B)   Every Council member desiring to speak should first address the chair
and await recognition to obtain the floor. No persons other than members of the
Council and the person having the floor shall enter into any discussion either
directly or through a member of Council without the permission of the Presiding
Officer.
   (C)   No motion before the Council shall be debated until it has a second.
   (D)   Debate of a motion shall be limited to one statement per Council
member plus Council member questions for city staff or the public or other
Council members intended to clarify understanding of the issue at hand.
   (E)   Any Council member or the Mayor may call for a vote, thereby ending
debate and discussion on the motion or amendment to a motion before the
Council.
   (F)   The Presiding Officer shall cause the motion to be restated for
clarity of the issue.
   (G)   Each Council member’s vote or abstention shall be recorded
individually.
   (H)   Council members should abstain from voting only when they have an
actual conflict of interest or do not consider themselves well enough informed
on the issue to vote.
   (I)   A Council member who votes on the prevailing side of a motion may move
for reconsideration of the issue. This motion must occur during the meeting or
at the next scheduled Council meeting.
(Ord. 10-261, passed 2-22-2010)
§ 34.05  COUNCIL RELATIONS WITH CITY STAFF.
   (A)   Both staff and Council members shall be mutually respectful of the
respective roles and responsibilities at all times. This requirement applies
particularly when staff or Council is expressing criticism of the other during
any public meeting or otherwise.
   (B)   The Council sets city goals and policies. The Mayor directs staff in
implementing and administering those goals and policies.
   (C)   Council members may seek information from staff members regarding the
operation of their department, but will not attempt to directly change or
interfere with the operation or practice of any city department or personnel.
All concerns or attempts to change city operations shall be directed to the
Council as a whole, at a regularly scheduled meeting.
(Ord. 10-261, passed 2-22-2010)
§ 34.06  COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor appoints all members of committees and commissions.
   (B)   The standing committees and commissions of the city are:
      (1)   Budget Committee;
      (2)   Planning Commission;
      (3)   Personnel and Finance Committee;
      (4)   Public Works, Facilities and Safety Committee;
      (5)   Parks Committee; and
      (6)   City Facilities and Parks Committee.
(Ord. 10-261, passed 2-22-2010)
§ 34.07  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   If the Mayor or a Council member represents the city before another public
body, governmental agency, community organization, or with the media, the Mayor
or Council member should always present the majority position of the Council.
Personal opinions and comments may be expressed only if it includes
clarification that these statements do not represent the official position of
the City Council.
(Ord. 10-261, passed 2-22-2010)
CONTRACTING RULES
§ 34.20  CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD.
   The City Council is designated as the local contract review board of the
city and shall have all of the rights, powers, and authority to carry out the
provisions of O.R.S. Chapters 279A, 279B, and 279C (the ‘Public Contracting
Code’). Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the City Council, or the
designated purchasing agent, is designated as the city’s contracting agency for
purposes of contracting powers and duties assigned to the city as a contracting
agency under the Public Contracting Code.
(Ord. 2012-272, passed 3-26-2012)
§ 34.21  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings. All words or phrases not defined in this section shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in the Public Contracting Code or the Model Rules
adopted by the State Attorney General thereunder (‘Model Rules’).
   FORMAL QUOTE. Procedure pursuant to which written offers are solicited by
advertising or other writing stating the quantity and quality of goods or
services to be acquired, and which offers are received by the contracting
agency on or before a stated date.
      (1)   In soliciting FORMAL QUOTES, the contracting agency shall seek
quotes from a sufficiently large number of potential offerors to ensure
sufficient competition to meet the best interests of the city.
      (2)   An award based on less than three FORMAL QUOTES may be made
provided the contracting agency makes a written record of the effort to obtain
quotes.
   INFORMAL QUOTE. Procedure pursuant to which written or verbal offers are
gathered by correspondence, telephone, or personal contact stating the quantity
and quality of goods or services to be acquired. In soliciting INFORMAL QUOTES,
the contracting agency shall seek quotes from a sufficiently large number of
potential offerors to ensure sufficient competition to meet the best interests
of the city. An award based on less than three INFORMAL QUOTES may be made
provided the contracting agency makes a written record of the effort to obtain
quotes.
   PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACT. A contract to retain the services of an
independent contractor whose services require specialized technical, creative,
professional or communication skills or talents, unique and specialized
knowledge, or the exercise of discretionary judgment, and for which the quality
of the service depends on attributes that are unique to the service provider.
Such services shall include, but are not limited to: architects; engineers;
surveyors; attorneys; accountants; auditors; computer programmers; artists;
designers; performers; and consultants. The contracting agency shall have the
authority to determine whether a particular service is a ‘personal service’
under this definition.
(Ord. 2012-272, passed 3-26-2012)
§ 34.22  PUBLIC CONTRACTS FOR GOODS AND SERVICES.
   This section applies to public contracts that are not contracts for public
improvements or contracts for personal services. A public contract shall not be
artificially divided or fragmented to qualify for a different award procedure
than that provided by this section.
   (A)   Classes of contracts. The following classes of public contracts and
respective award procedures are created.
      (1)   A public contract for an amount which is valued at $5,000 or more,
but less than $10,000, shall be awarded by the contracting agency based on
informal quotes. Amendments to public contracts under this section may not
cause the contract price to exceed an amount that is 25% over the original
contract price.
      (2)   A public contract for an amount which is valued at $10,000 or more,
but less than $75,000, shall be awarded by the contracting agency based on
formal quotes. Amendments to public contracts under this section may not cause
the contract price to exceed an amount that is 25% over the original contract
price.
      (3)   A public contract for an amount which is valued at $75,000 or more
shall be awarded by the City Council based on competitive sealed bidding or
competitive sealed proposals pursuant to the Public Contracting Code.
   (B)   Amendments. Subject to the limits in division (A) above, amendments to
public contracts shall comply with the Public Contracting Code.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The requirements of division (A) above do not apply to the
following classes of public contracts:
         (a)   Equipment repair and overhaul;
         (b)   Purchases through federal programs;
         (c)   Additions to developer constructed public improvements; and
         (d)   Contracts for products or supplies under $5,000.
      (2)   For public contracts predominantly for services, one extension not
exceeding the original term of the contract or annual renewals, if provided in
the contract, is permitted without going through competitive procurement
requirements.
      (3)   Amendments to contracts exceeding the limits in division (A) above
shall be exempt if the City Council determines that it is not reasonably
feasible to require additional competitive procurement to complete the purpose
of the contract; otherwise the amendment shall comply with division (B) above
or the City Council shall direct additional competitive procurement and the
competitive procurement procedure required for the amendment.
      (4)   By resolution, the City Council may exempt other public contracts
or classes of public contracts from the requirements of division (A) above
pursuant to O.R.S. 279B.085.
   (D)   Publication of notice. Notice of solicitation documents may be
published electronically, in lieu of publication in a newspaper of general
circulation, if it results in a sufficiently large number of potential offerors
to ensure sufficient competition to meet the best interests of the city.
(Ord. 2012-272, passed 3-26-2012)
§ 34.23  PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT CONTRACTS.
   (A)   A public improvement contract is defined pursuant to the Public
Contracting Code and does not include contracts for minor alterations, ordinary
repair and maintenance of public improvements, contracts for projects for which
no funds of the city are directly or indirectly used except for participation
that is incidental or related primarily to project design or inspection, and
does not include any other construction contract that is not defined as a
public improvement under the Public Contracting Code. A public improvement
contract shall not be artificially divided to qualify for a different award
procedure than that provided by this section.
   (B)   All public improvement contracts shall be awarded by the City Council
based on competitive sealed bids pursuant to the Public Contracting Code,
except as stated hereinafter.
   (C)   The requirements of division (B) above, and the procedures applicable
to the award of those contracts, do not apply to the following classes of
public improvement contracts:
      (1)   Public improvement contracts valued at less than $5,000;
      (2)   Public improvement contracts valued at $5,000 or more, but less
than $25,000, shall be awarded by the contracting agency based on formal
quotes;
      (3)   Public improvement contracts valued at $25,000 or more shall be
awarded by the City Council based on competitive sealed bidding or competitive
sealed proposals pursuant to the Public Contracting Code;
      (4)   Emergency public improvement contracts may be exempted from
competitive bidding if the contracting agency determines that an emergency
exists and that conditions require the prompt execution of a contract.
Emergency public improvement contracts shall be awarded in accordance with the
Public Contracting Code. The contracting agency shall provide the City Council
with a written statement indicating the nature of the emergency and stating
with particularity the emergency conditions and why they pose an imminent
threat to the public health, safety, or welfare. The contracting agency shall
not declare the same emergency more than two times in any 90-day period;
      (5)   By resolution, the City Council may exempt from competitive bidding
a public improvement contract or class of public improvement contracts not
otherwise exempt under this section pursuant to O.R.S. 279C.335; and
      (6)   When an exemption allows for award of the contract through
competitive proposals, the provisions of O.R.S. 279C.400 through 279C.410 shall
apply.
   (D)   Amendments to public improvement contracts shall comply with the
Public Contracting Code.
   (E)   The performance and payment bonds requirements and exceptions of the
Public Contracting Code shall apply to all public improvement contracts.
   (F)   Notice of solicitation documents may be published electronically, in
lieu of publication in a newspaper of general circulation, if it results in a
sufficiently large number of potential offerors to ensure sufficient
competition to meet the best interests of the city.
   (G)   The city may undertake to construct a public improvement using its own
equipment and personnel if doing so will result in the least cost to the city
or public, in accordance with O.R.S. 279C.305.
   (H)   If all responsive offers on a public improvement contract exceed the
budget for the project, the contracting agency may, prior to contract award,
negotiate for a price within the budget under the following procedures.
      (1)   Negotiations shall start with the lowest responsive, responsible
offeror. If negotiations are not successful, then the contracting agency may
negotiate with the second lowest responsive, responsible offeror, and so on.
      (2)   Negotiations may include value engineering and other options to
attempt to bring the project cost within the budgeted amount.
      (3)   A contract may not be awarded under this section if the scope of
the project is significantly changed from the description in the original
solicitation documents.
      (4)   The records of an offeror used in contract negotiations under this
section are not subject to public inspection until after the negotiated
contract has been awarded or the negotiation process has been terminated.
   (I)   The use of brand name, mark, or manufacturer specifications in public
improvement contracts shall be made in accordance with O.R.S. 279B.125.
(Ord. 2012-272, passed 3-26-2012)
§ 34.24  OFFEROR DISQUALIFICATION.
   (A)   The City Council or contracting agency, whoever is awarding a public
contract, may disqualify any person as an offeror on a contract if:
      (1)   The person does not have sufficient financial ability to perform
the contract. Evidence that the person can acquire a surety bond in the amount
and type required shall be sufficient to establish financial ability;
      (2)   The person does not have available equipment to perform the
contract;
      (3)   The person does not have key personnel of sufficient experience to
perform the contract; or
      (4)   The person has breached previous contractual obligations.
   (B)   The provisions of the Public Contracting Code regarding
disqualification of persons shall apply in addition to this section with
respect to public improvement contracts.
   (C)   A person who has been disqualified as an offeror may appeal the
disqualification to the City Council in accordance with the procedures in
Chapter 279C of the Public Contracting Code.
(Ord. 2012-272, passed 3-26-2012)
§ 34.25  PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The following procedures shall apply to the award of personal services
contracts.
      (1)   Personal services contracts involving an anticipated annual fee of
$5,000 or more, but less than $25,000, shall be awarded by the contracting
agency following solicitation of offers for personal services by written
invitation or advertisement in sufficient number to provide a choice for the
city from among qualified service providers. The contracting agency shall
determine the selection criteria to be included in the written invitation or
advertisement and shall have authority to negotiate and enter into the
contract.
      (2)   Personal services contracts having an anticipated annual fee of
$25,000 or more shall be awarded by the City Council following solicitation of
offers based on the procedure and selection criteria adopted by the City
Council before offers are solicited.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in the Public Contracting Code, for
all other personal services contracts, including amendments to and annual
renewals or extensions of existing contracts and emergencies, the contracting
agency may enter into the contract without a solicitation of offers. A personal
services contract shall not be artificially divided or fragmented to qualify
for the award procedures provided by this division (A).
   (B)   The following criteria shall be considered in the evaluation and
selection of a personal services contractor. The criteria are not listed in
order of preference or importance. This section does not preclude the use of
other additional criteria:
      (1)   Timeliness of delivery of services;
      (2)   Expertise of the contractor in the area of specialty called for;
      (3)   References from successfully completed projects managed by the
contractor;
      (4)   Utilization of locally procured goods, services, or personnel;
      (5)   Other services provided by the contractor not specifically listed
in the request for proposal;
      (6)   Total cost to the agency for delivery of services; and
      (7)   Other criteria specially listed in the solicitation document on a
case by case basis.
(Ord. 2012-272, passed 3-26-2012)
§ 34.26  ADOPTION OF CODE AND RULES.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided in this chapter, public contracts
shall be awarded, administered, and governed according to the Public
Contracting Code and the Model Rules, as they now exist and may be amended in
the future.
   (B)   In the event of a conflict between any provisions of this chapter and
the Public Contracting Code or Model Rules, the provisions of this chapter
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2012-272, passed 3-26-2012)
CHAPTER 35:  DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS REAL PROPERTY
Section
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Qualification, classification
   
35.03   Real property disposal scope
   
35.04   Disposal of substandard undeveloped property
   
35.05   Disposal of standard undeveloped property and developed property
   
35.06   Disposal to other public entities
   
35.07   Lease of surplus real property
§ 35.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISPOSAL or DISPOSE. The sale, lease, exchange, or donation of real
property.
   LEASE. A tenancy in real property granting the right of possession for a
specified term for consideration. LEASE does not include a permit, license, or
franchise to use any city-owned or controlled real property or public way.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any interest in real property owned by the city within or
without the geographic limits of the city.
(Ord. 13-273, passed 2-25-2013)
§ 35.02  QUALIFICATION, CLASSIFICATION.
   Real property qualifying for the procedure established in this chapter is
classified as follows.
   (A)   Substandard undeveloped property. Parcels with no structures thereon
that are not of minimum buildable size for the zone in which located, and
parcels that do not meet the city’s existing development code.
   (B)   Standard undeveloped property. Parcels with no structures thereon that
are of minimum or greater buildable size for the zone in which located.
   (C)   Developed property. Parcels of any size with structures thereon.
   (D)   Special-case property. Parcels that, notwithstanding divisions (A),
(B), and (C) above, were acquired by the city for capital improvement and were
purchased subject to an agreement for the manner in which any surplus would be
disposed.
(Ord. 13-273, passed 2-25-2013)
§ 35.03  REAL PROPERTY DISPOSAL SCOPE.
   (A)   Real property owned by the city shall be disposed of as provided in
this chapter unless another procedure is specified by the City Council. Before
disposing of any real property under this chapter, the city shall find either
that the property is not needed for public use or that the public interest may
be furthered by disposal of such real property.
   (B)   In determining whether to dispose of real property, the city in its
discretion may consider whether to establish certain requirements as conditions
of the transaction, such as requiring that the property be developed to a
certain standard by a specified date, that the property not be placed in tax-
exempt status for a specified length of time, and other conditions the city may
deem appropriate.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall require additional procedures or limit
the authority of the city to issue any permits or licenses. If the real
property is within 100 feet of a railroad right-of-way or is within 500 feet of
an at-grade rail, the city will notify the state’s Department of Transportation
as required by O.R.S. 271.310.
(Ord. 13-273, passed 2-25-2013)
§ 35.04  DISPOSAL OF SUBSTANDARD UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Whenever a particular parcel or parcels is proposed for sale by the
city, or purchase inquiry is made, and the property is classified as
substandard undeveloped property, the matter shall be set on the regular
Council agenda, but no public hearing is required. Except as otherwise provided
in this section, notice of the agenda item shall be given to all property
owners within 250 feet of the parcel’s boundary line and to any parties who
have inquired about the purchaser. If the city has issued a request for bids
seeking purchasers of the property and provided the request for bids to
property owners within 250 feet of the parcel’s boundary line and to those who
have inquired about purchasing the property, notice need only be provided to
those who have submitted a bid proposal. After discussion of the agenda item,
the Council shall determine whether it will offer the property for sale.
   (B)   If the City Council decides to sell the property, it will direct the
City Recorder or designee to take further action to sell the property. The City
Council may authorize the City Recorder or designee to publicize as
appropriate, determine the existence of interested prospective purchasers, and
negotiate for the sale of the property. Nothing in this section shall preclude
the City Recorder or designee from taking preliminary actions, including
publicizing a possible sale, determining the existence of interested
prospective purchasers, and issuing a request for bids prior to the City
Council’s decision, so long as the city does not enter into a binding
agreement, without City Council authorization.
   (C)   The City Council shall have the final authority to approve or
disapprove the final terms of the sale. The City Council may pre-approve terms
and the agreement form at the meeting at which it determines to sell the
property. If the City Council does not pre-approve terms and the agreement form
at its initial meeting or if alternate terms or agreement form are proposed,
the City Council shall at a later regularly scheduled Council meeting consider
approval of the terms and agreement form.
(Ord. 13-273, passed 2-25-2013)
§ 35.05  DISPOSAL OF STANDARD UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY AND DEVELOPED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Whenever a particular parcel or parcels is proposed for sale by the
city or a purchase inquiry is made and the property is classified as standard
undeveloped property or developed property, the matter shall be set for a
hearing before the Council.
   (B)   Notice of said hearing shall be published not less than once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city seven days prior to the hearing,
and shall describe the property proposed for sale.
   (C)   Prior to the sale of a parcel under this section, evidence of market
value of the property, or an appraisal if required by the Council, shall be
conducted. At the discretion of the Council, such an appraisal may be ordered
prior to or after the hearing. The appraisal may be made available to the
public at the hearing at the discretion of the Council.
   (D)   Public testimony shall be solicited at the hearing to determine if a
sale of any parcel is in the public interest, and the property is not needed
for public use.
   (E)   After the hearing, the Council shall determine whether it will offer
the property for sale and what the minimum acceptable terms shall be.
   (F)   If an offer to sell is authorized by the Council, the Council shall
decide whether to sell the property to the highest bidder at a public sale, by
sealed bid, or directly to the purchase inquirer on terms established by the
Council. A notice advertising the public sale or soliciting sealed bids shall
be published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the city be
made a least two weeks prior to the sale or bid deadline date. The notice shall
describe the property to be sold, the minimum acceptable terms of sale, and if
applicable, the person designated to receive bids, the last date bids will be
received, and the date, time, and place that bids will be opened.
   (G)   If one or more bids are received at or above the minimum acceptable
terms, the highest bid shall be accepted and the city shall complete the sale.
   (H)   If no acceptable bids are received on a particular parcel, the Council
may alter or keep the same minimum terms established under division (E) above
and direct staff to hold another sale, or the Council may alter or keep the
same minimum terms established under division (E) above and list the property
for six months with a local real estate broker on a multiple listing basis. A
listing may be renewed for an additional one six-month period.
   (I)   After expiration of the period set out in division (H) above, the
property shall be removed from the market. Any decision to sell a piece of
property once it has been removed from the market shall require that the entire
procedure set forth in this chapter be repeated. The Council may, however,
decide whether or not an additional appraisal is necessary.
(Ord. 13-273, passed 2-25-2013)
§ 35.06  DISPOSAL TO OTHER PUBLIC ENTITIES.
   When disposing of real property to the federal or state government or any of
their agencies or political subdivisions, the Council may act without complying
with the provisions of §§
35.04 and
35.05 when the disposal is for a specific public use.
(Ord. 13-273, passed 2-25-2013)
§ 35.07  LEASE OF SURPLUS REAL PROPERTY.
   When real property is determined by the City Council to be suitable for
tenant occupancy, and that occupancy is consistent with the public purpose for
which it was acquired or not be needed for the public purpose for which it was
acquired for up to five years, the City Council may lease all or any part of it
to another for a term not to exceed five years at fair market rent. If a
potential tenant who desires to lease real property from the city is tax-exempt
nonprofit, the City Council shall have the discretion to lease the real
property for rent that is less than fair market value. The City Council may
require additional lease terms and conditions consistent with the public
health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 13-273, passed 2-25-2013)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWERS
         
APPENDIX A: UTILITY SERVICE AGREEMENT
      
51.   WATER
CHAPTER 50:  SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Public sewer use required
   
50.003   Private sewage disposal
   
50.004   Damaging, destroying sewage works equipment
   
50.005   In lieu of franchise fee
Building Sewers and Connections
   
50.020   Permit required for connections
   
50.021   Classes of permits
   
50.022   Costs to be borne by owner
   
50.023   Separate building sewers
   
50.024   Old building sewers used with new buildings
   
50.025   Specifications for materials and construction
   
50.026   Superintendent to be notified when construction ready for inspection
   
50.027   Excavations to be guarded; restoration of public property
Use of Public Sewers
   
50.040   Discharges of unpolluted drainage; discharges to natural outlets and
storm sewers
   
50.041   Prohibited discharges
   
50.042   Discharge of harmful substances prohibited
   
50.043   Actions of the Superintendent
   
50.044   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
50.045   Preliminary treatment facilities
   
50.046   Measurements, tests, and analyses
   
50.047   Special agreements
Rates and Charges
   
50.060   Definitions
   
50.061   Sewer user charge
   
50.062   Review and revision of rates; notification
   
50.063   Responsibility for payment; billing procedure; delinquencies
   
50.064   Disconnection for late payment
   
50.065   Handling of funds
   
50.066   Appeals
Administration and Enforcement
   
50.080   Right of entry; safety rules to be observed; indemnification
   
50.081   Violations
 
   
50.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:  Utility Service Agreement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank, lagoon, or any other means of
sewage disposal that is acceptable for use in the state and which is owned and
maintained by a private party.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewer and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Public Works Superintendent of the city, or his or her
authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently. (Prior Code, § 50.01)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)
§ 50.002  PUBLIC SEWER USE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other
polluted liquids and waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided
in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of any house, building, or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of
the city, is hereby required at his or her own expense to install toilet and
sewage disposal facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly
with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
within 90 days after the date of official notice to do so, provided that a
public sewer is within 100 feet of his or her property line.
(Prior Code, § 50.02)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.003  PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
50.002, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written variance from the city if the
proposed system is approved by the state’s Department of Environmental Quality.
Any other type of system may be used with the written approval of both the
state’s Department of Environmental Quality and the city.
   (C)   When a public sewer becomes available to a property being served by a
private sewage disposal system, that property shall be connected to the public
sewer within 30 days at the property owner’s expense. The private sewage
disposal system shall then be abandoned and removed, filled, and otherwise be
rendered useless and safe to the general public in accordance with existing
state law and this chapter at no expense to the city.
   (D)   The owner shall maintain and operate the private sewage disposal
system in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
   (E)   Any private sewage disposal system shall be open to inspection by the
city at any reasonable time.
   (F)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any requirements that may be imposed by the state, the state’s Department
of Environmental quality or its successor, or the city in the usual pursuit of
the public welfare and safety.
(Prior Code, § 50.03)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.004  DAMAGING, DESTROYING SEWAGE WORKS EQUIPMENT.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Prior Code, § 50.04)  Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.005  IN LIEU OF FRANCHISE FEE.
   Effective November 12, 2002, as compensation for the use of city owned
right-of-way, the Sewer Fund shall pay the Street Fund an in lieu of franchise
fee in the amount of 5% of the city sewer user receipts.
(Ord. 2003-002, passed 11-12-2002)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 50.020  PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONNECTIONS.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 50.15)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.021  CLASSES OF PERMITS.
   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential
service; and for commercial service and service to establishments producing
industrial waste. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application through the standard building permit procedure as established by
the city. The permit application may be supplemented by any specifications,
plans, or other information the city deems necessary. A permit, connection, and
inspection fee for residential, commercial, and industrial sewer hook ups shall
be paid to the city at the time an application is made for sewer service. The
fees shall be set by resolution of the City Council and may be revised from
time to time.
(Prior Code, § 50.16)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982; Ord. 222, passed 3-25-1996)
§ 50.022  COSTS TO BE BORNE BY OWNER.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.17)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)
§ 50.023  SEPARATE BUILDING SEWERS.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.18)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)
§ 50.024  OLD BUILDING SEWERS USED WITH NEW BUILDINGS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.19)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)
§ 50.025  SPECIFICATIONS FOR MATERIALS AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the most
current A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which an building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (D)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the most current A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual
of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas- and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
(Prior Code, § 50.20)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.026  SUPERINTENDENT TO BE NOTIFIED WHEN CONSTRUCTION READY FOR INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent
or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 50.21)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.027  EXCAVATIONS TO BE GUARDED; RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.22)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)  Penalty, see §
50.999
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 50.040  DISCHARGES OF UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE; DISCHARGES TO NATURAL OUTLETS AND
STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent.
   (C)   Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged, on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined
sewer, or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 50.35)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.041  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes
to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard
to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited to,
cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public
sewer;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works; and/or
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Prior Code, § 50.36)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.042  DISCHARGE OF HARMFUL SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as to
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of tractability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such a degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, and other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state and federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment processes employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree
that the sewage treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other
agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 50.37)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.043  ACTIONS OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
50.042 above, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
50.042.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(Prior Code, § 50.38)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)
§ 50.044  GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 50.39)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.045  PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (B)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(Prior Code, § 50.40)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.046  MEASUREMENTS, TESTS, AND ANALYSES.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample of samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained for
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.
(Prior Code, § 50.41)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)
§ 50.047  SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 50.42)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.060  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY ENGINEER. The consulting engineer retained by the city.
   COLLECTION SYSTEM. The system of public sewers to be operated by the city
designed for the collection of sanitary sewage.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any premises used for commercial or business purposes which
is not an industry as defined in this subchapter.
   DOMESTIC WASTE. Any wastewater emanating from dwellings or from domestic
activities which are performed outside the home in lieu of a home activity
directly by or for private citizens.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). A unit of wastewater which incurs the
same costs for operation and maintenance as the basic minimum volume of
domestic waste established as being discharged from a single-family residence
in the treatment works service area. In the city, an ERU shall be equivalent to
the established minimum gallons per month of domestic wastewater as established
by Council resolution.
   MAY. Is permissible.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All activities, goods, and services which are
necessary to maintain the proper capacity and performance of the treatment
works for which such works were designed and constructed. The term shall
include REPLACEMENT as defined hereinafter.
   PUBLIC TREATMENT WORKS. A treatment works owned and operated by public
authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Acquisition and installation of equipment, accessories, or
appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed.
   SERVICE AREA. All the area served by the treatment works and for which there
is one uniform user charge system.
   SEWAGE. A combination of water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWER DEPARTMENT. That department of the city or division thereof which is
designated to operate and maintain the sewage treatment works.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   TREATMENT WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage. TREATMENT SYSTEM and SEWERAGE SYSTEM shall be equivalent
terms for TREATMENT WORKS.
   USER. Every person using any part of the public treatment works of the city.
   USER CHARGE. The periodic charges levied on all users of the public
treatment works, and shall at a minimum, cover each user’s proportionate share
of the cost of operation and maintenance (including replacement).
(Prior Code, § 50.55)  (Ord. 184, passed 4-2-1984; Ord. 2015-001, passed 2-23-
2015)
§ 50.061  SEWER USER CHARGE.
   (A)   User charges shall be levied on all users of the public treatment
works. These charges shall cover the costs of operation and maintenance,
replacement, taxes, and other administrative costs of such treatment works. The
user charge system shall distribute these costs in proportion to each user’s
contribution to the wastewater loading of the treatment works.
   (B)   There shall be established classes of users such that all members of a
class shall pay a flat charge for a minimum volume of wastewater discharged
from each residence, facility, or other appropriate unit.
   (C)   There shall be assigned to each user class a number of Equivalent
Residential Units (ERUs) (See § 50.055 of this subchapter) for each appropriate
unit and this number of ERUs shall represent the ratio of the costs incurred by
the wastes from the unit to the costs incurred by the wastes from the base ERU
which is charged the minimum rate.
   (D)   Should any user believe that he or she has been incorrectly assigned a
number of ERUs, that user may apply for review of his or her user charge as
provided in §
50.061 of this subchapter.
   (E)   Should the City Engineer determine that a user is incorrectly assigned
a number of ERUs, he or she shall reassign a more appropriate number of ERUs to
that user and shall notify that user of such reassignment.
   (F)   Records of all assigned rates and any assigned wastewater volumes
forming the basis of the ERU shall be kept on file with the City Recorder and
shall be open for public inspection.
   (G)   The monthly sewer user charge shall be set by resolution of the City
Council. The resolution may be revised from time to time by the City Council as
provided in §
50.062.
   (H)   Any user which cannot be classified in any of the above user classes
shall be considered a special user. Such user shall be placed in an open class
and a special charge based on both volume and strength of waste shall be
assigned to that user by the City Engineer.
   (I)   The sewer user charge for all occupied property shall begin 60 days
after the sewer service becomes available, or the day that connection is made
to the public sewer; whichever occurs first.
      (1)   The sewer user charge for all unoccupied property shall begin
within 30 days after the property is ready for occupancy or on the first day of
occupancy; whichever occurs first. All unoccupied property which is ready for
occupancy at the time that the sewer service becomes available shall be treated
as occupied property.
      (2)   Once the sewer user charge has commenced, no credit shall be given
for vacancy unless it can be demonstrated that water service to that property
from any and all sources has been discontinued.
      (3)   The monthly sewer user charge shall be reinstated as soon as water
service to that property from any source has begun. If the date upon which the
user charge is commenced or altered does not fall on the first day of a billing
period, the rate shall be appropriately pro-rated.
(Prior Code, § 50.56)  (Ord. 184, passed 4-2-1984; Ord. 220, passed 10-5-1992;
Ord. 222, passed 3-25-1996)
§ 50.062  REVIEW AND REVISION OF RATES; NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   The sewer user charges established in §
50.061 shall, as a minimum, be reviewed annually and revised periodically to
reflect actual costs of operation, maintenance, and replacement of the
treatment works and to maintain the equitability of the user charge with
respect to proportional distribution of the costs of operation and maintenance
in proportion to each user’s contribution to the total wastewater loading of
the treatment works.
   (B)   Each user will be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are
attributable to wastewater treatment services.
(Prior Code, § 50.57)  (Ord. 184, passed 4-2-1984)
§ 50.063  RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT; BILLING PROCEDURE; DELINQUENCIES.
   (A)   The person who owns the premises served by the sewerage system shall
be responsible for payment of the sewer user charge for that property,
notwithstanding the fact that the property may be occupied by a tenant or other
occupant who may be required by the owner to pay the charges.
   (B)   The users of the sewerage system shall be billed on a monthly basis
for services after rendered, in accordance with the rate schedule set forth in
§
50.061 of this subchapter.
   (C)   The date of billing shall be the first day of the month for which the
sewer user charge is calculated as provided in §
50.061.
   (D)   Sewer user charges shall be due and payable to the City Recorder no
later than ten days after the date of billing.
   (E)   Sewer user charges levied in accordance with this subchapter shall be
a debt due to the city and
a lien upon the property. If this debt is not paid within 30 days after it
shall be due and payable, it shall be deemed delinquent and may be recovered by
civil action in the name of the city against the property owner, the person, or
both.
   (F)   Interest at the rate as determined by Council resolution shall accrue
on all accounts from the date of delinquency.
(Prior Code, § 50.58)  (Ord. 184, passed 4-2-1984; Ord. 2015-001, passed 2-23-
2015)
§ 50.064  DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service shall contain the pertinent contact information of the official
in charge of billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the
effect.
   (B)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid or a payment plan acceptable to
the city has been agreed to and adhered with, along with a turn-on charge as
determined by Council resolution.
(Ord. 2015-001, passed 2-23-2015)
§ 50.065  HANDLING OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Bills for sewer user charges shall be mailed to the address specified
in the application for permit to make the connection unless or until a
different owner or user of the property is reported to the Sewer Department.
   (B)   All collections of sewer user charges shall be made by the City
Recorder by and through the Sewer Department. Sewer user charges shall be
computed as provided in §
50.061 and shall be payable as provided in §
50.063.
   (C)   The City Recorder is hereby directed to deposit in the Sewer Fund all
of the gross revenues received from charges, rates, and penalties collected for
the use of the sewerage system as herein provided.
   (D)   The revenues thus deposited in the Sewer Fund shall be used
exclusively for the operation, maintenance, and repair of the sewerage system;
reasonable administration costs; expenses of collection of charges imposed by
this chapter and connection fees provided for in this chapter; and may be used
for payments of the principal and interest on any debts of the sewerage system
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.60)  (Ord. 184, passed 4-2-1984)
§ 50.066  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any sewer user who feels his or her sewer user charge is unjust and
inequitable as applied to his or her premises within the intent of the
foregoing provisions may make written application to the City Council
requesting a review of his or her user charge. The written request shall, where
necessary, show the actual or estimated average flow of his or her wastewater
in comparison with the values upon which the charge is based, including how the
measurements or estimates were made.
   (B)   Review of the request shall be made by the City Council and the City
Engineer and shall determine if it is substantiated or not, including
recommending further study of the matter by the City Engineer or other
registered professional engineer.
   (C)   If the request is determined to be substantiated, the user charges for
the user shall be recomputed based on the approved revised flow and/or strength
data and the new charges thus recomputed shall be applicable retroactively up
to six months, as applicable.
(Prior Code, § 50.61)  (Ord. 184, passed 4-2-1984)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.080  RIGHT OF ENTRY; SAFETY RULES TO BE OBSERVED; INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   (1)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all properties for the purposes of inspections, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of
the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established
by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to
the city employees and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by city employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in §
50.045.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, shall be done in
full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to
the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 50.75)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)
§ 50.081  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
§
50.004, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the
city by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 50.76)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)
§ 50.999  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided
for in §
50.081(A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding $100 for each violation. Each day in which
any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 50.99)  (Ord. 171, passed 1-4-1982)
APPENDIX A: UTILITY SERVICE AGREEMENT
 
CITY OF MONROE
664 Commercial Street
P.O. Box 486
Monroe, OR 97456
PH. 847-5176/FAX 847-5177
APPLICANT NAME:                                                                
                                             
PHONE NUMBER: HOME (541)                                        BUSINESS      
                               
MAILING ADDRESS:                                                              
                                               
SERVICE ADDRESS:                                                              
                                               
DATE SERVICE TO BEGIN:                                                        
                                           
OWNER NAME:                                                                    
                                                 
OWNER ADDRESS:                                                                
                                               
LEGAL DESCRIPTION: Section            Township                Range            
   Lot                      RESIDENTIAL                      COMMERCIAL        
              INDUSTRIAL                            
DRIVER’S LICENSE #                                        SOC. SEC. #          
                                       
PREVIOUS ADDRESS:                                                              
                                             
RESIDENTIAL RATES:   Water Minimum - $10.00 for the first 2,000 gallons
            Water Excess - $5.00 per 1,000 gallons or part thereof
            Sewer Flat Rate - $28.66
COMMERCIAL:      Water Minimum - $25.00 for the first 2,000 gallons
            Water Excess - $5.00 per 1,000 gallons or part thereof
            Sewer Flat Rate - $28.66
            Refundable Deposit Required of $75.00
The city bills in arrears. Payments are due by the 15th of the month. Any bill
outstanding on the 16th of the month may be subject to a 1.5% penalty and/or
turn off. In the event of a turn off, all fees must be paid plus a $35.00
service charge to restore service.
I have read the above conditions and agree to be the responsible party for
payment of charges.
                                                                               
                                                       
Signature                         Date
CHAPTER 51:  WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Short title
   
51.002   Scope
   
51.003   Definitions
   
51.004   Fire hydrants
   
51.005   In lieu of franchise fee
Water Service
   
51.020   Service area
   
51.021   Description of service
   
51.022   Application for service
   
51.023   Main extensions
   
51.024   Service connection defined
   
51.025   Ownership, installation, and maintenance
   
51.026   Size of service; changes in service size
   
51.027   Length of service
   
51.028   Joint service connections; number of service connections on premises
   
51.029   Fire service connections
   
51.030   Temporary service connections
   
51.031   Customer’s plumbing
   
51.032   Meters
Rates, Charges, and Billing
   
51.045   Water rates and service connection charges
   
51.046   Notices
   
51.047   Meter readings
   
51.048   Rendering of bills
   
51.049   Disputed bills
   
51.050   Payment of bills
   
51.051   Delinquency
   
51.052   Disconnection for nonpayment
   
51.053   Meter error
   
51.054   Water charged to premises
   
51.055   Water service charge lien
   
51.056   Discontinuance of service
   
51.057   Restoration of service
   
51.058   Unusual demands
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.070   Access to property
   
51.071   Responsibility for equipment
   
51.072   Suspension of rules
   
51.073   Easements
Cross-Connection Control
   
51.085   Responsibility
   
51.086   Definitions
   
51.087   Administration
   
51.088   Requirements
   
51.089   Degree of hazard
   
51.090   Existing in-use backflow prevention devices
   
51.091   Periodic testing
   
51.092   Records and reports
   
51.093   Fees and charges
   
51.094   Appeals
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as “Rates, Rules, and Regulations for the
Operation of the Water Department of the City of Monroe, Benton County,
Oregon”, and may be so cited and pleaded.
(Prior Code, § 51.01)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.002  SCOPE.
   The Water Department and all customers receiving services from the Water
Department, whether inside or outside the city limits, are bound by these rules
and regulations of the Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 51.02)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.003  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The person or persons, firm, or corporation making application
for water service from the Water Department under the terms of these
regulations.
   CITY COUNCIL. The legally elected group of members composing the City
Council, including the Mayor of the city.
   CUSTOMER or USER. An applicant who has been accepted under the terms of
these regulations and who receives water service from the Water Department.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person appointed by the City Council to superintend the
affairs of the Water Department.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The Water Department of the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.03)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.004  FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Operation. No person or persons other than those designated and
authorized by the Water Department shall open any fire hydrant belonging to the
Water Department, attempt to draw water from it, or in any manner damage or
tamper with it. Any violation of this regulation will be prosecuted according
to law. No tool other than special hydrant wrenches shall be used to operate a
hydrant valve. In cases where a temporary service has been granted and receives
water through a fire hydrant, an auxiliary external valve will be provided to
control the flow of water.
   (B)   Moving a fire hydrant. When a fire hydrant has been installed in the
locations specified by the proper authorities, the Water Department has
fulfilled its obligation. If a property owner or other party desires to change
the size, type, or location of the hydrant, he or she shall bear all costs of
such changes. Any change in the location of a fire hydrant must be approved by
the Water and Fire Departments.
(Prior Code, § 51.04)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.005  IN LIEU OF FRANCHISE FEE.
   Effective November 1, 2002, as compensation for the use of city-owned right-
of-way, the Water Fund shall pay the Street Fund an in lieu of franchise fee in
the amount of 5% of the city water user receipts.
(Ord. 2003-001, passed 11-12-2002)
WATER SERVICE
§ 51.020  SERVICE AREA.
   (A)   The area served by the Water Department shall be all that area
included within the corporate limits of the city and such other contiguous and
neighboring territory as the City Council shall, from time to time, deem
necessary to serve.
   (B)   The owner of any house, building, or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a municipal water line is hereby
required to connect to the water system of the city in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 30 days after the date of official notice to
do so. After 30 days notice, a charge not lower than the minimum water rate
will be charged and will continue each month thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 51.15)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.021  DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Supply. The Water Department will exercise reasonable diligence and
care to deliver a continuous and sufficient supply of water to the customer at
a reasonable pressure and to avoid so far as reasonably possible any shortage
or interruption in delivery. The Water Department shall not be liable for
damage resulting from the interruption in service or from the lack of service.
Temporary suspension of service by the Water Department for improvements and
repairs will be necessary occasionally. Whenever possible, and when time
permits, all customers affected will be notified prior to shutdowns.
   (B)   Quality. The Water Department will exercise reasonable diligence to
supply safe and potable water at all times.
   (C)   Ownership of system. All water mains, valves, fittings, hydrants, and
other appurtenances, except “customer service lines”, as defined in §
51.024 herein, shall be the property of the Water Department.
   (D)   Classes of service. The classes of service shall be residential,
commercial, and contract as further qualified by the number after the class as
follows: inside city limits; outside city limits.
      (1)   Residential service. Residential services shall consist of all
services for domestic purposes, single-family dwellings, homes, and municipal
services.
      (2)   Commercial service. Commercial services shall consist of those
services where water is used for commercial services, such as businesses,
multi-family dwellings, churches, and institutions.
      (3)   Contract service. Contract services shall consist of those services
for industrial or independent water district purposes under contracts
authorized by the City Council.
   (E)   Special contracts. When the applicants’s requirements for water are
unusual or large, such as an independent water district, or necessitate
considerable special or reserve equipment or capacity, the Water Department, by
authorization of the City Council, reserves the right to make special
contracts, the provisions which are different from and have exceptions to the
regularly published water rates, rules, and regulations. Any special contract
shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, approved by the City Council and
City Attorney, and signed by the Mayor and City Recorder.
   (F)   Resale of water. Resale of water shall be permitted only under special
contract, in writing, between the city and the persons, parties, or corporation
selling the water.
   (G)   Service preference. In case of shortage of supply, the Water
Department reserves the right to give preference in the matter of furnishing
service to customers and interest of the Water Department from the standing of
public convenience or necessity. Water service to users outside of the city
limits shall at all times be subject to the prior and superior rights of the
customers within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 51.16)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.022  APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Application form. Each applicant for water service shall sign an
application form provided by the Water Department giving the date of
application, location of premises to be served, the date applicant desires
service to begin, purpose for which the service is to be used, the address for
mailing of the billings, the class and size of the service, and any other such
information as the Water Department requires. The application is merely a
written request for service and does not bind the Water Department to provide
service.
   (B)   Deposits and establishment of credit. At the time application for
service is made, the applicant shall establish credit with the Water
Department.
      (1)   Establishment of credit. The credit of the applicant will be deemed
established when the applicant makes a cash deposit with the Water Department
to secure the payment of bills for service. The deposit shall be a sum equal to
the estimated bill for two months service but not less than the amount
established by the City Council from time to time by resolution.
      (2)   Deposits. At the time the deposit is given to the Water Department,
the applicant will be given a receipt for the same. The deposit is not to be
considered as a payment on account. In the event the service is discontinued,
the deposit will be applied to the closing bill and any amount in excess of the
closing bill will be refunded. The Water Department will not pay interest on
any deposit.
      (3)   Forfeiture of deposit. If an account becomes delinquent and it is
necessary to turn off service, the deposit shall be applied to the unpaid
balance due. Water service will not be restored to that premises or that
customer at different premises until all outstanding bills due the Water
Department have been paid and the cash deposit replaced, together with the
reconnect charge as provided in §
51.052.
   (C)   Service connection charges. Each application will be accompanied with
payment of the appropriate service connection charge as provided in §
51.045.
   (D)   Application amendments. Customers desiring a material change in the
size, character, or extent of equipment or operation which would result in a
material change in the amount of water used shall give the Water Department
written notice of such change prior to the change and the application for
service shall be amended.
   (E)   Change of location or services. Customers desiring a change in the
size, location, or number of services shall fill out an amended application.
(Prior Code, § 51.17)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991; Ord. 223, passed 3-25-1996)
Cross-reference:
   For application form, see
Chapter 50, Appendix A
§ 51.023  MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Within the city limits. Water main extensions to areas within the city
limits not presently served with water shall be installed under procedures to
be established by the City Council. Subdividers for newly partitioned
properties will assume all costs of main extensions with the approval of the
City Council. All extensions become property of the city upon acceptance by the
city.
   (B)   Outside the city limits. Water mains outside the city limits shall be
extended only at the expense of the customers served. The main extensions shall
become the property of the Water Department at the time of acceptance of
installation. The City Council shall determine the size of the main extensions
and all extensions shall be of a suitable material approved by the City
Council. Extensions outside the city limits shall be installed by the Water
Department or by contractors approved by the Water Department. The installation
procedures and materials shall be in accordance with city and state standards.
   (C)   Location of extensions. The Water Department will make main extensions
only on rights-of-way, easements, or publicly-owned property. Easements or
permits secured for main extensions shall be obtained in the name of the city,
along with all rights and title to the main at the time service is provided to
the customers paying for the extension.
(Prior Code, § 51.18)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991; Ord. 223, passed 3-25-1996)
§ 51.024  SERVICE CONNECTION DEFINED.
   The SERVICE CONNECTION shall be that part of the water distribution system
which connects the meter to the main and shall normally consist of the
corporation stop, service pipe, curb stop and box, meter, meter yoke, and meter
box. The CUSTOMER SERVICE LINE shall be that part of the piping on the
customer’s property that connects the service to the customer’s distribution
system.
(Prior Code, § 51.19)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.025  OWNERSHIP, INSTALLATION, AND MAINTENANCE.
   The Water Department shall own, install, and maintain all services. Any work
shall be done only by authorized employees of the Water Department. Any work
performed or authorized by the Water Department shall meet standards acceptable
to the City Engineer. The customer shall own, install, and maintain the
customer service line.
(Prior Code, § 51.20)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991; Ord. 223, passed 3-25-1996)
§ 51.026  SIZE OF SERVICE; CHANGES IN SERVICE SIZE.
   (A)   The Water Department will furnish and install a service of such size
and at such locations as the applicant requests, provided such requests are
reasonable and that the size requested is one listed by the Water Department.
The minimum size of service shall be three-fourths inch. The Water Department
may refuse to install a service line that is either under or over sized as
determined by study and report.
   (B)   Permanent changes in the size of the service line requested by the
customer shall be paid by the customer on the basis of actual cost to the Water
Department for making the change.
(Prior Code, § 51.21)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.027  LENGTH OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Where the main is in a public right-of-way, the meter will be placed
at the right-of-way line nearest the property to be served for the standard
connection fee, provided the length of the service line does not exceed the
width of the right-of-way.
   (B)   Where the main is on an easement or publicly-owned property other than
designated rights-of-way, the service shall be installed to the boundary of the
easement or public property by the Water Department, provided the length of
service does not exceed 60 feet.
   (C)   If, in either case cited above, the length of service line to the
meter location exceeds the maximum stated, the applicant shall pay the extra
cost of the line on the basis of actual cost to the Water Department for labor,
materials, and equipment plus 20%.
(Prior Code, § 51.22)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.028  JOINT SERVICE CONNECTIONS; NUMBER OF SERVICE CONNECTIONS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   The Water Department may, at its option, serve two or more premises
with one connection. On new service connections, the inside diameter of such
joint lines shall be sufficient to provide a carrying capacity of not less than
the combined capacity of individual service lines of the same size as the
meters installed.
   (B)   Service extensions from an existing service to other occupancies or
ownerships than that for which the existing service was intended shall not be
permitted nor shall separate residences be permitted to receive service through
one meter except under special considerations approved by the City Council.
   (C)   The owner of a single parcel of property may apply for and receive as
many services as he or she and his or her tenants may require, provided his or
her application or applications meet the requirements of the policies, rules,
and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 51.23)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.029  FIRE SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   A service having fire protection facilities on the premises and water for
other purposes flowing through the same service connection shall be considered
as an ordinary service and metered as such. All water used through that
service, regardless of its use, will be charged at the regular rates.
(Prior Code, § 51.24)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.030  TEMPORARY SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Advanced payment required. For water service of a temporary nature,
applicants shall be required to pay in advance the estimated cost of
installation and removal of metering equipment and materials, plus a reasonable
depreciation charge for the use of equipment and material furnished by the
Water Department. The applicant shall also pay his or her water bill in advance
based on an estimate of the quantity to be used, or he or she shall otherwise
establish satisfactory credit.
   (B)   Time limit. Temporary service connections shall be disconnected and
terminated within six months after installation unless an extension of time is
granted in writing by the Water Department.
   (C)   Charge for water used. Charges for water furnished through a temporary
service connection shall be at the established rates set forth in the current
water rate schedule.
   (D)   Installation charge and deposit. The applicant for temporary service
will be required:
      (1)   To pay the Water Department, in advance, the estimated cost of
installing and removing all facilities necessary to furnish the service;
      (2)   To deposit an amount sufficient to cover bills for water used
during the entire period such temporary service may be used, or to otherwise
establish credit approved by the Water Department; and/or
      (3)   To deposit an amount equal to the value of any equipment loaned by
the Water Department to the applicant under the terms of division (E) below.
   (E)   Responsibility for meters and installation. The customer shall use all
possible care to prevent damage to the meter or to any other loaned facilities
of the Water Department. If the meter or other facilities are damaged, the cost
of making repairs shall be deducted from the deposit refund. If the loaned
materials are returned in satisfactory condition and all bills paid, the full
amount of the equipment deposit will be returned to the temporary customer at
the termination of service.
(Prior Code, § 51.25)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.031  CUSTOMER’S PLUMBING.
   (A)   Plumbing Code. The customer’s plumbing, which shall include the
customer’s service line and all plumbing, piping, fixtures, and other
appurtenances carrying or intended to carry water, sewer, or drainage, shall
comply with the Plumbing Code of the state.
   (B)   Control valve. Customers shall install a suitable control valve in the
customer service line as close to the meter as possible, the operation of which
will control the entire water supply to the premises served. In the event a
customer’s service is discontinued for any reason, a control valve must be
installed, if none exists, as provided by this section.
   (C)   Violations. It shall be a violation of these rules and regulations for
the customer to operate, cause or permit unauthorized operation of the meter
stop or any appurtenance on the service connection.
(Prior Code, § 51.26)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.032  METERS.
   (A)   Ownership. The Water Department will own and maintain all water
meters. The Water Department will not pay rent or any other charge for a meter
or other water facilities, including housing and connections on a customer’s
premises.
   (B)   Installation. Installation of water meters shall be performed only by
authorized employees of the Water Department. All meters shall be sealed by the
Water Department at the time of installation, and no seal shall be altered or
broken except by one of its authorized employees.
   (C)   Size and type of meter. Applicants may request and receive any size
meter regularly stocked or furnished by the Water Department, provided the
request is reasonable, and further provided that the meter is not greatly
oversized or undersized, as determined by the Water Superintendent. The Water
Department reserves the right to determine the type of meter to be installed.
   (D)   Location of meters. Meters shall normally be placed at the curb or
property lines. The meter will be installed wherever the applicant desires,
within reason, but the location must be approved by the Water Department. The
meters will not be located in driveways or other locations where damage to the
meter or its related parts may occur.
   (E)   Joint use of meters. The joining of several customers to take
advantage of the single minimum charges and large quantity rates shall be
prohibited, except under special contract, in writing, with the City Council.
   (F)   Changes in size or location. If, for any reason, a change in the size
of a meter and service is required, the installation will be accomplished on
the basis of a new connection, and the customer’s application shall be so
amended. Meters or services moved for the convenience of the customer will be
relocated only at the customer’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 51.27)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
RATES, CHARGES, AND BILLING
§ 51.045  WATER RATES AND SERVICE CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Water rates.
      (1)   The water rates to be charged shall be based on three classes of
service:
         (a)   Residential service;
         (b)   Commercial service; and
         (c)   Contract services.
      (2)   The water rates to be charged for each class of service, including
minimum charges and charges for water used over the minimum, shall be set from
time to time by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Service connection charges. The cost for installing the new service
which includes excavation and backfill, tapping the main, laying the pipe,
installing the meter, yoke, and meter box, and replacement of surfacing
materials shall be charged to the water user at the time service is
established. A minimum charge for installing a new service may be set by the
City Council and revised from time to time by resolution.
   (C)   Effective date. Any rates or connection charges established by the
City Council to be paid and collected shall be effective for all collection
periods beginning on and after the effective date of the resolution.
(Prior Code, § 51.40)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991; Ord. 223, passed 3-25-1996)
§ 51.046  NOTICES.
   (A)   Notices to customer. Notices from the Water Department to the customer
will normally be given in writing and either mailed to or delivered at the
customer’s last known address. Where conditions warrant and in emergencies, the
Water Department may notify either by telephone or messenger.
   (B)   Notices from customers. Notices from a customer to the Water
Department may be given by the customer or an authorized representative orally
or in writing at the office of the Water Department in the City Hall or to an
agent of the Water Department duly authorized to receive notices or complaints.
(Prior Code, § 51.41)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.047  METER READINGS.
   Meters will be read and customers billed on the basis of the meter reading
to the nearest gallon. The Water Department will keep an accurate account on
its books of all meter readings. Such account so kept shall be offered at all
times, places, and courts as prima facie evidence of the use of water service
by the customer. In the event that it shall be impossible or impractical to
read a meter on the regular reading date, the water consumption shall be pro-
rated on the basis of 30 days per month and the total water consumption for
billing purposes for that period shall be estimated.
(Prior Code, § 51.42)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
Cross-reference:
   Meter error, see §
51.053
§ 51.048  RENDERING OF BILLS.
   (A)   Billing period. All meters shall be read and bills rendered therefor
monthly.
   (B)   Bills for other than normal billing period. Opening or closing bills,
or bills that for any other reason cover a period containing 10% more or fewer
days than in a normal billing period shall be pro-rated.
   (C)   Bills for more than one meter. All meters supplying a customer’s
premises shall be billed separately, except that where the Water Department has
for operating purposes installed two or more meters in place of one, the
reading may be combined for billing.
(Prior Code, § 51.43)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.049  DISPUTED BILLS.
   (A)   When a customer disputes the correctness of a bill, he or she shall
deposit the amount of the disputed bill at the time the complaint is lodged, to
preclude discontinuance of service pending final settlement of the bill or
bills.
   (B)   Subsequent bills shall be paid or placed on deposit in a similar
manner. Failure of the customer to make such a deposit shall warrant
discontinuance of service as provided under §
51.052.
(Prior Code, § 51.44)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.050  PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   Each bill rendered shall contain the final date of which payment is due. If
the bill is not paid by that date, the account shall be considered delinquent,
unless other arrangements have been made with the Water Department in writing
that specify another due date.
(Prior Code, § 51.45)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.051  DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   Delinquent notice. A reminder of account delinquency will be sent to
the customer after the account becomes delinquent and a fee assessed as
determined by Council resolution for all notices so provided.
   (B)   Service charge. In all instances where water has been turned off
because of delinquent accounts, a service charge as determined by Council
resolution shall be made for the restoration of service.
(Prior Code, § 51.46)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991; Ord. 98-227, passed 7-13-
1998; Ord. 2015-001, passed 2-23-2015)
§ 51.052  DISCONNECTION FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service shall contain the pertinent contact information of the official
in charge of billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the
effect.
   (B)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum as determined by Council resolution.
(Prior Code, § 51.47)  (Ord. 2015-001, passed 2-23-2015)
§ 51.053  METER ERROR.
   (A)   Meter accuracy. All meters will be tested prior to installation. No
meter will be placed in service which is known to have an error in registration
in excess of 2% under conditions of normal operation.
   (B)   Meter test.
      (1)   Standard test. Meter tests will be conducted in accordance with
standards of practice established by the American Water Works Association.
      (2)   On customer request. A customer may, giving not less than seven
days’ notice, request the Water Department to test the meter servicing his or
her premises. The Water Department will require the customer to deposit a
testing fee.
         (a)   This fee shall be $25 for meters three-fourths inch and smaller,
and for meters larger than three-fourths inch shall be an estimate of the cost
of testing the meter as determined by the Water Superintendent.
         (b)   The deposit will be returned to the customer if the test reveals
the meter to over register more than 2% under the standard test conditions. The
deposit shall be retained by the Water Department if the meter is not in error.
Customers may, at their option, witness any meter test which they request.
      (3)   On Water Department request. If, upon comparison of past water
usage, it appears that a meter is not registering properly, the Water
Department may, at its option, test the meter and adjust the charges
accordingly if the meter either over or under registers. No charge for meter
testing will be made to the customer under these conditions.
   (C)   Adjustment of bills for meter error.
      (1)   No credits or debits will be borne by the city or the customer
should the tested meter show variance, high or low, from the accuracy defined
in division (A) above.
      (2)   The Water Department will bill the customer for water consumed
while the meter was not registering. The bill will be computed upon an estimate
of use based either upon the customer’s prior use during the same season of the
year, or upon a reasonable comparison with the use of other customers receiving
the same class of service during the same season and under similar
circumstances and conditions.
(Prior Code, § 51.48)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.054  WATER CHARGED TO PREMISES.
   It shall be the duty of the property owner of each premises served to pay
all rates and charges for water service imposed by this chapter which are not
otherwise paid by the occupant of the premises. No duty shall be imposed on the
city in serving any premises to the occupant thereof to ascertain or determine
the true owner of such premises, and anyone having possession of premises shall
be deemed to be in lawful possession with the right to contract with the city
for water service, and such person in possession is deemed to be the agent of
the owner for such purpose.
(Prior Code, § 51.49)  (Ord. 98-227, passed 7-13-1998)
§ 51.055  WATER SERVICE CHARGE LIEN.
   Water service charges shall be a lien against the premises served from and
after the date of billing and entry on the ledger of the records of the city
pertaining to its water system.
(Prior Code, § 51.50)  (Ord. 98-227, passed 7-13-1998)
§ 51.056  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   On customer request.
      (1)   Each customer about to vacate any premises supplied with water
service by the Water Department shall give the Water Department written or oral
notice of his or her intentions at least two days prior thereto, specifying the
date service is to be discontinued; otherwise, he or she will be responsible
for all water supplied to such premises until the Water Department shall
receive notice of such vacation.
      (2)   At the time specified by the customer that he or she expects to
vacate the premises where service is supplied or that he or she desires to be
discontinued, the meter will be read and a bill rendered which is payable
immediately. In no case will the bill be less than the monthly minimum
specified in the schedule applying to the class or classes of service
furnished.
   (B)   Nonpayment of bills. A customer’s water service may be discontinued if
the bill is not paid in accordance with the procedures listed in §
51.052 of these rules and regulations.
   (C)   Nonpayment of sewer service charges. If the sewer service charges are
not paid when due by any such person, firm, or corporation whose premises are
served or who are subject to the charges herein provided, water service
provided to that customer by the Water Department may be discontinued because
of the default in the payment of the sewer service charges. As an additional
alternative method, if such rates and charges are not paid when due by any
person, firm, or corporation, the amounts so unpaid may be certified by the
City Recorder to the County Assessor, and shall be by him or her assessed
against the premises served as provided by law and shall be collected and paid
over to the city in the same manner as other taxes are assessed, collected, and
paid over, with interest. Interest on unpaid bills shall run from the due date
thereof at the rate of 6% per annum. Such unpaid charges may also be recovered
in an action at law in the name of the city, with interest as aforesaid.
   (D)   Improper customer facilities.
      (1)   Cross-connections. A CROSS-CONNECTION is defined as any physical
connection between the Water Department’s system and another water source. The
State Board of Health and the U.S. Public Health Service prohibit cross-
connections. The Water Department will not permit any cross-connection and will
discontinue service to any premises where a cross-connection exists. Service
will not be restored until the cross-connection is eliminated. Customers using
water from one or more sources in addition to receiving water from the Water
Department on the same premises shall maintain separate systems for each; and
the Water Department’s water supply shall be separated from any and all other
systems in accordance with the state code.
      (2)   Unsafe facilities. The Water Department may refuse to furnish water
and may discontinue services to any premises without prior notice where
plumbing facilities, appliances, or equipment using water are dangerous,
unsafe, or not in conformity with the Plumbing Code of the state.
   (E)   Water waste. Where water is wastefully or negligently used on a
customer’s premises, seriously affecting the general service, the Water
Department may discontinue service if such conditions are not corrected after
due notice by the Water Department.
   (F)   Service detrimental to others. The Water Department may refuse to
furnish water and may discontinue service to any premises where excessive
demands by one customer will result in inadequate service to others.
   (G)   Fraud or abuse. The Water Department will refuse or discontinue
service to any premises where it is deemed necessary to protect the Water
Department from fraud or abuse. Discontinuance of service from one or both of
these causes will be made immediately upon receipt of knowledge by the Water
Department that the condition or conditions exist.
   (H)   Unauthorized turn-on. Where water service has been discontinued for
any reason and the water is turned on by the customer or other unauthorized
person, the water may then be shut off at the main or the meter removed. The
charges for shutting off the water at the main or removing the meter shall be
computed at actual cost to the Water Department plus 15% overhead, but not less
than $50. These charges shall be billed to the offending customer and water
shall not be furnished to the premises or customer until such charges are paid
and the Water Department has reasonable assurance that the violation will not
reoccur.
   (I)   Noncompliance with regulations. The Water Department may, upon five
days’ notice, discontinue service to a customer’s premises for failure to
comply with any of the provisions of these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 51.51)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.057  RESTORATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   After disconnect for nonpayment. Restoration of service after
discontinuance for nonpayment of bills shall be made after payment of current
and past due charges, plus $35 for restoration charge and posting a deposit as
hereinbefore provided.
   (B)   After disconnect under §
51.056. Restoration of service after discontinuance for unsafe facilities,
water waste, fraud, abuse, or for noncompliance with any of the policies,
rules, or regulations will only be made after the irregularity has been
corrected and the Water Department has been assured that the irregularity will
not reoccur. The restoration charge shall be $35 plus any charges due or past
due that the Water Department may have incurred to correct the irregularity.
(Prior Code, § 51.52)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.058  UNUSUAL DEMANDS.
   When an abnormally large quantity of water is desired for filling a swimming
pool, log pond, or for other purposes, arrangements must be made with the
utility prior to taking such water. Permission to take water in unusual
quantities will be given only if the Water Department facilities and other
consumers are not inconvenienced.
(Prior Code, § 51.53)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.070  ACCESS TO PROPERTY.
   All duly appointed employees of the Water Department, under the direction of
the Water Superintendent, shall have free access at all reasonable hours of the
day to any and all parts of structures and premises in which water is or may be
delivered for the purposes of inspecting connections, the conditions of
conduits and fixtures, and the manner and extent in which the water is being
used. The Water Department does not, however, assume the duty of inspecting the
customer’s line, plumbing, and equipment, and shall not be responsible
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 51.65)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.071  RESPONSIBILITY FOR EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Responsibility for customer equipment. The Water Department shall not
be liable for any loss or damage of any nature whatsoever caused by any defect
in the customer’s line, plumbing, or equipment, nor shall the Water Department
be liable for loss or damage due to interruption of service or temporary
changes in pressure. The customer shall be responsible for valves on his or her
premises being turned off when the water service is turned on.
   (B)   Responsibility for Water Department equipment. Water Department
equipment on the customer’s premises remains the property of the Department and
may be repaired, replaced, or removed by the Department employees at any time
without the consent of the customer. No payment will be made to the property
owner for the right to install, maintain, replace, or remove Water Department
equipment on his or her premises. The property owner must keep vicious dogs or
other animals secured or confined to avoid interference with the utility
operation and maintenance.
   (C)   Damage to Water Department equipment. The customer shall be liable for
any damage to equipment owned by the Water Department which is caused by an act
of the customer, his or her tenants, agents, employees, contractors, licensees,
or permittees. Damage to equipment shall include, but not be limited to,
breaking of seals and locks, tampering with meters, injury to meters, including
damages by hot water or steam, and damaged meter boxes, curb stops, meter
stops, and other appurtenances.
(Prior Code, § 51.66)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.072  SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   No employee of the Water Department is authorized to suspend or alter any of
the policies, rules, and regulations cited herein without specific approval or
direction of the City Council, except in cases of emergency involving loss of
life or property or which would place the water system operation in jeopardy.
(Prior Code, § 51.67)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.073  EASEMENTS.
   Each applicant and user gives and grants to the city an easement and right-
of-way on and across his or her property for the installation of water mains
and the necessary valves and equipment in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 51.68)  (Ord. 216, passed 6-3-1991)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 51.085  RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall be responsible for the protection of the public
from pollution due to the backflow or back siphonage of contaminates or
pollutants through the water service connection.
      (2)   If, in the judgment of the city, an approved backflow device is
required at the city’s water connection to any customer’s premises, written
notice shall be given to said customer to install an approved backflow
prevention device at each service connection to the customer’s premises.
   (B)   The customer shall, within 90 days, install such approved device, or
devices, at his or her own expense, and failure or refusal, or inability on the
part of the customer to install said device or devices within 90 days, shall
constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until such
device or devices have been properly installed and/or be subject to the penalty
stated in §
51.999.
(Prior Code, § 51.75)  (Ord. 98-229, passed 12-10-1998)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.086  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. A physical separation sufficient to prevent backflow between the
free flowing discharge end of the potable water system and any other system.
Physically defined as a distance equal to twice the diameter of the supply side
pipe diameter but never less than one inch.
   APPROVED. Accepted by the city as meeting an applicable specification stated
or cited in this regulation, or as suitable for the proposed use.
   ATOMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER. A device that prevents back siphonage by
creating an atmospheric vent when there is either a negative pressure or sub-
atmospheric pressure on a water system.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLIES. Any water supply, on or available, to the premises
other than the supplier’s approved public potable water supply.
   BACK PRESSURE. A condition in which the owner’s system pressure is greater
than the supplier’s system pressure.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances, under
positive or reduced pressure in the distribution pipes of a potable water
supply from any source other than its intended source.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device or means designed to prevent backflow or back
siphonage. Most commonly categorized as air gap, reduced pressure principle
device, double check valve assembly, pressure vacuum breaker, atmospheric
vacuum breaker, hose bib vacuum breaker, or double check with intermediate
atmospheric vent. Any device must be classified as an approved backflow device
by the state’s Health Division.
   BACK SIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, potable water supply
system from any source other than its intended source, caused by the sudden
reduction of the pressure in the potable water supply system.
   CONTAINMENT. A method of backflow prevention that requires a backflow
prevention device at the water service entrance.
   CONTAMINANT. Any substance that will impair the quality of the water to a
degree that it creates a serious health hazard to the public leading to
poisoning or the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any actual or potential connection between the public
water supply and a source of contamination or pollution.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. The danger posed by a particular substance or set of
circumstances is:
      (1)   LOW HAZARD. Generally, a low degree of hazard is one that does not
affect health, but may be esthetically objectionable; or
      (2)   HIGH HAZARD. One that could cause serious illness or death.
   DIVISION. The State of Oregon Public Health Division.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE WITH INTERMEDIATE ATMOSPHERIC VENT. A device having two
spring loaded check valves separated by an atmospheric vent chamber.
   FIXTURE ISOLATION. A method of backflow prevention in which a backflow
prevention device is located to correct a cross-connection at an in-plant
location rather than at a water service entrance.
   HOSE BIBB VACUUM BREAKER. A device which is permanently attached to a hose
bib and which acts as an atmospheric vacuum breaker.
   OWNER. Any person who has legal title to, or license to operate or habitat
in, a property upon which a cross-connection inspection is to be made or upon
which a cross-connection is present.
   PERMIT. A document issued by the utility which keeps track of the devices
and allows the person to use a backflow prevention device.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, public or private corporation,
political subdivision or agency of the state division, agency or
instrumentality or the United States, or any other legal entity.
   POLLUTANT. A foreign substance that, if permitted to get into the public
water system, will degrade its quality so as to impair the usefulness or
quality of the water to a degree which does not create an actual hazard to the
public health but which does adversely and unreasonably affect such water for
domestic use.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. A device containing one or two independently
operated spring-loaded air inlet valve located on the discharge side of the
check or checks. The device includes tightly closing shut-off valves on each
side of the check valves and properly located test cocks for the testing of the
check valve(s).
   PUBLIC WORKS SUPERINTENDENT. The superintendent, or his or her delegated
representative, in charge of the city’s Water Department. This person is
invested with the authority and responsibility for the implementation of a
cross-connection control program and for the enforcement of the provisions of
the subchapter.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTER. An assembly consisting of two
independently operating approved check valves with an automatically operating
differential relief valve located between the two check valves, tightly closing
shut-off valves on each side of the check valves, plus properly located test
cocks for the testing of the check valves and the relief valves.
   UTILITY. The City Water Department.
   WATER SERVICE ENTRANCE. That point in the owner’s water system beyond the
sanitary control of the Water Department; generally considered to be the outlet
end of the water meter and always before any unprotected branch.
(Prior Code, § 51.76)  (Ord. 98-229, passed 12-10-1998)
§ 51.087  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The utility will operate a cross-connection control program, to
include the keeping of necessary records, which fulfills the requirements of
the division’s cross-connection regulations.
   (B)   The owner shall allow his or her property to be inspected for possible
cross-connections and shall follow the provisions of the utility’s program and
the division’s regulations if a cross- connection concern is identified.
(Prior Code, § 51.77)  (Ord. 98-229, passed 12-10-1998)
§ 51.088  REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Utility.
      (1)   On new installations, the utility will provide on-site evaluation
and/or inspection of plans in order to determine the type of backflow
prevention device, if any, that will be required, will issue permits, and
perform inspection and testing.
      (2)   For premises existing prior to the start of this program, the
utility will perform evaluations and inspections of plans and/or premises and
inform the owner by letter of any corrective action deemed necessary, the
method of achieving the correction, and the time allowed for the correction to
be made, ordinarily, 90 days. This time limit will be shortened depending upon
the degree of hazard involved and the history of the device(s) in question.
      (3)   The utility will not allow any cross-connection to remain unless an
approved backflow prevention device for which a permit has been issued and
which will be regularly tested to ensure satisfactory operation protects it.
      (4)   The utility shall inform the owner by letter of any failure to
comply, within ten working days of the first inspection. The utility will allow
an additional 15 days for the correction. In the event the owner fails to
comply with necessary correction by the time of the second re-inspection, the
utility will inform the owner by letter that the water service to the owner’s
premises will be terminated within a period not to exceed five days. In the
event that the owner informs the utility of extenuating circumstances as to why
the correction has not been made, a time extension may be granted by the
utility but in no case will exceed an additional 30 days.
      (5)   If the utility determines at any time that a serious threat to the
public health exists, the water service will be terminated immediately.
      (6)   The utility shall have on file a list of private contractors who
are certified backflow device testers. The owner of the building or property
will pay all charges for these tests.
      (7)   Upon adoption of this subchapter, the utility will begin initial
premises inspections to determine the nature of existing or potential hazards.
Initial focus will be on high hazard industries and commercial premises.
   (B)   Owner.
      (1)   The owner shall be responsible for the elimination or isolation of
all cross- connections on his or her premises.
      (2)   The owner, after having been informed by a letter from the utility,
shall at his or her expense, install, maintain, and test, or have tested, any
and all backflow prevention device on his or her premises.
      (3)   The owner shall correct any malfunctions of the backflow prevention
device which is revealed by periodic testing.
      (4)   The owner shall inform the utility of any proposed or modified
cross-connections and any existing cross-connections of which the owner is
aware but has not been found by the utility.
      (5)   The owner shall not install a bypass around any backflow prevention
device unless there is a backflow prevention device of the same type on the
bypass. Owners shall not tamper with backflow devices.
      (6)   The owner shall install backflow prevention device in a manner
approved by the utility.
      (7)   The owner shall only install backflow prevention devices approved
by the Division.
      (8)   Any owner having an auxiliary water supply must have a backflow
prevention device. This would be considered a high hazard.
      (9)   In the event the owner installs plumbing to provide potable water
for domestic purposes which is on the utility’s side of the backflow prevention
device, such plumbing must have its own backflow prevention device installed.
      (10)   If the use has been determined to be low hazard, inspections will
be at least annually; if the use has been determined to be high hazard, the
owner will be subject to biannual inspections.
(Prior Code, § 51.78)  (Ord. 98-229, passed 12-10-1998)
§ 51.089  DEGREE OF HAZARD.
   The utility recognizes the threat to the public water system arising from
cross-connections. All threats will be classified by degree of hazard and will
require the installation of approved backflow prevention devices.
(Prior Code, § 51.79)  (Ord. 98-229, passed 12-10-1998)
§ 51.090  EXISTING IN-USE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Any existing backflow prevention device shall be allowed by the utility to
continue in service unless the degree of hazard is such as to supersede the
effectiveness of the prevention device, or result in an unreasonable risk to
the public health. Where the degree of hazard has increased, as in the case of
a residential installation converting to a business establishment, any existing
backflow device must be replaced with an approved device suitable for that
degree of hazard.
(Prior Code, § 51.80)  (Ord. 98-229, passed 12-10-1998)
§ 51.091  PERIODIC TESTING.
   (A)   All testable backflow devices shall be tested and inspected at least
annually.
   (B)   Periodic testing shall be performed from a list of certified testers
provided by the utility. This testing will be done at the owner’s expense.
   (C)   Any backflow prevention device which fails during a periodic test,
will be repaired or replaced. When repairs are necessary, upon completion of
the repair the device will be retested at owner’s expense to ensure correct
operation. High hazard situations will not be allowed to continue if the
backflow prevention device fails the test and cannot be repaired immediately.
In other situations, a compliance date of not more than 30 days after the test
date will be established. The owner is responsible for spare parts, repair
tools, or a replacement device. Parallel installation of two devices is an
effective means of the owner ensuring uninterrupted water service during
testing or repair of devices and is strongly recommended when the owner desires
such continuity.
   (D)   Backflow prevention devices will be tested more frequently than
specified in division (A) above, if the utility feels that there is a history
of test failures. Cost of additional testing will be borne by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 51.81)  (Ord. 98-229, passed 12-10-1998)
§ 51.092  RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Records. The utility will initiate and maintain the following:
      (1)   Master files on customers cross-connection tests and/or
inspections;
      (2)   Master files on cross-connection permits;
      (3)   Copies of permits and permit applications;
      (4)   Copies of lists and summaries supplied to the division; and
      (5)   Initial listing of low hazard cross-connections.
   (B)   Reports. Summary of the annual report of inspections of cross-
connections submitted to the state’s Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 51.82)  (Ord. 98-229, passed 12-10-1998)
§ 51.093  FEES AND CHARGES.
   Fees shall be established for permits in order to cover costs relating to
all cross-connections. A list of fees and charges relating to all cross-
connection expenses will be set in the applicable portion of the resolution
establishing fees and rates.
(Prior Code, § 51.83)  (Ord. 98-229, passed 12-10-1998)
§ 51.094  APPEALS.
   Appeal of the fees and rates established by the city shall be made in
writing to the City Recorder within 90 days of the billing of said fee. The
City Recorder shall respond in writing within 90 days of receipt of the appeal.
If the applicant wishes to appeal further, the applicant shall request in
writing that the City Recorder place their special appeal on the next scheduled
regular City Council session. The decision of the City Council shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 51.84)  (Ord. 98-229, passed 12-10-1998)
§ 51.999  PENALTY.
   Fines not exceeding $500 for each violation shall, upon conviction thereof,
punish any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.99)  (Ord. 98-229, passed 12-10-1998)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Short title
   
70.02   Applicability of state traffic laws
   
70.03   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.15   Powers of the governing body
   
70.16   Duties of governing body’s designee
   
70.17   Authority of police and fire officers
   
70.18   Impoundment of vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This title may be cited as “the Monroe, Oregon Traffic Code”.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)  (Ord. 206, passed 3-19-1990)
§ 70.02  APPLICABILITY OF STATE TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Except for any provisions to the extent they describe, prohibit, or impose
penalties for felonies, violation of any provision in the O.R.S. Chapters 153
and 801 through 823, inclusive, in effect on the effective date of this section
shall be an offense against the city.
(Ord. 08-258, passed 11-25-2008)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03  DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to definitions in the state’s Vehicle Code, for the purpose of
this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOADING ZONE. A roadway space designated by sign for loading or unloading
passengers or materials during specified hours of specified days.
   MOTOR TRUCK. A motor vehicle with a maximum combined vehicle and load weight
over 24,000 pounds and over 30 feet in length that is designed or used to carry
freight, property, articles, or things.
   STREET. A highway, road, or street as defined in O.R.S. 801.110, 801.305,
801.450, and 801.524, including the entire width of the right-of-way.
   TRAFFIC LANE. The area of the roadway used for a single line of traffic
movement.
(Prior Code, § 70.03)  (Ord. 206, passed 3-19-1990)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.15  POWERS OF THE GOVERNING BODY.
   (A)   Subject to state laws, the City Council as the governing body shall
exercise all local traffic authority for the city except those powers expressly
delegated by this chapter or another ordinance.
   (B)   The powers of the governing body include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Designation of through streets;
      (2)   Designation of one-way streets;
      (3)   Designation of truck routes;
      (4)   Restriction of the use of certain streets by any class or kind of
vehicle to protect the streets from damage or excess traffic;
      (5)   Authorization, by resolution, of greater maximum weights or lengths
than specified by state law for vehicles using city streets or county roads;
      (6)   Initiation of proceedings to change speed zones;
      (7)   Revision of speed limits in parks; and
      (8)   Temporary closure or blocking of streets.
(Prior Code, § 70.15)  (Ord. 206, passed 3-19-1990)
§ 70.16  DUTIES OF GOVERNING BODY’S DESIGNEE.
   The governing body’s designee shall exercise the following duties:
   (A)   Implement ordinances, resolutions, motions, and orders of the
governing body by installing, maintaining, removing, and altering traffic-
control devices. Installation shall be based on standards contained in the
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways and the
Oregon Supplements;
   (B)   Establish, remove, or alter at the direction of the governing body,
the following classes of traffic controls:
      (1)   Crosswalks, safety zones, and traffic lanes;
      (2)   Intersection channelization and areas where vehicle drivers shall
not make right, left, or U-turns and the time when the prohibition applies; and
      (3)   Parking areas and time limitations, including the form of
permissible parking.
   (C)   Issue oversize or overweight vehicle permits;
   (D)   Temporarily close or block streets; and
   (E)   Under conditions constituting a danger to the public, the governing
body’s designee may install temporary traffic-control devices.
(Prior Code, § 70.16)  (Ord. 206, passed 3-19-1990)
§ 70.17  AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE OFFICERS.
   If a fire or other public emergency occurs, officers of the law enforcement
and fire departments may direct traffic as the conditions require,
notwithstanding the provisions of this title.
(Prior Code, § 70.17)  (Ord. 206, passed 3-19-1990)
§ 70.18  IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Disposition of a vehicle towed and stored under provisions of state
law for the removal of hazardous vehicles shall be in accordance with
provisions of state law or city ordinance on impoundment and disposition of
abandoned vehicles.
   (B)   Impoundment of a vehicle does not preclude issuance of a citation for
violation of a provision of this title.
   (C)   Stolen vehicles may be towed from public or private property and
stored at the expense of the vehicle owner.
(Prior Code, § 70.18)  (Ord. 206, passed 3-19-1990)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this title is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of this title which incorporates a state
statute which is a misdemeanor shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed
$1,000.
   (C)   Except where other penalties are specifically provided, the penalty
for a violation of any provision of this title which incorporates a state
statute which is a violation shall be identical to the penalties for those
state statutes.
   (D)   Where any section of this title is substantially similar to a state
statute, but does not adopt the state statute by reference, the maximum and
minimum penalties shall be limited to the maximum and minimum fines provided
for in the substantially similar state statute. The provisions of this section
shall not be construed to affect penalties provided by any section of this
title which are less severe than the penalties provided for in a substantially
similar state statute.
   (E)   Whether or not a state statute incorporated by this title or
substantially similar to any section of this title provides for imprisonment,
no imprisonment shall be allowed under any section of this title.
(Ord. 08-258, passed 11-25-2008)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
71.01   Crossing private or public property
   
71.02   Damaging sidewalks or curbs
   
71.03   Storing motor vehicles on streets
   
71.04   Use of bicycles, roller skates, and skateboards
§ 71.01  CROSSING PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not proceed from one street to an
intersecting street by leaving the roadway and crossing private or public
property. This provision does not apply to the operator of a vehicle who stops
on the property to procure or provide goods or services.
(Prior Code, § 71.01)  (Ord. 206, passed 3-19-1990)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02  DAMAGING SIDEWALKS OR CURBS.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not drive on a sidewalk or
roadside planting strip except to cross at an authorized permanent or temporary
driveway.
   (B)   No person shall remove a portion of a curb or move a motor vehicle or
a device moved by a motor vehicle onto a curb or sidewalk without first
obtaining authorization and posting bond, if required by ordinance. A person
who causes damage shall be responsible for the cost of repair.
(Prior Code, § 71.02)  (Ord. 206, passed 3-19-1990)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03  STORING MOTOR VEHICLE ON STREETS.
   No person shall store, or permit to be stored, a motor vehicle or personal
property on a street or other public property where temporary vehicle parking
is authorized in excess of 72 hours without permission of the governing body.
Failure to move a motor vehicle or other personal property for 72 hours
constitutes prima facie evidence of storage.
(Prior Code, § 71.03)  (Ord. 206, passed 3-19-1990)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04  USE OF BICYCLES, ROLLER SKATES, AND SKATEBOARDS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Use roller skates or skateboards on sidewalks in a designated business
district or on the streets in a careless manner; or
   (B)   Use bicycles on the sidewalks in a designated business district.
(Prior Code, § 71.04)  (Ord. 206, passed 3-19-1990)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Method of parking
   
72.02   Prohibited parking or standing
   
72.03   Parking prohibited for sale or repair
   
72.04   Use of loading zone
   
72.05   Exemptions
   
72.06   Parking citations and owner responsibility
Cross-reference:
   Traffic rules, see
Ch. 71
§ 72.01  METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   When parking spaces are designated on a street or public lot, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than in the direction of traffic
flow and in such a manner that the front vehicle tire closest to the curb is
located within 18 inches of the curb and within a single marked space, unless
the size or shape of the vehicle makes compliance impossible.
   (B)   When the operator of a vehicle discovers the vehicle is parked close
to a building to which the Fire Department has been summoned, the operator
shall immediately remove the vehicle from the area unless directed otherwise by
police officers or firefighters.
(Prior Code, § 72.01)  (Ord. 206, passed 3-19-1990)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02  PROHIBITED PARKING OR STANDING.
   No person shall park or stand:
   (A)   A vehicle in violation of the state’s Vehicle Code or in violation of
a parking limit sign;
   (B)   A vehicle in an alley, except for a stop of not more than 15
consecutive minutes for loading or unloading persons or materials; or
   (C)   A motor truck on a street in a residential zone between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 72.02)  (Ord. 206, passed 3-19-1990)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03  PARKING PROHIBITED FOR SALE OR REPAIR.
   No operator shall park a vehicle, and no owner shall allow a vehicle to be
parked, on a street or other public property for the principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying the vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Repairing or servicing the vehicle, except while making repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 72.03)  (Ord. 206, passed 3-19-1990)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04  USE OF LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in a place designated as a loading
zone when the hours applicable to that loading zone are in effect for any
purpose other than loading or unloading persons or material. Such a stop shall
not exceed the time limits posted. If no time limits are posted, use of the
zone shall not exceed 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 72.04)  (Ord. 206, passed 3-19-1990)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law
or when responding to, but not returning from, a fire alarm, may park or stand
irrespective of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve drivers of authorized emergency
vehicles from the duty to park or stand with regard for the safety of all
persons.
   (C)   The provisions of this title that regulate the parking or standing of
vehicles do not apply to any vehicle being used for public works or utility
maintenance, construction, or repair work.
(Prior Code, § 72.05)  (Ord. 206, passed 3-19-1990)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06  PARKING CITATIONS AND OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Citation on illegally parked vehicle. When a vehicle without an
operator is found parked in violation of a restriction imposed by this title or
state law, the officer finding the vehicle shall note the license number and
any other information displayed on the vehicle that may identify the owner and
shall attach a parking citation to the vehicle. The citation shall instruct the
operator to answer to the charge at the next regularly scheduled municipal
court session or pay the penalty imposed prior to that time at the City Hall
during posted business hours.
   (B)   Failure to comply with parking citation. If the operator does not
respond to a parking citation attached to the vehicle by the end of the court
session listed on the citation, the Chief of Police shall send a letter to the
owner of the vehicle informing the owner of the violation and giving notice
that if the citation is disregarded for a period of 30 days:
      (1)   The fine will be doubled; and
      (2)   If the vehicle has three or more outstanding citations or $100 or
more in unpaid fines, it may be impounded, and an impounded vehicle shall not
be released until all outstanding fines and charges are paid.
   (C)   Owner responsibility. The owner of a vehicle that is in violation of a
parking restriction shall be responsible for the offense unless the operator
used the vehicle without the owner’s consent.
   (D)   Registered owner presumption. In a proceeding charging violation of a
parking restriction against a vehicle owner, proof that the vehicle was
registered to the defendant at the time of the violation constitutes a
presumption that the defendant was the owner.
(Prior Code, § 72.06)  (Ord. 206, passed 3-19-1990)  Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   PARKS, CEMETERIES, AND OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
94.   WEEDS
CHAPTER 90:  ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Declaration of public nuisance
   
90.03   Prohibited action
   
90.04   Investigation and notice
   
90.05   Entry onto private property
   
90.06   Hearing by City Council
   
90.07   Abatement by city and appraisal
   
90.08   Low value vehicle
   
90.09   Notice of public sale
   
90.10   Public sale
   
90.11   Redemption prior to sale
   
90.12   Assessment of costs
   
90.13   Summary abatement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. Includes any authorized law enforcement officer of the
city.
   COSTS. The expense of removing, storing, or selling a junked vehicle.
   DISCARDED.
      (1)   Any vehicle which does not have lawfully affixed thereto an
unexpired license plate or is in one or more of the following conditions:
         (a)   Inoperative;
         (b)   Wrecked;
         (c)   Dismantled;
         (d)   Partially dismantled;
         (e)   Abandoned; and/or
         (f)   Junked.
      (2)   Discarded vehicles may be deemed to include major parts thereof,
including, but not limited to, bodies, engines, transmissions, and rear ends.
   PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY. Any agent, occupant, lessee, contract
purchaser, owner, or person having possession, control, or title of property
where a vehicle is located.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   VEHICLE OWNER. Any individual, firm, corporation, or unincorporated
association with a claim, either individually or jointly, of ownership or any
interest, legal or equitable, in a vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 90.01)
§ 90.02  DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The open accumulation and storage of a discarded vehicle is hereby
found to create a condition tending to:
      (1)   Reduce the value of private property;
      (2)   Promote blight, deterioration, and unsightliness;
      (3)   Invite plundering;
      (4)   Create fire hazards;
      (5)   Constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health
and safety of minors;
      (6)   Create a harborage for rodents and insects; and
      (7)   Be injurious to the health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   Therefore, the presence of a discarded vehicle on private or public
property is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance which may be abated
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.02)
§ 90.03  PROHIBITED ACTION.
   It shall be unlawful to store or permit the storing of a discarded vehicle
upon any private property within the city unless the vehicle is completely
enclosed within a building or unless it is in connection with a business
enterprise dealing in junked vehicles lawfully conducted within the city.
(Prior Code, § 90.03)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  INVESTIGATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, whenever a discarded
vehicle is found upon private property to:
      (1)   Make an investigation to discover the owner of the vehicle and the
person in charge of the property upon which such vehicle is located, and give
written notice to them by personal service or by registered or certified mail
that the vehicle is in violation of this chapter; and
      (2)   If the owner of the vehicle is not found, to place a notice upon
the windshield, or some other part of the vehicle where it can be easily seen.
   (B)   The notice shall state that a certain discarded vehicle is in
violation of this chapter and that within seven days of the day of the mailing
or posting of the notice:
      (1)   The vehicle must be removed from the city or to the storage yard of
a business enterprise dealing in junked vehicles lawfully conducted within the
city; or
      (2)   Completely enclosed within a building.
   (C)   The notice shall also state that the alternative to compliance with
division (B) above is to petition the City Council and request, in writing, an
appearance before the City Council within seven days of mailing or posting of
the notice and show cause why such vehicle should not be immediately abated as
provided in this chapter.
   (D)   The notice shall also state that failure to comply with this chapter
authorizes the city to remove the vehicle and charge the cost.
(Prior Code, § 90.04)
§ 90.05  ENTRY ONTO PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of Police is authorized at all reasonable times to
enter upon private property and examine any vehicle for the purpose of
determining whether or not it is in a discarded condition.
      (2)   However, before entering upon private property, the Chief shall
obtain the consent of an occupant thereof or a warrant of the municipal court
authorizing entry for the purpose of inspection, except when an emergency
exists.
   (B)   No search warrant shall be issued under the terms of this chapter
until an affidavit has been filed with the municipal court, showing probable
cause for such inspection by stating the purpose and extent of the proposed
inspection, citing this chapter as the basis for such inspection, whether it is
an inspection instituted by complaint or other specific or general information
concerning the vehicle in question or the property on which it is situated.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with or attempt to prevent
the Chief of Police from entering upon private premises and inspecting any
vehicle when an emergency exists or the Chief of Police exhibits a warrant
authorizing entry.
(Prior Code, § 90.05)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  HEARING BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Pursuant to a request, the City Council shall fix a time for a hearing
to show cause why a vehicle nuisance should not be immediately abated. It shall
receive the evidence and testimony of the Chief of Police and other interested
persons concerning the existence, location, and condition of the vehicle.
   (B)   After the hearing, the City Council may authorize and order the
vehicle removed by the city in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
The City Council shall make its order in the form of a resolution which
declares the vehicle to be a public nuisance. The resolution may order the
removal of
more than one vehicle and may consolidate the hearings and orders relating to
more than one vehicle. The persons receiving the notice specified in §
90.04 shall be sent copies of the resolution of the Council.
   (C)   In addition, the City Council may impose conditions and take such
other action as it deems appropriate under the circumstances in order to carry
out the purposes of this chapter. It may delay the time for removal of the
vehicle where, in its opinion, the circumstances justify it. It shall refuse to
order the removal of the vehicle where the vehicle, in the opinion of the City
Council, is not subject to the provisions of this chapter. The City Council
shall not be bound by the technical rules of evidence in the conduct of the
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 90.06)
§ 90.07  ABATEMENT BY CITY AND APPRAISAL.
   (A)   Seven days after the mailing of notice required in §
90.04, or three days after adoption of a resolution declaring a vehicle to be a
public nuisance as set forth in §
90.06, the city shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction to abate the
nuisance and may remove the vehicle by use of city employees or duly authorized
independent contractors. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with,
hinder, or refuse to allow such persons to enter upon private property for the
purpose of removing a vehicle under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   After removing the vehicle, the city shall cause it to be appraised.
(Prior Code, § 90.07)
§ 90.08  LOW VALUE VEHICLE.
   (A)   If the vehicle is appraised at $300 or less, the Chief of Police shall
file with the Motor Vehicles Division an affidavit describing the vehicle,
including the license plates, if any, stating the location and appraised value
of the vehicle, and stating that the vehicle will be junked or dismantled. The
Chief of Police may, without notice and public auction, dispose of the vehicle
and execute a certificate of sale.
   (B)   The certificate of sale shall be substantially as follows:
CERTIFICATE OF SALE
This is to certify that under the provisions of Chapter 90 of the Code of
Ordinances entitled “Abandoned Vehicles”, I did on the        day of          
            , 20        , sell to                                    for the
sum of $               cash, the following-described personal property, to wit:
                                                                               
                                     
and in consideration of the payment of the said sum of $          , receipt
whereof is hereby acknowledged, I have this day delivered to said purchaser the
foregoing property.
Dated this            day of                         , 20       
Note: The city assumes no responsibility as to the condition of title of the
above-described property. In case this sale shall for any reason be invalid,
the liability of the city is limited to the return of the purchase price.
(Prior Code, § 90.08)
§ 90.09  NOTICE OF PUBLIC SALE.
   (A)   If the vehicle is appraised over $300, the Chief of Police shall cause
to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city a notice
of sale. The notice of sale shall state:
      (1)   The sale is of discarded property in possession of the city;
      (2)   A description of the vehicle, including the type, make, license
number, I.D. number, and any other information which will aid in accurately
identifying the vehicle;
      (3)   The terms of the sale; and
      (4)   The date, time, and place of the sale.
   (B)   The notice of sale shall be published two times. The first publication
shall be made not less than ten days prior to the date of the proposed sale,
and the second shall be made not less than three days prior to the date of the
proposed sale.
(Prior Code, § 90.09)
§ 90.10  PUBLIC SALE.
   (A)   If a vehicle is appraised over $300, the Chief of Police shall hold a
sale at the time and the place appointed within the view of the vehicle to be
sold.
   (B)   The vehicle shall be sold to the highest and best bidder, provided
that if no bids are entered, or those bids which are entered are less than the
costs incurred by the city, the Chief of Police may enter a bid on behalf of
the city in an amount equal to such costs.
   (C)   At the time of payment of the purchase price, the Chief of Police
shall execute a certificate of sale, in duplicate, the original of which shall
be delivered to the purchaser and the copy thereof filed with the auditor of
the city. The certificate of sale shall be substantially as follows:
CERTIFICATE OF SALE
This is to certify that under the provisions of Chapter 90 of the Code of
Ordinances entitled “Abandoned Vehicles” and pursuant to due notice of the time
and place of sale, I did on the          day of                     , 20      
     sell at public auction to                            for the sum of $     
     cash, he being the highest and best bidder, and that being the highest and
best sum bid therefor, the following-described personal property, to wit:      
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     
and in consideration of the payment of the said sum of $        , receipt
whereof is hereby acknowledged, I have this day delivered to said purchaser the
foregoing property.
Dated this            day of                     , 20        .
Note: The city assumes no responsibility as to the condition of title of the
above-described property. In case this sale shall for any reason be invalid,
the liability of the city is limited to the return of the purchase price.
(Prior Code, § 90.10)
§ 90.11  REDEMPTION PRIOR TO SALE.
   (A)   A vehicle impounded under the provisions of this chapter may be
redeemed by its owner or by the person in charge of the property from which the
vehicle was removed, before a sale or disposition has taken place, by applying
to the Police Department, whereupon he or she shall:
      (1)   Submit evidence of his or her ownership or interest in the vehicle,
satisfactory to the Chief of Police, that such claim is rightful;
      (2)   Pay the costs due and owing at the time the application to redeem
is made; and
      (3)   Give evidence that the nuisance character of the vehicle will not
be allowed to be resumed.
   (B)   Upon compliance with division (A) above, the Chief of Police shall
execute a receipt and cause the vehicle to be returned.
(Prior Code, § 90.11)
§ 90.12  ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   After disposing of the discarded vehicle and deducting the money, if
any, received from any sale of the vehicle from the costs, the City Council
shall give notice as specified in §
90.04 to the person in charge of the property from which the vehicle was
removed:
      (1)   Of the unpaid costs of abatement;
      (2)   That the cost as indicated will be assessed to and become a lien
against the real property unless paid within 30 days from the date of the
notice; and
      (3)   That if the person in charge of the property objects to the cost of
the abatement indicated, he or she may file a written notice of objection with
the City Council within 20 days from the date of the notice.
   (B)   Within 40 days after the date of the notice, objections to the
proposed assessment shall be heard and determined by the City Council.
   (C)   If the costs of the abatement are not paid within 30 days from the
date of the notice, an assessment of the costs shall be made by resolution of
the City Council and shall be entered in the docket of city liens, and upon
such entry being made shall constitute a lien upon the real property from which
the nuisance was removed or abated.
   (D)   The lien shall be enforced in the same manner as liens for street
improvements are enforced and shall bear interest at the current legal rate of
interest. Such interest shall accrue from date of the entry of the lien in the
lien docket.
   (E)   An error in the name of the person in charge of the property shall not
void the assessment, nor will a failure to receive the notice of the proposed
assessment render the assessment void. The assessment shall remain a valid lien
against the property.
(Prior Code, § 90.12)
§ 90.13  SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   The procedure provided by this chapter is not exclusive, but is in addition
to procedure provided by other ordinances, and the City Council may proceed
summarily to abate a health or other nuisance which unmistakably exists and
which imminently endangers human life or property.
(Prior Code, § 90.13)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A person violating this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (B)   Each day’s violation of a provision of this chapter constitutes a
separate offense.
   (C)   The abatement of a nuisance is not a penalty for violating this
chapter, but is an additional remedy. The imposition of a penalty does not
relieve a person of the duty to abate the nuisance; however, abatement of a
nuisance within the specified time within the notice to abate, or if a written
protest has been filed, then abatement within the time period specified by the
City Council, if determined that a nuisance exists, will relieve the
responsible person from the imposition of any fine or imprisonment under this
section.
(Prior Code, § 90.99)
CHAPTER 91:  ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Dogs running at large prohibited
   
91.03   Barking dogs prohibited
   
91.04   Vicious dogs
   
91.05   Report of dog bites
   
91.06   Killing livestock
   
91.07   Police officer’s authority to enter private land
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals constituting nuisance, see §
92.15
§ 91.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The City Police Department.
   DOG RUNNING AT LARGE. A dog off or outside the premises of the owner, not
restrained by a rope, line, leash, chain, or other similar means or not under
the immediate control, restraint, or command of an owner thereof. If a dog is
not restrained by a tether of some kind, is not at heel, or not a working dog
in the field, that dog shall be deemed “at large”.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, keeps, or harbors a dog.
(Prior Code, § 91.01)  (Ord. 130, passed 1-7-1974)
§ 91.02  DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   No owner or person shall permit any dog to run at large. All dogs shall be
kept in control on a leash or other physical restraint at all times, except
within the confines of the dog park. Cats or other animals must be kept in a
vehicle, trailer, or on a leash or tether at all times.
(Ord. 2017-700, passed 11-27-2017)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  BARKING DOGS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep a dog on any premises in the city which, without
provocation by a person, shall, by frequent and sustained barking, howling, or
yelping, disturb two or more persons separately domiciled in the immediate
vicinity or, if there is only one dwelling in the immediate vicinity of the
premises, shall disturb the person or persons residing in such dwellings, after
having been notified personally or by mail by the Department that the dog had
been reported to disturb such person or persons by such barking, howling, or
yelping.
(Prior Code, § 91.03)  (Ord. 130, passed 1-7-1974)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  VICIOUS DOGS.
   No person shall own, keep, or harbor a vicious dog. Any dog which has the
propensity to attack or bite any person without provocation and the capacity to
inflict serious harm on them shall be regarded as vicious.
(Prior Code, § 91.04)  (Ord. 130, passed 1-7-1974)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  REPORT OF DOG BITES.
   (A)   The owner of a dog which bites a human being shall immediately notify
the Department and then the County Health Department of such bite, giving the
name and address of the person bitten, if known to him or her.
   (B)   Any person who is bitten by a dog shall forthwith notify the
Department and the County Health Department of such bite, giving a description
of the dog and the name and address of the owner, if known to him or her.
   (C)   No person shall keep a dog which has bitten a human being on two
occasions. Such a dog shall be turned over to the County Dog Control Officer
for quarantine and disposition according to the county ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 91.05)  (Ord. 130, passed 1-7-1974)
§ 91.06  KILLING LIVESTOCK.
   Any dog not acting under the direction of its master which chases, injures,
or kills livestock as defined in O.R.S. 609.010 while off the owner’s premises
may be killed immediately by any person. The owner of the livestock damaged by
a dog may bring suit against the dog’s owner for the full amount of the damage.
If the dog is known to have killed or wounded livestock, the owner may not
continue to own, harbor, or keep it.
(Prior Code, § 91.06)  (Ord. 130, passed 1-7-1974)
§ 91.07  POLICE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY TO ENTER PRIVATE LAND.
   Any police officer, in the course of his or her duty in enforcing this
chapter, shall have the privilege of entering onto private land, but shall not
enter into any building or dwelling without permission or authority.
(Prior Code, § 91.07)  (Ord. 130, passed 1-7-1974)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   Penalty will be determined by municipal judge based upon the sliding scale
for all nuisance fines and the number and severity of the incident as
determined by the court. Every day is an additional occurrence of a violation.
 
First offense Class A  Not to exceed $50
Second offense Class B Not to exceed $100
Third offense Class C  Not to exceed $250
Forth offense Class D  Not to exceed $500
 
(Ord. 2017-700, passed 11-27-2017)
CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   General nuisance declaration
Nuisances Specified
   
92.15   Animals
   
92.16   Nuisances affecting public health
   
92.17   Nuisances affecting public safety
   
92.18   Nuisances affecting public peace
Abatement Procedure
   
92.30   Notice
   
92.31   Abatement by owner
   
92.32   Abatement by city
   
92.33   Assessment of costs
   
92.34   Application of chapter; summary abatement
   
92.35   Abatement does not constitute penalty
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Noise, see §
130.02
   Weeds, see
Ch. 94
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL. The governing body of the city.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any act, course of action, or conduct herein called a nuisance of
any kind or type by this chapter or by any other ordinance of the city.
      (2)   Any prohibited act, course of action, or conduct herein prohibited,
or declared unlawful, or against the provisions of this chapter, whether or not
called a nuisance.
      (3)   The committing, permitting, or suffering anything, substance, or
condition prohibited or made unlawful by this chapter to continue by any person
upon which a duty is imposed or exists by provisions of this chapter to abate
or remove the thing, substances, or condition.
      (4)   Any nuisance, so called, by any other ordinance of the city.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association, or
corporation.
   PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY.An owner, agent, occupant, lessee, contract
purchaser, or other person having possession or control of property or the
supervision of any construction project.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any building, place, or accommodations, whether publicly or
privately owned, open and available to the public.
(Prior Code, § 92.01)  (Ord. 95, passed 11-6-1967; Ord. 18-500, passed 8-27-
2018)
§ 92.02  GENERAL NUISANCE DECLARATION.
   In addition to those nuisances specifically enumerated within this chapter,
every other thing, substance, or act which is determined by the Council to be
injurious or detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare of the city
is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be abated as provided in §§
92.30 through
92.35 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.02)  (Ord. 95, passed 11-6-1967)
NUISANCES SPECIFIED
§ 92.15  ANIMALS.
   (A)   Animals running at large, damaging property.
      (1)   No person shall permit any dog owned or controlled by him or her to
cause damage or injury to gardens, flower beds, and other property belonging to
another person.
      (2)   No person shall permit any horse, donkey, mule, or other equine
animal, or any cow, sheep, goat, or other ruminant animal, or any swine, or
goose, duck, turkey, or other fowl owned or controlled, or which should be
controlled by him or her, to run at large within the city.
   (B)   Prohibited animals. No person shall have or keep goats, sheep, cows,
horses, or swine within the city; provided, however, this section shall not
apply to goats, sheep, cows, horses, or swine being transported for commercial
purposes. Sheep and goats may be kept within fenced boundaries of sewer
lagoons.
   (C)   Bees. No person shall keep a hive or stand of bees in the city at a
location within 150 feet of any street, alley, storehouse, establishment,
public building, private dwelling, or barn or each other. This provision shall
not apply to the dwelling, barn, or other buildings of the owner of such bees
if the property meets the criteria listed owner is limited to one hive for
personal use.
   (D)   Removal of animal carcasses. No person shall permit any animal carcass
owned by him or her, or under his or her control, to remain upon the public
streets or places, or exposed on private property, for a period of time longer
than is reasonably necessary to remove and dispose of such carcass. Anyone
wishing to bury a carcass at the city dump ground shall first obtain from the
City Recorder a permit to do so.
   (E)   Farm animals and wild animals.
      (1)   No more than one single hoofed animal is permitted per half acre of
property within the city.
      (2)   One rooster per one acre is permitted. However, roosters are still
subject to nuisance and noise violations per municipal code. No roosters are
allowed unless there is at least one acre of minimum lot size for said rooster.
      (3)   No peacocks are allowed within the city.
      (4)   There shall be no more than six poultry, fowl, and/or rabbits
(including, but not limited to, geese and turkeys) per half acre of owned
property.
(Prior Code, § 92.15)  (Ord. 95, passed 11-6-1967; Ord. 136, passed 11-3-1975;
Ord. 203, passed 7-3-1989; Ord. 2017-700, passed 11-27-2017; Ord. 2018-100,
passed 2-26-2018)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16  NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting the public
health and may be abated in the manner prescribed by §§
92.30 through
92.35.
   (A)   Privies. Any open vault or privy maintained within the city, except
those privies used in connection with construction projects and constructed in
accordance with the State Board of Health regulations.
   (B)   Debris on private property. All accumulations of debris, rubbish,
manure, and other refuse located on privately-owned real property or sidewalks
abutting thereon, and which has not been removed within a reasonable time, and
which affect the health, safety, or welfare of the city.
   (C)   Stagnant water. Any pool of water which is without a proper inlet or
outlet and which, if not controlled, will be a breeding place for mosquitoes
and other similar insect pests.
   (D)   Water pollution. The pollution of any body of water or stream or river
by sewage, industrial wastes, or other substances placed in or near such water
in a manner that will cause harmful material to pollute the water.
   (E)   Food. All decayed or unwholesome food which is offered for human
consumption.
   (F)   Odor. Any premises which are in such state or condition as to cause a
noisome or offensive odor, or which are in an unsanitary condition.
   (G)   Hazardous trees.
      (1)   No owner or person in charge of property that abuts upon a street,
alley, public right-of-way, or public sidewalk shall permit trees or bushes on
his or her property to interfere with street or sidewalk traffic.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of an owner or person in charge of property
that abuts upon a street or public sidewalk to keep all trees and bushes on his
or her premises, including the adjoining parking strip, trimmed to a height of
not less than eight feet above the sidewalk and not less than 15 feet above the
roadway.
      (3)   No owner or person in charge of property shall allow to stand a
dead or decaying tree that is a hazard to the public or to persons or property
on or near the property.
      (4)   Process for tree removal.
         (a)   If the city and property owner cannot concur as to the hazard of
a tree, a professional arborist will be employed to provide a recommendation
paid by whichever party was incorrect as to the status of the alleged hazard.
         (b)   Within 30 days after the date of notice to the owner of the
property, the owner of the property shall cause the tree determined to be dead
or dangerous to be removed.
         (c)   At the request of the owner, the City Recorder or his or her
designate will cause said dead or dangerous tree to be removed for a fee
sufficient to cover the direct cost plus 10% for administrative overhead with a
minimum fee.
         (d)   The City Recorder or his or her designate may cause to be
removed any tree determined to be dead or dangerous at any time following the
deadline for removal set forth at division (G)(4)(b) above. The cost of the
removal of said dead or dangerous tree shall be as calculated in division (G)
(4)(c) above and will be a charge to the owner of the property and will become
a lien against the property.
   (H)   Cannabis related nuisances.
      (1)   Odor.
         (a)   Licensed cannabis businesses located within the city must use an
air filtration and ventilation system which is certified by an Oregon licensed
mechanical engineer to ensure, to the greatest extent feasible, that all
objectionable odors associated with the cannabis business, whether related to
consumption, retail sale, production, or processing, are contained within the
property lines or enclosed structures located on the licensed premises.
         (b)   For the purposes of this provision, the standard for judging
“objectionable odors” shall be that of an average, reasonable person with
ordinary sensibilities after taking into consideration the character of the
location and community in which the odor originates or where it is detected.
      (2)   Access and visibility. No owner or person in charge of property
that abuts upon a street, alley, public right-of-way, or public sidewalk shall
permit cannabis outside of an enclosed structure, unless so licensed by the
state.
      (3)   Hazardous air contaminants. No person in charge of property shall
permit hazardous air contaminants to be released from the licensed property or
enclosed structures. Initiating or maintaining in a solid-fuel space-heating
device or elsewhere on property the burning of any plastics, wire insulation,
petroleum by-products, petroleum-treated materials, rubber products, animal
remains, or animal or vegetable matter resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, or service of food, or of any other material which
normally emits dense smoke, noxious odors, or hazardous air contaminants.
      (4)   Vaping. There will be no smoking or vaping allowed on city-owned
rights-of way and city-owned properties including, but not limited to, city
sidewalks and streets.
(Prior Code, § 92.16)  (Ord. 95, passed 11-6-1967; Ord. 18-400, passed 7-23-
2018; Ord. 18-500, passed 8-27-2018)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17  NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   Abandoned refrigerators. No person shall leave in any place accessible
to children any abandoned, unattended, or discarded icebox, refrigerator, or
similar container which has an air-tight door with a snap lock, or lock or
other mechanism which may not be released for opening from the inside without
first removing such snap lock or door from such icebox, refrigerator, or
similar container.
   (B)   Storage of rubbish, junk. It is hereby declared to be unlawful and to
constitute a public nuisance for any person:
      (1)   Who shall be the owner of, or in possession of, or in charge of any
lot or grounds within the corporate limits of the city, to keep thereon, or
permit to remain thereon, or to keep or permit to be kept any trash, filth,
garbage, brush, cans, containers, empty boxes, or parts of motor vehicles
unless the same is kept in an enclosed garage or other suitable building, or
decayed or partially burned lumber or waste matter and other debris generally,
which shall embrace and include articles and things ordinarily, customarily, or
generally hauled off and dumped or junked for the purpose of promoting
cleanliness and health, or to prevent and minimize discordant and unsightly
surroundings within the city; and
      (2)   Who is the registered or legal owner, including the owner or
president of a firm or corporation, to store any inoperable or damaged
vehicles, whether licensed or unlicensed, including any vehicles partially or
wholly dismantled, or any part or parts thereof, exposed to public view from
either public property or adjacent private property for a period of more than
20 days, provided that the same may be kept upon premises for periods of not to
exceed 50 days upon a special vehicle storage permit being obtained from the
Chief of Police. Such permit will be issued only for the purpose of mechanical
repairs to the vehicle, or pending arrangements to have the vehicle removed or
towed away. No more than one permit shall be issued for a premises per year.
Not more than one vehicle shall be allowed by such a permit.
   (C)   Excavations.
      (1)   Any excavation shall be prohibited to remain open for an
unreasonable length of time without erecting proper safeguards or barriers to
prevent such excavation from being used by children.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to authorized
construction projects; provided that during the course of construction
reasonable safeguards are maintained to prevent injury or death to playing
children.
      (3)   Any nuisance as described in this section may be abated as provided
in §§
92.30 through
92.34.
   (D)   Snow and ice removal. No owner or person in charge of any premises,
improved or unimproved, abutting upon any public sidewalk shall permit:
      (1)   Any snow to remain on such sidewalk for a period longer than the
first five hours of daylight after the snow has fallen; or
      (2)   Any such sidewalk to be covered with ice. It shall be the duty of
any such person to remove any ice accumulating on such sidewalk, or to properly
cover it with sand, ashes, or other suitable material to assure safe travel
within the first five hours of daylight after the ice has formed.
   (E)   Scattering rubbish. No person shall throw, dump, or deposit upon any
street, alley, or other public place any injurious or offensive substance, or
any sort of rubbish, trash, debris, or refuse, or any substance which would mar
the appearance, create a stench, or detract from the cleanliness or safety of
such public place, or would be likely to injure any animal, vehicle, or person
traveling upon such public way.
   (F)   Sifting or leaking loads.
      (1)   No person shall drive or move a vehicle on any street unless it is
so constructed or loaded as to prevent its content from dropping, sifting,
leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of any person driving a vehicle from which the
contents have escaped to remove any escaped substance or material from the
street.
      (3)   Any escaped substance or material, as set forth in this section, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be abated as provided in §§
92.30 through
92.34.
   (G)   Fences. No person shall construct or maintain any barbed-wire fence,
or allow barbed wire to remain as part of any fence, unless such wire is placed
not less than six inches above the top of a board or picket fence which is not
less than four feet high.
   (H)   Surface waters, drainage.
      (1)   No person in charge of any building or structure shall suffer or
permit rain water, ice, or snow to fall from any such building or structure
onto any street or sidewalk, or to flow across such sidewalk; and every such
person in charge of property shall, at all times, keep and maintain in a proper
state of repair adequate drainpipes or a drainage system so that any overflow
water accumulating on the roof or about such building will not be carried
across or upon any sidewalk.
      (2)   The improper drainage of any type of surface water from any source
across or upon any sidewalk is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be
abated as provided in §§
92.30 through
92.34.
   (I)   Lack of solid waste sendees.
      (1)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any property owner with multi-
family housing with three or more dwelling units per tax lot not to provide an
enclosed, secure, fenced location for the disposal of solid waste for the
residents of said property.
      (2)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any property owner with multi-
family housing with three or more dwelling units per tax lot not to provide
enough solid waste disposal space equal to or greater than one 90-gallon
container per housing unit.
      (3)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any multi-family unit or
commercial business to allow to remain on the street right-of-way any solid
waste containers or recycling containers more than 24 hours prior to and after
the scheduled date of service.
      (4)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any property owner with a
commercial zoned property not to provide an enclosed, secure, fenced location
for the disposal of solid waste for said property.
      (5)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any property owner with a
commercial zoned or any property owner with multi-family housing with three or
more dwelling units per tax lot to have solid waste pickup/disposal service any
less often than once a week.
      (6)   Any request for exemptions from this code may be made to the City
Recorder and appealed to the City Council by written request.
   (J)   Litter.
      (1)   No person shall throw or place any refuse, paper, trash, glass,
nails, tacks, wire, bottles, cans, yard trash, concrete, earthen fill, garbage,
containers, or litter or other debris in any ditch, stream, storm drain, river,
or retention basin that regularly or periodically carries surface water runoff.
      (2)   No person shall throw or place any refuse, paper, trash, glass,
nails, tacks, wire, bottles, cans, yard trash, concrete, earthen fill, garbage,
containers, or litter or other debris on publicly- owned property.
(Prior Code, § 92.17)  (Ord. 95, passed 11-6-1967; Ord. 196, passed 4-6-1987;
Ord. 17-500, passed 10-23-2017; Ord. 2017-600, passed 11-27-2017)  Penalty, see
§
92.99
§ 92.18  NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC PEACE.
   (A)   Fireworks. The following enumerated sections of the state’s Fireworks
Law, together with all acts and amendments applicable to cities, are hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter: O.R.S. 480.111 through
480.165.
   (B)   Notices and advertisements.
      (1)   No person shall, either as principal or agent, affix or cause to be
distributed any placard, bill, advertisement, or poster upon any real or
personal property, public or private, without first securing permission from
the owner or proper public authority.
      (2)   This section shall not be construed as an amendment to, or a repeal
of any regulations now or hereafter adopted by the city regulating the use of
and the location of signs and advertising.
      (3)   No person shall, either as principal, agent, or employee, scatter,
distribute, or cause to be distributed on the streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property, any placards or advertisements
whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 92.18)  (Ord. 95, passed 11-6-1967)  Penalty, see §
92.99
ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
§ 92.30  NOTICE.
   (A)   Upon determination by the Council that a nuisance as defined in this
chapter or any other ordinance of the city exists, the Council shall forthwith
cause a notice to be posted on the premises liable for the abatement, directing
the removal of such nuisance.
   (B)   At the time of posting, the City Recorder shall cause a copy of such
notice to be forwarded by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to the
person in charge of the property at the last known address of such owner or
agent.
   (C)   The notice to abate shall contain:
      (1)   A description of the real property, by street address or otherwise,
on which such nuisance exists;
      (2)   A direction to remove the nuisance within 30 days from the date of
the notice;
      (3)   A description of the nuisance;
      (4)   A statement that unless such nuisance is removed, the city will
remove the nuisance and the cost of removal shall be a lien against the
property; and
      (5)   A statement that the person in charge of the property may, within
ten days from the date of the notice, protest the action by giving notice to
the City Recorder.
   (D)   The person posting and mailing the notice, as provided herein, shall,
upon completion of the posting and mailing, execute and file a certificate
stating the date and place of such mailing and posting.
   (E)   An error in the name or address of the person in charge of the
property, or the use of a name other than that of such person shall not make
the notice void; and in such a case, the posted notice shall be deemed
sufficient.
(Prior Code, § 92.30)  (Ord. 95, passed 11-6-1967)
§ 92.31  ABATEMENT BY OWNER.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the posting and mailing of the notice, as
provided in §
92.30, the person in charge of the property shall remove and abate the nuisance
or show that no nuisance exists.
   (B)   The person in charge protesting that no nuisance in fact exists shall
file with the City Recorder a written statement which shall specify the basis
for contending that no nuisance exists.
   (C)   The statement shall be referred to the Council as a part of the
Council’s regular agenda at its next succeeding meeting. At the time set for
the consideration of the abatement, such person may appear and be heard by the
Council; and the Council shall thereupon determine whether a nuisance in fact
exists; and such determination shall be entered in the official minutes of the
Council. Council determination shall be required only in those cases where a
written statement has been filed as provided herein.
   (D)   Upon Council determination that a nuisance does in fact exist, the
person in charge of the property shall, within 30 days after such Council
determination, remove or abate such nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 92.31)  (Ord. 95, passed 11-6-1967)
§ 92.32  ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   (A)   If within the time fixed, as provided in this chapter, the nuisance
has not been abated by the person in charge of the property, the Council shall
cause the nuisance to be abated.
   (B)   The City Recorder shall maintain an accurate record of the expenses
incurred by the city in abating the nuisance, and shall include therein an
overhead charge of 5% of the total cost for administration.
   (C)   The total cost, including the administrative overhead, shall thereupon
be assessed to the property as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 92.32)  (Ord. 95, passed 11-6-1967)
§ 92.33  ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   A notice of the assessment shall be forwarded by registered mail,
postage prepaid, to the person in charge of the property by the City Recorder.
The notice shall contain:
      (1)   The total cost, including the administrative overhead, of the
abatement;
      (2)   A statement that the cost, as indicated, will become a lien against
the property unless paid within 60 days; and
      (3)   A statement that, if the person in charge of the property objects
to the cost of the abatement as indicated, he or she may file a notice of
objection with the City Recorder within 30 days from the date of the notice.
   (B)   Upon the expiration of 30 days after the date of the notice,
objections to the proposed assessment shall be heard and determined by the
Council in its regular course of business.
   (C)   An assessment for the cost of abatement, as determined by the Council,
shall be made by resolution of the Council, and shall thereupon be entered in
the docket of city liens; and upon such entry being made, it shall constitute a
lien upon the property from which the nuisance was removed or abated.
   (D)   The lien shall be collected in the same manner as liens for street
improvements are collected, and shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per
annum. Such interest shall commence to run 30 days after the entry of the lien
in the lien docket.
   (E)   An error in the name of the person in charge of the property shall not
void the assessment, nor will a failure to receive the notice of the assessment
render the assessment void; but it shall remain a valid lien against the
property.
(Prior Code, § 92.33)  (Ord. 95, passed 11-6-1967)
§ 92.34  APPLICATION OF CHAPTER; SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   The procedure provided by this chapter is not exclusive, but is in addition
to procedure provided by other ordinances; and furthermore, the Health Officer,
the Chief of the Fire Department, and the police officers of this city may
proceed summarily to abate a sanitary or other nuisance which unmistakably
exists and from which there is imminent danger to human life or property.
(Prior Code, § 92.34)  (Ord. 95, passed 11-6-1967)
§ 92.35  ABATEMENT DOES NOT CONSTITUTE PENALTY.
   The abatement of a nuisance, as herein provided, shall not constitute a
penalty for a violation of this chapter, but shall be in addition to any
penalty imposed for a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.35)  (Ord. 95, passed 11-6-1967)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   Penalty for violation of this chapter will be determined by municipal judge
based upon the sliding scale for all nuisance fines and the number and severity
of the incident as determined by the court. Every day is an additional
occurrence of a violation.
 
First offense Class A  Not to exceed $50
Second offense Class B Not to exceed $100
Third offense Class C  Not to exceed $250
Forth offense Class D  Not to exceed $500
 
(Ord. 95, passed 11-6-1967; Ord. 18-400, passed 7-23-2018)
CHAPTER 93:  PARKS, CEMETERIES, AND OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Application of chapter
Regulations
   
93.15   Park operating hours
   
93.16   Damaging flowers, trees, trails, buildings, and the like
   
93.17   Littering
   
93.18   Camping; building fires
   
93.19   Animals
   
93.20   Weapons
   
93.21   Selling merchandise, operating concessions, erecting signs, and the
like without permission
   
93.22   Vehicles and traffic
   
93.23   Noise
   
93.24   Use of sports equipment
   
93.25   Use of waterways
   
93.26   Wine and malt beverages
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY PROPERTY. Any real property owned or controlled by the city, within or
without the city limits, except maintained city streets.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of Monroe.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, or association.
   PUBLIC PARKS. Any piece of property, within or without the city limits,
which has been set aside by the Council for public recreation.
(Prior Code, § 93.01)  (Ord. 175, passed 7-6-1982)
§ 93.02  APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   The rules and regulations contained in this chapter shall apply to the use
of the city property.
(Prior Code, § 93.02)  (Ord. 175, passed 7-6-1982)
REGULATIONS
§ 93.15  PARK OPERATING HOURS.
   No person shall use the public parks between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. except
for a purpose permitted by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 93.15)  (Ord. 175, passed 7-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16  DAMAGING FLOWERS, TREES, TRAILS, BUILDINGS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall cut, remove, or damage any flowers, trees, or trails.
   (B)   No person shall damage or injure in any way any building,
installation, equipment, or other property of the city.
(Prior Code, § 93.16)  (Ord. 175, passed 7-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17  LITTERING.
   (A)   No person shall litter. All garbage and refuse of any kind must be
deposited in the proper receptacles provided for that purpose.
   (B)   Garbage and refuse shall not be brought on to any city property.
(Prior Code, § 93.17)  (Ord. 175, passed 7-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.18  CAMPING; BUILDING FIRES.
   (A)   No person shall build any fire except in a stove or fireplace provided
for that purpose. Fires shall not be left unattended and every fire shall be
extinguished before its user leaves the park. Portable gas, gasoline, charcoal,
and oil camp stoves may be used only if in good operating condition and shall
be operated in a safe manner.
   (B)   No person shall camp overnight in the parks except in an area
designated by the Council for camping or in connection with an activity
authorized by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 93.18)  (Ord. 175, passed 7-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.19  ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall permit any dog to run at large. All dogs shall be kept
in control on a leash or other physical restraint at all times. Cats or other
animals must be kept in a vehicle, trailer, or on a leash or tether at all
times.
   (B)   No person shall ride or lead any horse in the public parks except on a
designated bridle path. Horses and other animals shall not be tied to any tree
or shrub in such a manner as to damage the plant.
   (C)   No person shall hunt, pursue, trap, kill, injure, or disturb the
habitat of any animal or bird in the parks.
(Prior Code, § 93.19)  (Ord. 175, passed 7-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.20  WEAPONS.
   No person shall fire or discharge any firearm, pistol, rifle, or any device
which propels a projectile by the use of air pressure, CO2 cartridges, springs,
bows, slings, jet, or rocket propulsion.
(Prior Code, § 93.20)  (Ord. 175, passed 7-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21  SELLING MERCHANDISE, OPERATING CONCESSIONS, ERECTING SIGNS, AND THE
LIKE WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   (A)   No person shall sell any merchandise or operate any concession on city
property or in the public parks without permission of the Council.
   (B)   No person shall erect any signs, markers, or instructions on city
property without Council approval.
(Prior Code, § 93.21)  (Ord. 175, passed 7-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22  VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No person shall operate or park any motor vehicle except on roads or
in designated parking areas.
   (B)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle in excess of ten mph in a
public park unless otherwise designated.
   (C)   No person shall operate or bring any vehicle with a gross weight
exceeding five tons into a public park except a bus carrying passengers to the
park.
(Prior Code, § 93.22)  (Ord. 175, passed 7-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23  NOISE.
   No person should use any loud speaker or amplification system unless they
have first secured a special use permit. No person shall use a radio, CD
player, Mp3 player, or other sound device in such a manner as to disturb the
peace of the immediate vicinity.
(Ord. 2017-700, passed 11-27-2017)  Penalty, see §
93.99
Cross-reference:
   Unnecessary noise, see §
130.02
§ 93.24  USE OF SPORTS EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall use golf clubs, archery equipment, discus, javelin, shot
put, model airplane, or drone in the parks except as permitted by special use
permit.
(Ord. 2017-700, passed 11-27-2017)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.25  USE OF WATERWAYS.
   No person shall wash any clothing or materials or clean any fish in streams,
springs, pools, or other waterways on city property.
(Prior Code, § 93.25)  (Ord. 175, passed 7-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.26  WINE AND MALT BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Wine and malt beverages may be used and consumed in the city park
system to the extent and in the manner allowed under state statutes and
administrative regulations.
   (B)   Wine and malt beverages may be sold by concessionaires in the city
parks under permit from the City Council. The permit will be issued on a per
day basis at the cost of $10 or 5% of gross sales, whichever is greater.
   (C)   Wine, malt beverages, and alcoholic liquor may be used and consumed in
the City Hall and the Legion Hall to the extent and in the manner allowed under
state statutes and administrative regulations. (Prior Code, § 93.26)  (Ord.
175, passed 7-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this chapter is punishable by imprisonment for not more
than 90 days, or of a fine of not more than $500, or both.
   (B)   Violation of §§
93.23 or
93.24 is punishable by a fine of not more than $500.
(Ord. 175, passed 7-6-1982; Ord. 2017-700, passed 11-27-2017)
CHAPTER 94:  WEEDS
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Noxious vegetation constitutes a nuisance; authority to abate
   
94.03   Waiver
   
94.04   Notice
   
94.05   Private abatement
   
94.06   Abatement by city
   
94.07   Collection of costs
   
94.08   Enforcement and discharge of duties
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NOXIOUS VEGETATION. Includes:
      (1)   Weeds more than ten inches high;
      (2)   Grass more than ten inches high, except agricultural crops that are
not a fire hazard or a vision obstruction;
      (3)   Poison oak or poison ivy; and
      (4)   Blackberry vines or vegetation that:
         (a)   Is a fire hazard because it is near other combustibles;
         (b)   Extends into a public way;
         (c)   Extends into a pathway frequented by children;
         (d)   Extends across a property line;
         (e)   Is used for habitation by trespassers;
         (f)   Is a health hazard; or
         (g)   Is a traffic hazard because it impairs the view of a public
thoroughfare or creates a vision obstruction.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. A person, representative or employee who has lawful
control of the premises or property on which the noxious vegetation grows by
ownership, tenancy, official position, or other legal relationship, including,
but not limited to, full or partial authorization to manage the premises or
property and authorization to enter into a rental agreement on behalf of
another person in charge of the premises or property.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 94.02  NOXIOUS VEGETATION CONSTITUTES A NUISANCE; AUTHORITY TO ABATE.
   (A)   No owner, occupant, or person in charge shall permit noxious
vegetation to grow upon his or her property within the city limits. All noxious
vegetation shall be cut and maintained at a height not to exceed ten inches.
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for the owner, occupant, or person in
charge to permit noxious vegetation to grow upon his or her property, or the
right-of-way adjacent to such property without removing the same as prescribed
above; and in case the noxious vegetation is not removed, then the City Council
may cause it to be removed as provided within this chapter. The cost of such
removal may be assessed against the owner, occupant, or person in charge or
against the property and made a lien thereon, which shall be entered in the
docket of city liens to be collected.
   (C)   The City Council may elect to charge a penalty against the owner,
occupant, or person in charge, or against the property itself for failure to
comply with this chapter. The costs that the city incurs in the abatement, plus
a penalty, may be charged against the owner, occupant, or person in charge or
against the property itself.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 5-23-2016)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03  WAIVER.
   (A)   Where strict compliance with the requirements of §
94.02 would be impracticable as they apply to a type of noxious vegetation, to
the height of weeds or grass, to height of tree branches, or to a part of a
parcel of property, or to tracts of land exceeding three acres historically
used for farm or forest practices, the city may waive those requirements as
they so apply.
   (B)   No Council waiver is required for private tracts of land under a
single ownership that exceeds one-half acre in size, provided the owner has
complied with these standards for that area within the right-of-way adjacent to
the subject property and an area of not less than ten feet along the perimeter
of the subject property where the adjacent property contains a residence or
other structure within 20 feet of a common property line.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 94.04  NOTICE.
   (A)   If the City Recorder is satisfied that a noxious vegetation nuisance
exists, the City Recorder shall send by First Class mail written notice to any
owner, occupant, or person in charge of property containing noxious vegetation.
The City Recorder shall also post such written notice in plain sight on the
property. The city shall use the county tax rolls or the records of the city or
county to determine the identity of the owner, occupant, or person in charge.
Failure to receive the mailed notice, even if due to an error in the name or
address, shall not relieve any person in charge from the obligation to abate
any noxious vegetation or to pay the cost of abatement performed by the city.
   (B)   The notice to abate shall contain:
      (1)   A description of the real property by street address or otherwise
on which the noxious vegetation exists;
      (2)   A direction to the owner, occupant, or person in charge to abate
the noxious vegetation nuisance within ten days from the date of the notice;
      (3)   A description of the noxious vegetation nuisance;
      (4)   A statement that unless the noxious vegetation is removed, the city
may abate the nuisance and that the costs of such abatement will be charged to
the owner, occupant, or person in charge or to the property as a lien;
      (5)   A statement of failure to abate the nuisance as directed may result
in the imposition of a financial penalty; and
      (6)   A statement that the owner, occupant, or person in charge may
protest the order to abate by giving written notice to the City Recorder (as
provided in § 94.05(B)) within ten days from the date of the notice.
   (C)   The city shall keep a record of notices sent to any person in charge.
Only one written notice shall be required to be provided to any person in
charge. Where a second or repeated notice is deemed appropriate by the City
Recorder, the city may move directly to the penalty phase as provided under §
94.99 and direct a citation be issued to the person in charge to pay the fine
or appear in municipal court to plead his or her case before the municipal
judge.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 94.05  PRIVATE ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Within ten days after the notice, as provided in §
94.04, the owner, occupant, or person in charge of the property where the
noxious vegetation nuisance exists shall abate the nuisance, except as provided
in division (B) below.
   (B)   (1)   The owner, occupant, or person in charge of the property who
denies that a nuisance exists may file with the city a written protest. The
protest shall be referred to the City Council for hearing as part of the
Council’s regular agenda at its next meeting or at such other time as may be
convenient for the city. The Council shall consider the abatement and protest
and may consider any material it deems relevant and probative. The Council may,
at its discretion, allow verbal testimony on the abatement issue. The Council
will make its decision based upon the best interests of the city, including
whether the noxious vegetation is offensive, injurious, or detrimental to the
public health, safety, or welfare.
      (2)   After hearing the matter, the Council may determine whether a
nuisance exists, may decide upon the nature of the abatement, may order the
abatement, and may impose other conditions as the Council deems necessary. The
Council shall make written findings in support of its decision. The Council
decision shall be final. Failure to file a written protest within the time
lines provided in this chapter waives any objection the owner, occupant, or
person in charge may have to finding that a nuisance exists or to the abatement
of the nuisance by the city.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 94.06  ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   (A)   If, within the ten days allowed by §
94.05 for abating a nuisance as defined in §
94.01, the nuisance has not been privately abated, the City Council or its
designee may cause it to be abated.
   (B)   (1)   The city may authorize or retain a person or entity to abate the
nuisance. Such person or entity may enter upon the property at reasonable times
for the purpose of investigating and abating the nuisance, specifically to
destroy the noxious vegetation and seeds. The person authorized to abate the
nuisance shall enter upon the property only upon obtaining written consent of
the owner, occupant, or person in charge, or upon issuance of citation by a
certified police officer and guilty conviction in the municipal court.
      (2)   However, noxious vegetation in the public right-of-way, on a public
walk or pathway, or extending across a property line may be destroyed without
consent or without a warrant and the costs assessed against the person in
charge.
   (C)   The City Recorder shall keep an accurate record of the expense
incurred by the city in abating the noxious vegetation and shall include
therein a reasonable charge for administrative overhead.
   (D)   Whenever the city abates noxious vegetation, in addition to any
penalties imposed and in addition to the costs specified in division (C) above,
there is hereby imposed on each owner, occupant, or person in charge or on the
property a penalty of $50 or 10% of the abatement costs, whichever is greater.
The City Recorder shall add the penalty to the amount to be collected as
provided in §
94.07. The City Recorder shall waive the penalty if the abatement costs are
paid within the time specified in §
94.07.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 94.07  COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   (A)   The City Recorder, by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid,
shall forward to the owner, occupant, or person in charge a cost notice
stating:
      (1)   The total cost of abatement, including any administrative overhead
charges or penalties;
      (2)   That the cost will be assessed and become a lien against the
property unless paid within ten days from the date of notice; and
      (3)   That if the owner, occupant, or person in charge objects to the
cost of abatement as indicated, he or she may file a written objection with the
City Recorder not more than ten days from the date of the notice and that the
written objection must state the facts and reasons for the objection to the
cost of abatement.
   (B)   The owner, occupant, or person in charge’s written objection to the
cost of abatement shall be reviewed by the City Council or its designee, who
shall determine the proper amount of the bill and give written notice to the
person responsible of the amount so determined. That determination shall be
final.
   (C)   Within ten days after receiving the bill, if no objection is filed, or
within ten days after the determination following an objection, the person
responsible shall pay the bill. If the costs of abatement are not paid within
the ten days, the City Recorder shall thereupon enter the costs of abatement
plus any applicable administrative overhead charges or penalties in the docket
of city liens. Upon such entry the amount shall constitute a lien upon the
property.
   (D)   (1)   The lien shall bear interest at the rate of 5% per year.
      (2)   The interest shall commence from date of the entry of the lien in
the lien docket.
      (3)   For property owners the payment of the lien may be deferred,
extended, or modified until sale of the subject property.
   (E)   An error in the name of a person responsible shall not void the
assessment and lien nor will a failure to receive the notices render the
assessment void, but it shall remain a valid lien against the property.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 94.08  ENFORCEMENT AND DISCHARGE OF DUTIES.
   In case a duty under this chapter bears on two or more persons, discharge of
the duty by one of the persons shall discharge the duty for the other person
and preclude any lien to enforce discharge of the duty from being imposed on
the other person’s property
(Ord. 16-01, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
less than $50, nor more than $500, and possibly subject to the cost of fire
suppression.
   (B)   Each day’s violation of this chapter constitutes a separate offense.
   (C)   The abatement of a nuisance is not a penalty for violating this
chapter, but is an additional remedy.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 5-23-2016)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   AMUSEMENTS
      
111.   PEDDLERS
      
112.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
CHAPTER 110:  AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Gambling devices not permitted
   
110.03   License required
   
110.04   Application; fee
   
110.05   Display of license
   
110.06   Operating regulations
   
110.07   Revocation of license
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any machine which upon the insertion of a coin, slug,
token, plate, or disc, may be operated by the public generally for the use of
the game, entertainment, or amusement, whether or not registering a score. It
shall include, but not be limited to, such DEVICES as marble games, pinball
machines, electronic and/or video games, and all other games, operations, or
transactions on a play-for-pay basis.
   CARDROOM. Any establishment, business, or place where card tables, cards, or
any other facilities for the playing of card games are maintained for the uses
of the public in playing card games upon the payment of a consideration.
   CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINE. Any automatic vending machine used for the sale
of cigarettes, and controlled by the insertion of a coin or coins. It shall not
include machines or devices used solely for the vending of service, food, or
confections.
   JUKEBOX. Any music vending machine, contrivance, or device which, upon the
insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate, disc, or key into any slot, crevice,
or other opening or by the payment of any price, operates or may be operated
for the emission of songs, music, or similar amusement.
   PERSON, FIRM, CORPORATION, OR ASSOCIATION. Any person, firm, corporation, or
association which owns any such machine; the person, firm, corporation, or
association in whose place of business any such machine is placed for the use
of the public; and the person, firm, corporation, or association having control
over such machines; provided, however, that the payment of such fee by any
person, firm, corporation, or association enumerated herein shall be deemed a
compliance with this section.
   POOLROOM. Any establishment, business, or place where pool, snooker, or
billiard tables of any and all types are kept and maintained for the use by the
public in playing any of said games for consideration.
   VENDING MACHINE. A machine which dispenses only merchandise other than gums,
soft drinks, or food to individuals who deposit therein a coin or coins.
(Prior Code, § 110.01)  (Ord. 181, passed 12-19-1983)
§ 110.02  GAMBLING DEVICES NOT PERMITTED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall, in any way, be construed to authorize,
license, or permit any gambling devices whatsoever, or any mechanism that has
been judicially determined to be a gambling device or in any way contrary to
law, or that may be contrary to future laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 110.02)  (Ord. 181, passed 12-19-1983)
§ 110.03  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person, firm, corporation, or association displaying for public
patronage, or keeping for operation, any of the devices defined in §
110.01 of this chapter shall be required to obtain a license from the city,
upon payment of a license fee. Application for such license shall be made to
the City Recorder upon a form to be supplied by the City Recorder for that
purpose. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or association
supplying machines to place any devices requiring a city license on any
premises without first obtaining a license from the city for the device.
(Prior Code, § 110.03)  (Ord. 181, passed 12-19-1983)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04  APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   The application for such license shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant, age, date, and place of birth;
      (2)   Prior convictions of any penal statute or ordinance, if any;
      (3)   Place where machine or device is to be displayed or operated, and
the business conducted at that place;
      (4)   Description of the machine to be covered by the license;
      (5)   No license shall be issued to any applicant unless he or she shall
be over 21 years of age;
      (6)   All wiring and connections to the machine or machines must comply
with the electrical code of the state;
      (7)   Application for the license shall be made out in duplicate and
referred to the City Recorder; and
      (8)   All applications shall be submitted to the City Council by the City
Recorder for final disposition, the City Recorder to issue license if there is
no disapproval in accordance with this section.
   (B)   (1)   Every applicant, before being granted a license, shall pay the
following annual or quarterly license fee for the privilege of operating or
maintaining for operation any of the devices defined in §
110.01 herein.
 
Device      Quarterly Fee Annual Fee
All devices $7.50         $27.50
 
      (2)   License as provided herein shall be granted for a calendar quarter
or calendar year without proration beginning January 1, 1984.
(Prior Code, § 110.04)  (Ord. 181, passed 12-19-1983)
§ 110.05  DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The license or licenses herein provided for shall be posted
permanently and conspicuously at the location of the machine in the premises
wherein the device is to be operated or maintained to be operated.
   (B)   Not more than one machine shall be operated under one license, and the
applicant or licensee shall be required to secure a license for each and every
machine, device, or table location displayed and operated by him or her.
   (C)   (1)   If the licensee shall move his or her place of business to
another location within the city, the license may be transferred to such new
location upon application to the City Recorder.
      (2)   The new location shall be approved by the City Council in the same
manner as provided for in §
110.04 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.05)  (Ord. 181, passed 12-19-1983)
§ 110.06  OPERATING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating any cardroom licensed
under the provisions of this chapter to permit or allow any minor under the age
of 21 years to engage in any card game, or to be upon that portion of the
premises wherein such card tables are operated.
   (B)   No person, firm, corporation, or association holding the license of
this chapter shall permit the playing of jukeboxes, defined in §
110.01, between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day; furthermore,
jukeboxes, as herein defined, shall be played in such manner as to not be
offensive to others. As such offensiveness is deemed by the Council to be a
nuisance, the Council may revoke the license or direct the City Recorder to
refuse to issue a renewal of the license for the next year.
(Prior Code, § 110.06)  (Ord. 181, passed 12-19-1983)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Each license issued under this chapter is subject to the right which is
hereby expressly reserved to revoke the same, should the licensee directly or
indirectly permit the operation of any device herein defined contrary to the
provisions of this chapter. Under the ordinances of the city or the law of the
state, the license may be revoked by the City Council after written notice to
the licensee, which notice shall specify the ordinance or law violations with
which the licensee is charged. If after a hearing, the licensee is found to be
guilty of such violation, ten days’ notice of the hearing findings shall be
given to the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 110.07)  (Ord. 181, passed 12-19-1983)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation, or association violating any of the
provisions of this chapter, in addition to the revocation of his or her
license, shall be liable to a fine or penalty of not more than $500, or 100
days in the county jail, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 110.99)  (Ord. 181, passed 12-19-1983)
CHAPTER 111:  PEDDLERS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Application
   
111.04   Investigation and issuance of license
   
111.05   License fee; term of license
   
111.06   Transfer of license
   
111.07   Hours of solicitation; exhibition of license; no solicitation signs
   
111.08   Revocation of license
   
111.09   Appeal
   
111.10   Exemptions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER or SOLICITOR. Any door-to-door salesperson who sells or offers for
sale any merchandise or services by traveling about the city in residential
districts.
   PERSON. An individual, organization, partnership, corporation, or other
legal entity.
(Prior Code, § 111.01)  (Ord. 215, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 111.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in business as a peddler or
solicitor as defined in this chapter within the corporate limits of the city
without first obtaining a license as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 111.02)  (Ord. 215, passed 4-1-1991)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  APPLICATION.
   A licensee, under this chapter, must file with the City Recorder a sworn
application, in writing, on a form to be furnished by the City Recorder, which
shall give the following information:
   (A)   The name and description of the applicant, or if made on behalf of a
non-profit organization, the name and address of an officer whose residence is
in the city;
   (B)   The applicant’s permanent address, and the applicant’s local address,
if any;
   (C)   A brief description of the nature of business and the goods or
services to be sold. In the case of products of farms or orchards, a statement
whether the produce to be sold is grown by the applicant;
   (D)   If the applicant is employed, the name and address of the employer,
together with appropriate credentials establishing an exact relationship; and
   (E)   Except in the case of a non-profit organization, a photograph showing
the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and distinguishable manner,
which shall be two inches by two inches in size.
(Prior Code, § 111.03)  (Ord. 215, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 111.04  INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, the same shall be referred to the
chief law enforcement officer of the city who shall cause an investigation of
the applicant’s business and moral character to be made as shall be deemed
necessary for the protection of the public’s interests.
   (B)   The chief law enforcement officer, within 15 days of the application,
shall endorse the application as “satisfactory” or “unsatisfactory” and if the
same shall be endorsed “unsatisfactory”, the reason for such endorsement shall
be set forth thereon.
   (C)   Where the application is endorsed “satisfactory”, the City Recorder
shall then issue a license card addressed to the applicant for the carrying on
for the business applied for. The license shall contain the signature and seal
of the issuing officer and shall show the name, address, and photograph of the
licensee, if the licensee is not a non-profit organization, and the kind of
goods to be sold thereunder, the date of issuance and the expiration date of
the license. The City Recorder shall keep a permanent record of all licensees
for a period of two years from the date of issuance.
   (D)   If the application is returned from the chief law enforcement officer
and endorsed as “unsatisfactory”, the City Recorder shall notify the applicant
that his or her application has been disapproved, the reasons therefor, and the
right of the applicant to appeal that decision.
(Prior Code, § 111.04)  (Ord. 215, passed 4-1-1991)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05  LICENSE FEE; TERM OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Except as herein specifically exempted from payment of fees, all
persons applying for a license shall pay a fee in the sum of $30 as an
application and license fee. Licenses may be renewed on an annual basis upon
the payment of a license fee in the amount of $30.
   (B)   All licenses issued hereunder shall be for a term of one year.
(Prior Code, § 111.05)  (Ord. 215, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 111.06  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license shall be used at any time by any person other than the one to
whom it is issued. No license may be assigned or otherwise transferred.
(Prior Code, § 111.06)  (Ord. 215, passed 4-1-1991)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07  HOURS OF SOLICITATION; EXHIBITION OF LICENSE; NO SOLICITATION SIGNS.
   (A)   Hours. No licensee or person shall engage in soliciting at any place
in the city during the period from 9:00 p.m. until 9:00 a.m., unless otherwise
specified on the solicitor’s license.
   (B)   Display of license. Peddlers and solicitors are required to display
their license card at all times they are engaged in their selling activity.
   (C)   Signs. No licensee shall solicit or attempt to solicit any sale from
any residence or other location where a “no solicitation” sign or other
appropriate sign is displayed indicating the occupant’s desire that they not be
solicited by door-to-door sales people or peddlers.
(Prior Code, § 111.07)  (Ord. 215, passed 4-1-1991)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Licenses may be revoked by the City Recorder for any of the following
causes:
      (1)   Fraud and/or misrepresentation or false statements contained in an
application for a license;
      (2)   Fraud and/or misrepresentation or false statements made in the
course of carrying on the business as a peddler or solicitor;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of any crime, misdemeanor, or ordinance involving moral
turpitude; or
      (5)   Conducting the business of peddling or soliciting in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner which constitutes a menace to the health, safety, or
general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of a hearing for revocation of a license shall be given, in
writing, setting forth the grounds of the complaint and the time and place for
the hearing. The notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee at
his or her last known address as shown on city records, at least five days
prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 111.08)  (Ord. 215, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 111.09  APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of the chief law enforcement officer or
the City Recorder in denial or revocation of his or her license or application,
shall have the right to appeal to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 111.09)  (Ord. 215, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 111.10  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter requiring a license application and
application fee shall not apply to:
      (1)   A person selling products of a farm or orchard actually produced by
the seller;
      (2)   A newspaper carrier soliciting subscriptions;
      (3)   A person calling upon business firms soliciting orders for goods
and services which are regularly used by the business firm in their regular
course of business; or
      (4)   Milk, groceries, or other merchandise, deliveries, or services
ordered by a resident or sold by an area merchant and delivered to the
purchaser as a service.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter requiring a license application fee
shall not apply to a non-profit organization making an application on behalf of
its members.
(Prior Code, § 111.10)  (Ord. 215, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter is punishable, upon conviction,
by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for not more than six
months, or both.
(Prior Code, § 111.99)  (Ord. 215, passed 4-1-1991)
CHAPTER 112:  TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.001   Purpose; emergency clause
   
112.002   Definitions
   
112.003   Jurisdiction and management of the public way
   
112.004   Regulatory fees and compensation not a tax
   
112.005   Duty to provide information
Franchise Application
   
112.020   Registration and franchise requirements
   
112.021   Registration required; fee
   
112.022   Registration; exceptions
   
112.023   Franchise requirement
   
112.024   Application; review fee
   
112.025   Franchise granted; fee
   
112.026   Amendment of franchise
   
112.027   Renewal application
   
112.028   Franchise renewal granted
   
112.029   Assignments or transfers of system
   
112.030   Revocation or termination; notice
   
112.031   Hearing
   
112.032   Standards for revocation or lesser sanctions
Construction Regulations
   
112.045   General construction requirements; code
   
112.046   Construction permits; verification
   
112.047   Schedules and coordination
   
112.048   Non-complying work
   
112.049   As-built drawings
   
112.050   Location of facilities
   
112.051   Relocation or removal of facilities
   
112.052   Damage to grantee’s facilities
System Specifications and Terms of Service
   
112.065   Leased capacity; general agreement
   
112.066   Grantee insurance
   
112.067   Indemnification
   
112.068   Performance surety
   
112.069   Consent
   
112.070   Confidentiality
   
112.071   Governing law; venue
   
112.072   Nonexclusive grant; written agreement
   
112.073   Remedies
   
112.074   Compliance with laws
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.001  PURPOSE; EMERGENCY CLAUSE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Respond to increased use of the public way by telecommunications
providers and to technological advances in the telecommunications industry;
      (2)   Comply with the 1996 Telecommunications Act as it applies to local
governments, telecommunications providers, and the services those providers
offer;
      (3)   Encourage the provision of advanced and competitive
telecommunications services on the widest possible basis to businesses,
institutions, and residents of the city on a competitively neutral basis;
      (4)   Permit and manage reasonable access to the public way of the city
for telecommunications purposes on a competitively-neutral basis and conserve
the limited physical capacity of the public way held in trust by the city;
      (5)   Assure that the city’s current and ongoing costs of granting and
regulating private access to and the use of the public way are fully
compensated by the persons seeking such access and causing such costs;
      (6)   Recognize the public way as a valuable city asset and secure fair
and reasonable compensation to the city and its residents for permitting
private use of the public way, and for physical damage and aesthetic harm to
the public way from construction and installation of facilities in the public
way;
      (7)   Assure that all telecommunications providers providing facilities
and/or services within the city, or passing through the city, register and
comply with the ordinances, rules, and regulations of the city;
      (8)   Enable the city to discharge its public trust consistent with the
rapidly evolving federal and state regulatory policies, industry competition,
and technological development; and
      (9)   Assure telecommunications providers that investing in
infrastructure in the city is a secure and wise investment, while reserving to
the city the ability to respond to new developments in the industry at the time
of franchise renewal and by amending its ordinances.
   (B)   Application with existing agreements. To the extent that this chapter
is not in conflict with and can be implemented with existing ordinances and
franchise agreements, this chapter shall apply to all existing ordinances and
franchise agreements for use of the public right-of-way for telecommunications.
   (C)   Emergency clause. Whereas passage of this chapter is deemed to be
necessary for the preservation of the public health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of the city, an emergency is hereby declared to exist, and this
chapter shall be in full force and effect upon its passage by the City Council
and approval of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Terms not
defined in this section shall be given the meaning set forth in the
Communications Policy Act of 1984, the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984,
the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, and the
Telecommunications Act of 1996. If not defined there, the words shall be given
their common and ordinary meaning.
   CABLE SERVICE. The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming,
or other video, audio, or data service using the same means of transmission as
used to transmit video programming; and subscriber interaction, if any, which
is required for the selection or use of such video programming or other
programming service.
   CITY PROPERTY. All real property owned by the city, other than the public
way and utility easements as defined herein.
   CONDUIT. Any structure, or portion thereof, containing one or more ducts,
conduits, manholes, handholes, bolts, or other facilities used for any
telegraph, telephone cable television, electrical or communications conductors,
or cable facilities.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any activity in the public way resulting in physical change
thereto, including excavation or placement of structures, but excluding routine
maintenance or repair of existing facilities.
   CONTROL. Actual working control in whatever manner exercised.
   DUCT. A single enclosed raceway for conductors or cable.
   EMERGENCY. The meaning provided in O.R.S. 401.025
   FRANCHISE. An agreement between the city and a grantee which grants a
privilege to use the public way and utility easements within the city for a
dedicated purpose, for specific compensation, and for a specified period of
time.
   GRANTEE. The person to whom or the entity to which a franchise is granted by
the city.
   GROSS REVENUE. All revenue earned by a grantee from operations within the
city, including, but not limited, to service to customers located within the
city and other telecommunications providers or other persons who use the
grantee’s facilities within the city to provide service to customers.
   PERMITTEE. A person to whom, or entity to which, the city has granted a
permit to construct or install a telecommunications facility or facilities in
the public way.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, company, association, joint stock
company or association, firm, partnership, or limited liability company.
   PRIVATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK. A system, including the construction,
maintenance, or operation of the system, for the provision of a service or any
portion of a service which is owned or operated exclusively by a person for
his, her, or their use and not for resale, directly or indirectly. PRIVATE
TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK includes services provided by the state pursuant to
O.R.S. 190.240 and O.R.S. 283.140.
   PUBLIC WAY. Includes, but is not limited to, any street, road, bridge,
alley, sidewalk, trail, path, and utility easement, including the subsurface
under and airspace over these areas.
      (1)   This definition applies only to the extent of the city’s right or
authority to grant a franchise to occupy and use such areas for
telecommunications facilities.
      (2)   PUBLIC WAY does not include city-owned buildings, parks, or other
property.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT. The Communication Policy Act of 1934, as amended by
subsequent enactments, including the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (47 U.S.C.
§§ 151 et seq.), and as hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATION CARRIER. A telecommunication utility or a cooperative
corporation formed under O.R.S. Chapter 62 that provides telecommunications
service as defined in O.R.S. 759.005.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER.
      (1)   Any person that provides telecommunications services to any person
or premises within the city;
      (2)   Any person that directly or indirectly owns, leases, operates,
manages, or otherwise controls telecommunications facilities within the city;
or
      (3)   Any person that is directly or indirectly owned or controlled by
any person described in this definition.
         (a)   For purposes of this definition, OWNS or CONTROLS means that one
person or entity owns more than 25% of the stock or assets or has more than 25%
common partners, directors, or owners with another entity.
         (b)   In addition, any person that leases, purchases, or otherwise
receives telecommunications service or use of a telecommunications facility for
less than a reasonable price, so as to create a reasonable inference that the
two parties did not deal at arm’s length, shall be deemed to be owned or
controlled by the second party.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. The plant and equipment, other than customer
premises equipment, used by a telecommunications provider to provide
telecommunications services.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The transmission, for money or other
consideration, of telecommunications in electromagnetic, electronic, or optical
form.
      (1)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE includes, but is not limited to,
telephony, data transport, internet service, video, and cable television.
      (2)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE does not include:
         (a)   One-way broadcast of radio or television signals;
         (b)   Direct-to-home satellite service within the meaning of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, § 602;
         (c)   Surveying;
         (d)   Private telecommunications networks that do not use the public
way; or
         (e)   Communications of the customer which take place on the customer
side of on-premise equipment.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM. See TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES above.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS UTILITY. Has the same meaning as given in O.R.S. 759.005
(1).
   UTILITY EASEMENT. Any easement granted to or owned by the city and acquired,
established, dedicated, or devoted for public utility purposes.
   UTILITY FACILITIES. The plant, equipment, and property, including, but not
limited to, the poles, pipes, mains, conduits, ducts, cable, wires, plant, and
equipment located under, on, or above the surface of the ground within the
public right-of-way of the city and used, or to be used, for the purposes of
providing utility or telecommunication services.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.003  JURISDICTION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE PUBLIC WAY.
   (A)   The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory management over the
public way whether the city has a fee, easement, or other legal interest in the
public way and whether the legal interest was obtained by grant, dedication,
prescription, reservation, condemnation, annexation, foreclosure, or other
means.
   (B)   No person may occupy or encroach on a public way or other city
property without the permission of the city. The city grants permission to use
public way by franchises and permits.
   (C)   The city retains the right and privilege to cut or move any
telecommunications facilities located within the public way as the city may
determine to be necessary, appropriate, or useful in response to a public
health or safety emergency.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.004  REGULATORY FEES AND COMPENSATION NOT A TAX.
   The fees provided for in this chapter and any compensation charged and paid
for use of the public way provided for in this chapter are not a tax and are
separate from, and in addition to, any and all federal, state, local, and city
charges as may be levied, imposed, or due from a telecommunications provider,
its customers or subscribers, or on account of the lease, sale, delivery, or
transmission of telecommunications services.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.005  DUTY TO PROVIDE INFORMATION.
   (A)   Upon request, each grantee shall provide the city with an accurate map
or maps certifying the location of all of the grantee’s telecommunications
facilities within the public way.
   (B)   Within ten business days of a written request from the city, each
grantee shall furnish the city with information sufficient to demonstrate that
grantee has complied with all requirements of this chapter. All books, records,
maps, and other documents maintained by the grantee with respect to its
facilities within the public way shall be made available for inspection by the
city at reasonable times and intervals.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
FRANCHISE APPLICATION
§ 112.020  REGISTRATION AND FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   This chapter requires all telecommunications providers to register
with the city and requires all telecommunications providers who use the public
way to obtain a franchise from the city.
   (B)   A telecommunications provider that holds a current, valid franchise
from the city may continue to provide the services authorized by its franchise
for the duration of the current term of the franchise.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to override state or federal law,
and any provision that would conflict with state or federal law if applied to a
particular registrant or grantee shall be unenforceable to the extent of the
conflict and only to that extent.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.021  REGISTRATION REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
112.022, all telecommunications providers shall register within 30 days from
the effective date of this chapter, March 3, 2021, or prior to providing any
service to customers within the city. The purpose of registration is to provide
the city with accurate and current information concerning the
telecommunications providers who offer to provide telecommunications facilities
within the city. Applicants shall provide the following information:
      (1)   The appropriate license from the state’s Public Utility Commission
(PUC) or the Federal Communications Commission (FCC);
      (2)   The identity and legal status of the registrant, including the
name, address, and telephone number of the duly authorized officer, agent, or
employee responsible for the accuracy of the registration information;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number for the duly authorized
officer, agent, or employee to be contacted in case of an emergency; and
      (4)   A description of the general types and the locations of
telecommunications facilities that the registrant currently owns or leases
within the city; a description of the general types and the locations of
telecommunications facilities that the registrant intends to construct within
the city within two years of the date of registration or filing required by
this section and a description of types of the telecommunications service or
services (e.g., local telephone, long distance telephone, cable service, other
telecommunications service, and whether service is to be provided to end-users
or to other telecommunications providers) that the registrant intends to offer
or provide to individuals, firms, businesses, or institutions within the city.
   (B)   Each application for registration as a telecommunications provider
shall be accompanied by a non-refundable registration fee in the amount of
$100. This fee may be waived by the City Recorder on a case-by-case basis.
   (C)   Registration as a telecommunications provider need not be renewed, but
the registrant must notify the City Recorder of any change to the information
required by divisions (A)(1), (A)(2), and (A)(3) above and must file annually
with the City Recorder an updated version of the information required by
division (A) above
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.022  REGISTRATION; EXCEPTIONS.
   The following telecommunications providers are exempt from registration:
   (A)   Telecommunications providers that are owned and operated exclusively
for its own use by the United States, the state, or a political subdivision of
the state; and
   (B)   A private telecommunications network, if that network does not occupy
any public way of the city.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.023  FRANCHISE REQUIREMENT.
   Any telecommunications provider who desires to occupy any public right of
way of the city shall first obtain a franchise as provided in this chapter. For
purposes of this section, OCCUPY THE PUBLIC WAY means to own, lease, rent, or
possess the right to make physical changes to a telecommunications facility in
the public way, but does not include the use of a telecommunications facility
in the public way if such use is limited to providing telecommunications
service to customers without any ownership, leasehold, or other possessory
interest in, or the right to make any physical changes to, the
telecommunications facility. Only one franchise is required for a single
telecommunications facility that occupies the public way; if an owner leases
its facility to another telecommunications provider and the owner has obtained
a franchise, the lessee need not also obtain a franchise.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.024  APPLICATION; REVIEW FEE.
   (A)   Any person who desires a telecommunications franchise must register as
a telecommunications provider and shall file with the City Recorder an
application which includes the following information:
      (1)   The identity of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of the telecommunications services that are to be
offered or provided by the applicant over its telecommunications facilities;
      (3)   Engineering plans, specifications, and a network map of the
facilities located within the public rights of way in the city, including the
location and route requested for applicant’s proposed telecommunications
facilities. The city may require the information to be provided in electronic
form readable by city computers, or may specify another format;
      (4)   The area or areas of the city the applicant desires to serve and a
preliminary construction schedule for build-out to the entire franchise area;
      (5)   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all other
governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the facilities and
to offer or provide the telecommunications services proposed; and
      (6)   An accurate map showing the location of any existing
telecommunications facilities, if any, in the city that applicant intends to
use or lease.
   (B)   An application and review fee of $500 shall be paid to the city as
part of the application filed pursuant to division (A) above. This fee may be
waived by the City Recorder on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.025  FRANCHISE GRANTED; FEE.
   (A)   Determination by the city. The City Recorder shall issue a written
determination granting or denying the application in whole or in part. If the
application is denied, the written determination shall include the reasons for
denial. A denial may be appealed to the City Council which may elect to hear
the appeal or may elect to appoint a Hearings Officer to hear the appeal and
make a report to the City Council, which shall have the final authority.
   (B)   Rights granted. No franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall
convey any right, title, or interest in the public way, but shall be deemed a
grant to use and occupy the public way for the limited purposes and term and
upon the conditions stated in the franchise agreement.
   (C)   Term of grant. Unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement, a
telecommunications franchise granted hereunder shall be in effect for a term of
ten years.
   (D)   Franchise territory. Unless otherwise specified in a franchise
agreement, a telecommunications franchise granted hereunder shall be the entire
city to be served by the grantee and the public way necessary to serve such
area.
   (E)   Franchise fee. Each grantee shall pay to the city, on an annual basis
and on terms to be determined by the City Council, a franchise fee; a
telecommunications carrier shall pay 5% of its gross revenue derived from
exchange access services, as defined in O.R.S. 401.710 or a successor statute,
less net collectibles from such revenue.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.026  AMENDMENT OF FRANCHISE.
   Conditions for amending a franchise are as follows.
   (A)   If the city orders the telecommunications provider to locate or
relocate its telecommunications facilities in a public way not included in a
previously granted franchise, the city shall grant an amendment without further
application or additional fee.
   (B)   (1)   A new application and amended franchise shall be required of any
telecommunications provider that desires to provide a different type of service
(e.g., cable, telephony, and the like) which was not included in a franchise
previously granted by the city.
      (2)   A new application and amended franchise will not be required if a
telecommunications provider adds new or enhanced services of the same type
authorized by its existing franchise (e.g., a cable service provider offers
digital music service as well as video, or a telephonic- service provider adds
features like call waiting, call forwarding, or caller ID).
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.027  RENEWAL APPLICATION.
   (A)   A grantee that desires to renew its franchise under this chapter
shall, not less than 180 days before expiration of the current agreement, file
an application with the city for renewal of its franchise and shall pay the
application and review fee established in §
112.024 to cover the cost of the city’s review of the application.
   (B)   The application shall include the following information:
      (1)   The information required pursuant to §
112.024; and
      (2)   Any information required pursuant to the franchise agreement
between the city and the grantee.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.028  FRANCHISE RENEWAL GRANTED.
   (A)   Within 90 days after receiving a complete application for a franchise
renewal, the city shall issue a written decision granting or denying the
renewal application, in whole or in part. If the application is denied, the
decision shall state the reasons for denial.
   (B)   The purpose of divisions (C) and (D) below is to assure
telecommunications providers that the city will not arbitrarily refuse to renew
a franchise, while reserving to the city the power to adjust the terms and
conditions of a franchise in a reasonable manner in response to changes in the
law, industry, and market.
   (C)   A grantee shall be entitled to a renewal of its franchise for an
additional ten-year term, subject to, and contingent upon, the following
conditions:
      (1)   In the city’s judgment, the public way has sufficient capacity to
accommodate the grantee’s existing and proposed facilities;
      (2)   The grantee continues to meet the legal requirements for providing
service in the city;
      (3)   The grantee has complied with all the requirements of this chapter
and its franchise;
      (4)   Applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules, and policies
allow the grantee to continue its operations in the city; and
      (5)   The grantee agrees to comply with such additional requirements as
may be imposed under division (D) below.
   (D)   At the time of renewal of a franchise, the city may require grantee
to:
      (1)   Pay additional compensation, or pay compensation calculated in a
different manner, for the rights granted by the franchise. Any additional or
new compensation requirements shall be consistent with the requirements imposed
on other similarly-situated telecommunications providers at the time of
renewal;
      (2)   Comply with any amendments to this chapter or other applicable
provisions of this code that the city has adopted since the franchise was
granted or was last renewed, whichever is later; and/or
      (3)   Agree to amendments to the franchise based on changes to state or
federal law.
   (E)   After the term of the original franchise and any renewals provided for
in this section have expired, a grantee must apply for a new franchise under
the same terms and conditions as apply to new franchise applications at the
time.
   (F)   No franchise shall be renewed until any and all ongoing violations or
defaults in the grantee’s performance of the franchise, or of the requirements
of this chapter, have been cured, or a plan detailing the corrective action to
be taken by the grantee has been approved by the city.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.029  ASSIGNMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   Ownership or control of a majority interest in a telecommunications
franchise may not, directly or indirectly, be transferred, assigned, or
disposed of by sale, lease, merger, consolidation, or other act of the grantee,
by operation of law or otherwise, without the prior consent of the city, which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
   (B)   The city may attach reasonable conditions to its consent, such as, but
not limited to:
      (1)   Grantee and the proposed assignee or transferee of the franchise or
system shall agree, in writing, to assume and abide by all the provisions of
the franchise; and
      (2)   The approval shall be effective only when the assignee or
transferee has demonstrated that it has the legal, technical, financial, and
other qualifications required by law to own, hold, and operate the
telecommunications system pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.030  REVOCATION OR TERMINATION; NOTICE.
   (A)   A franchise to use or occupy public way of the city may be revoked for
any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Construction or operation in the city or in the public way of the
city without a construction permit;
      (2)   Construction or operation at an unauthorized location;
      (3)   Failure to comply with this section herein with respect to sale,
transfer, or assignment of a telecommunications system or franchise;
      (4)   Misrepresentation by, or on behalf of, a grantee in any application
to the city;
      (5)   Abandonment of aerial telecommunications facilities in the public
way;
      (6)   Failure to relocate or remove facilities as required in this
chapter;
      (7)   Failure to pay taxes, compensation, fees, or costs when and, as due
to, the city under this chapter;
      (8)   Insolvency or bankruptcy of the grantee;
      (9)   Violation of a material provision of this chapter; or
      (10)   Violation of a material term of a franchise agreement.
   (B)   In the event that the city believes that grounds exist for revocation
of a franchise, the city shall give the grantee written notice of the apparent
violation or noncompliance, providing a short and concise statement of the
nature and general facts of the violation or noncompliance, and providing the
grantee a reasonable period of time, not exceeding 30 days, to furnish evidence
that:
      (1)   Corrective action has been, or is being actively and expeditiously
pursued, to remedy the violation or noncompliance;
      (2)   The allegation of a violation or noncompliance is incorrect; and
      (3)   It would be in the public interest to impose some penalty or
sanction less than revocation.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.031  HEARING.
   In the event that a grantee fails to provide evidence reasonably
satisfactory to the city as provided in §
112.030, the City Recorder shall refer the apparent violation or noncompliance
to the City Council. The City Council shall provide the grantee with notice and
a reasonable opportunity to be heard concerning the matter. The hearing may be
before the City Council, or at its discretion, the City Council may appoint a
hearings official to receive evidence and arguments and to prepare a report to
the City Council.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.032  STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION OR LESSER SANCTIONS.
   If persuaded that the grantee has violated or failed to comply with material
provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement, the City Council shall
determine whether to revoke the franchise, or to establish some lesser sanction
and cure, considering the nature, circumstance, extent, and gravity of the
violation as reflected by one or more of the following factors:
   (A)   The misconduct was egregious;
   (B)   Substantial harm resulted;
   (C)   The violation was intentional;
   (D)   There is a history of prior violations of the same or other
requirements;
   (E)   There is a history of overall compliance;
   (F)   The violation was voluntarily disclosed, admitted, or cured; and/or
   (G)   Any other factor or circumstance that, in the City Council’s judgment,
is relevant to the severity of the violations.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 112.045  GENERAL CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS; CODE.
   (A)   No person shall commence or continue with the construction,
installation, or operation of telecommunication facilities in a public way,
except as provided in division (B) below, or as provided in §§
112.046 through
112.051, and in compliance with the applicable rules of the city.
   (B)   Telecommunications facilities shall be constructed, installed,
operated, and maintained in accordance with all applicable federal, state, and
local codes, rules, and regulations, including the National Electrical Code and
the National Electrical Safety Code.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.046  CONSTRUCTION PERMITS; VERIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall construct or install any telecommunications facilities
in a public way without first notifying the city and obtaining any required
permits.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for the construction or installation of
telecommunications facilities in a public way, unless:
      (1)   The telecommunications provider has first filed a registration
statement with the city pursuant to §§
112.020 and
112.021; and
      (2)   The telecommunications provider has first applied for and received
a franchise pursuant to §§
112.023 through
112.028 (if applicable).
   (C)   All construction permit applications shall be accompanied by the
verification of a registered professional engineer, or other qualified and duly
authorized representative of the applicant, that the drawings, plans, and
specifications submitted with the application comply with applicable technical
codes, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.047  SCHEDULES AND COORDINATION.
   (A)   Construction schedule. All construction permit applications shall be
accompanied by a written construction schedule, which shall include a deadline
for completion of construction. The construction schedule is subject to
approval by the City Recorder. The permittee shall promptly complete all
construction activities so as to minimize disruption of the public way and
other public and private property. All construction work within the public way,
including restoration, must be completed within 90 days of the date of issuance
of the construction permit unless an extension or an alternate schedule has
been approved by the City Recorder.
   (B)   Coordination of construction activities. All grantees are required to
make a good faith effort to cooperate with the city, including, but not limited
to, the following:
      (1)   If requested by the city, each grantee shall meet with the city
annually, or as determined by the city, to schedule and coordinate construction
in the public way. At that time, the city will provide available information on
plans for local, state, and/or federal construction projects; and
      (2)   All construction locations, activities, and schedules shall be
coordinated as ordered by the City Recorder or designee, to minimize public
inconvenience, disruption, or damage.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.048  NON-COMPLYING WORK.
   Within 60 days following written notice from the city to remove the
facilities, which notice shall not be issued until the permittee has had a
reasonable opportunity, not to exceed 60 days, to correct non-complying
conditions, all work which does not comply with the construction permit, the
approved or corrected plans and specifications for the work, or the
requirements of this chapter, shall be removed at the sole expense of the
permittee.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.049  AS-BUILT DRAWINGS.
   If requested by the city, the permittee shall furnish the city with two
complete sets of plans drawn to scale and certified to the city as accurately
depicting the location of all telecommunications facilities constructed
pursuant to the construction permit. These plans shall be submitted to the City
Recorder or designee within 60 days after completion of construction, in a
format acceptable to the city.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.050  LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   All facilities located within the public way shall be constructed,
installed, and located in accordance with the following terms and conditions,
unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement:
      (1)   Wherever existing electric utilities, cable facilities, and
telecommunication facilities are located underground within a public way of the
city, a grantee with permission to occupy the same public ground must also
locate its telecommunications facilities underground; and
      (2)   Wherever all new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities,
or telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the city, a grantee that currently occupies the same public way
shall relocate its facilities underground concurrently with the other affected
utilities to minimize disruption of the public way, absent extraordinary
circumstance or undue hardship, as determined by the City Recorder, and
consistent with the applicable state and federal law.
   (B)   (1)   The City Recorder may require permittees to coordinate
construction schedules and to co-locate facilities in the public way where the
coordination or co-location requirements do not unreasonably interfere with any
of the permittee’s operations.
      (2)   The City Recorder may require a co-locating permittee to provide
reasonable compensation to another permittee whose facilities it shares, if
necessary or appropriate to prevent unjust enrichment of the co-locating
permittee.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.051  RELOCATION OR REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Within 60 days following written notice from the city, or such shorter
time as the city may prescribe because of an emergency, a grantee shall, at no
expense to the city, temporarily or permanently remove, relocate, change, or
alter the position of any telecommunications facilities within the public way
whenever the city shall have determined that such removal, relocation, change,
or alteration is reasonably necessary for:
      (1)   The construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any city
or other public improvements in the public way;
      (2)   The operations of the city or other governmental entity in the
public way; or
      (3)   The public interest.
   (B)   Within 60 days following written notice from the city, any grantee,
telecommunications provider, or other person that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized telecommunications system, facility, or related appurtenances
within the public way of the city shall, at its own expense, remove such
facilities or appurtenances from the public way of the city. A
telecommunications system or facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      (1)   One year after the expiration or termination of the grantee’s
telecommunications franchise;
      (2)   If the system or facility was constructed or installed without the
appropriate prior authority at the time of installation;
      (3)   If the system or facility was constructed or installed at a
location not permitted by the grantee’s telecommunications franchise or other
legally sufficient permit; or
      (4)   (a)   Upon abandonment of a facility within the public way of the
city.
         (b)   A facility will be considered abandoned when it is deactivated,
out of service, or not used for its intended and authorized purpose for a
period of 90 days or longer. A facility will not be considered abandoned if it
is temporarily out of service for repairs, upgrading, or replacement or is in
addition to or expansion of a facility in use, which addition or expansion has
been installed to provide excess capacity to serve future needs.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.052  DAMAGE TO GRANTEE’S FACILITIES.
   Unless directly and proximately caused by willful, intentional, or malicious
acts by the city, the city shall not be liable for any damage to or loss of any
telecommunications facility within the public way of the city as a result of or
in connection with any public works, public improvements, construction,
excavation, grading, filling, or work of any kind in the public way by or on
behalf of the city, or for any consequential losses resulting directly or
indirectly therefrom.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
SYSTEM SPECIFICATIONS AND TERMS OF SERVICE
§ 112.065  LEASED CAPACITY; GENERAL AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Telecommunication providers providing cable service shall be subject
to the cable franchise requirements in any separate cable franchise ordinances.
   (B)   A grantee shall have the right, without prior city approval, to offer
or provide capacity or bandwidth to another telecommunications provider for
resale or service to end-user customers, provided that the grantee shall notify
the city that such lease or agreement has been granted to a customer or lessee.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.066  GRANTEE INSURANCE.
   Unless otherwise provided in a franchise agreement, each grantee shall, as a
condition of the grant, secure and maintain the following liability insurance
policies insuring both the grantee and the city, and its elected and appointed
officers, officials, agents, and employees as coinsured:
   (A)   Comprehensive general liability insurance with limits not less than
$3,000,000 for bodily injury or death to each person, $3,000,000 for property
damage resulting from any one accident, and $3,000,000 for all other types of
liability;
   (B)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned, and hired vehicles with a
limit of $1,000,000 for each person and $3,000,000 for each accident;
   (C)   Worker’s compensation within statutory limits and employer’s liability
insurance with limits of not less than $1,000,000;
   (D)   Comprehensive form premises-operations, explosions, and collapse
hazard, underground hazard and, products completed hazard with limits of not
less than $3,000,000;
   (E)   (1)   The liability insurance policies required by this section shall
be maintained by the grantee throughout the term of the telecommunications
franchise, and such other period of time during which the grantee is operating
without a franchise hereunder, or is engaged in the removal of its
telecommunications facilities.
      (2)    Each such insura nce policy shall contain the following
endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until ninety (90) days after receipt by the
City of Monroe, by registered mail, of a written notice addressed to the City
Recorder of such intent to cancel or not renew.
   (F)   Within 60 days after receipt by the city of said notice, and, in no
event, later than 30 days prior to said cancellation, the grantee shall obtain
and furnish to the city evidence that grantee meets requirements of this
section; and
   (G)   As an alternative to the insurance requirements contained herein, a
grantee may provide evidence of self-insurance subject to review and acceptance
by the city.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.067  INDEMNIFICATION.
   To the extent permitted by law, each grantee shall defend, indemnify, and
hold the city and its officers, employees, agents, and representatives harmless
from and against any and all damages, losses, or expenses, including reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs of suit or defense arising out of, resulting from, or
alleged to arise out of or result from, the negligent, careless or wrongful
acts, omissions, failures to act, or misconduct of the grantee or its
affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors, or subcontractors in the
construction, operation, maintenance, repair, or removal of its
telecommunications services over the facilities or network, whether such acts
or omissions are authorized, allowed, or prohibited by this chapter or by a
franchise agreement made, or entered into, pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.068  PERFORMANCE SURETY.
   Before a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter is effective, and as
necessary thereafter, the grantee shall provide a performance bond, in form and
substance acceptable to the city, as security for the full and complete
performance of a franchise granted under this chapter, including any costs,
expenses, damages, or loss the city pays or incurs because of any failure
attributable to the grantee to comply with the codes, ordinances, rules,
regulations, or permits of the city.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.069  CONSENT.
   Wherever the consent of either the city or of the grantee is specifically
required by this chapter, or in a franchise granted, such consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.070  CONFIDENTIALITY.
   The city agrees to use its best efforts to preserve the confidentiality of
trade secrets or other information that reasonably may be deemed confidential,
as requested by a grantee, to the extent permitted by the state’s Public
Records Law and to the extent consistent with other provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.071  GOVERNING LAW; VENUE.
   (A)   Any franchise granted under this chapter is subject to the provisions
of the Constitution and laws of the United States, the state, and the
ordinances and Charter of the city.
   (B)   Any action or suit pertaining to rights and obligations arising from
this chapter or any franchise or permit granted pursuant to this chapter shall
be filed in the circuit court of the county.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.072  NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT; WRITTEN AGREEMENT.
   No franchise shall be granted hereunder unless the agreement is in writing,
and no franchise granted under this chapter shall confer any exclusive right,
privilege, license, or franchise to occupy or use the public rights of way of
the city for delivery of telecommunications services or any other purposes.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.073  REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any judicial remedies
that the city may have, at law or in equity for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
§ 112.074  COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   Any grantee under this chapter shall comply with all federal and state laws
and regulations, including regulations of any administrative agency thereof, as
well as all ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the city
heretofore or hereafter adopted or established during the entire term of any
franchise granted under this chapter, which are relevant and relate to the
construction, maintenance, and operation of a telecommunications system.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   State law adopted by reference
   
130.02   Unnecessary noise
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of O.R.S. Chapters 161 through 167 shall
constitute an offense against the city.
   (B)   Except for provisions which describe, prohibit, or impose penalties
for felonies, violation of any provision of the state’s Criminal Code of 1981
as amended, in effect on the effective date of this section shall constitute an
offense against the city.
(Ord. 207, passed 3-5-1990; Ord. 08-259, passed 11-25-2008)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall make, assist in making, or permit any loud,
disturbing, or unnecessary noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures, or
endangers the comfort, repose, health, safety, or peace of others.
   (B)   The following acts are declared to be loud, disturbing, and
unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but the enumeration shall not
be construed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The keeping of any bird or animal which, by causing frequent or
long-continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (2)   The attaching of any bell to any animal or allowing a bell to
remain on any animal which is disturbing to any person in the immediate
vicinity;
      (3)   The use of any vehicle or engine, either stationary or moving, so
operated as to create any loud or unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or
other noise;
      (4)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work, or as a warning of
danger, or upon request of proper city authorities;
      (5)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air, steam,
or otherwise, unless the noise thereby created is effectively muffled;
      (6) The erection, including excavation, demolition, alteration, or repair
of any building in residential districts, other than between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m. except upon special permit granted by the Council;
      (7)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than police,
fire, or other emergency vehicle;
      (8)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, church, or court of justice while the same are
in use, or adjacent to any hospital or institution for the care of the sick or
infirm which unreasonably interferes with the operation of such institution or
which disturbs or unduly annoys patients;
      (9)   The discharge in the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
internal combustion engine, motor boat, or motor vehicle except through a
muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
and the emission of annoying smoke;
      (10)   The use or operation of any automatic or electric piano,
phonograph, radio, television, loudspeaker, or any instrument for sound
producing, or any sound-amplifying device, so loudly as to disturb persons in
the vicinity thereof, or in such a manner as renders the use thereof a
nuisance; provided, however, that upon application to the City Council, permits
may be granted to responsible persons or organizations to broadcast programs of
music, news, speeches, or general entertainment;
      (11)   The making of any noise by crying, calling, or shouting, or by
means of any whistle, rattle, bell, gong, clapper, horn, hammer, drum, musical
instrument, or other device for the purpose of advertising goods, wares, or
merchandise, or of attracting attention, or of inviting patronage of any person
to any business whatsoever; provided that newsboys may sell newspapers and
magazines by public outcry, and persons having a valid permit to do so under
the ordinances of the city may vend merchandise in the streets by public
outcry; and
      (12)   The conducting, operating, or maintaining of any garage within 100
feet of any private residence, apartment, rooming house, or hotel in such
manner as to cause loud or offensive noises to be emitted therefrom between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 130.02)  (Ord. 95, passed 11-6-1967)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Violation of any section of this chapter is punishable by a fine
not to exceed $500.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of this chapter which incorporates a
state statute which is a misdemeanor shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed $1,000.
      (3)   Except where other penalties are specifically provided, the penalty
for a violation of any provision of this chapter which incorporates a state
statute which is a violation shall be identical to the penalties for those
state statutes.
      (4)   Where any section of this chapter is substantially similar to a
state statute, but does not adopt the state statute by reference, the maximum
and minimum penalties shall be limited to the maximum and minimum fines
provided for in the substantially similar state statute. The provisions of this
section shall not be construed to affect penalties provided by any section of
this chapter which are less severe than the penalties provided for in a
substantially similar state statute.
      (5)   Whether or not a state statute incorporated by this chapter or
substantially similar to any section of this chapter provides for imprisonment,
no imprisonment shall be allowed under any section of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of any provision of §
130.01 which incorporates a state statute which is a misdemeanor shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.
      (2)   The penalty for a violation of any provision of §
130.01 which incorporates a state statute which is a violation shall be
identical to the penalties for those state statutes.
      (3)   Whether or not a state statute incorporated by §
130.01 or substantially similar to any section of §
130.01 provides for imprisonment, no imprisonment shall be allowed under any
section of §
130.01.
(Ord. 08-259, passed 11-25-2008; Ord. 10-266, passed 12-20-2010)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   LAND DIVISION
      
152.   LAND USE DEVELOPMENT
      
153.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
154.   TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Building code adopted by reference
§ 150.01  BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   That certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the City Recorder, being marked and designated as “A Proposed Building Code for
Small Cities”, most recent edition, published by the Bureau of Municipal
Research and Service, University of Oregon, in cooperation with the League of
Oregon Cities, is hereby adopted as the building code of the city for
regulating the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving,
removal, demolition, conversion, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area, and
maintenance of all buildings and/or structures in the city; providing for the
issuance and collection of fees therefor; and providing penalties for the
violation of such code; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions, and terms of such code on file in the office of the City
Recorder are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof as if fully
set out in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.01)  (Ord. 85, passed 11-6-1967)
CHAPTER 151:  LAND DIVISION
Section
   
151.01   Land division ordinance adopted by reference
§ 151.01  LAND DIVISION ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Ordinance 157, the city’s land division ordinance, passed 11-19-1979, is
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code the same as if set
forth in full herein. Complete copies of the ordinance are on file with the
City Recorder and can be examined during regular business hours.
(Prior Code, § 151.01)  (Ord. 157, passed 11-19-1979)
CHAPTER 152:  LAND USE DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
152.01   Land use development ordinance adopted by reference
§ 152.01  LAND USE DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Ordinance 10-260, the city’s land use development ordinance, passed 2-22-
2010, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code the same as
if set forth in full herein. Complete copies of the ordinance are on file with
the City Recorder and can be examined during regular business hours.
(Ord. 10-260, passed 2-22-2010; Ord. 11-267, passed 4-25-2011; Ord. 11-268,
passed 5-23-2011; Ord. 12-271, passed 2-27-2012; Ord. 2012-273, passed 4-23-
2012; Ord. 17-300, passed 5-22-2017; Ord. 17-400, passed 8-28-2017; Ord. 18-
200, passed 12-17-2018; Ord. 2019-02, passed 6-24-2019)
CHAPTER 153:  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Comprehensive Plan ordinance adopted by reference
§ 153.01  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Ordinance 2019-04, adopting the 2020-2040 Comprehensive Plan, passed 8-26-
2019, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code the same as
if set forth in full herein. Additionally, the Findings of Fact presented at
the public hearing held on July 9, 2019, is hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 8-26-2019)
CHAPTER 154:  TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM
Section
   
154.01   Transportation System Plan ordinance adopted by reference
§ 154.01  TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM PLAN ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Ordinance 2019-03, adopting the city’s Transportation Plan, passed 8-26-
2019, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code the same as
if set forth in full herein. Additionally, the Findings of Fact presented at
the public hearing held on July 22, 2019, is hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 8-26-2019)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   BONDS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   VACATIONS
TABLE I:  ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing to the city certain territory north and west of
162      5-5-1980    the city, beginning at the southeast corner of Block 27,
                     Pacific Addition to the city.
05-245   12-20-2005  Annexation of a five-acre area north of the city.
08-256   8-26-2008   Annexation of an 11-acre area (Hetrick Annexation).
                    
 
TABLE II:  BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Providing for the issuance and sale of installment water
169      8-3-1981    bonds in the principal sum of $125,000 to Farmers Home
                     Administration for the repair and improvement of the water
                     system of the city.
 
TABLE III:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
97-245   7-7-1997    Granting to Corvallis Disposal Company a solid waste
                     management franchise for a period of six years.
                     Granting to Pacificorp a nonexclusive right and franchise
                     for a period of 20 years to construct, maintain, and
98- 226  6-8-1998    operate, in, on, and under the present and future streets,
                     alleys, bridges, and public places in the city electric
                     light and power lines and communications facilities for
                     supplying electric service.
2000-236 1-8-2001    Granting to Monroe Telephone Company for a period of 20
                     years a communication franchise.
                    
 
TABLE IV:  VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
143   - -    Vacating partial streets and alleys in Pacific Addition:
                (1) All that portion of Second Street (60 feet in width) lying south of the
             south line of Fir Street;
                (2) All that portion of Third Street (60 feet in width) lying south of the
             south line of Ash Street;
                (3) All that portion of Fourth Street (60 feet in width) lying south of the
             south line of Fir Street;
              (4) All that portion of Ash Street (60 feet in width) lying east of the east
             line of Front Street, Fifth Avenue (Highway 99-W);
                (5) All that portion of that alley (16 feet in width) lying south of the
             south line of Ash Street lying between Block 6 on the west and Block E on the
             east; and
                (6) All that portion of that alley (16 feet in width) lying south of the
             south line of Ash Street lying in Block 15.
      7-5-   Vacating all that portion of Fourth Street lying between Fir Street on the south
155   1979   and the southeast corner of Lot 8 Block 18 on the northwest corner and the
             southwest corner of Lot 17 Block 13 on the northeast corner.
             Vacating a portion of Fir Street described as: a strip ten feet wide on the
212   7-16-  north side of Fir Street beginning at Third Street and extending east 110.0 feet
      1990   along the south boundary of the abutting tax lot 2702 in S 28, T 14 S, R5 W,
             W.M.
221   2-5-   Vacating the alley in Block 38, Pacific Addition to the city.
      1996
2019- 9-23-  Vacating 120 feet of an alley south of Kelly Street between Fifth Street and
05    2019   Sixth Street.
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oregon Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OREGON REVISED STATUTES
O.R.S. Cites Code Section
O.R.S. Cites              Code Section
10.030                    30.05
34.010 through 34.100     31.46
Chapter 62                112.002
Chapter 153               70.02
Chapters 161 through 167  130.01
190.240                   112.002
Chapter 192               34.02
192.640(3)                34.02
195.300                   32.02
195.305                   32.01
195.310 to 195.336        32.01
195.312                   32.03
195.318                   32.09
Chapter 223               31.38,
                          31.39
223.117                   31.03
223.309                   31.35
227.020                   33.01
227.030(1)                33.02
227.035                   33.06
271.310                   35.03
Chapter 279A              34.20
Chapter 279B              34.20
279B.085                  34.22
279B.125                  34.23
Chapter 279C              34.20
279C.305                  34.23
279C.335                  34.23
279C.400 through 279C.410 34.23
283.140                   112.002
401.025                   112.002
401.710                   112.025
480.111 through 480.165   92.18
609.010                   91.06
759.005                   112.002
759.005(1)                112.002
Chapters 801 through 823  70.02
801.110                   70.03
801.305                   70.03
801.450                   70.03
801.524                   70.03
                          
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2021 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2021 Code Section
30.01              30.01
30.02              30.02
30.03              30.03
30.04              30.04
30.05              30.05
31.01              31.01
31.02              31.02
31.03              31.03
31.04              31.04
31.05              31.05
31.06              31.06
31.07              31.07
31.08              31.08
31.09              31.09
31.10              31.10
31.11              31.11
31.12              31.12
31.13              31.13
31.14              31.14
31.15              31.15
31.16              31.16
33.01              33.01
33.02              33.02
33.03              33.03
33.04              33.04
33.05              33.05
33.06              33.06
33.07              33.07
33.08              33.08
50.01              50.001
50.02              50.002
50.03              50.003
50.04              50.004
50.15              50.020
50.16              50.021
50.17              50.022
50.18              50.023
50.19              50.024
50.20              50.025
50.21              50.026
50.22              50.027
50.35              50.040
50.36              50.041
50.37              50.042
50.38              50.043
50.39              50.044
50.40              50.045
50.41              50.046
50.42              50.047
50.55              50.060
50.56              50.061
50.57              50.062
50.58              50.063
50.60              50.065
50.61              50.066
50.75              50.080
50.76              50.081
50.99              50.999
51.01              51.001
51.02              51.002
51.03              51.003
51.04              51.004
51.15              51.020
51.16              51.021
51.17              51.022
51.18              51.023
51.19              51.024
51.20              51.025
51.21              51.026
51.22              51.027
51.23              51.028
51.24              51.029
51.25              51.030
51.26              51.031
51.27              51.032
51.40              51.045
51.41              51.046
51.42              51.047
51.43              51.048
51.44              51.049
51.45              51.050
51.46              51.051
51.47              51.052
51.48              51.053
51.49              51.054
51.50              51.055
51.51              51.056
51.52              51.057
51.53              51.058
51.65              51.070
51.66              51.071
51.67              51.072
51.68              51.073
51.75              51.085
51.76              51.086
51.77              51.087
51.78              51.088
51.79              51.089
51.80              51.090
51.81              51.091
51.82              51.092
51.83              51.093
51.84              51.094
51.99              51.999
70.01              70.01
70.03              70.03
70.15              70.15
70.16              70.16
70.17              70.17
70.18              70.18
71.01              71.01
71.02              71.02
71.03              71.03
71.04              71.04
72.01              72.01
72.02              72.02
72.03              72.03
72.04              72.04
72.05              72.05
72.06              72.06
90.01              90.01
90.02              90.02
90.03              90.03
90.04              90.04
90.05              90.05
90.06              90.06
90.07              90.07
90.08              90.08
90.09              90.09
90.10              90.10
90.11              90.11
90.12              90.12
90.13              90.13
90.99              90.99
91.01              91.01
91.03              91.03
91.04              91.04
91.05              91.05
91.06              91.06
91.07              91.07
92.01              92.01
92.02              92.02
92.15              92.15
92.16              92.16
92.17              92.17
92.18              92.18
92.30              92.30
92.31              92.31
92.32              92.32
92.33              92.33
92.34              92.34
92.35              92.35
93.01              93.01
93.02              93.02
93.15              93.15
93.16              93.16
93.17              93.17
93.18              93.18
93.19              93.19
93.20              93.20
93.21              93.21
93.22              93.22
93.25              93.25
93.26              93.26
110.01             110.01
110.02             110.02
110.03             110.03
110.04             110.04
110.05             110.05
110.06             110.06
110.07             110.07
110.99             110.99
111.01             111.01
111.02             111.02
111.03             111.03
111.04             111.04
111.05             111.05
111.06             111.06
111.07             111.07
111.08             111.08
111.09             111.09
111.10             111.10
111.99             111.99
130.02             130.02
150.01             150.01
151.01             151.01
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
143      - -         TSO Table IV
88       4-3-1967    30.01 –
                     30.04
85       11-6-1967   150.01
                     92.01,
                     92.02,
                     92.15-
95       11-6-1967   92.18,
                     92.30-
                     92.35,
                     92.99,
                     130.02
120      2-1-1971    31.01 –
                     31.16
123      2-1-1971    30.04
                     91.01,
130      1-7-1974    91.03-
                     91.07
136      11-3-1975   92.15
155      7-5-1979    TSO Table IV
157      11-19-1979  151.01
162      5-5-1980    TSO Table I
164      8-4-1980    30.05
169      8-3-1981    TSO Table II
                     50.001 –
                     50.004,
                     50.020-
                     50.027,
171      1-4-1982    50.040-
                     50.047,
                     50.080,
                     50.081,
                     50.999
                     93.01,
                     93.02,
                     93.15-
175      7-6-1982    93.22,
                     93.25,
                     93.26,
                     93.99
                     110.01 –
181      12-19-1983  110.07,
                     110.99
                     50.060 –
184      4-2-1984    50.063,
                     50.065,
                     50.066
196      4-6-1987    92.17
203      7-3-1989    92.15
207      3-5-1990    130.01
                     70.01,
                     70.03,
                     70.15-
206      3-19-1990   70.18,
                     71.01-
                     71.04,
                     72.01-
                     72.06
212      7-16-1990   TSO Table IV
                     111.01 –
215      4-1-1991    111.10,
                     111.99
                     51.001 –
                     51.004,
                     51.020-
                     51.032,
                     51.045-
216      6-3-1991    51.051,
                     51.053,
                     51.056-
                     51.058,
                     51.070-
                     51.073
220      10-5-1992   50.061
221      2-5-1996    TSO Table IV
222      3-25-1996   50.021,
                     50.061
                     51.022,
223      3-25-1996   51.023,
                     51.025,
                     51.045
97-245   7-7-1997    TSO Table III
98-226   6-8-1998    TSO Table III
                     51.051,
98-227   7-13-1998   51.054,
                     51.055
                     51.085 –
98-229   12-10-1998  51.094,
                     51.999
2000-236 1-8-2001    TSO Table III
2003-001 11-12-2002  51.005
2003-002 11-12-2002  50.005
05-245   12-20-2005  TSO Table I
08-255   3-4-2008    32.01 –
                     32.13
08-256   8-26-2008   TSO Table I
08-258   11-25-2008  70.02,
                     70.99
08-259   11-25-2008  130.01,
                     130.99
10-260   2-22-2010   152.01
10-261   2-22-2010   34.01 –
                     34.07
10-262   3-22-2010   33.02
10-266   12-20-2010  130.99
11-267   4-25-2011   152.01
11-268   5-23-2011   152.01
11-270   12-19-2011  30.06
12-271   2-27-2012   152.01
2012-272 3-26-2012   34.20 –
                     34.26
2012-273 4-23-2012   152.01
13-273   2-25-2013   35.01 –
                     35.07
                     50.060,
                     50.063,
2015-001 2-23-2015   50.064,
                     51.051,
                     51.052
                     32.25 –
2015-002 6-22-2015   32.27,
                     32.99
                     94.01 –
16-01    5-23-2016   94.08,
                     94.99
17-300   5-22-2017   152.01
17-400   8-28-2017   152.01
17-500   10-23-2017  92.17
2017-600 11-27-2017  92.17
                     91.02,
                     91.99,
2017-700 11-27-2017  92.15,
                     93.23,
                     93.24,
                     93.99
2018-100 2-26-2018   92.15
18-400   7-23-2018   92.16,
                     92.99
18-500   8-27-2018   92.01,
                     92.16
18-200   12-17-2018  152.01
2019-02  6-24-2019   152.01
2019-03  8-26-2019   154.01
2019-04  8-26-2019   153.01
2019-05  9-23-2019   TSO Table IV
                     112.001 –
                     112.005,
                     112.020-
2021-01  3-10-2021   112.032,
                     112.045-
                     112.052,
                     112.065-
                     112.074
                     31.30 –
2021-02  3-22-2021   31.47,
                     31.99
                    
 
 
