CITY OF MYRTLE POINT, OREGON
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through Ord. 1290, passed - -2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
         
CHAPTER I.     NAME AND BOUNDARIES
         
CHAPTER II.    POWERS
         
CHAPTER III.   FORM OF GOVERNMENT
         
CHAPTER IV.   COUNCIL
         
CHAPTER V.   POWERS AND DUTIES
         
CHAPTER VI.   ELECTIONS
         
CHAPTER VIII.   ORDINANCES
         
CHAPTER IX.   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
         
CHAPTER X.   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
MYRTLE POINT CITY CHARTER
To provide for the government of the City of Myrtle Point, Coos County, Oregon;
and to repeal all charter provisions of the city enacted prior to the time that
this charter takes effect.
Be it enacted by the people of the City of Myrtle Point, Coos County, Oregon:
   CHAPTER I NAME AND BOUNDARIES
Section 1. Title of Enactment. This enactment may be referred to as the City of
Myrtle Point Charter of 1985.
Section 2. Name of City. The City of Myrtle Point, Coos County, Oregon shall
continue to be a municipal corporation with the name “City of Myrtle Point.”
Section 3. Boundaries. The city shall include all territory encompassed by its
boundaries as they now exist or hereafter are modified pursuant to law. The
custodian of the city records shall keep an accurate up-to-date description of
the boundaries and make copies of this charter and the boundary description
available for public inspection.
   CHAPTER II POWERS
Section 4. Powers of the City. The city shall have all powers which the
constitution, statutes and common law of the United States and of this state
expressly or impliedly grant or allow municipalities, as fully as though this
charter specifically enumerated each of those powers.
Section 5. Construction of Charter. In this charter, no mention of a particular
power shall be construed to be exclusive or to restrict the scope of the powers
which the city would have if the particular power were not mentioned. The
charter shall be liberally construed to the end that the city may have all
powers necessary or convenient for the conduct of its municipal affairs,
including all powers that cities may assume pursuant to state law and to the
municipal home rule provisions of the state constitution.
   CHAPTER III FORM OF GOVERNMENT
Section 6. Where Powers Vested. Except as this charter provides otherwise, all
powers of the city shall be vested in the council.
Section 7. Council. The council shall be composed of a mayor and six (6)
councilors elected from the city at large.
Section 8. Councilors. The councilors in office at the time this charter is
adopted shall continue in office each until the end of their terms of office as
fixed by the charter of the city in effect at the time this charter is adopted.
At each biennial general election after this charter takes effect, three (3)
councilors shall be elected each for a term of four (4) years.
Section 9. Mayor. At each biennial general election a mayor shall be elected
for a term of two (2) years.
Section 10. Other Officers. Additional officers of the city may be appointed
and removed by the council as it deems necessary.
Section 11. Salaries. The council shall fix the amount of compensation for city
officers and may approve a compensation plan for city employees.
Section 12. Qualifications of Officers. No person shall be eligible for an
elective office of the city unless at the time of such person’s election, he or
she is a qualified elector within the meaning of the state constitution and has
resided in the city during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding the
election. The council shall be final judge of the qualifications and election
of its own members subject, however, to review by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   CHAPTER IV COUNCIL
Section 13. Meetings. The council shall hold regular meetings at least once a
month in the city at a time and at a place that it designates. Regular and
additional meetings of the council shall be held in accordance with procedures
prescribed by state law and general ordinance. The council shall adopt rules
for the government of its members and proceedings.
 Section 14. Quorum. A majority of the incumbent members of the council shall
constitute a quorum for its business, but a smaller number may meet and compel
the attendance of absent members in a manner provided by ordinance.
Section 15. Record of Proceedings. The council shall cause a record of its
proceedings to be kept.
Section 16. Meetings to be Public. All deliberations and proceedings of the
council shall be public except as otherwise authorized by state law.
Section 17. Mayor’s Function at Council Meetings. The mayor shall be chairman
of the council and preside over its deliberations. The mayor shall have a vote
on all questions before it and shall be authority to preserve order, enforce
the rules of the council and determine the order of business under the rules of
the council.
Section 18. President of the Council. At its first meeting after this charter
takes effect and thereafter at its first meeting of each odd numbered year, the
council shall elect a president from its membership. In the mayor’s absence
from a council meeting, the president shall preside over it. Whenever the mayor
is unable to perform the functions of office, the president shall act as mayor.
Section 19. Vote Required. Except as this charter otherwise provides, the
concurrence of a majority of members of the council voting when a quorum of the
council is present shall decide any questions before it. No council member
present at the council meeting shall abstain from voting without first stating
at the meeting his or her reasons.
   CHAPTER V POWERS AND DUTIES
Section 20. Mayor. The mayor shall appoint the committees provided by the rules
of the council. The mayor shall sign all approved records of the proceedings of
the council. The mayor shall have no veto power and shall sign all ordinances
passed by the council within three days after their passing.
Section 21. Municipal Judge. The council may appoint a municipal judge and such
pro- tem judges as it considers necessary to serve at the pleasure of the
council. The municipal judge shall hold within the city a court known as the
Municipal Court for the City of Myrtle Point, Coos County, Oregon. The court
shall be open for the transaction of judicial business at times specified by
the council. All area within the city shall be within the territorial
jurisdiction of the court. The municipal judge shall exercise original and
exclusive jurisdiction of all crimes and offenses defined and made punishable
by ordinances of the city and of all actions brought by ordinances of the city.
The municipal judge shall have authority to issue process for the arrest of any
person accused of an offense against the ordinances of the city, to commit any
such person to jail or admit him to bail pending trial, to issue subpoenas, to
issue any process necessary to carry into effect the judgments of the court.
When not governed by ordinances or this charter, all proceedings in the
municipal court for the violation of a city ordinance shall be governed by the
applicable general laws of the state governing justices of the peace and
justice courts. The city may have the duties of the municipal judge performed
by the regular and pro-tem judges of a state court.
Section 22. Other Officers. Duties of other city officers shall be prescribed
by the council.
   CHAPTER VI ELECTIONS
Section 23. Regulations of Elections Generally. Except as this charter provides
otherwise, and as the council provides otherwise by ordinance, the general laws
of the state apply to city elections.
Section 24. Tie Votes. In the event of a tie vote for candidates for an
elective office, the successful candidate shall be determined by a public
drawing of lots in a manner prescribed by the council.
Section 25. Commencement of Terms of Office. The term of office of a person
elected at a biennial general election shall commence the first of the year
immediately following the election.
Section 26. Oath of Office. Before entering upon the duties of office, each
officer shall take an oath or shall affirm that the officer will support the
constitutions and laws of the United States and of the State of Oregon and will
faithfully perform the duties of office.
Section 27. Nominations. Nominations for elective office for the City of Myrtle
Point shall be made pursuant to the general ordinances of the city.
Section 28. What Creates a Vacancy. An office shall be deemed vacant upon the
incumbent’s death, adjudicated incompetence, conviction of a felony,
resignation, or recall from office; upon the incumbent’s ceasing to possess the
qualifications necessary for office; or upon the failure of the person elected
or appointed to an office to qualify therefor within three days after the time
for his term of office to commence; and, in the case of the mayor or a
councilor, missing three (3) consecutive regular council meetings without the
council’s consent and upon the council’s declaration of the vacancy.
Section 29. Filling of Vacancies. Vacancies in elective offices of the city
shall be filled by appointment by a majority of the remaining members of the
council. The appointee’s term of office shall begin immediately upon
appointment and shall continue until a successor is elected at the next
biennial general election and qualifies for office, or if no successor is then
elected and qualifies, the appointee shall serve until the end of the term for
which the appointment was made.
   CHAPTER VIII ORDINANCES
Section 30. Enacting Clause. The enacting clause of all ordinances hereafter
enacted shall be: “The City of Myrtle Point ordains as follows:”.
Section 31. Mode of Enactment.
   (1) Except as subsections (2) and (3) of this section provide otherwise,
every ordinance of the council shall, before being put upon its final passage,
be read fully and distinctly in open council meeting on two different days.
   (2)   Any ordinance may be introduced, read twice, once in full and once by
title, and put on its passage at a single meeting by unanimous vote of all
members of the council present at the meeting.
   (3)   An ordinance may be enacted at a single meeting of the council upon
first being read once by title only if a least five days prior to the scheduled
reading a copy is provided for each council member, and copies are available
for public inspection in the office of the custodian of city records. Any
section of an ordinance changing substantially the legal effect of the
ordinance as previously circulated shall be read in full in open council
meeting prior to being adopted by the council.
   (4)   Upon the final vote on an ordinance, the ayes and nays of the members
of the council shall be taken and recorded in the journal. Upon the enactment
of an ordinance, the mayor shall sign it, with the date of its passage and the
mayor’s name and title of office, and immediately thereafter the custodian of
city records shall sign it with the date of his or her signature and the title
of the office.
Section 32. Effective Date. All ordinances enacted by the council shall take
effect thirty (30) days after their passage unless a later day is fixed
therein, in which event they shall take effect at such later date, subject to
referendum if legislative. Provided, however,
   (a)   an ordinance making appropriations and the annual tax levy, or
   (b)   a special ordinance relative to local improvements and assessments
thereof shall take effect immediately upon its passage or any special date less
than thirty (30) days after passage specifically fixed in such ordinance. The
council may, by declaring an emergency, provide an effective date of an
ordinance earlier than thirty (30) days after passage or that it take effect
immediately upon its final passage upon a unanimous vote of the members present
and voting.
   CHAPTER IX PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
Section 33. Condemnation. Any necessity of taking property for the city by
condemnation shall be determined by the council and declared by a resolution of
the council describing the property and stating the uses to which it shall be
devoted.
Section 34. Improvements. The procedure for making, altering, vacating or
abandoning a public improvement shall be governed by general ordinance or, to
extent not so governed, by the applicable general laws of the state. A
remonstrance by the owners of two-thirds of the property to be specially
assessed for a proposed public improvement shall suspend action regarding the
improvement for six (6) months. For the purpose of this section “owner” shall
mean the record holder of legal title to the land except that if there is a
purchaser of the land according to a recorded land sale contract or memorandum
thereof, or according to a verified writing by the record holder of legal title
to the land filed with the custodian of city records, the said purchaser shall
be deemed the “owner.”
Section 35. Special Assessments. The procedure for levying, collecting and
enforcing the payment of special assessments for public improvements or other
services to be charged against real property shall be governed by general
ordinance.
Section 36. Bids. Except as otherwise authorized by state law or general
ordinance, all municipal contracts shall be based on competitive bids.
   CHAPTER X MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section 37. Existing Ordinances Continued. All ordinances of the city
consistent with this charter and in force when it takes effect shall remain in
effect until amended or repealed.
Section 38. Repeal of Previously Enacted Provisions. All charter provisions of
the city enacted prior to the time that this charter takes effect are hereby
repealed.
Section 39. Time of Effect of Charter. This charter shall take effect July 1,
1985.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.18   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Myrtle Point Code of Ordinances,” for which designation “code of ordinances,”
“codified ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and
section headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the
code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BUSINESS DAY. Any 24-hour day other than a Saturday, Sunday or federal or
state legal holiday.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The area within the
corporate boundaries of the City of Myrtle Point, Oregon as presently
established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a
future time. The term CITY when used in this code may also be used to refer to
the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Coos County, Oregon.
      DAY. Calendar day unless otherwise indicated as business day or working
day.
      GOVERNING BODY. City Council.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oregon.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the City
Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, the spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean at least 24 hours notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the City Council shall take effect as provided in
the City Charter. If there is no City Charter, all ordinances passed by the
City Council shall take effect as provided by the City Council or applicable
state law.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any amending ordinances are listed following
the text of the code section.
Example: (Ord. 161, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 170, passed 1-2-1979; Ord. 185,
passed 4-1-1990)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (ORS 192.410)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see ORS 192.314
§ 10.18 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this code for which no other
specific penalty is provided shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not
to exceed $500, subject to division (B) below.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this code which is identical to
a state statute containing a penalty shall, upon conviction, be punished by the
penalty prescribed by state statute.
   (C)   Each calendar date on which a violation occurs constitutes a separate
violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
      
34.   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   City Council meetings
§ 30.01 CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the first and
third Mondays of each month at the hour of 7:30 p.m. at a place designated by
the Council. Should the date of any regular Council meeting fall upon a
holiday, such meeting shall be held on the next succeeding calendar day
thereafter which is not a holiday or non-judicial day.
   (B)   The Mayor, upon his or her own motion may, or at the request of three
members of the Council shall, by giving notice thereof to all members of the
Council then in the city, call a special meeting of the Council for a time not
earlier than three nor later than 48 hours after the notice is given. Special
meetings of the Council may also be held at any time by the common consent of
all Council members.
   (C)   The Mayor, or in his or her absence the Chairperson, shall be the
presiding officer of the Council. He or she shall enforce the rules of the
Council and determine the order of business under the rules of the Council.
   (D)   The Council shall keep a journal of its proceedings, and, upon the
request of the Mayor or two of its members, the ayes and nays upon the question
before it shall be taken and a record of the vote entered in the journal.
   (E)   Every ordinance shall be read on two different days previous to being
put upon its final passage; but any ordinance may be introduced, read twice,
once in full and once by title, and put on its final passage at a single
meeting by unanimous vote of all members of the Council present at the meeting.
Upon the final vote, the ayes and nays of the members of the Council shall be
taken and recorded in the journal.
   (F)   Each ordinance passed by the City Council and approved by the Mayor
shall take effect on the thirtieth day after the date of its passage. Any
ordinance with the emergency clause attached shall take effect immediately upon
passage and approval of the Mayor, or at such time as may be provided in the
ordinance.
(Ord. 542, passed 5-19-1941; Ord. 676, passed 12-19-1955; Ord. 821, passed 7-
20-1964; Ord. 833, passed 11-1-1965; Ord. 907, passed 1-2-1973; Ord. 1042,
passed 2-22-1983; Ord. 1085, passed 10-19-1987)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   Nominations for elective positions
   
31.02   Personnel merit system
   
31.03   City Manager
§ 31.01 NOMINATIONS FOR ELECTIVE POSITIONS.
   (A)   Qualification. A qualified elector who shall have resided in the city
during the 12 months immediately preceding the election may be nominated for an
elective city position.
   (B)   Petition. Nomination shall be by petition, specifying the position
sought, in a form prescribed by the Recorder. The petition shall be signed by
not fewer than 20 electors. The signatures to a nomination petition need not
all be appended to one paper, but to each separate paper of the petition shall
be attached an affidavit of the circulator thereof, indicating the number of
signers of the paper and stating that each signature appended thereto was made
in his or her presence. With each signature shall be stated the signer’s place
of residence, identified by its street and number or other sufficient
description.
   (C)   Filing of petition: discrepancy.
      (1)   The Recorder shall make a record of the exact time at which each
petition is filed and shall take the name and address of the person filing it.
If the petition is not signed by the required number of qualified electors, the
Recorder shall notify the candidate and the person who filed the petition
within five days of the filing.
      (2)   If the petition is insufficient in any other particular, the
Recorder shall return it immediately to the person who filed it, certifying in
writing wherein the petition is insufficient. An insufficient petition may be
amended and filed again as a new petition, or a different petition for the same
candidate may be filed, within the time for filing nomination petitions.
   (D)   Acceptance of nomination. The Recorder shall notify an eligible person
of his or her nomination, and such person shall file with the Recorder his or
her written acceptance of nomination, in a form provided by the Recorder,
within five days of notification of nomination. Upon receipt of acceptance of
nomination, the Recorder shall cause the nominee’s name to be printed on the
ballots.
(Ord. 1113, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 31.02 PERSONNEL MERIT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLASSIFIED CAREER SERVICE. Includes all officers and positions in the
government of the city not included in either of the unclassified services.
      UNCLASSIFIED CAREER SERVICE. Includes:
         (a)   The City Manager;
         (b)   The City Attorney;
         (c)   The Municipal Judge;
         (d)   The elective officers of the city;
         (e)   The members of city boards and commissions;
         (f)   Persons jointly employed by the city and some other governmental
agency; and
         (g)   Uncompensated volunteers.
      UNCLASSIFIED NONCAREER SERVICE. Includes the positions of:
         (a)   Persons employed by the city not more than six months during a
fiscal year for special purposes;
         (b)   Part-time employees paid by the hour or day;
         (c)   Persons serving the city as independent contractors;
         (d)   Persons retained by the city as consultants; and
         (e)   Persons employed to render the city expert service of occasional
character.
   (B)   Merit system. There shall be developed and maintained for all persons
in the classified service a system of personnel administration based solely on
merit and fitness which shall govern:
      (1)   The appointment of persons;
      (2)   The promotion, transfer, demotion and suspension of persons; and
      (3)   The dismissal of persons.
   (C)   Compensation.
      (1)   In the fixing of compensation for each class of position in the
classified service, consideration shall be given to:
         (a)   The responsibilities and nature of work of the persons occupying
positions in the class;
         (b)   The cost of living index of the United States Bureau of Labor
statistics;
         (c)   Wages and salaries paid:
            1.   By private employers;
            2.   By other governmental units and agencies; and
            3.   By other cities in classes of equal or similar positions in
the classified service.
         (d)   The principle known as equal pay for equal work;
         (e)   Unusual problems of recruitment and turnover in positions in the
class; and
         (f)   Other factors relevant to what is fair compensation for the
class of work, including education and experience.
      (2)   The following persons shall receive compensation not only for time
worked but also for authorized holidays, vacations and sick leave:
         (a)   Classified career service;
         (b)   The City Manager;
         (c)   The City Attorney; and
         (d)   The Municipal Judge.
      (3)   Persons in the non-career service may be paid only for the time
worked.
   (D)   Administration of system.
      (1)   The City Manager or whomever he or she designates:
         (a)   Shall have charge of the administration of the personnel system
for which this section calls;
         (b)   Shall be responsible for seeing that the policies of the
ordinance are carried out; and
         (c)   Shall meet from time to time with a representation of city
employees to consider information, suggestions and recommendations regarding
the personnel policies and practices of the city.
      (2)   As administrative head of the system, he or she:
         (a)   Shall formulate and submit to the Council:
            1.   A classified plan;
            2.   A pay plan;
            3.   Rules necessary for developing and administering the personnel
system; and
            4.   Whatever amendments to the plans and rules he or she deems
necessary.
         (b)   May, with the consent of the Council, obtain on behalf of the
city necessary services from persons and agencies skilled in personnel
administration.
      (3)   A classified plan, a pay plan, rules or amendments shall have legal
effect as if it were a part of this section as soon as it is:
         (a)   Approved by the Council; and
         (b)   Posted at the City Hall.
(Ord. 882, passed 6-1-1970)
§ 31.03 CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   Office. The office of City Manager is hereby created. The City Manager
shall be the administrative head of the government of the city.
   (B)   Appointment. The City Manager shall be appointed by and shall hold
office at the pleasure of the City Council. He or she shall be chosen by the
Council without regard to political considerations and solely with reference to
his or her executive and administrative qualifications.
   (C)   Residency. The City Manager need not be a resident of the city or of
the state at the time of appointment, but within 180 days after appointment
shall become a resident of the city.
   (D)   Term. The City Manager shall be appointed for an indefinite term. Upon
the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of City Manager, the City Council at
its next meeting shall adopt a resolution of its intention to appoint another
City Manager. Not later than four months after adoption of the resolution, the
City Council shall appoint a City Manager to fill the vacancy.
   (E)   Duties and responsibilities. The duties, responsibilities and
authority of the City Manager shall be established by resolution of the City
Council.
   (F)   Bond. The City Manager shall be required to carry a faithful
performance bond in an amount established by the City Council. The expense of
the bond shall be paid from the budget of the city.
   (G)   Compensation. The City Manager shall receive such compensation as the
Council shall approve from time to time. Said compensation shall be stipulated
in an employment contract between the City Manager and the city.
   (H)   Seat at Council meeting. The City Manager shall be entitled to sit
with the City Council but shall have no vote on questions before it. The City
Manager may take part in all City Council discussions.
   (I)   Interference in administration. No member of the City Council shall
directly or indirectly, by suggestion or otherwise, attempt to influence or
coerce the City Manager in the making of an appointment or removal of an
employee or in the purchase of supplies, nor shall a member of the City Council
attempt to exact any promise, relative to an appointment, from any candidate
for the office of City Manager. A violation of the foregoing provision of this
section is grounds for forfeiture of the office of the offending member of the
City Council. Nothing in this section shall be construed, however, to prohibit
the City Council, while in open session, from fully and freely discussing with
or suggesting to the City Manager anything pertaining to city affairs.
   (J)   Ineligible persons. No member of the City Council shall be eligible to
receive the appointment of City Manager during the term for which the member is
elected. No other appointed official of the city shall be eligible to receive
the appointment of City Manager, except as City Manager Pro Tem, during the
term of office for which they have been appointed. Neither the City Manager’s
spouse, nor any person related to the City Manager by consanguinity or affinity
within the third degree, may hold employment with the city.
   (K)   Removal. The City Manager may be removed with or without cause by a
majority vote of the City Council. The action of the City Council in removing
the City Manager shall be final.
(Ord. 1120, passed 3-6-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.01   City Planning Commission
   
32.02   Fire Department
   
32.03   Park Advisory Commission
   
32.04   Traffic Safety Committee
   
32.05   Ambulance services
§ 32.01 CITY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby re-established a City Planning
Commission for the city.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members appointed by
the Mayor with the approval of the Council. Members of the Commission may not
be officials or employees of the city. Not more than two voting members may be
nonresidents of the city who shall reside within the urban growth boundary. The
Mayor and City Manager or their designees may sit with the Commission and are
entitled to take part in discussions but shall not have the right to vote on
issues before the Commission.
      (2)   Not more than two voting members of the Commission may engage
principally in the buying, selling or developing of real estate for profit as
individuals, or be members of any partnership, or officers or employees of any
company or corporation that engages principally in the buying, selling or
developing of real estate for profit. Not more than two voting members shall be
engaged in the same kind of occupation (including housewife), business, trade
or profession.
   (C)   Terms of office. Planning Commissioner terms shall commence on the
first meeting day of the
calendar year of the first year of each term. The term of office of a Planning
Commissioner shall be four years or until the incumbent’s successor is
appointed and qualified.
   (D)   Vacancies and removal. A member may be removed by the City Council
after a hearing for misconduct or nonperformance of duty. A member who is
absent from three consecutive meetings without an excuse as approved by the
Planning Commission is presumed to be in nonperformance of duty, and the City
Council shall declare the position vacant unless finding otherwise following a
hearing. Any vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor with the
approval of the Council for the unexpired portion of the term.
   (E)   Compensation. Voting members of the Commission shall receive no
compensation other than authorized expenses.
   (F)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   A member of the Planning Commission shall not participate in any
Commission proceeding or action in which any of the following has a direct or
substantial financial interest: the member or his or her spouse, brother,
sister, child, parent, father-in-law, mother-in-law; any business in which he
or she is then serving or has served within the previous two years; or any
business with which he or she is negotiating for or has an arrangement or
understanding concerning prospective partnership or employment.
      (2)   Any actual or potential interest shall be disclosed at the meeting
of the Commission where the action is being taken.
   (G)   Presiding officers. At its first meeting of each calendar year, the
Commission shall elect a President and Vice President to serve one-year terms.
   (H)   Secretary. The City Manager shall provide a Secretary to the
Commission and such other staff and consultation services as may be
appropriate. The Secretary shall keep an accurate record of all Commission
proceedings. A report of all transactions of the Commission for the preceding
calendar year shall be made and filed with the City Council by the Commission
by February 1 of each year.
   (I)   Meetings. A majority of the voting members of the Planning Commission
shall constitute a quorum. The Commission shall meet at least once a month
unless cancelled by the President. Meetings of the Commission shall be open to
the public. Meetings other than at regularly scheduled times may be announced
at a prior meeting and thereby be made a part of the meeting records. The
President, upon his or her own motion may, or at the request of three members
of the Commission shall, by giving notice to members of the Commission and
those officials designated to sit with it, call a previously unannounced
special meeting of the Commission for a time not earlier than 24 hours after
notice is given. Notice of a previously unannounced meeting shall comply with
public meetings and public record laws.
   (J)   Powers and duties. The Commission shall have the powers and duties
which are now or may hereafter be assigned to it by charter, ordinance,
resolution or order of this city and general laws of this state. The duties of
the Commission shall include the following:
      (1)   Recommend and make suggestions to the Council and to other public
authorities concerning:
         (a)   The laying out, widening, extending and locating of public
thoroughfares, parking of vehicles, relief of traffic congestion;
         (b)   Betterment of housing and sanitation conditions;
         (c)   Establishment of districts for limiting the use, height, area,
bulk and other characteristics of buildings and structures related to land
development;
         (d)   Protection and assurance of access to incident solar radiation
(solar energy falling upon a given surface area); and
         (e)   Protection and assurance of access to wind for potential future
electrical generation or mechanical application. For the purpose of this
section, WIND means the natural movement of air at an annual average speed
measured at a height of ten meters of at least eight mph.
      (2)   Recommend to the Council and other public authorities plans for
regulating the future growth, development and beautification of the city in
respect to its public and private buildings and works, streets, parks, grounds
and vacant lots, and plans consistent with future growth and development of the
city in order to secure to the city and its inhabitants sanitation, proper
service of public utilities, including appropriate public incentives for
overall energy conservation and harbor, shipping and transportation facilities;
      (3)   Recommend to the Council and other public authorities plans for
promotion, development and regulation of industrial and economic needs of the
community in respect to industrial pursuits;
      (4)   Advertise the industrial advantages and opportunities of the city
and availability of real estate within the city for industrial settlement;
      (5)   Encourage industrial settlement within the city;
      (6)   Make economic surveys of present and potential industrial needs of
the city;
      (7)   Study needs of local industries with a view to strengthening and
developing them and stabilizing employment conditions;
      (8)   Do and perform all other acts and things necessary or proper to
carry out the provisions of ORS 227.010 through 227.170, 227.175 and 227.180;
      (9)   Study and propose such measures as are advisable for promotion of
the public interest, health, morals, safety, comfort, convenience and welfare
of the city and of the area within six miles thereof;
      (10)   Periodically review the city’s capital improvement program and
make recommendations to the city administration;
      (11)   Investigate and make recommendations regarding the implementation
of the comprehensive plan as adopted by the City Council;
      (12)   Prepare and periodically review land development regulations,
including, but not limited to, zoning, subdivision and land partitioning and
make recommendations to the City Council;
      (13)   Review public programs that are referred to it for recommendation,
such as property acquisition or disposition, public building or other public
facility proposals and transportation or right-of-way plans. Report as to the
program’s conformity with the comprehensive plan;
      (14)   Review subdivision and partitioning proposals and approve those
meeting city and state standards with such requirements or conditions as are
found appropriate under the regulations;
      (15)   Review and recommend to Council, land use control ordinance change
proposals, contested cases and act on discretionary permits as provided by the
land use control ordinances;
      (16)   Perform such other functions as the City Council may request;
      (17)   The City Planning Commission shall also have all the powers which
are or may hereafter be given to it under the general laws of the state;
      (18)   All recommendations made to the Council by the Commission shall be
in writing; and
      (19)   The City Planning Commission shall have no authority to make any
expenditures on behalf of the city or to obligate the city for the payment of
any sums of money except as herein provided, and then only after the City
Council shall first have authorized such expenditures for said purpose from
time to time by appropriate ordinance or resolution, which ordinance or
resolution shall provide the administrative method by which said funds shall be
drawn and expended.
   (K)   Rules of procedure. Except as otherwise established by the City
Council, the Planning Commission may adopt rules governing the conduct of its
business.
(Ord. 1039, passed 8-16-1982; Ord. 1182, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 32.02 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Department of the city shall consist of a Fire Chief,
Assistant Fire Chief and as many other officers and firefighters as are or may
be elected and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall be the first executive officer of the Fire
Department and shall be vested with the following authority and duties:
      (1)   To have direct control, management and direction of all officers
and employees of the Fire Department and the power to detail any of them to
such public services as he or she may see fit, looking to the best interest and
efficiency of the Department;
      (2)   To carry out strictly the enforcement of the rules and regulations
of the Department and be able to suspend or remove from service any officer or
firefighter for cause in such manner as is provided in these regulations;
      (3)   To exercise supreme command over the Department at fires and over
all equipment belonging to it;
      (4)   To cause to be extinguished all fires with the least possible
danger to life and property and prevent unnecessary damage by water at fires;
      (5)   To observe the general condition of the Department and apparatus
and make a monthly report of the activities of the Department;
      (6)   To see that the premises on which fires occur are left in such
condition that they will not rekindle and cause further damage to life and
property; and
      (7)   To make a complete investigation of each fire, keeping a record of
and determining the cause, amount of loss to building and contents, amount of
insurance coverage and insurance paid, number and description of each building
destroyed, together with names of owners and occupants.
   (C)   The Assistant Fire Chief shall rank next to the Chief in authority and
take complete charge in the absence of the Chief and perform like duties while
so acting. In the presence of the Chief, it shall be the duty of the Assistant
Chief in every possible manner to maintain strict discipline and ensure
efficient operation of the Department.
   (D)   All members of the Fire Department shall have an equal vote in all
private service matters or matters exclusively within the control of the
Department. They shall, on the expiration of the present term of office,
designate by election a President, Vice President and Secretary and Treasurer.
The Treasurer shall receive and account for all moneys earned or belonging to
said Department. A business meeting shall be held at the time of the first
meeting of said Department each month. The Secretary shall keep a brief record
of the activities of the Department and disburse any funds only on the joint
signature of the President or Vice President and such Treasurer and in
pursuance of authority from the membership.
   (E)   (1)   All firefighters shall, so far as practical, be trained to
handle any and all of the fire apparatus, also to act in any capacity in
handling first-aid fire appliances. Firefighters leaving the city for some time
shall inform the Chief in advance. All firefighters shall respond to all alarms
with all possible speed. Appointment of new firefighters into the Fire
Department shall be made with the object of improving the efficiency and
general excellency and operation of the manpower, taking into consideration
ability and physique and age. All members shall reside within the city; and new
members shall serve a probation period of not less than six months before
permanent appointment. Once appointed, such members shall be secure in their
positions during good behavior.
      (2)   Should any member of the Fire Department be absent from drills or
calls for six consecutive weeks during each calendar year, except when the
result of disability from sickness or accident, he or she shall be
automatically dropped from the roll of members and must apply to the Fire Chief
and City Council for reinstatement.
   (F)   (1)   Strict discipline and prompt obedience shall, at all times, be
maintained for the purpose of contributing as a necessary factor to the
smoothness of operation and efficiency of the Department; and such conduct of
firefighters shall, at all times, be of praiseworthy order. When any member is
detailed to perform the duties of a higher office than that which he or she
officially holds, he or she shall be allowed all the privileges pertaining to
that office and shall be obeyed and respected accordingly. Any member who shall
refuse or voluntarily neglect to execute any orders from the officer in charge
of any fire shall for such offense be subject to suspension or expulsion from
the Department by the City Council in such manner and upon such hearing as
prescribed in these rules.
      (2)   The City Council shall hear and determine any charges made against
members of the Fire Department for violations of any rules or regulations and
for conduct unbecoming to said members. If said Council finds the accused
guilty, it may dismiss him or her from service or suspend his or her
membership. No member shall be subject to dismissal or suspension for cause
except after fair and impartial trial before the Council, upon a verified
complaint filed with them. If the membership of the Fire Department shall vote
to expel or suspend any member, the result of such vote shall be reported to
the Council at its next meeting for final action.
   (G)   Practice drills shall be held by the Department at least once a month
or more often, if necessary. At the conclusion of practice drills on order of
the Fire Chief, the company shall return to the fire station with the apparatus
and promptly place it in readiness to a fire call.
   (H)   The members of the City Fire Department shall constitute a separate
and individual organization and service unit in said city and shall from time
to time adopt bylaws not inconsistent herewith for the regulations of self-
government and make rules pertaining to the care and preservation of fire
equipment. The violation of any such bylaw or rule promulgated by said body may
be deemed grounds for suspension or expulsion.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to infringe upon the
jurisdiction of said city to appoint the Chief, and Assistant Chief with
approval of the Chief, of such Fire Department, or manage or disburse funds
contributed by the city.
(Ord. 522, passed 12-20-1937)
§ 32.03 PARK ADVISORY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Commission membership. The City Park Advisory Commission shall consist
of seven members appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council. All
members of the Commission shall reside within the boundaries of the City School
District. At least five of the members shall be residents of the city. The
Mayor and City Manager or their designees may sit with the Commission and are
entitled to take part in discussions but shall not have the right to vote on
issues before the Commission.
   (B)   Terms. The members of the Commission shall serve for two-year terms.
Upon initial creation, three original Commission members shall be appointed for
one-year terms and four members appointed for two-year terms. Thereafter, all
Commission members shall be appointed for two-year terms.
      (1)   The members of the Commission shall serve at the pleasure of the
Council.
      (2)   The office of Commission member shall be honorary and without
compensation.
      (3)   In the event of the death, resignation or removal of any member of
the Commission, the Mayor shall appoint a new member to serve for the remainder
of the unexpired term of the Commission position vacated.
      (4)   If any Commission member shall be absent for three consecutive
meetings without the consent of the Commission, the position shall be declared
vacant, and a new Commission member shall be appointed by the Mayor for the
remaining term.
   (C)   Officers and records. The Commission shall, at the first meeting each
year, select a President, Vice President and Secretary. The Secretary shall
keep a permanent record of the proceedings of the Commission. A copy of the
record shall be placed in the file of the City Recorder as one of the public
records of that office. Minutes of all meetings shall also be submitted to the
City Council at the first regular Council meeting following a meeting of the
Commission.
   (D)   Meetings and quorum.
      (1)   The Commission shall hold regular meetings once every month, or
more often if needed. The Commission may have special meetings upon the request
of the President or upon the request of three Commission members to the City
Manager. The City Manager shall notify the President and all Commission members
of the special meeting.
      (2)   A majority of Commission members shall constitute a quorum for
conducting business.
      (3)   All meetings shall be open to the public.
   (E)   Powers and duties. The Commission shall:
      (1)   Act in an advisory capacity to the City Council on matters
pertaining to the acquisition, maintenance, improvements and replacement of
park facilities and equipment;
      (2)   Define the objectives of park facilities and equipment and make
plans and general polices harmonizing with them;
      (3)   Recommend park policy regulations;
      (4)   Conduct periodic safety inspections of park equipment and recommend
removal of or modification of unsafe equipment;
      (5)   Develop and recommend a park master plan for the city;
      (6)   Recommend park development goals and time tables;
      (7)   Coordinate volunteer park improvement projects;
      (8)   Seek alternative funding sources for park development; and
      (9)   Recommend sound fiscal plans to achieve park development goals.
   (F)   Rules and regulations. The Commission shall establish rules and
regulations to govern the organization and procedure of the Commission. Such
rules adopted shall be filed with the City Recorder after adoption.
   (G)   Solicitation of funds. The Commission may solicit gifts or bequests of
money or other personal property, or any donation to be applied, principal or
income, for either temporary or permanent use within the city park system.
(Ord. 1161, passed - -1992; Ord. 1163, passed - -)
§ 32.04 TRAFFIC SAFETY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Established. The City Council hereby creates a Traffic Safety
Committee for the city.
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   The Committee is an advisory body to the City Council. It has no
authority to spend or approve the expenditure of any city funds. Its
recommendations are made to the City Council through its minutes and such
recommendations for action by the City Council shall be made in the form “The
Traffic Safety Committee recommends to the City Council....”
         (b)   Members shall serve at the pleasure of the City Council.
         (c)   Membership on the Committee is honorary and without
compensation.
         (d)   All meetings of the Committee shall be open to the public, shall
be properly noticed and shall be held in a place which is open to the public
and handicapped accessible.
         (e)   All matters pertaining to traffic safety shall only be acted
upon by the City Council following review by the Committee and upon
recommendation by the Committee.
         (f)   This Committee may be assigned other duties by adoption of other
legislation of the city.
      (2)   Specifically. The City Traffic Safety Committee shall be
responsible for the following:
         (a)   To promote traffic safety practices in the community, which
shall include pedestrian safety, bicycle safety and motor vehicle safety;
         (b)   To develop educational programs to encourage traffic safety;
         (c)   To consider, research, evaluate and recommend changes in traffic
control signs and devices, such as stop signs, crosswalks, parking
requirements, traffic lanes, truck lanes, safety corridors and zones, pavement
markings, signals and all similar devices;
         (d)   To hear concerns of citizens about traffic issues; and
         (e)   To interact with other boards, committees and commissions of the
city which may have related or overlapping duties and authorities, e.g., the
Planning Commission.
   (C)   Organization.
      (1)   Membership. The Committee shall consist of five members selected as
follows.
         (a)   One member shall be nominated by the Superintendent of the City
School District to represent School District concerns on the Committee and who
shall serve a two-year term of office. The Mayor will appoint this nominee.
         (b)   One member shall be nominated by the President of the City
Chamber of Commerce, who can represent the business community’s interests and
concerns related to traffic and parking issues and who shall serve a term of
two years. The Mayor will appoint this nominee.
         (c)   Three members shall be at-large members and shall serve for
initial terms of office of varying lengths for the initial appointments. The
Mayor shall specifically appoint the first members to a specific term of
office: one shall be appointed for a one-year term; one for a two-year term;
and one for a three-year term. Thereafter, all terms shall be for three years.
         (d)   The Police Chief, or his or her designee, shall be the Secretary
of the Committee and shall take minutes, give notice of meetings and support
the efforts of this Committee in all manners. The Police Chief shall be an ex-
officio member of the Committee and shall be entitled to discuss all matters
with the Committee but shall have no vote. As Committee staff, the Chief will
accurately report the determinations of the City Council on previous Committee
recommendations back to the Committee.
      (2)   Officers. The Committee shall elect from its membership a Chair and
a Vice Chair at its first meeting and, thereafter, at its first meeting in
every odd-numbered year. In the event of resignation or other vacation of the
office, the Committee shall elect a new Chair to serve the balance of the
unexpired term. The Chair shall preside over the Committee’s deliberations,
preserve order and determine the order of business. The Vice Chair shall carry
out these duties in the absence of the Chair. Officers may make motions, second
motions and vote on all matters before the Committee.
      (3)   Quorum. A quorum of the Committee shall be three members.
      (4)   Meetings.
         (a)   The Committee shall meet not less than four times per year and
otherwise as it determines. All regular and special meetings must be properly
noticed including timely notice to all members of the press.
         (b)   Special meetings may be called by the Chair for any purpose
subject to the provisions of the Open Meetings Law, being ORS 192.610 et seq.
and notice requirements.
      (5)   Rules of procedure. The Committee shall be governed by Robert’s
Rules of Order.
      (6)   Minutes. The Commission minutes shall be prepared by staff and
approved, with or without amendments, additions or corrections, by an
affirmative action of the Committee at its next meeting. Commission minutes as
prepared by staff shall be transmitted to the City Council on its next agenda
as either an “Action Item” (if recommendations are made in those minutes) or as
an “Information Item” (if no recommendations are included.).
(Ord. 1202, passed 3-16-1999)
§ 32.05 AMBULANCE SERVICES.
   (A)   Municipal ambulance service.
      (1)   The city is hereby authorized to establish and operate a municipal
ambulance service.
      (2)   The Council, by motion or resolution, is hereby empowered on behalf
of the city to acquire, equip and operate such items of property as in its
opinion are necessary for the efficient operation of such service.
      (3)   Rates to be charged for and regulations governing the conduct of
such service shall be established and from time to time may be reviewed and
altered by the Council.
   (B)   Uniform ambulance service billing procedures.
      (1)   Ambulance billing procedure.
         (a)   Ambulance service charges are typically billed within 30 days of
service.
         (b)   Payment for service is due in full within 30 days from billing.
         (c)   Customers shall have the option to enter into a payment
agreement subject to the terms set forth in division (B)(2) below.
         (d)   If the customer’s bill is not paid in full or made payment
arrangements within 30 days of billing, the city will send a late notice as
evidence of the delinquency.
         (e)   If the customer’s bill remains unpaid or fails to meet payment
arrangements 60 days from the original billing, the city will send a second
notice to the customer notifying the account may be turned over to collections
if the account is not paid or met arrangements within 15 days of receipt of the
notice.
         (f)   If a customer is unresponsive to these billing notices, they
will be turned over to a third party agent with the authority to assess
additional collection fees as defined in ORS Chapter 697, which are currently
40% in addition to the service fees owed.
         (g)   Once an account has been turned over to the collection agency,
the customer shall be required to settle the debt with the collection agency.
         (h)   There shall be a charge as established by city resolution for
checks returned for insufficient payment.
      (2)   Payment arrangements.
         (a)   Any ambulance service customer may request a conference before
the City Manager, or his or her designee, to consider entering into a
promissory agreement that identifies certain terms and conditions of a payment
plan that would cause the ambulance service charges to become paid in full. The
City Manager, or his or her designee, is hereby authorized to enter into
promissory agreements on a case-by-case basis for ambulance service customers.
         (b)   Verbal agreements will not be accepted. If a customer fails to
meet the terms and/or conditions contained within the promissory agreement, the
customer may be turned over to collections subject to the terms in division (B)
(1) above.
(Ord. 870, passed 6-17-1969; Ord. 1261, passed 3-7-2011)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Smoking in meetings of public bodies prohibited
   
33.02   Retention of records
Initiative and Referendum
   
33.15   Form of petition for ordinances or amendments
   
33.16   Form of petition for referendums
   
33.17   Signatures to be verified
   
33.18   Forms not mandatory
   
33.19   Signature requirements
   
33.20   Chief Petitioner designated
   
33.21   Filing with City Recorder
   
33.22   Amendments to City Charter
Contracting
   
33.40   Findings
   
33.41   Definitions
   
33.42   Authority
   
33.43   Procurement of goods and services
   
33.44   Personal services contracts
   
33.45   Disposition of surplus personal property
   
33.46   Public improvements and construction services
Claims Processing
   
33.60   Purpose
   
33.61   Definitions
   
33.62   Claim filing procedures
   
33.63   Processing fee
   
33.64   City Manager investigation and recommendation
   
33.65   Administrative determination
   
33.66   City Council determination after public hearing
   
33.67   Private cause of action
 
   
33.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 SMOKING IN MEETINGS OF PUBLIC BODIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall smoke any cigar, cigarette or tobacco in any form at
any meeting of any public body of the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MEETING. Any regular or special public meeting, session or hearing of a
public body to exercise or advise in the exercise of any power of government in
buildings or rooms rented, leased or owned by the city.
      PUBLIC BODY. The city and any department, agency, board or commission of
said city, but does not include the meetings of any committee at which fewer
than five persons are present.
(Ord. 961, passed 1-17-1977)
§ 33.02 RETENTION OF RECORDS.
   (A)   City officers are required to retain public records for the length of
time required by the State Office of the Archives or the federal government,
whichever requires the longer retention.
   (B)   Whenever any officer of the city has accumulated records that have
been retained beyond the years required above, he or she should describe and
list them on a form entitled “Certificate of Records Authorized to be
Destroyed.” This certificate should have the signed approval of the City
Recorder, City Attorney and the Mayor, after which the records described may be
destroyed. The original of the certificate must be filed permanently with the
City Recorder. This certificate should be similar to the form illustrated
below.
 
Certificate of Records Authorized to be Destroyed
I hereby certify the below-described records have been retained longer than
required by ordinance and are no longer of any particular value to the City of
Myrtle Point:
(description of records)
Certified this           day of             , 20    .
                           
Department Head
 
(Ord. 1069, passed 1-19-1987)
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
§ 33.15 FORM OF PETITION FOR ORDINANCES OR AMENDMENTS.
   The following shall be substantially the form of a petition for any
ordinance or amendment to the Charter proposed by the initiative.
 
WARNING
It is a felony for anyone to sign any initiative or referendum petition with any other name other than his or her own, or to knowingly sign his or her name more than once for the same measure, or to sign such petition when he or she is not a legal voter.
INITIATIVE PETITION
To the Honorable                     , Recorder for the City of Myrtle Point, Coos County, Oregon.
We, the undersigned, citizens and legal voters of the City of Myrtle Point, Coos County, Oregon respectfully demand that the following proposed ordinance (or amendment to the City Charter) shall be submitted to the legal voters of the City of Myrtle Point, Coos County,
Oregon, for their approval or rejection at the regular (or special ) city election to be held on the      day of            , 20     ; and each for himself or herself says: I have personally signed this petition; I am a legal voter of the City of Myrtle Point, Coos
County, Oregon; and my residence and street number are correctly written after my name.
NAME                                               RESIDENCE                      STREET NUMBER                                                                                                                                         
(Here follow 20 numbers lines for signatures.)
(Ord. 627, passed 1-26-1953)
§ 33.16 FORM OF PETITION FOR REFERENDUMS.
   The following shall be substantially the form of petition for referendum to
the people on any ordinance passed by the City Council.
 
REFERENDUM PETITION
To the Honorable                      , Recorder for the City of Myrtle Point, Coos County, Oregon.
We, the undersigned, citizens and legal voters of the City of Myrtle Point, Coos County, Oregon respectfully demand that Ordinance No.          entitled (the title of the ordinance on which the referendum is sought), passed by the Council of the City of Myrtle Point at its
meeting on the      day of         , 20     ; shall be submitted to the legal voters of the City of Myrtle Point for their approval or rejection at the regular (or special) city election to be held on the      day of         , 20     ; and each for himself or herself says:
I have personally signed this petition; I am a legal voter of the City of Myrtle Point, Coos County, Oregon; and my residence and street number are correctly written after my name.
NAME RESIDENCE STREET NUMBER
                                                                                                                                         
(Here follow 20 numbers lines for signatures.)
 
(Ord. 627, passed 1-26-1953)
§ 33.17 SIGNATURES TO BE VERIFIED.
   Each and every sheet of every petition for either initiative or referendum
containing signatures shall be verified on the back thereof in substantially
the following form by the person who circulated such sheet of said petition by
affidavit thereon as follows.
 
   STATE OF OREGON      )
   COUNTY OF COOS      ) SS.
   CITY OF MYRTLE POINT   )
I,                     , being first duly sworn, say that every person who signed this sheet of the foregoing petition, and each of them, signed
his or her name thereto in my presence; I believe that each has stated his or her name, residence and street number correctly, and that each
signer is a legal voter of the City of Myrtle Point.
Subscribed and sworn to before me this              day of                               A.D., 20             .
 
                                                                        
   (Signature and title of officer and his or her residence.)
 
(Ord. 627, passed 1-26-1953)
§ 33.18 FORMS NOT MANDATORY.
   The forms herein given are not mandatory; and if substantially followed in
any petition, it shall be sufficient, disregarding clerical and technical
errors.
(Ord. 627, passed 1-26-1953)
§ 33.19 SIGNATURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Not more than 20 signatures shall be signed to one sheet of a
petition, and a full and correct copy of the title and text of the measure
demanded for submission by the initiative or referendum petition, as the case
may be, shall be attached to each sheet circulated for signature; and such full
and correct copy of the title and text shall be shown to the voter before his
or her signature is attached.
   (B)   Initiative petitions for any proposed ordinance, Charter amendments or
measures shall be signed by a number of legal voters equal to 15% of the votes
cast for Mayor at the last preceding municipal election. Referendum petitions
against any ordinance or measure proposed by the Council shall be signed by a
number of legal voters equal to 10% of the votes cast for Mayor at the last
regular preceding municipal election.
   (C)   Legal voters of the city are qualified to sign a petition for the
referendum or for the initiative for any measure which he or she is entitled to
vote upon.
(Ord. 627, passed 1-26-1953) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.20 CHIEF PETITIONER DESIGNATED.
   Prior to acceptance by the City Recorder of a petition for initiative or
referendum, a Chief Petitioner, who shall be a legal voter of the city, shall
be designated by those filing the petition and the estimated election and
publication costs to be incurred by the city, in carrying out the provisions of
this subchapter, shall be paid by the Chief Petitioner. The Recorder shall
estimate said costs from information obtained from the County Elections
Department and from the newspaper in which initiative/referendum information
will be published. If actual costs incurred by the city exceed the paid
estimate, the Recorder shall bill the difference to the Chief Petitioner. If
the paid estimate exceeds actual costs incurred by the city, the Recorder shall
refund the difference to the Chief Petitioner. The designated Chief Petitioner
shall indicate his or her acceptance of such designation by filing with the
Recorder an acceptance which shall be substantially in the following form:
 
To the Honorable                , Recorder of the City of Myrtle Point, Coos County, Oregon.
I,                                , do hereby accept my designation as Chief Petitioner of the following
initiative/referendum petition:
 
 
 
I understand that I must pay for election/publication costs estimated to be incurred by the city. I
further understand that, if the costs incurred exceed the paid estimate, I must pay, and will be billed
for, the difference. I also understand that if the paid estimate exceeds costs incurred the city will
refund the difference to me.
Chief Petitioner
 
(Ord. 627, passed 1-26-1953; Ord. 1119, passed 1-16-1989)
§ 33.21 FILING WITH CITY RECORDER.
   The City Recorder shall accept for filing any petition for initiative/
referendum, subject to the verification of the number and genuineness of the
signatures and voting qualifications of the persons signing the same by
reference to the registration books in the office of the County Clerk and
subject to the provisions of §
33.20. If a sufficient number of qualified voters be found to have signed said
petition, the Recorder shall file same within ten days after presentation
thereof to him or her.
(Ord. 627, passed 1-26-1953; Ord. 1119, passed 1-16-1989)
§ 33.22 AMENDMENTS TO CITY CHARTER.
   (A)   An amendment to the Charter of the city may be proposed and submitted
to the legal voters thereof by resolution of the Council without an initiative
petition. Said resolution shall be filed with the Recorder for submission not
later than 20 days before the election at which any amendment is to be voted
upon, and no amendment to the Charter shall be effective until it is approved
by a majority of the votes cast thereon by the legal voters of said city.
   (B)   Where an amendment to the Charter of the city may be proposed and
submitted to the legal voters thereof by resolution of the Council without an
initiative petition, the resolution shall therein state the date of the regular
municipal election or the date of a special election at which said amendment
will be submitted to be voted on and shall call and make provision for the
holding of said election.
(Ord. 627, passed 1-26-1953)
CONTRACTING
§ 33.40 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The state legislature adopted HB 2341(2003 Oregon Laws, Chapter 794)
and codified as ORS Chapters 279A, 279B and 279C. The Bill was signed by the
Governor and becomes effective March 1, 2005. The Attorney General’s Office has
developed Model Public Contract Rules, which also become effective March 1,
2005. The statutes and the Model Rules will be referred to as the “State Code.”
   (B)   The State Code requires repeal of the city’s former Public Contracting
Rules and Procedures enacted pursuant to Ord. 1240. The State Code requires the
designation of a Local Contract Review Board and the adoption of certain rules
which will combine with the State Code to comply with the terms of the new
statute and provide a sound and responsive public contracting system.
   (C)   The State Code divides the powers and duties related to public
contracting into two categories: Those that must be performed by the Local
Contract Review Board; and those that must be performed by the city’s
contracting agency.
   (D)   The State Code distinguishes between public contracting for the
procurement of goods and services and public contracting for public
improvements and construction services for public improvements by setting out
separate requirements for each.
(Ord. 1240, passed 2- -2005)
§ 33.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the city adopts the definitions
contained in the State Code.
(Ord. 1240, passed 2- -2005)
§ 33.42 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   City Council as Local Contract Review Board.
      (1)   Pursuant to ORS 279A.050, the City Council is designated as the
Local Contract Review Board for the city. The City Council shall exercise all
the powers and duties conferred upon it by state law, except to the extent that
such powers and duties have been delegated by these rules, or by a separate
ordinance, to others.
      (2)   The Attorney General’s Model Public Contracting Rules only apply to
the city’s procurement of goods, services and certain construction services
where they are specifically referenced. Similarly, the Attorney General’s Model
Public Contracting Rules for construction only apply where they are
specifically referenced. Other than those specific references, the Attorney
General’s Model Public Contracting Rules do not apply. It is the intent of
these rules to permit the city to act to the full extent permitted by state
law. To the extent that the rules adopted in this subchapter appear to give the
city less authority than state law, then state law shall prevail and the city
may act to the full extent permitted by state law.
   (B)   Authority of contracting agency; City Manager.
      (1)   For contracts covered by this subchapter, and for revenue-producing
contracts, the City Manager or designee is authorized to:
         (a)   Advertise for bids or proposals without specific authorization
from City Council, when the proposed purchase or contract is included within
the current fiscal year budget;
         (b)   Award and execute contracts for the purchase or lease of goods
and services, and revenue-producing services, without specific authorization
from the City Council whenever the contract amount is $5,000 or less;
         (c)   Recommend the award of a contract, including revenue-producing
services, by report to the City Council for contracts in excess of $5,000;
         (d)   Authorize and execute contract amendments up to 25% of the
original contract amount;
         (e)   Authorize final payment for a contract after confirming that all
work is completed and accepted by the city and the final contract amount is not
more than 25% greater than the original contract amount;
         (f)   Adopt forms, procedures, computer software and administrative
policies for all city procurements and contracts. The city shall use the forms,
software, procedures and administrative rules unless they conflict with city
ordinances;
         (g)   Perform such other duties as directed by the ordinances of the
city, the City Council or the State Code; and
         (h)   Resolve protests of contract award decisions and other matters
as required by city ordinance.
      (2)   The City Manager is responsible for and shall make all purchases
and contracts in accordance with state law, City Charter and this subchapter.
      (3)   The City Manager may execute intergovernmental agreements for
cooperative procurements only with specific authorization by the City Council.
(Ord. 1240, passed 2- -2005)
§ 33.43 PROCUREMENT OF GOODS AND SERVICES.
   (A)   Application. The provisions of this section are applicable to all
purchases of goods and services, except the following:
      (1)   Contracts or agreements to which the State Code and ORS Chapters
279A, 279B and 279C, do not apply;
      (2)   Contracts, intergovernmental and interstate agreements executed
pursuant to ORS Chapter 190 between the city and other public contracting
agencies. Such contracts or agreements shall be approved by the City Council;
      (3)   Contracts pursuant to 10 U.S.C. § 381 (relating to law enforcement
equipment suitable for counter-drug activities through the Department of
Defense), the Electronic Government Act of 2002, being Pub. L. 107-347
(relating to automated data processing equipment, including firmware, software,
supplies, support equipment and services from federal supply schedules) or
other federal laws that the City Council determines are similar to those acts
in effectuating or promoting transfers of property to the city;
      (4)   Professional, technical and expert contracts governed by §
33.44 and other contracts specifically designated as personal service contracts
by the City Council;
      (5)   Change orders or contract amendments reasonably related to the
scope of work under the original contract up to 25%. Change orders or other
amendments that increase the initial price of the contract by more than 25%
must be separately approved by the City Council;
      (6)   Sole source expenditures when rates are set by law or ordinance for
purposes of these rules concerning source selection;
      (7)   Revenue generating contracts whose primary purpose is generating
revenue and are typically awarded to the offeror proposing the most
advantageous or highest monetary offer to the city, or both. The City Council
may designate a particular contract as a revenue-generating contract;
      (8)   An emergency contract provided the City Manager adheres to the
requirements of ORS 279B.080 or 279C.335(5) and the Attorney General’s Model
Public Contracting Rules applicable to this type of contract;
      (9)   Contracts for sale of advertising in city publications. The right
to advertise in city publications may be sold without competitive bidding. The
city may utilize this exclusion when it publishes material and wants to recoup
part of the cost by selling advertising to be placed in that publication.
Revenue generated from the sale of advertising shall be applied to the cost of
the publication;
      (10)   Contracts for public improvements, which are governed by §
33.46;
      (11)   Any other contract (including sole source and brand name
specification contracts) where the public interest would be promoted by
exempting the contract from the competitive bidding process, provided that the
City Council adheres to the State Code in making the exemption; and
      (12)   The City Council finds that use of special procurement procedures
for the contracts contained in this section will be unlikely to encourage
favoritism in the awarding of public contracts or to substantially diminish
competition for public contracts and will result in a substantial cost savings
to the city and the public.
   (B)   Source selection. The city shall award a public contract for goods and
services covered by this subchapter using any method authorized by state
statute or this code. Such different methods are called methods of source
selection. Source selection methods include cooperative procurements,
competitive scaled bidding, competitive sealed proposals and small,
intermediate, sole source, emergency and special procurements.
      (1)   Once the appropriate source selection method has been chosen, the
city may consider the best method of selecting a contractor within the source
selection method it has chosen; provided, that the method is amenable to such
discretion.
      (2)   The city may employ methods of contractor selection for the
procurement of goods and services by using any process authorized by state
statute, including multi-tiered processes as set forth in ORS 279B.060(6)(b),
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   An award or awards based solely on the ranking of proposals;
         (b)   Discussions leading to the best and final offers in which the
city may not disclose private discussions leading to best and final offers;
         (c)   Discussions loading to best and final offers, in which the city
may not disclose information derived from proposals submitted by competing
proposers;
         (d)   Serial negotiations, beginning with the highest ranked proposer;
         (e)   Competitive simultaneous negotiations;
         (f)   Multiple tiered competition designed to identify, at each level,
a class of proposers which fall within a competitive range or to otherwise
eliminate from consideration a class of lower rank proposers;
         (g)   A multi-step request for proposals requesting the submission of
unpriced technical submittals, and then later issuing a request for proposals
limited to the proposers whose technical submittals the contracting city had
determined to be qualified under the criteria set forth in initial requests for
proposals; and
         (h)   Any combination of methods set out in divisions (B)(2)(a)
through (B)(2)(g) above, or as otherwise adopted by the City Council.
      (3)   The methods of contractor selection identified in division (B)(2)
above shall conform to the procedures identified in these rules.
      (4)   The City Manager or his or her designee is authorized to waive any
nonconformity with the rules of contractor selection if he or she determines
that the defect was minor and likely would not have an effect on the outcome of
the selection process.
   (C)   Sole source procurements.
      (1)   The city may award a public contract without competition as a sole
source procurement if the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee or the City
Council, depending on the amount of the contract, makes a written finding that:
         (a)   Efficient utilization of existing goods requires the acquisition
of compatible goods or services;
         (b)   The goods or services required for the exchange of software or
data with other public or private agencies are available from only one source;
         (c)   The goods or services are for use in a pilot or experimental
project; and
         (d)   Any other findings that support the conclusion that the goods or
services are available from only one source.
      (2)   Negotiation with a sole source contractor is desirable. The city is
entitled to negotiate with any sole source provider to obtain a favorable
price, terms or conditions.
      (3)   The city shall give notice of a determination that the goods or
services or class of goods or services are available from only one source when
the contract will be greater than $25,000, by publishing a notice at least once
in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the area where the contract
is to be performed. The public notice shall describe the goods and services to
be acquired by a sole source procurement and identify the prospective
contractor and include the time due for protests and where. The city shall give
such public notice at least seven days before the award of the contract.
   (D)   Emergency procurements.
      (1)   The city may award a public contract as an emergency procurement
without the use of competitive sealed bidding or competitive sealed proposals
as authorized by ORS 279B.050(2) when the requirements of ORS 279B.080 and this
rule are met.
      (2)   The Council or person authorizing the emergency procurement shall
document the nature of the emergency and describe the method used for the
selection of the particular contractor. The city shall encourage competition
for emergency procurement to the extent reasonable under the circumstances.
      (3)   The authority to declare an emergency and authorize an emergency
procurement shall be as follows.
         (a)   The City Manager or his or her designee may declare the
existence of an emergency and authorize the city to enter into an emergency
procurement contract under $75,000.
         (b)   The City Manager or his or her designee may declare the
existence of an emergency and authorize the city to enter into an emergency
procurement contract over $75,000.
            1.   Following the declaration of emergency, the City Manager or
his or her designee shall immediately prepare an ordinance for approval of the
emergency procurement contract by the City Council at its next regularly
scheduled session or as soon as possible thereafter. That contract shall be
added to the regular agenda without the need for approval for inclusion on the
agenda by the Council.
            2.   If the Council adopts the ordinance, the city will pay for the
work required by the Contract. If the Council disapproves the ordinance, the
city will only pay for work performed prior to the date that the Council
considered the ordinance for approval. If for any reason presentation of the
ordinance to the Council is delayed, the city still will only be liable for
work performed prior to the time when the ordinance was first presented to the
Council.
      (4)   Any contract awarded under this section shall be awarded within 60
days.
      (5)   All emergency procurement contracts awarded when there was no
emergency or reasonable perception of emergency are void unless the contract
was otherwise valid under another portion of this subchapter.
   (E)   Cooperative procurements.
      (1)   The city may participate in, sponsor, conduct or administer
cooperative procurements.
      (2)   The city may participate in, sponsor, conduct or administer joint
cooperative procurements to establish contracts or price agreements for goods
or services, as defined in these rules, that use source selection methods
substantially equivalent to those set forth in ORS 279B.055, 279B.060 or
279B.085.
      (3)   The city may participate in, sponsor, conduct or administer
permissive cooperative agreements to establish contracts or price agreements
for the acquisition of goods or services, as defined in those rules, that use
source selection methods substantially equivalent to those set forth in ORS
279B.055 or 279B.060.
      (4)   The city may participate in, sponsor, conduct or administer
interstate cooperative procurements to establish contracts or price agreements
for the acquisition of goods or services, as defined in this subchapter, that
use source selection methods substantially equivalent to those set forth in ORS
279B.085 or 279B.060.
      (5)   The solicitation and award process uses source selection methods
substantially equivalent to those identified in ORS 279B.055, 279B.060 or
279B.085 if the solicitation and award process:
         (a)   Calls for an award of a contract on the basis of a lowest
responsible bidder or a lowest and best bidder determination in the case of
competitive bids, on the basis of a determination of the proposer whose
proposal is most advantageous based on evaluation factors set forth in the
request for proposals in the case of competitive proposals;
         (b)   Does not permit the application of any geographic preference
that is more favorable to bidders or proposers who reside in the jurisdiction
or locality favored by the preference than the preferences provided in ORS
279A.120(2); and
         (c)   Uses reasonably clear and precise specifications that promote
suitability for the purposes intended and that reasonably encourage
competition.
      (6)   The city shall determine, in writing, whether the solicitation and
award process for an original contract arising out of a cooperative agreement
is substantially equivalent to those identified in ORS 279B.055, 279B.060 or
279B.085, in accordance with ORS 279A.200(2) and this rule.
      (7)   Protests regarding the use of all types of cooperative procurements
shall be governed by division (A)(11) above.
      (8)   If the city is the administering contracting agency, then it may:
         (a)   Charge a fair and reasonable fee to purchasing contract agencies
that represents the excess costs of administering the contract in light of the
purchasing contracting agency’s use of that contract; and/or
         (b)   Determine whether the purchasing contract agency must enter into
a written agreement with it.
      (9)   If the city is a purchasing contracting agency, it is authorized to
pay a fee to the administering contracting agency that the City Manager or his
or her designee determines is fair and reasonable in light of all the
circumstances surrounding the procurement, including the savings that may be
obtained if a cooperative procurement is used, the cost of the procurement in
relationship to the fee and other factors as may be considered.
   (F)   Small procurements.
      (1)   For procurements of goods and services not exceeding $5,000, the
city may award a public contract as a small procurement pursuant to ORS
279B.065. The city may choose any method of selecting such contractors,
including, but not limited to, offering the contract to only one firm, or
conducting a competition for the contract.
      (2)   State law prohibits a procurement from being artificially divided
or fragmented so as to constitute a small procurement under this section.
      (3)   Not withstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, small
procurements shall not be amended beyond $5,000 without prior approval of the
City Manager.
   (G)   Intermediate procurements.
      (1)   For procurements of goods and services not exceeding $150,000, the
city may award a public contract as an intermediate procurement pursuant to ORS
279B.070. A procurement shall not be artificially divided or fragmented so as
to constitute an intermediate procurement under this section.
         (a)   For procurement of goods and services that cost $50,000 or less,
the city may award a public contract after obtaining three oral price
quotations.
         (b)   For procurement of goods or services anticipated to cost more
than $50,000 up to $150,000, the city may award a contract after obtaining
three written quotes, bids or proposals.
      (2)   For all intermediate procurements, the city shall seek at least
three informally solicited competitive price quotations or competitive
proposals from prospective contractors and shall keep written records of the
sources of the quotations or proposals received. If three quotations or
proposals are not reasonably available, the city may proceed with the
procurement, but only after making a written record of the effort made to
obtain the quotations or proposals.
      (3)   The city may negotiate with an offeror to clarify its quote or
proposal or to effect modifications that will make the quote or proposal
acceptable or make the quote or proposal more advantageous to the city,
provided that all offerors contacted are able to compete on the same basis. The
city may procure goods and services by competitive sealed bidding as set forth
in the procedures in ORS 279B.055.
   (H)   Competitive sealed proposals. The city may procure goods and services
by competitive sealed proposals as set forth in ORS 279B.060.
   (I)   Special procurements. The city may award a public contract as a
special procurement pursuant to the requirements of ORS 279B.085, which permits
class special procurements. Such procurements allow the city to enter into a
series of contracts over time without following the requirements of competitive
sealed bidding, competitive sealed proposals or intermediate procurements.
      (1)   The City Council declares the following as classes of special
procurements.
         (a)   Manufacturer-direct supplies. The city may purchase goods
directly from a manufacturer without competitive bidding if a large volume
purchase is required and the cost from the manufacturer is the same or less
than the cost the manufacturer charges to its distributors. Procurements of
this type are made on a contract by contract basis and are not requirement
contracts.
         (b)   Advertisements. The city may purchase advertising in newspapers
and written publications.
         (c)   Copyrighted materials. The city may purchase copyrighted
materials where there is only one known supplier available for such goods.
         (d)   Financial products. The city may directly purchase financial
products such as bond insurance, surety bonds for city bond reserves and
liquidity facilities such as letters of lines of credit.
         (e)   Insurance contracts. Contracts for insurance, including employee
benefit insurance, may be awarded directly to an insurer after the city obtains
proposals from an insurance consultant. The consultant shall be selected
pursuant to §
33.44.
         (f)   Purchase of used personal property or equipment. The city may
directly purchase used personal property and equipment. Used property and used
equipment is property or equipment that has been placed in use by a previous
owner or user for a period of time and which is recognized in the relevant
trade or industry, if there is one, as qualifying the personal property or
equipment as used.
         (g)   Hazardous materials removal and oil clean up. The city may
directly acquire services to remove or clean up hazardous material or oil from
any vendor when ordered to do so by the State Department of Environmental
Quality pursuant to its authority under ORS Chapter 466. In so doing, to the
extent reasonable under the circumstances, the city will encourage competition
by attempting to obtain informal price quotations or proposals from potential
suppliers of goods and services.
         (h)   Amendments to contracts and price agreements. The city may
execute contract amendments in the following circumstances:
            1.   When an original valid contract exists between the parties;
            2.   When unit prices or “add alternates” were provided in a
solicitation document that established the cost basis for the additional work
or product or in a lump sum contract the contract has provided an estimate of
additional cost which has been verified by the city;
            3.   The solicitation document provided for such amendments;
            4.   When the original contract was let pursuant to an emergency
declared under this subchapter; and/or
            5.   When the additional work is required by reason of existing
regulations or ordinances of federal, state or local agencies, dealing with the
prevention of environmental pollution and the preservation of natural
resources, that affect the performance of the original contract and such
regulations or ordinances either were not cited in the original contract, or
were enacted or amended after submission of the successful bid or proposal.
         (i)   Use of existing contractor. When a public improvement is in need
of minor alteration, repair or maintenance at or near the site of work being
performed by another city contractor, the city may hire that contractor to
perform the work.
      (2)   (a)   The city shall give public notice of its request for approval
and of the city’s approval of the special procurement in a similar manner as
provided for in the public notice of competitive sealed bids under ORS 279B.055
(4).
         (b)   The public notice shall describe the goods or services or class
of goods or services to be acquired through the special procurement.
         (c)   The city shall give public notice of its request for approval of
the special procurement at least 14 days prior to the approval of the special
procurement by the city.
      (3)   If the city plans to conduct competitive special procurement, it
shall give notice of intent to award to all pre-qualified offerors who sought
the award of a contract in the manner provided for competitive sealed bids.
   (J)   Legal remedies. Any protest of an action by this city under this
section for a violation of these rules or ORS Chapters 279A or 279B will be
administered pursuant to ORS 279B.400 through 279B.425 and OAR 137-047-0700
through 137-047-0760, which are made a part of this subchapter by this
reference.
(Ord. 1240, passed 2- -2005)
§ 33.44 PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACTS.
   (A)   A PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACT is a contract primarily for the provision
of services that require specialized technical, creative, professional or
communication skills or talents, unique and specialized knowledge, or the
exercise of discretionary judgment skills, and for which the quality of the
service depends on attributes that arc unique to the service provider. Such
services include, but are not limited to, the services of architects,
engineers, attorneys, auditors and other licensed professionals, artists,
designers, computer programmers, performers, consultants and property managers.
The City Manager or his or her designee shall have discretion to determine
whether a particular type of contract or service falls within the foregoing
definitions.
   (B)   The following procedures shall apply to the award of personal services
contracts.
      (1)   Personal services contracts for $5,000 to $10,000. Personal
services contracts involving an anticipated fee of $5,000 or more, but less
than $10,000 per fiscal year, shall be awarded by the City Manager or his or
her designee following a solicitation of offers or personal services by written
invitation or advertisement in sufficient number to provide a choice for the
city from among qualified service providers. The City Manager or his or her
designee shall determine the selection criteria to be included in the written
invitation or advertisement and shall have authority to negotiate and enter
into the contract.
      (2)   Personal services contracts from $10,000. Personal services
contracts to which division (B)(1) above does not apply, and having an
anticipated of fee of $10,000 or more, shall be awarded by the City Council
following solicitation of offers based on the procedure and selection criteria
adopted by the City Council before offers are solicited.
      (3)   Other personal service contracts. Except as otherwise provided in
this subchapter, for all other personal services contracts, including
amendments to and annual renewals of existing contracts and emergencies, the
City Manager or his or her designee may enter into the contract without a
solicitation of offers. A personal services contract shall not be artificially
divided or fragmented to qualify for the award of procedures provided by this
division (B)(3).
      (4)   Criteria. The following criteria shall be considered in the
evaluation and selection of a personal services contractor. This section does
not preclude the use of additional criteria as may be necessary for a
particular contract:
         (a)   Total cost to the city for the delivery of services;
         (b)   Specialized experience in the type of work to be performed;
         (c)   Capacity and capability to perform the work, including any
specialized services within the time limitations for the work;
         (d)   Education and professional record, including past record of
performance on contracts with governmental agencies and private parties with
respect to cost control, quality of work, ability to meet schedules and
contract administration, where applicable;
         (e)   Utilization of locally procured goods, services or personnel;
and
         (f)   Other criteria specifically listed in the solicitation document
on a case by case basis.
(Ord. 1240, passed 2- -2005)
§ 33.45 DISPOSITION OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall have the authority to
determine when personal property owned by the city is surplus.
   (B)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall select the method of
disposal which maximizes the value the city will realize from the disposal of
the surplus property. Surplus personal property shall be disposed of as
follows:
         (1)   Sold to the highest qualified buyer meeting the sale terms when
the value of each item so offered is less than $2,000 and the sale has been
advertised at least once in a newspaper of general circulation not less than
one week prior to the sale;
         (2)   Traded in on the purchase of replacement equipment or supplies;
         (3)   Sold at public auction advertised at least once in a newspaper
of general circulation not less than one week prior to the auction. The
published notice shall specify the time, place and terms upon which the
personal property shall be offered and a general description of the personal
property to be sold;
         (4)   Sold at a fixed price retail sale if doing so will result in
substantially greater net revenue to the city; and
         (5)   Contracted for use, operation or maintenance by one or more
private or public entities. Prior to approval of such a contract, the City
Manager or his or her designee shall determine that the contract will promote
the economic development of the city.
   (C)   All personal property sold pursuant to this section shall be sold as
is without any warranty, either expressed or implied, of any kind.
   (D)   Sales and surplus personal property may be conducted electronically.
(Ord. 1240, passed 2- -2005)
§ 33.46 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AND CONSTRUCTION SERVICES.
   This section applies to the award of contracts for public improvements and
construction services for public improvements.
   (A)   Public improvements. Contracts for minor alteration, ordinary repair
or maintenance of public improvements, as well as other contracts that are not
defined as a public improvement under ORS 279A.010 shall be awarded and
executed pursuant to §
33.43.
   (B)   Source selection. The city shall award a public contract for public
improvements pursuant to this section using any method authorized by state law
or city ordinance. Such different methods arc called methods of source
selection. Source selection methods for public improvements include:
      (1)   Emergency procurements;
      (2)   Substitution of contractors by a surety;
      (3)   Cooperative procurements;
      (4)   Competitive quotations;
      (5)   Competitive bidding; and
      (6)   Alternative contracting methods as described in OAR 137-049-0600
through 137-049-0690, or through methods specified by ordinance, when permitted
by an individual or class exemption adopted by the City Council.
   (C)   Emergency contracts. Pursuant to ORS 179C.335(5) and this subchapter,
the city may declare that emergency circumstances exist that require prompt
execution of a public contract for emergency construction or repair work.
      (1)   The Council or person authorizing the emergency procurement shall
document the nature of the emergency and describe the method used for the
selection of the particular contractor. The city shall encourage competition
for emergency procurements to the extent reasonable under the circumstances.
      (2)   The procedures outlined in OAR 137-049-0150 are specifically
adopted for the award and administration of any emergency contracts under this
division (C).
   (D)   Selection of a substitute contractor. If a contractor provided a
performance bond, the city may afford the contractor’s surety the opportunity
to provide a substitute contractor to complete performance of the contract. A
substitute contractor shall perform all remaining contract work and comply with
all terms and conditions of the contract, including the provisions of the
performance bond and the payment bond. Such substitute performance does not
involve the award of a new contract and shall not be subject to the competitive
procurement provisions of ORS Chapter 279C or this division (D).
   (E)   Cooperative purchasing. The city may participate in, sponsor, conduct
or administer joint cooperative procurements for the acquisition of public
improvements.
      (1)   A solicitation and award process uses source selection methods
substantially equivalent to those identified in ORS Chapter 279C and this
division (E) if the solicitation and award process:
         (a)   Calls for an award of a contract on the basis of the lowest
responsible bidder or the lowest and best bidder determination in the case of
competitive bids, or on the basis of a determination of the proposer whose
proposal is most advantageous based upon evaluation factors set forth in the
request for proposals in the case of competitive proposals when permitted by an
exemption established by the City Council;
         (b)   Does not permit the application of any geographic preference
that is more favorable to bidders or proposers who reside in the jurisdiction
or locality favored by the preference than the preferences provided in ORS
279A.120(2); and
         (c)   Uses reasonably clear and precise specifications that promote
suitability for the purposes intended and that reasonably encourage
competition.
      (2)   The city shall determine, in writing, whether the solicitation and
award process for an original contract arising out of a cooperative procurement
for a public improvement is substantially equivalent to those identified in ORS
Chapter 279C and this subchapter.
      (3)   Protests regarding the use of all types of cooperative procurement
shall be governed by OAR 137-049-0450.
      (4)   If the city is the administering contracting agency, then:
         (a)   It may charge a fair and reasonable fee to the purchasing
contract agencies that represent the excess cost of administering the contract
in light of the purchasing contracting agency’s use of that contract; and
         (b)   Determine whether the purchasing contract agency must enter into
a written agreement with it.
      (5)   If the city is a purchasing contracting agency, it is authorized to
pay a fee to the administering contracting agency that the City Manager or his
or her designee determines is fair and reasonable in light of all the
circumstances surrounding the procurement, including the savings that may be
obtained if a cooperative procurement is used, the cost of the procurement in
relationship to the fee and other factors as may be considered.
   (F)   Competitive bidding requirement. The city shall solicit bid for public
improvement contracts by invitation to bid (“ITB”), except:
      (1)   Contracts made with qualified nonprofit agencies providing
employment opportunities for disabled individuals, in which case the Attorney
General’s Model Rules shall apply;
      (2)   Contracts, or classes of contracts, exempted by the City Council
pursuant to state law, including substitute contractors’ selections set out in
division (D) above;
      (3)   Contracts for goods or services if the value of the contract is
less than $5,000;
      (4)   Contracts not exceeding $100,000;
      (5)   Contracts for any highway, bridge or other transportation projects
not exceeding $50,000, if made under the procedures for competitive quotations
pursuant to division (G) below;
      (6)   Emergency contracts;
      (7)   Change orders or contract amendments reasonably related to the
scope of work under the original contract up to 25%. Change orders or other
amendments that increase the initial price of the contract by more than 25%
must be separately approved by the City Council; and
      (8)   Contracts exempted by the City Council from using an ITB process
shall follow the rules set forth in §
33.43(J) unless the exemption specifically authorizes a particular procurement
process.
   (G)   Competitive proposals. Public improvement contracts estimated not to
exceed $100,000 or not to exceed $50,000 in the case of contracts for highways,
bridges and other transportation projects, may be awarded through the
requirements of:
      (1)   All requests for a price quotation for a public improvement shall
be in writing and include the selection criteria to be utilized in selecting a
contractor and, if the criteria are not of equal value, their relative value or
ranking. The criteria may be limited to price or some combination of price,
experience, specific expertise, availability, project understanding, contractor
capacity, responsibility and similar factors. Written requests shall include
the Bureau of Labor and Industries (BOLI) provisions regarding the prevailing
wage requirements of the State of Oregon/BOLI.
      (2)   The city shall award the contract to the prospective contractor
whose quote will best serve the interests of the city, taking into account the
announced selection criteria. If the award is not made to the offeror offering
the lowest price, the city shall make written record for the basis of the
award; and
      (3)   Intermediate level public improvement contracts obtained by
competitive proposals may be increased above the original amount of award by
change order or amendment within the following limitations, pursuant to §
33.43(A)(5).
   (H)   Individual and class exemptions. The City Council may exempt public
improvement contract or a class of public improvement contracts from the
competitive bidding requirements of ORS Chapter 279C, pursuant to ORS 279C.330
and 279C.335.
   (I)   Procurement process. The city hereby adopts the procurement procedures
for public improvement contracts set out in ORS 279C.300 et seq. and the state
administrative rules from OAR 137-049-0200 through 137-049-0910.
   (J)   Negotiation. If all responsive offers on a public improvement contract
exceed the budget for the project, the city may, prior to contract award,
negotiate for price within the budget under the following procedures.
      (1)   Negotiation shall start with the lowest responsive, responsible
offeror. If negotiations are not successful, then the city may negotiate with
the second lowest responsive, responsible offeror and so on.
      (2)   Negotiations may include value engineering and other options to
attempt to bring the project cost within the budgeted amount.
      (3)   A contract may not be awarded under this section if the scope of
the project is significantly changed from the description in the original
solicitation documents.
      (4)   The records of an offeror used in contract negotiations under this
section are not open to public inspection until after the negotiated contract
has been awarded or the negotiation process has been terminated.
   (K)   Disqualification. The city may disqualify any person as an offeror on
a contract under the following circumstances:
      (1)   The person does not have sufficient financial ability to perform
the contract. Evidence that the person can acquire in the amount and type
required shall be sufficient to establish financial ability;
      (2)   The person does not have available equipment to perform the
contract;
      (3)   The person does not have key personnel sufficiently experienced to
perform the contract;
      (4)   The person has breached previous contractual obligations;
      (5)   The provisions of ORS Chapter 279C regarding disqualification of
persons shall apply in addition to this section with respect to public
improvement contracts; and
      (6)   The person who has been disqualified as an offeror may appeal the
disqualification to the City Council in accordance with procedures in OAR 137-
049-0260 and 137-049-0450.
(Ord. 1240, passed 2- -2005)
CLAIMS PROCESSING
§ 33.60 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is intended to implement the provisions of ORS 195.305(5).
These provisions establish a prompt, open, thorough and consistent process that
enables property owners an adequate and fair opportunity to present their
claims to the city; preserves and protects limited public funds; and
establishes a record of the city’s decision capable of circuit court review.
(Ord. 1260, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 33.61 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, the words and
phrases used herein shall have the meaning set forth in ORS 195.300.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of Myrtle Point, or his or her
designee.
      EXEMPT LAND USE REGULATION. A land use regulation described in ORS
195.305(5) or 195.308.
(Ord. 1260, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 33.62 CLAIM FILING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A person seeking to file a claim under this subchapter must comply
with the applicable provisions of ORS 195.300 through 195.336, in addition to
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The city will process all claims in accordance with the relevant
provisions of ORS 195.300 through 195.336.
(Ord. 1260, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 33.63 PROCESSING FEE.
   Pursuant to ORS 195.312(3), the City Manager shall charge an application fee
to be paid at the time of filing of the claim, based on the projected costs of
notice, publication and copying. Following the filing of the application and
fee, the City Manager shall maintain a record of the city’s costs in processing
a claim, including the costs of obtaining information required by this
subchapter, which a property owner does not provide to the city. Following
final action by the city on the claim at the local level, the City Manager
shall send the property owner a bill for the actual costs, including staff and
legal costs, that the city incurred in reviewing and acting on the claim.
(Ord. 1260, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 33.64 CITY MANAGER INVESTIGATION AND RECOMMENDATION.
   (A)   Following an initial review and investigation of a complete claim, the
City Manager shall forward a recommendation to the City Council that the claim
be:
      (1)   Denied;
      (2)   Investigated further;
      (3)   Declared valid, and waive or modify the land use regulation, or
compensate the claimant upon completion of an appraisal; or
      (4)   Evaluated with the expectation of the city acquiring the property
by condemnation.
   (B)   If the City Manager’s recommendation is that a claim be denied, then
the City Manager may proceed without a public hearing, as provided in §
33.65, unless two or more members of the City Council notify the City Manager
within 14 days that they want a public hearing on the matter, as provided in §
33.66.
   (C)   If the City Manager’s recommendation is for anything other than a
denial, the matter shall be scheduled for a public hearing, as set forth in §
33.66.
(Ord. 1260, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 33.65 ADMINISTRATIVE DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Upon a determination that the claim will be decided without a public
hearing, pursuant to §
33.64(B), the City Manager shall establish a deadline for the receipt of
written comments and shall promptly provide the notice required by ORS 195.314
(1).
   (B)   After the deadline for written comments has expired, the City Manager
shall review the comments and:
      (1)   If the City Manager’s recommendation remains that the claim should
be denied, the City Manager shall issue written notice of the city’s final
determination of denial, pursuant to ORS 195.314(6); and
      (2)   If the City Manager’s recommendation is for anything other than
denial, the matter shall be scheduled for a public hearing, as set forth in §
33.66.
(Ord. 1260, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 33.66 CITY COUNCIL DETERMINATION AFTER PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Upon a determination that the claim will be decided with a public
hearing, pursuant to §§
33.64 or
33.65, the City Manager shall set the date for the public hearing and shall
promptly provide the notice required by ORS 195.314(1).
   (B)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing and prior to the expiration of
180 days from the date the claim was deemed complete, the City Council shall:
      (1)   Determine that the claim does not meet the requirements of ORS
195.300 through 195.336 and this subchapter and deny the claim; or
      (2)   Adopt a resolution with findings therein that supports a
determination that the claim is valid and awarding relief as provided in ORS
195.310(4).
   (C)   The City Council’s choice of relief awarded pursuant to ORS 195.310
(4), shall be based on whether the public interest would be better served by
compensating the owner or by waiving the challenged land use regulation with
respect to the subject property.
(Ord. 1260, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 33.67 PRIVATE CAUSE OF ACTION.
   (A)   If the City Council grants the relief provided in ORS 195.310(4)(b),
and the claimant’s, or their successor’s, use of the property in accordance
with such relief causes a reduction in value of other property located in the
vicinity of the claimant, the owner of the property that is reduced in value
shall have a cause of action in state circuit court to recover from the
claimant, or their successor, the amount of the reduction.
   (B)   The prevailing party in such an action shall also be entitled to an
award of reasonable attorneys’ fees.
(Ord. 1260, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
33.01(A) is punishable by a fine of $10.
   (C)   Any person signing any name other than his or her own to a petition,
or knowingly signing his or her name more than once for the same measure at one
election, who is not at the time of signing the same a legal voter of the city,
or any officer or other person violating any of the provisions of §§
33.15 through
33.22, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding
$500, or by imprisonment in the City Jail not exceeding six months, or by both
fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the Municipal Court.
(Ord. 627, passed 1-26-1953; Ord. 961, passed 1-17-1977)
CHAPTER 34: SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE
Section
   
34.01   Title
   
34.02   Purpose
   
34.03   Scope
   
34.04   Definitions
   
34.05   SDC established
   
34.06   Methodology
   
34.07   Authorized expenditures
   
34.08   Expenditure restrictions
   
34.09   Improvement plan
   
34.10   Adopting and amending the methodology
   
34.11   Collection of charge
   
34.12   Delinquent charges; hearings
   
34.13   Installment payment
   
34.14   Exemptions
   
34.15   Credits
   
34.16   Notice
   
34.17   Segregation and use of revenue
   
34.18   Refunds
   
34.19   Appeal procedure
   
34.20   Prohibited connection
   
34.21   Classification
§ 34.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “City of Myrtle Point System Development
Charge Ordinance” and may be so pleaded.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the system development charge (“SDC”) is to impose a
portion of the cost of capital improvements for sanitary sewer, water, storm
drainage, streets and parks upon those developments and redevelopments that
create the need for or increase the demands on capital improvements.
   (B)   During the 1989 session of the legislative assembly of the state, a
uniform framework for the imposition of a Systems Development Charge (SDC) by
local governments was established by the provisions of ORS 223.297 through
223.314. The 2001 and 2003 legislature enacted certain amendments to the SDC
statutory scheme.
   (C)   Among other things, the statutory provisions, as amended, define and
limit the purpose, use and method of calculation of and accounting for SDC
imposed and collected by a municipal corporation.
   (D)   In order to analyze and evaluate the method for calculation,
imposition, collection and expenditure of a SDC for the city, and to determine
compliance with the provisions of ORS 223.297 through 223.314, inclusive, the
city retained the services of a consulting engineer, HBH Consulting Engineers,
Inc. (hereinafter “HBH”), who completed an SDC methodology report in September
2006. A copy of this report is on file in the office of the City Manager of the
city for examination by the public.
   (E)   Based upon this report the city finds that it is appropriate to
implement a method of calculating, imposing and administering the a SDC for
capital improvements within or connected to the city, by providing that:
      (1)   Any capital improvement being funded wholly or in part with SDC
revenues shall be included in an approved improvements plan, public facilities
plan, master plan or comparable plan which includes a list of the capital
improvements which the city intends to fund, in whole or in part, with
improvement fee revenues and the estimated cost, timing and percentage of costs
eligible to be funded from the improvement fee for each improvement;
      (2)   SDC revenues must be deposited in accounts designated for such
moneys. The city shall implement an accounting system that provides an annual
accounting of SDC revenue, to be completed by January 1 of each year, showing
the total amount of SDC revenues collected and the projects that were funded in
the previous fiscal year with the revenue. The city shall include in the annual
accounting a list of the amount spent on each project funded, in whole or in
part, with SDC revenue, and the amount of revenue collected by the governmental
unit from system development charges and attributed to the costs of complying
with the provisions of ORS 223.297 through 223.314, as described in ORS 223.307
if any compliance costs are included in the adopted SDC;
      (3)   The city shall establish by resolution administrative review
procedures by which any citizen or other interested person may challenge in
expenditure of SDC revenues in accordance with the requirements of ORS 223.302
(2) and (3);
      (4)   The portion of the city’s SDC defined as “reimbursement fees” under
the provisions of ORS 223.299(3) shall be spent only on capital improvements
associated with the systems for which the fees were imposed, including
expenditures related to the payment of indebtedness;
      (5)   The portion of the city’s SDC defined as an “improvement fee” under
the provisions of ORS 223.229(2) shall be spent only on capacity increasing
capital improvements, including expenditures related to the payment of the debt
for such improvement;
      (6)   The SDC be a fee imposed by the city upon the permittee (as defined
in this chapter) seeking to develop property within the city or connect to the
city’s water or sewer system;
      (7)   The SDC imposed by this chapter is based upon the actual cost of
providing existing or planned for capital improvements and is intended to be a
financing mechanism for city capital improvements necessitated by new
development and for reimbursement for existing facilities. Future growth within
the geographic area served by the city should contribute its fair share to the
cost of improvements to public facilities. The imposition of a systems
development charge by the city will provide a source of revenue to fund the
construction or improvement of city facilities necessitated by growth. The SDC
imposed by this chapter does not impose charges on persons not receiving
services from the city;
      (8)   The purpose of the SDC is to promote the objective of future system
users contributing not more than an equitable share to the cost of existing
facilities and to impose a portion of the cost of capital improvements for city
services upon those who create the need for or increase the demands on capital
improvements by connection to city public facilities or assets; and
      (9)   The SDC revenues imposed and collected by the city shall be placed
in a separate, restricted fund, and accounted for expended in compliance with
the provisions of ORS 223.297 through 223.314, inclusive.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.03 SCOPE.
   The SDC imposed by this chapter is separate from and in addition to any
applicable tax, assessment, charge or fee otherwise provided by law or imposed
as a condition of development or based upon the ownership of property. The SDC
imposed by this section is not classified by the city, or intended to be, a tax
on property or on a property owner as a direct consequence of ownership of
property within the meaning of Article XI, § 11B, of the Oregon Constitution or
the legislation implementing that section. The city intends that the SDC
imposed by this chapter is not subject to the limits of Article XI, § 11B, of
the Oregon Constitution. The City Manager shall publish notice of this
classification as required by ORS 305.583(8).
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The owner or other person who applies for a residential,
commercial, industrial or other connection to the city’s water supply system or
sanitary sewer system.
   BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, built for the
support, shelter or enclosure of persons or property of any kind and for any
public, commercial, industrial or other use. This term shall not include
temporary construction sheds or trailers erected to assist in construction and
maintain during the term of a building permit.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS. Public facilities or assets used for:
      (1)   Wastewater collection, transmission, treatment and disposal or any
combination;
      (2)   Water supply, treatment, distribution, storage, metering, fire
protection or any combination;
      (3)   Drainage and flood control;
      (4)   Transportation facilities including vehicle and pedestrian; and
      (5)   Parks and recreation.
   CITIZEN OR OTHER INTERESTED PERSON. Any person whose legal residence is
within the service area of the city, as evidenced by registration as a voter
within the city, or by other proof of residency; or a person who owns, occupies
or otherwise has an interest in real property which is located within the city
service area; or a person who owns, occupies or otherwise has an interest in
real property which is served by the city’s water supply system or sanitary
sewer systems; or is otherwise subject to the imposition of systems development
charges, as outlined in §
34.05.
   CITY. The City of Myrtle Point.
   DEVELOPMENT. All improvements on a site, including buildings, other
structures, parking and loading areas, landscaping, paved or graveled areas,
and areas devoted to exterior display, storage or activities. DEVELOPMENT
includes redevelopment of property, dividing of land into two or more parcels
and creating or termination of a right of access. DEVELOPMENT includes improved
open areas such as plazas and walkways but does not include natural geologic
forms or unimproved lands. DEVELOPMENT also includes making any physical change
in the use of a structure or land which increases the usage of any capital
improvements or which may contribute to the need for additional or enlarged
capital improvements, as determined by city.
   EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT or EDU. The base element of the formula by which
systems development charge rates are determined for various buildings or
developments, based on meter size for water service and based on the
contribution of sewage from a residential dwelling unit, for sanitary sewer
service.
   IMPROVEMENT FEE. A fee as defined by ORS 223.299(2) for costs associated
with capital improvements to be constructed after the date the fee is adopted
pursuant to §
34.05.
   LAND AREA. The area of a parcel of land as measured by projection of the
parcel boundaries upon a horizontal plane with the exception of a portion of
the parcel within a recorded right-of-way or easement subject to a servitude
for a public street or for a public scenic or preservation purpose.
   METHODOLOGY. The system development charge methodology required by ORS
223.304(1) and (2).
   OWNER. The owner or owners of record title or the purchaser(s) under a
recorded land sales agreement and other persons having an interest of record in
the described real property.
   PARCEL OF LAND. A lot, parcel, block or other tract of land that, in
accordance with county regulations, is occupied or may be occupied by a
structure or structures, or other use, and that includes the yards and other
open spaces required under the zoning, subdivision and other development
ordinances.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom a building permit, development permit, a
permit or plan approval to connect to the sewer system or right-of-way access
permit is issued.
   QUALIFIED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   A capital improvement that is:
         (a)   Required as a condition of development approval; and
         (b)   Identified in the plan as adopted pursuant to §
34.09 and not located on or contiguous to a parcel of land this is the subject
of the development approval or located in whole or in part on or contiguous to
property that is the subject of development approval and required to be built
larger or with greater capacity than is necessary for the particular
development project to which the improvement fee is related.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, CONTIGUOUS includes
improvements to, located in, a public way that abuts the parcel.
   REIMBURSEMENT FEE. A fee defined by ORS 223.299(3) for costs associated with
capital improvements constructed or under construction on the date the fee is
established pursuant to §
34.05, and for which the city determines that capacity exists.
   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE. A reimbursement fee, an improvement fee or a
combination thereof assessed or collected at the time of increased usage of a
capital improvement, at the time of issuance of a development permit or
building permit, or at the time of connection to the capital improvement.
      (1)   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE includes the portion of a sewer system
connection that is greater than the amount necessary to reimburse the city for
its average cost of inspecting and installing connections with sewer
facilities.
      (2)   A SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE does not include fees assessed or
collected as part of a local improvement district or a charge in lieu of a
local improvement district assessment, or the cost of complying with
requirements or conditions imposed by a land use decision.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.05 SDC ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The amount of system development charges may be set, and may be
revised, by resolution and ordinance of the City Council. The resolution(s) and
ordinance(s) shall set the amount of the charge, the type of permit to which
the charge applies, the methodology used to set the amount of the charge and,
if the charge applies to a geographic area smaller than the entire city, the
geographic area subject to the charge.
   (B)   Unless otherwise exempted by the provisions of this chapter, or other
local or state law, an SDC is hereby imposed upon all development within the
city, upon connection to the water and/or sewer system, and upon all
development outside the boundary of the city that connects to the water and/or
sewer facilities of the city, and upon all development which increases the
usage of the water and/or sewer system or which contributes to the need for
additional or enlarged capital improvements. This shall include both new
construction and the alteration, expansion or replacement of a building or
development if such alteration, expansion or replacement results in an increase
in the number of EDUs or fixtures compared to the prior number of EDUs or
fixtures in the development. For alterations, expansions and replacements, the
amount of the systems development charge to be paid shall be the difference
between the rate for the proposed development and the rate that would be
imposed for the development prior to the alteration, expansion or replacement.
Street, storm drainage and parks SDCs may also be imposed upon connection to
the water and/or sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.06 METHODOLOGY.
   (A)   The methodology used to establish or modify the reimbursement fee
shall, where applicable, be based on the cost of then-existing facilities,
including, without limitation, design, financing and construction costs; prior
contributions by then-existing users; gifts or grants from federal or state
government or private persons; the value of unused capacity available to future
system users, ratemaking principles employed to finance publicly owned capital
improvements; gifts or grants from federal or state government or private
persons and other relevant factors identified by the City Council. The
methodology shall promote the objective that future systems users shall
contribute not more than an equitable share of the cost of then-existing
facilities.
   (B)   The methodology used to establish or modify the improvement fee shall,
where applicable, demonstrate consideration of the projected cost of the
capital improvements identified in the plan or list adopted pursuant to ORS
223.309 that are needed to increase the capacity of the systems to which the
fee is related. The methodology shall be calculated to obtain the cost of
capital improvements for the projected need for available system capacity for
future users.
   (C)   The methodology used to establish or modify improvement fees or
reimbursement fees, or both, shall be adopted by ordinance of the City Council.
   (D)   The methodology may be amended only as provided in §
34.10.
   (E)   The methodology shall be available for public inspection.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.07 AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   Reimbursement fees shall be applied only to capital improvements
associated with the system for which the fees are assessed, including
expenditures relating to repayment of debt for such improvements. The portion
of the improvements funded by improvement fees must be related to the need for
increased capacity to provide service for future users.
   (B)   Improvement fees shall be spent only on capacity increasing capital
improvements associated with the system for which the fees are assessed,
including expenditures relating to repayment of indebtedness. An increase in
system capacity occurs if a capital improvement increases the level of
performance or service provided by existing facilities or providing new
facilities.
      (1)   The portion of the capital improvements funded by improvement fees
must be related to demands created by current or projected development.
      (2)   A capital improvement being funded wholly, or in part from revenues
derived from the improvement fee shall be included in the plan adopted by the
city pursuant to §
34.09.
      (3)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above, SDC revenues may
be expended on the direct costs of complying with the provisions of this
chapter, including the costs of developing SDC methodologies, system planning,
providing an annual accounting of SDC expenditures and other costs directly
related to or required for the administration and operation of this SDC
program.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.08 EXPENDITURE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   SDCs shall not be expended for costs associated with the construction
of administrative office facilities that are more than an incidental part of
other capital improvements.
   (B)   SDCs shall not be expended for costs of the operation or routine
maintenance of capital improvements.
   (C)   SDCs shall not be used to oversize, overbuild or otherwise enhance an
improvement beyond what is reasonably required to provide necessary capacity
for development.
   (D)   SDCs shall not be charged for project costs for which city funds are
not or were not used. This shall include urban renewal funds, grant funds,
special assessment funds and others.
   (E)   SDCs shall not be assessed based on the amount of employees an
employer has or that an employer intends to add without regard to new
construction, new development or a change of use of an existing structure by an
employer.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.09 IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Prior to the establishment of an SDC, the City Council shall adopt a
capital improvement plan, public facilities plan, master plan or comparable
plan that includes a list of:
      (1)   The capital improvements that the city intends to fund in whole or
in part with the improvement fee revenues; and
      (2)   The estimated cost and time of construction of each improvement and
the percentage of that cost eligible to be funded with improvement fee
revenues.
   (B)   In adopting this plan, the city may incorporate by reference all or a
portion of any public facilities plan, master plan, capital improvements plan
or similar plan that contains the information required by this section.
   (C)   The city may modify such plan and list at any time. If an SDC will be
increased by a proposed modification to the list to include a capacity
increasing public improvement the Council will:
      (1)   Order the methodology to be amended as necessary. Amendments to the
methodology shall be made pursuant to §
34.10;
      (2)   Provide at least 30 days’ notice prior to adopting the modification
to those who have requested notice pursuant to §
34.16; and
      (3)   Hold a public hearing if a written request for a hearing is
received within seven days of the date of the proposed modification.
   (D)   A change in the amount of a reimbursement fee or an improvement fee is
not a modification of the SDC if the change in amount is based on:
      (1)   A change in the cost of labor, materials or real property applied
to projects or project capacity as set forth in the plan adopted pursuant to
this section; and
      (2)   A periodic application of the ENR Construction Cost Index.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.10 ADOPTING AND AMENDING THE METHODOLOGY.
   (A)   (1)   Before adopting or amending the methodology, the Council shall:
         (a)   At least 90 days prior to adoption of the proposed methodology,
or amendment to the methodology, provide written notice to persons who have
requested notice pursuant to §
34.16;
         (b)   Hold a public hearing if the city receives a written request for
a hearing on the proposed modification within seven days of the date of the
proposed modification is scheduled for adoption; and
         (c)   Make the revised methodology available to the public at least 60
days prior to the first public hearing of the adoption or amendment.
      (2)   The failure of a person on the list to receive a notice that was
mailed does not invalidate the action of the city.
   (B)   Legal action intended to contest the methodology used for calculating
a system development charge may not be filed after 60 days following adoption
or modification of the SDC ordinance or resolution.
   (C)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, a public hearing is
not required if the city does not receive a written request for a hearing.
   (D)   A change in the amount of a reimbursement fee or an improvement fee is
not a modification of the SDC methodology if the change in amount is based on:
      (1)   A relevant measurement of the average change in prices or costs
over an identified time period for materials, labor, real property or a
combination of the three;
      (2)   Published by a recognized organization or agency that produces the
index or data source for reasons that are independent of the SDC methodology;
and
      (3)   Incorporated as part of the established methodology or identified
and adopted in a separate ordinance, resolution or order.
   (E)   To increase an SDC resulting from a proposed modification of the list
to include a capacity increasing capital improvement.
      (1)   The city shall provide at least 30 days’ notice prior to the
adoption of the modification, notice of the proposed modification to the
persons who have requested written notice under ORS 223.304(6).
      (2)   The city shall hold a public hearing if the city receives a written
request for a hearing on the proposed modification within seven days of the
date of the proposed modification is scheduled for adoption.
      (3)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, a public hearing
is not required if the city does not receive a written request for a hearing.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.11 COLLECTION OF CHARGE.
   (A)   The SDC is payable upon issuance of at least one of the following
activities:
      (1)   A building permit; or
      (2)   A permit or approval to connect to the water and/or sewer system.
   (B)   SDCs shall be assessed on an equivalent dwelling unit basis as adopted
by resolution.
   (C)   If development is commenced or connection is made to the water and/or
sewer system without an appropriate permit, the SDC is immediately payable upon
the earliest date that a permit was required.
   (D)   If no building, development or connection permit is required, the SDC
is payable at the time the usage of the capital improvement is increased based
on changes in the use of the property unrelated to seasonal or ordinary
fluctuations in usage.
   (E)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall collect the applicable
SDC(s) from the permittee when a permit that allows building or development of
a parcel is issued or when application for connection to the water and/or sewer
system is made.
   (F)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall not issue such permit
or allow such connection until the charge has been paid in full, or until
provision for installment payments has been made pursuant to §
34.13, or unless an exemption is granted pursuant to §
34.14.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.12 DELINQUENT CHARGES; HEARINGS.
   (A)   When, for any reason, the SDC has not been paid, the City Manager
shall report to the City Council the amount of the uncollected charge, the
description of the real property to which the charge is attributable, the date
upon which the charge was due and the name of the person responsible for the
payment of the fee.
   (B)   The city shall schedule a public hearing on the matter and direct that
notice of the hearing be given to each owner or person responsible for payment
of the fee, with a copy of the City Manager’s report concerning the unpaid
charge. Notice of the hearing shall be given either personally, or by certified
mail, return receipt requested, or by both personal and mailed notice and by
posting notice on the parcel at least ten days before the date set for the
hearing.
   (C)   At the hearing, the Council may accept, reject or modify the
determination of the City Manager as set forth in the report.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.13 INSTALLMENT PAYMENT.
   (A)   When a SDC of $25 or more is due and collectable, the owner of the
parcel of land subject to the development charge may apply for payment in 20
semi-annual installments, to include interest on the unpaid balance, in
accordance with ORS 223.208. A shorter payment plan is acceptable if approved
by the city.
   (B)   The City Manager shall provide application forms for installment
payments which shall include a waiver of all rights to contest the validity of
the lien, except for the correction of computational errors.
   (C)   An applicant for installment payment shall have the burden of
demonstrating the applicant’s authority to assent to the imposition of a lien
on the parcel and that the property interest of the applicant is adequate to
secure payment of the lien.
   (D)   The City Manager shall report to the Council the amount of the SDC,
the dates on which payments are due, the name of the owner and the description
of the parcel.
   (E)   The City Manager shall docket the lien in the lien docket. From that
time the city shall have a lien upon the described parcel for the amount of the
SDC, together with interest on the unpaid balance at the rate established by
resolution of the City Council. The lien shall be enforceable in the manner
provided in ORS Chapter 223.
   (F)   Upon written notification from the permittee and with written evidence
from the county, where new development is not constructed and the building
permit is cancelled, the City Manager is authorized to cancel assessments of
SDCs. For property that has been subject to a cancellation of assessment of
SDCs, application for any subsequent installment payment contract shall be
subject to the code provisions applicable to SDCs and installment payment
contracts on file the date the new contract is received by the city.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.14 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Additions to single-family dwelling that do not constitute the
addition of a dwelling unit, as defined by the State Uniform Building Code,
being ORS 455.010 et seq., are exempt from all portions of the SDC.
   (B)   An alteration, addition, replacement or change in use that does not
increase the parcel’s or structure’s use of the public improvement facility is
exempt from all portions of the SDC.
   (C)   The issuance of a permit for a manufactured housing unit on which
applicable systems development charges have previously been paid.
   (D)   Development with vested rights, determined as follows:
      (1)   Any owner of land that was the subject of a building permit or
development permit issued prior to the effective date of this chapter may
petition the city for a vested rights determination which would exempt the land
owner from the provisions of this chapter. Such petition shall be evaluated by
the City Manager and a decision made based upon all three of the following
criteria being met:
         (a)   The existence of a valid, unexpired building or development
permit authorizing the specific development for which a determination is
sought;
         (b)   Substantial expenditures or obligations made or incurred in
reliance upon such permit; and
         (c)   Other factors that demonstrate it is inequitable to deny the
owner the opportunity to complete the previously approved development under the
conditions of approval by requiring the owner to comply with the requirements
of this chapter. For the purposes of this division (D), the following factors
shall be considered in determining whether it is inequitable to deny the owner
the opportunity to complete the previously approved development:
            1.   Whether the injuries suffered by the owner outweighs the
public cost of allowing the development to go forward without payment of the
systems development charges required by this chapter; and
            2.   Whether the expenses or obligations of the development were
made or incurred prior to the effective date of this chapter.
      (2)   The City Manager shall make a written determination as to whether
the owner has established a vested right in the development and, if so, whether
the development would be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.15 CREDITS.
   (A)   When a development occurs that is subject to an SDC, the SDC for the
existing use, if applicable, shall be calculated. If this amount is less than
the SDC for the use that will result from the development, the difference
between the SDC for the existing use and the SDC for the proposed use shall be
the SDC. If a change in use results in the SDC for the proposed use being less
than the SDC for the existing use, no SDC shall be required. No refund or
credit shall be given.
   (B)   A credit of the improvement fee portion of the SDC only shall be given
to the permittee against the cost of the SDC charged, for the cost of a
qualified public improvement, upon acceptance by the city of the public
improvement. The credit shall not exceed the amount of the improvement fee even
if the cost of the capital improvement exceeds the improvement fee.
   (C)   If a qualified public improvement is located in whole or in part on or
contiguous to the property that is the subject of the development approval and
is required to be built larger or with greater capacity than is necessary for
the particular development project, a credit shall be given for the cost of the
portion of the improvement that exceeds the city’s minimum standard facility
size or capacity needed to serve the particular development project or
property. The applicant shall have the burden of demonstrating that a
particular improvement qualifies for credit under this division (C). The
request shall be filed in writing no later than 60 days after acceptance of the
improvement by the city. The city may deny the credit provided for in this
section if the city demonstrates that the application does not meet the
requirements of this section or if the improvement for which credit is sought
was not included in the improvement plan pursuant to §
34.09.
   (D)   When construction of a qualified public improvement located in whole
or in part or contiguous to the property that is the subject of development
approval gives rise to a credit amount greater than the improvement fee that
would otherwise be levied against the project, the credit in excess of the
improvement fee for the original development project may be applied against
improvement fees that accrue in subsequent phases of the original development
project.
   (E)   Credit shall not be transferable from one development to another,
except in compliance with standards (if any) adopted by the City Council.
   (F)   Credit shall not be transferable from one type of capital improvement
to another.
   (G)   Credits shall be used within ten years from the date the credit was
given.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.16 NOTICE.
   (A)   The city shall maintain a list of persons who have made a written
request for notification prior to adoption or modification of a methodology for
any SDC. Written notice shall be mailed to persons on the list as provided in §
34.10. The failure of a person on the list to receive notice that was mailed
does not invalidate the action of the city.
   (B)   The city may periodically delete names from the list, but at least 30
days prior to removing a name from the list, the city must notify the person
whose name is to be deleted that a new written request for notification is
required if the person wishes to remain on the notification list.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.17 SEGREGATION AND USE OF REVENUE.
   (A)   All funds derived from a SDC are to be segregated by accounting
practices from all other funds of the city. That portion of the SDC calculated
and collected on account of a specific facility system shall be used for no
purpose other than those set forth in §
34.07.
   (B)   (1)   The City Manager shall provide the City Council with an annual
accounting, based on the city’s fiscal year, for SDCs showing the total amount
of SDC revenues collected for each type of facility and the projects funded
from each account in the previous fiscal year.
      (2)   A list of the amounts spent on each project funded in whole or in
part, with SDC revenues shall be included in the annual accounting.
   (C)   The moneys deposited into the SDC account shall be used solely as
allowed by §
34.07, authorized expenditures of this chapter and as allowed by ORS 223.307,
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Design and construction plan preparation;
      (2)   Permitting and fees;
      (3)   Land and materials acquisition, including any cost of acquisition
or condemnation;
      (4)   Construction of capital improvements;
      (5)   Design and construction of new water facilities required by the
construction of capital improvements and structures;
      (6)   Relocating utilities required by the construction of improvements;
      (7)   Landscaping;
      (8)   Construction management and inspection;
      (9)   Surveys, soils and material testing;
      (10)   Acquisition of capital equipment;
      (11)   Repayment of moneys transferred or borrowed from any budgetary
fund of the city which were used to fund any of the capital improvements as
herein provided; and
      (12)   Payment of principal and interest, necessary reserves and cost of
issuance under bonds or other indebtedness issued by the city to fund capital
improvements.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.18 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Refunds may be given by the city upon finding that there was a
clerical error in the calculation of the SDC.
   (B)   Refunds shall not be allowed for failure to timely claim credit or for
failure to timely seek an alternative SDC rate calculation at the time of
submission of an application for a building permit
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.19 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   A person challenging the propriety of an expenditure of SDC
revenues may appeal the decision of the expenditure to the City Council by
filing a written request with the City Manager describing with particularity
the decision and the expenditure from which the person appeals.
      (2)   An appeal of the expenditure must be filed within two years of the
date of the alleged improper expenditure.
   (B)   Appeals of any other decision required or permitted to be made by the
City Manager under this chapter must be filed in writing with the City Manager
within ten days of the decision.
   (C)   (1)   After providing notice to the appellant, the City Council shall
determine whether the City Manager’s decision or the expenditure is in
accordance with this chapter and the provision of ORS 223.297 through 233.314
and may affirm, modify or overrule the decision.
      (2)   If the Council determines that there has been an improper
expenditure of SDC revenues, the Council shall direct that a sum equal to the
misspent amount shall be deposited within one year to the credit of the account
or fund from which it was spent. The decision of the Council shall be reviewed
only as provided in ORS 34.010 through 34.100, and not otherwise.
   (D)   A legal action challenging the methodology adopted by the City Council
pursuant to §
34.06 shall not be filed later than 60 days after adoption. A person shall
contest the methodology used for calculating an SDC only as provided in ORS
34.010 through 34.100, and not otherwise.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.20 PROHIBITED CONNECTION.
   No person may connect to the water or sewer system of the city or obtain a
building permit unless the appropriate SDC(s) has been paid, or the installment
payment method has been applied for and approved.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.21 CLASSIFICATION.
   The City Council determines that any fee, rates or charges imposed by this
chapter and/or future enabling ordinances are not a tax subject to the property
tax limitations of Article XI, § 11(b) of the Oregon Constitution.
(Ord. 1247, passed 3-6-2007)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   City utility billing procedure
   
50.02   Utility discounts for senior citizens and disabled persons
   
50.03   Street lighting fees
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 CITY UTILITY BILLING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   City utility billing procedure.
      (1)   City water, sanitary sewer and other charges shall be billed on a
monthly basis on a combined statement to the property owner. The property owner
shall be responsible for the bill.
      (2)   Utility bills are due upon receipt and become delinquent if not
paid in full after the last business day of the month billed. A delinquency
charge of 10% (not less than $10) shall be added to the unpaid bill. The City
Manager, or his or her designee, may waive up to two late fee charges per
calendar year.
      (3)   The Finance Department shall mail a delinquency notice to each
delinquent customer to the physical service address and to the owner’s address,
if that differs from the physical service address, within 40 days of the
billing date.
      (4)   Within ten days of delinquency, the Finance Department shall give
the Public Works Director a list of such delinquencies.
      (5)   In the event any person, firm or corporation shall tender as
payment an amount insufficient to pay in full all of the charges billed, the
amount paid shall be applied in full in the following order: penalties and
interest; sewer; and water. In the event of an overpayment, the remaining
balance shall be proportionately distributed among all utility funds.
      (6)   If water or sewer charges remain unpaid on the forty-fifth day
after billing, water to such delinquent premises is subject to shut-off by the
Public Works Director. The city may, at its discretion, notify the registered
contacts of service not less than two days prior to the shut-off date, in which
case there shall be a fee as established by city resolution added to the unpaid
bill.
      (7)   There shall be a fee as established by city resolution for the
shutoff and reinstatement of water services.
      (8)   All fees, fines or charges provided for in this section shall be
paid in full to the Finance Department before the Public Works Director may
reinstate water service to any delinquent premises. Upon verification from the
City Finance Department, the Public Works Director shall reinstate service no
later than closing of the next following business day. Customers requesting
reinstatement of service after regular hours (7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.) shall pay
a fee as established by city resolution prior to reinstatement.
      (9)   A customer deposit as established by city resolution shall be
required in order to initiate utility service. Customer deposits shall be
applied to the unpaid balance due upon closure of the account and any unapplied
deposit shall be returned to the customer within 30 days. Customer deposits
shall be credited to the customer’s account upon a six-month consecutive period
without late or insufficient payment.
      (10)   There shall be a charge as established by city resolution for
checks returned for insufficient payment.
      (11)   Unless a utility is abandoned, the minimum monthly service charges
shall apply. A minimum monthly fee will be charged for each utility.
   (B)   Payment arrangements. Any utility customer may request a conference
before the City Manager, or his or her designee, to consider entering into a
promissory agreement that identifies certain terms and conditions of a payment
plan that would cause a utility account to become current. The City Manager, or
his or her designee, is hereby authorized to enter into promissory agreements
on a case-by-case basis for municipal utility customers. Verbal agreements will
not be accepted. If a customer fails to make good on any term and/or condition
contained within the promissory agreement, the customer’s utility services may
be disconnected immediately.
(Ord. 1259, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 50.02 UTILITY DISCOUNTS FOR SENIOR CITIZENS AND DISABLED PERSONS.
   (A)   Purpose of utility discounts. There is hereby enacted a senior citizen
and disabled person utility discount program, the purpose of which is to reduce
the amount due under the city’s utility rate resolutions for water and sewer
service to lower income senior citizens and disabled persons.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DISABLED PERSON. A person who is permanently and totally disabled and who
has been so declared by a state agency for purposes of workers’ compensation
laws or by the Social Security Administration of the federal government.
      SENIOR CITIZEN. A person 62 years of age or older.
   (C)   Qualifications of applicants.
      (1)   A senior citizen or disabled person must submit application for
benefits under this section.
      (2)   To qualify for the utility discount program:
         (a)   The applicant must be a senior citizen as defined in division
(B) above or a disabled person as defined in division (B) above;
         (b)   The applicant must be a resident in, and head of, the household
for which the discount is requested;
         (c)   The applicant shall have an annual income from all sources not
exceeding the sums specified in the low-income table for families in need of
financial assistance in the county, as established by the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development; and
         (d)   The applicant shall not have transferred, during the previous
five years, by gift or otherwise, for less than full consideration, any real
property, any expectancy due under any will or trust, or from any estate or any
bank account.
      (3)   Utility discounts are available to any user of the water and sewer
system of the city, whether or not a resident or inhabitant of the city.
   (D)   Application required. A person desiring to receive a senior citizen or
disabled person utility discount must submit an application to the city
therefor on a form provided by the city. In order to maintain continuous
qualification for the discount, the applicant shall, no later than June 15 of
each ensuing year, file an annual renewal application on a form provided by the
city.
   (E)   Amount of utility discount. Discounts from amounts charged for water
and sewer service shall be established by resolution of the City Council. An
applicant who meets the requirements of this section shall receive a discount
from the regular charge, beginning with the last billing period after the date
of the application, and shall be billed in that manner until the applicant no
longer qualifies for the discount.
   (F)   Duration of the program. The provisions of this section shall become
effective with the August 1, 1988 billing for utility services. The senior
citizen and disabled person utility discount is an innovative program, and the
Council reserves the right to discontinue the program at any time.
(Ord. 1108, passed 6-27-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 STREET LIGHTING FEES.
   (A)   Each utility customer receiving city water and/or sewer services at
standard billing rates shall be charged $2 per month to be dedicated for the
payment of lighting city streets.
   (B)   Each utility customer receiving city water and/or sewer services at
senior or disabled low income rates shall be charged $1 per month to be
dedicated for the payment of lighting city streets.
   (C)   Charges shall be billed on the combined monthly utility billing
statement and subject to the terms of the city’s adopted utility billing
collection policy and procedures.
   (D)   Future revisions to this section shall be by resolution of the City
Council.
(Ord. 1270, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement to acquire the
benefits of §
50.02, or who receives such benefits with knowledge that he or she does not
qualify, is guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $350.
(Ord. 1108, passed 6-27-1988)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Use of city water; connection charges; user fees
   
51.02   Water service outside corporate boundaries
Cross-Connections
   
51.15   Definitions
   
51.16   Purpose
   
51.17   Cross-connections regulated
   
51.18   Mobile units
   
51.19   Water user’s responsibilities
   
51.20   Installation requirements
   
51.21   Access to premises
   
51.22   Annual testing and repairs
   
51.23   Costs of compliance
Water Conservation
   
51.35   Purpose and intent
   
51.36   Definitions
   
51.37   Applicability
   
51.38   Authorization of mandatory water curtailment actions
   
51.39   Conditions creating an emergency requiring water curtailment actions
   
51.40   Water curtailment actions
   
51.41   Water watch
   
51.42   Water warning
   
51.43   Water emergency
   
51.44   Critical supply
   
51.45   Publication and notice
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 USE OF CITY WATER; CONNECTION CHARGES; USER FEES.
   (A)   Whenever any person, firm or corporation desires water service from
the water system of the city, that person shall make a written request on a
water service request form provided by the city. For new water service to a
site not previously served by the city water system, a written request shall be
made on a water connection request form provided by the city.
      (1)   Water service requests shall include the following:
         (a)   The name and signature of the applicant;
         (b)   The location of the premises for which water service is desired;
         (c)   The address to which water bills shall be mailed or delivered;
         (d)   Information the city may require to determine an applicable
water rate; and
         (e)   Additional information the city may reasonably require.
      (2)   Water connection requests, when necessary, shall be in addition to
a water service request, and the following conditions shall apply.
         (a)   Approved water connection requests shall not be transferable to
property other than the property for which originally issued.
         (b)   A building permit issued by the state for the property
designated on the water connection request shall be obtained within 180 days of
approval of the water connection request.
         (c)   Actual construction shall begin on the property designated on
the water connection request within 180 days of approval of the water
connection request. Construction shall be considered to have begun on the date
on which building foundations or slab are placed.
   (B)   No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from
the city supply to any premises other than those for which application has been
made. A violation of this section shall be grounds for the discontinuance of
water service.
   (C)   Buildings supplied with water other than water furnished by the city
may not obtain city water unless city-approved cross-connection controls are
installed. Upon determining that another water supply is being used, city water
service will be shut off until cross-connection controls are installed.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, alter, change, remove,
disconnect or connect with, or in any manner interfere, meddle or tamper with
any hydrant owned or used by the city; provided, however, that this section
shall not apply to the City Fire Department.
   (E)   (1)   All water meters inside the city are the property of the city
and shall not be removed except by Water Department employees. All new water
services will be required to have water meters installed. Applicants for a
change in meter size to a larger meter shall pay the difference in the service
connection charges; no refund shall be made for changes to a smaller meter
size. The occupants of any building or premises where a meter is located shall
ensure that the meter is kept and remains free from obstructions on or around
the same and is conveniently accessible at all times for the purpose of
reading, inspecting or repairing; failure may result in loss of water service
and payment of service calls. The Water Department may at any time attach a
meter to, or detach a meter from, the service pipe of any place and charge for
the quantity of water used or measured at the established water rate. When a
meter becomes out of order and fails to register accurately, the charge shall
be according to the average quantity used monthly, as shown by the meter when
in order, and shall continue in such fashion until repairs are made.
      (2)   When the water main is in a public right-of-way, the water meter
shall be installed in the right-of-way at a location convenient to the property
served and approved by the Public Works Director or his or her designee. When
the water main is in an easement or publicly owned property other than
designated rights-of-way, the water meter shall be installed in the easement or
publicly owned property unless another location is approved by the Public Works
Director or his or her designee. If, in either case cited, the length of the
service line from the water main to the meter location exceeds 30 feet, the
applicant shall pay any additional cost of the line based on actual cost to the
Public Works Department for materials and time to install the water service.
   (F)   The water may at any time be shut off from the mains, without notice,
for repairs or other necessary purposes; the city will not be responsible for
any consequent damages. If a shortage of water exists, the city has the
authority at any time to restrict the use of water to any of its customers.
   (G)   Water service to private fire systems may be permitted after charges
are calculated by the city and a formal agreement is signed between the city
and the consumer.
   (H)   From time to time, the Council shall establish, review and revise
charges, by resolution, to be made for new water service connections within and
without the city and the charges to be paid by consumers of city water within
and without the city. A special rate may be established for any consumer whose
premises are so situated that a minimum static water pressure of 20 pounds per
square inch cannot be maintained without mechanical assistance. The Council, in
establishing such special rate, shall consider the cost of acquisition,
installation, maintenance and operation of the mechanical assistance required
to maintain such minimum pressure. Charges, once established, shall continue
until altered or revised by the Council.
   (I)   An advance deposit, the amount of which shall be established by
resolution of the Council, shall be held by the city to be applied toward any
unpaid water service charge due from the applicant. Said deposit shall be held
by the city until the service for which deposit is made is discontinued or
until six months from the date of deposit, whichever is sooner. If there has
been delinquency by the applicant in payment of water charges during the
initial six-month period, the deposit shall be held by the city to ensure
payment of the applicant’s account until such service is discontinued or until
the account has been free from delinquency for six successive months, whichever
is sooner.
   (J)   All water service charges shall be mailed to the premises where water
service is furnished unless the property owner requests, in writing, that the
bill be submitted to another address.
   (K)   The property owner of record shall be responsible for payment of all
charges prescribed in this section. If the property is rented and the renter
fails to pay the charges after they are due, the city may submit the bill to
the property owner.
   (L)   A water account shall be considered delinquent if not fully paid
within 15 days from the date a statement is mailed. Service to any water
consumer can be discontinued when the consumer’s account has been delinquent
for a period of 30 days. Prior to discontinuation, due process shall be
observed. In no case shall service be restored to any delinquent consumer of
water until such delinquency has been fully paid, in addition to any other
charges provided by resolution as set by the City Council for restoration of
service. If, when water service has been discontinued due to nonpayment, a
water consumer restores water service without permission of the Water
Department, the Water Department will again discontinue water service by
detaching the meter. In such circumstances, an additional charge set by
resolution of the City Council, shall be assessed to reattach the meter.
   (M)   Water service charges shall become a lien against the premises served
from and after the date of billing. Such billing and accompanying records shall
be accessible for inspection by anyone interested in ascertaining the amount of
charges against the property. The Council shall have the right to enforce such
liens in the same manner as provided by charter, ordinance or statute for the
enforcement of city liens in general. The city reserves the right to refuse
service to subsequent applicants when the premises for which service is sought
has unpaid water charges.
   (N)   When a user has a delinquent bill for one service location, the
delinquency shall be a charge against said user for water obtained at any other
premises or source served by the city.
(Ord. 1286, passed - -2020) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 WATER SERVICE OUTSIDE CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided under the provisions of this
section, no water facility or service of the city shall be extended to any real
property lying outside of the corporate boundaries of the city.
   (B)   Extension of water service to contiguous property. In the event of a
request for extension of water service to real property outside of the
corporate boundaries of the city and the property requesting service is
contiguous to and capable of immediate annexation to the city, water service
shall not be extended to such property unless:
      (1)   The owner of the property petitions the city and consents to
annexation to the city. In the event that the property proposing extension is
contiguous to the city but outside of the city’s approved urban growth
boundary, the city may delay action on an application for extension of water
service pending approval of a request for expansion of the city’s urban growth
boundary for purposes of annexation of the property proposed to be served by
the city’s water system;
      (2)   The owner of the property pays all fees associated with the
proposed annexation; and
      (3)   The request complies with all applicable provisions of this
section.
   (C)   Extension of water service to non-contiguous property. In the event of
a request for an extension of water service to property outside of the
corporate boundaries of the city which is not contiguous to the city and not
capable of immediate annexation as provided in division (B) above, and the
property is within the city’s approved urban growth boundary, no approval shall
be granted under the provisions of this section for extension of water service
to the property until:
      (1)   The owner of the property has executed an agreement by and between
the requesting property owner and the city to annex to the city at such future
time as annexation is legally possible, at the discretion of the city. The
parties to the agreement shall agree that the agreement and the covenant to
annex shall be a covenant to run with the land so served;
      (2)   The applicant pays, in addition to costs for connection to the
city’s water system by the applicant located outside the corporate boundaries
of the city, the costs of recording the agreement to annex as required by this
section; and
      (3)   The request complies with all applicable provisions of this
section.
   (D)   Extension of water service to property outside of the urban growth
boundary.
      (1)   No approval shall be given to extension of water service by the
city to property located outside of the city’s approved urban growth boundary
except to the following:
         (a)   Development of designated industrial sites;
         (b)   Development of recreational planned unit developments (PUDs);
         (c)   Curing documented health hazards;
         (d)   Providing water service to existing rural-residential areas or
to other areas committed to non-resource use upon a finding that Goal 14
standards have been met; or
         (e)   Publicly owned parks.
      (2)   In addition to the other requirements provided by this section,
water service shall not be extended to properties lying outside the city’s
approved urban growth boundary except upon specific findings by written
resolution by the City Council of the following:
         (a)   The services and facilities are extended solely for the purposes
expressed in division (D)(1) above and not for the purpose (express or implied)
of justifying further expansion into rural areas;
         (b)   Identifying the specific provision of division (D)(1) above
justifying the proposed extension;
         (c)   The area where the service is proposed to be extended is capable
of being fully served by the city; and
         (d)   The hook-up of city water lines to resource lands will be
prohibited unless specifically allowed under division (D)(1) above.
   (E)   Water service extensions. Water service may be extended to properties
outside of the city limits only when those properties have frontage on a public
water main which has been built to current city standards to serve the property
requesting service and which water main is so constructed and extended as to
provide service to adjacent property and which has been dedicated to and
accepted by the city, together with all necessary easements and rights-of-way
therefor, all in conformance with the requirements of this and any other
relevant ordinance of the city. Such service may be extended only by the City
Council after proper application as required by this section.
   (F)   Water main extension expenses.
      (1)   Any person or persons desiring to extend a city water line under
provisions of this section to their property for connection thereto shall be
responsible for the payment of costs for said construction and for the
construction of the same according to the requirements of this section and to
standard specifications and drawings submitted to and approved by the City
Public Works Director.
      (2)   All such water main line extensions, not including water service
lines, shall become the property of the city upon completion of the same by the
owner or contractor and inspection and acceptance by the city. The person or
persons constructing the water main line extensions shall provide and dedicate
to the city an easement of a width and length required by the city prior to
acceptance of the water main line by the city. The water users connected to the
water main line shall also maintain the water main line, in accordance with
city standards, for a minimum of five years.
      (3)   If the water main line, as extended as provided for herein,
provides water service or is capable of providing water service to property
other than the property owned by the person extending the water service, which
property is not previously connected with the city water system, then the
person or persons constructing the water main line extension shall file a
verified statement of the total cost of construction of the water main line
with the city. The city, after verifying the statement of costs, shall compute
a just and reasonable method of apportionment of the costs for each property
capable of being served by the water main line.
      (4)   After computation of the proportionate costs attributable to each
property by the city, the city shall maintain a statement showing the costs of
construction attributable to each property. The city shall then maintain a
certified list of the costs attributable to each property owner who did not
share in the cost of the construction of the water main line in the first
instance.
      (5)   Any person or persons owning property who did not share in the
initial cost of construction of a water main line who desires to connect to the
water main line extended as provided for herein shall first be required to pay,
in addition to established connection rates, the proportionate amount as
computed by the city in division (F)(3) above together with interest at the
statutory rate per annum before connection shall be allowed to the water main
line. Upon receipt of the payment as provided for herein, the city shall attach
to the original computation of proportionate costs a statement, duly certified,
showing that payment of main line construction charges attributable to the
property seeking connection have been paid.
      (6)   (a)   Upon receipt of the payment attributable to property seeking
connection to the water main line extension as provided for herein, together
with the interest payment, the city shall place the funds so received in a
trust fund account for the benefit of the person or persons who initially
constructed the water main line or their successors in interest to the real
property which was served by the water main line extension. As moneys are paid
into the trust fund, the city shall apportion the same together with interest
accrued thereon, to the person or persons originally paying for the water main
line extension in an amount to which said person or persons are respectively
entitled; provided, however, that in the event said person or persons
originally paying for the water main line extension shall have transferred the
property to a third person, the city shall pay such proportionate share
together with interest accrued thereon, to the property owner of record at the
time such payment is made; and provided further, that the city shall pay such
proportionate share together with interest accrued thereon, to a purchaser
under contract of sale if in such contract of sale the seller authorizes such
payment to be made to the purchaser.
         (b)   The trust fund established by this provision shall continue for
a period of 20 years, after which time the city shall cause the trust fund to
be closed and any proceeds remaining in the fund to be transferred to the
person or persons constructing the water main line extension or their
successors in interest. After the period of 20 years has expired, the city
shall not require any person or persons desiring to connect to the water main
line to pay the proportionate share of construction costs as set forth in this
section, nor shall the city be responsible for the collection of the same.
      (7)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the city from participating
in the construction of the water main line extension, if the budget permits.
The city would be entitled to receive moneys from the trust fund.
   (G)   Water service generally.
      (1)   All service provided to properties located outside the corporate
boundaries of the city shall be subject to disconnection in the event of
shortage of water supply within the city. Pressure and other conditions in all
water service provided outside the city shall be at the risk of the purchaser
of water, without guarantee or warranty by the city.
      (2)   No person, persons or property owner with water service shall allow
additional water service connections on the water main or service line without
the written approval of the City Council.
   (H)   Location and ownership of water main lines.
      (1)   The city will allow water main line extensions only on rights-of-
way, easements or publicly owned property. Easements secured for water main
extensions shall be in the name of the city or transferred to the city, along
with all rights and title to the water main line at the time the service is
provided to the customers paying for the extension.
      (2)   The property owners shall install and maintain, at their expense,
the water service line from the city’s water meter to the premises. The city
shall be the owner of all lines from the connection on the main line to the
city’s water meter. The city shall be the owner of all water meters connected
to the city’s water line.
      (3)   Water main lines outside of the corporate boundaries of the city
shall be extended only as provided in this section. The water main extension
shall become the property of the city at the time of installation. The City
Council, or its designee, shall determine the size of the main extensions and
all extensions shall be made only with prior approval by the city. All
installation or repair procedures and materials for installation or repair of
water lines of the city shall be in accordance with city and state standards.
      (4)   Maintenance of water main lines, meters and all appurtenances to
the city’s water system located outside the city shall be the responsibility of
the water users of the line for five years after installation. The city shall
assume responsibility for maintenance of the water system, not including
service lines, no sooner than five years after installation and only after
annexation of the property adjacent to the water main line.
   (I)   Existing water services to property outside city limits.
      (1)   Existing services shall mean any connected water service and water
lines outside the boundaries of the city at the time of the enactment of this
section.
      (2)   No new connections shall be allowed on existing water services
located outside the boundaries of the city without complying with the
provisions of this section.
      (3)   (a)   No improvements, other than needed repairs, shall be allowed
on existing water services located outside the boundaries of the city unless
the improvements comply with the provisions of this section regarding extension
of water main lines and receive Council approval.
         (b)   Improvements shall include any alteration or changes, including
easement changes, which could increase the service capacity of the line.
      (4)   Water services located west of the Coquille River supplied by the
city’s water main on the Spruce Street Bridge shall be assessed monthly fees to
pay all costs associated with continuing water service during any
reconstruction of the Spruce Street Bridge or any future costs associated with
continuance of service.
(Ord. 1185, passed 2-20-1996)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 51.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY or BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY or ASSEMBLY. An
assembly to counteract back pressures or prevent backsiphonage. This ASSEMBLY
must appear on the list of approved assemblies issued by the State Health
Division.
   AUXILIARY SUPPLY. Any water source or system, other than the public water
system, that may be available in the building or on the premises.
   BACKFLOW. The flow in the direction opposite to the normal flow or the
introduction of any foreign liquids, gases or substances into the water system
of the city’s water.
   BORESIGHT or BORESIGHT TO DAYLIGHT. Providing adequate drainage for backflow
prevention assemblies installed in vaults through the use of an unobstructed
drain pipe.
   CONTAMINATION. The entry into or presence in a public water supply system of
any substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of Myrtle Point.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical arrangement where a public water system is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water system or auxiliary
system, sewer, drain conduit, swimming pool, storage reservoir, plumbing
fixture, swamp cooler or any other device which contains, or may contain,
contaminated water, sewage or other liquid of unknown or unsafe quality which
may be capable of imparting contamination to the public water system as a
result of backflow. Bypass arrangements, jumper connections, removable
sections, swivel or changeover devices or other temporary or permanent devices
through which, or because of which, backflow may occur are considered to be
CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. The low or high hazard classification that shall be
attached to all actual or potential cross-connections.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY or DOUBLE CHECK ASSEMBLY or
DOUBLE CHECK. An assembly which consists of two independently operating check
valves which are spring-loaded or weighted. The assembly comes complete with a
shut-off valve on each side of the checks, as well as test cocks to test the
checks for tightness.
   HEALTH HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of contamination of a physical
or toxic nature to the public potable water system or the consumer’s potable
water system that would be a danger to health.
   HIGH HAZARD. The classification assigned to an actual or potential cross-
connection that potentially could allow a substance that may cause illness or
death, to backflow into the potable water supply.
   LOW HAZARD. The classification assigned to an actual or potential cross-
connection that potentially could allow a substance that may be objectionable,
but not hazardous to one’s health, to backflow into the potable water supply.
   PLUMBING HAZARD. An internal or plumbing-type cross-connection in a
consumer’s potable water system than may be either a pollutional or a
contamination-type hazard. This includes, but is not limited to, cross-
connections to toilets, sinks, lavatories, wash trays, domestic washing
machines and lawn sprinkling systems. Plumbing-type cross-connections can be
located in many types of structures including homes, apartment houses, hotels
and commercial or industrial establishments.
   POINT-OF-USE ISOLATION. The appropriate backflow prevention within the
consumer’s water system at the point at which the actual or potential cross-
connection exists.
   POLLUTIONAL HAZARD. An actual or potential threat to the physical properties
of the water system or the potability of the public or the consumer’s potable
water system but which would not constitute a health or system hazard, as
defined. The maximum degree of intensity of pollution to which the potable
water system could be degraded under this definition would cause a nuisance or
be aesthetically objectionable or could cause minor damage to the system or its
appurtenances.
   POTABLE WATER SUPPLY. Any system of water supply intended or used for human
consumption or other domestic use.
   PREMISES. Any piece of property to which water is provided, including all
improvements, mobile structures and structures located on it.
   PREMISES ISOLATION. The appropriate backflow prevention at the service
connection between the public water system and the water user.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY or REDUCED PRESSURE
PRINCIPLE ASSEMBLY or RP ASSEMBLY. An assembly containing two independently
acting approved check valves together with a hydraulically-operated,
mechanically independent pressure differential relief valve located between the
check valves and at the same time below the first check valve. The assembly
shall include properly located test cocks and tightly closing shut off valves
at the end of the assembly.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of severe danger to the
physical properties of the public or consumer’s potable water system or of a
pollution or contamination which would have a detrimental effect on the quality
of the potable water in the system.
   THERMAL EXPANSION. Heated water that does not have the space to expand.
(Ord. 1195, passed 8-3-1998)
§ 51.16 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to Chapter 333, Division 61, of the State Administrative
Rules, it is the responsibility of the city to protect its drinking water by
instituting and enforcing a cross-connection control ordinance.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the water supply of the
city from contamination or pollution due to any existing or potential cross-
connections.
(Ord. 1195, passed 8-3-1998)
§ 51.17 CROSS-CONNECTIONS REGULATED.
   (A)   (1)   No cross-connections shall be created, installed, used or
maintained within the territory served by the city, except in accordance with
this policy.
      (2)   A representative of the water system of the city shall determine
the type and location of backflow assembly to be installed within the area
served by the city.
   (B)   The assembly will be required in each of the following circumstances,
but the representative is in no way limited to the following circumstances:
      (1)   The nature and extent of any activity of the premises, or the
materials used in connection with any activity of the premises, or materials
stored on the premises, could contaminate or pollute the potable water supply;
      (2)   Premises having any one or more cross-connections as that term is
defined in §
51.15;
      (3)   Internal cross-connections are present that are not correctable;
      (4)   Intricate plumbing arrangements are present that make it
impractical to ascertain whether cross-connections exist;
      (5)   There is a repeated history of cross-connections being established
or re-established;
      (6)   There is unduly restricted entry so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency to assure that cross-
connections do not exist;
      (7)   Materials are being used such that, if backflow should occur, a
health hazard could result;
      (8)   Installation of an approved backflow prevention assembly is deemed
to be necessary to accomplish the purpose of these regulations in the judgement
of the city;
      (9)   An appropriate cross-connection survey report form has not been
filed with the Public Works Department of the city upon request of the city;
      (10)   A fire sprinkler system using non-potable piping material is
connected to the city’s water system;
      (11)   All new construction if deemed necessary in the plan review. The
type of assembly will be commensurate with the degree of hazard as determined
by the representative of the water system;
      (12)   When a building is constructed on commercial premises, and the end
use of such building is not determined or could change, a reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly may be installed at the service
connection that supplies water for public domestic use;
      (13)   All facilities that require continuous, uninterrupted water
service and are required to have a backflow assembly must make provisions for
the parallel installation of assemblies of the same type so that testing,
repair and maintenance can be performed;
      (14)   Any used water return system;
      (15)   If it is determined that additions or rearrangements have been
made to the plumbing system without obtaining proper permits as required by the
city;
      (16)   All multi-story buildings or any building with a booster pump or
elevated storage tank;
      (17)   Retrofitting will be required where a cross-connection exists;
      (18)   There is an auxiliary water supply which is, or can be, connected
to the potable water piping;
      (19)   There is piping for conveying liquids other than potable water and
where the piping is under pressure and is installed in proximity to potable
water piping; and
      (20)   Cross-connections or potential cross-connections exist.
(Ord. 1195, passed 8-3-1998) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18 MOBILE UNITS.
   Any mobile unit or apparatus which uses city water or water from any
premises within the district’s system shall first notify the city and comply
with all cross-connection control policies.
(Ord. 1195, passed 8-3-1998)
§ 51.19 WATER USER’S RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The property owner is responsible for providing adequate freeze
protection for any backflow assemblies installed on or in their property.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for providing adequate protection
against thermal expansion.
   (C)   Any water pressure loss caused by the installation of a premises
isolation assembly is not the responsibility of the city.
(Ord. 1195, passed 8-3-1998)
§ 51.20 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Each backflow assembly installed within the city shall be an approved
assembly and be installed in accordance with State Administrative Rules,
Chapter 333-0610071, Backflow Assembly Installation Standards.
(Ord. 1195, passed 8-3-1998)
§ 51.21 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   Authorized employees of the city, with proper identification, shall have
access during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. to all parts of the premises
and within the building to which water is supplied. However, if any water user
refuses access to the premises or to the interior of a structure during these
hours for inspection by a cross-connection specialist appointed by the Council,
a reduced pressure principle assembly must be installed at the service
connection to the premises.
(Ord. 1195, passed 8-3-1998)
§ 51.22 ANNUAL TESTING AND REPAIRS.
   All backflow assemblies installed within the territory served by the city
shall be tested immediately upon installation, if repaired, if moved and at
least annually thereafter by a state-certified tester. All such assemblies
found not functioning properly shall be promptly repaired or replaced.
(Ord. 1195, passed 8-3-1998)
§ 51.23 COSTS OF COMPLIANCE.
   All costs associated with purchase, installation, testing, replacement,
maintenance, parts and repairs of any backflow assembly are the financial
responsibility of the property owner, not the city.
(Ord. 1195, passed 8-3-1998)
WATER CONSERVATION
§ 51.35 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to describe the conditions under which
mandatory water conservation measures may be imposed and enforced to the end of
preserving the public water supply for the greatest public benefit with
particular regard for domestic use, sanitation and fire protection.
(Ord. 1218, passed 4-16-2001)
§ 51.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any person using water supplied by the city.
   DRIP IRRIGATION SYSTEM. A device used for watering plants and shrubs in such
a manner that water passes at a slow rate from the system directly to the soil,
either by placement of the device directly into or upon the soil, without water
being discharged into the air, so that water is efficiently absorbed into the
soil with no runoff and minimal evaporation.
   EMERGENCY WATER CURTAILMENT PROGRAM. A short-term mandatory program intended
to drastically reduce water consumption, usually due to an emergency or serious
water shortage.
   LANDSCAPING. Includes ornamental flowering plants, shrubs and trees.
   LAWN. Grass or any similar type of ground cover.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, entity, partnership, company or organization of
any kind.
   WATER. Any water contained within or from the city water system.
   WATER CONSERVATION PROGRAM. A long-term program intended to reduce average
water use, thus reducing the demand on the city’s water system.
(Ord. 1218, passed 4-16-2001)
§ 51.37 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all customers using water
supplied by the city municipal water system. All persons using water, under
emergency conditions or otherwise, shall do so in an efficient and careful
manner and shall take all reasonable steps to avoid wasting water.
(Ord. 1218, passed 4-16-2001)
§ 51.38 AUTHORIZATION OF MANDATORY WATER CURTAILMENT ACTIONS.
   Water curtailment shall be enacted by resolution of the City Council which
makes findings and identifies the level of water curtailment actions to be
imposed. The resolution must also provide an effective time and date for
implementation of these measures which is not less than 24 hours from the time
and date of the beginning of the meeting at which this resolution is adopted.
(Ord. 1218, passed 4-16-2001)
§ 51.39 CONDITIONS CREATING AN EMERGENCY REQUIRING WATER CURTAILMENT ACTIONS.
   The following conditions may give rise to the imposition of these measures.
   (A)   Disaster. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to,
earthquake, fire, flood or any natural or otherwise caused event which
significantly impairs the city’s ability to draft raw water from the source,
treat raw water, store finished water or distribute water to customers.
Components damaged may be pumps, pipes, filters, reservoirs or electronic
control systems.
   (B)   Failure of the electrical power system. Protracted failure of the
electrical power grid which energizes the plant, pump stations and other system
components which, without electrical power, are rendered inoperable.
   (C)   Drought conditions. Drought conditions which significantly reduce
streamflows and, therefore, restrict the volume of water which is available for
extraction from the city’s source.
   (D)   High turbidity in raw water. Protracted periods of high turbidity in
the raw water, reducing the ability of the water treatment plant to treat and
supply water.
   (E)   Other. Any other unforeseen circumstance which profoundly, and in the
judgment of the City Council, compromises the city’s ability to draw raw water,
treat water, store or distribute water which is not detailed above.
(Ord. 1218, passed 4-16-2001)
§ 51.40 WATER CURTAILMENT ACTIONS.
   (A)   Levels 1 through 3 of the following water curtailment actions may be
imposed by resolution of the Council as detailed in §
51.38. Level 4 restrictions are approved when the conditions warranting it are
met.
   (B)   The use of water is prohibited for each of the nonessential uses of
water detailed in each level as specified as of the effective time and date
established by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 1218, passed 4-16-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.41 WATER WATCH.
   (A)   Level 1 is the lowest level of water curtailment.
   (B)   Level 1 curtailment will be in effect when:
      (1)   The Palmer Drought Index (long-term) registers between -2 and -
3 for more than two weeks in a row;
      (2)   The level of the water in the North Fork of the Coquille River
falls below the top of the knife gate on the raw water intake;
      (3)   The experience of the staff suggests that the city is facing Level
1 water curtailment conditions and recommends that the City Council put Level 1
curtailment actions into effect; and/or
      (4)   Maintenance or construction activities requiring public notice for
the need to conserve water.
   (C)   Level 1 curtailment results in the following curtailment actions.
      (1)   The City Council shall call for voluntary water conservation in the
community. This may include ceasing to water lawns and shrubbery during
daylight hours.
         (a)   Lawn, garden and landscaping watering: Level 1 restriction
limits watering of lawns, gardens and landscaping to alternate days,
specifically, houses with numbers ending in even numbers (0-2-46-8) shall water
lawns only on even numbered calendar days. Houses with house numbers ending in
odd numbers (1-3-5-7-9) shall water only on odd-numbered calendar days.
         (b)   Washing of vehicles, buildings or other large outdoor objects
will be discouraged.
         (c)   Users to install low flow fixtures in homes and businesses.
         (d)   Any other voluntary means by which users can reduce their water
consumption.
      (2)   The city shall cease the sale of water to other users. The sale of
water to persons who are not customers of the water system is governed by §
51.01. All such sales are prohibited under this level of water conservation
restrictions.
      (3)   The city shall erect or place a sign on display in a location
visible to the public. The sign will indicate the current status of the city
water system. Level 1 curtailment will encourage water users to use water
wisely.
      (4)   No water shall be used by the City Fire Department for drills,
hydrant flushing or truck washing.
      (5)   The city will increase efforts at public education to encourage
water conservation and alert the public to the severity of the current water
curtailment situation.
      (6)   The city will seek opportunities to reduce potable water use,
increase non-potable reuse or other conservation activities.
(Ord. 1218, passed 4-16-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.42 WATER WARNING.
   (A)   Level 2 curtailment is indicative of a serious water supply shortage.
   (B)   Level 2 will be in effect when two or more of the following are
satisfied:
      (1)   The Palmer Index (long-term) registers between -3 and -4 for more
than two weeks in a row;
      (2)   The level of the water in the North Fork of the Coquille River
falls below the top of the knife gate on the raw water intake;
      (3)   The city water treatment plant is not able to produce 80% of the
current daily demand for more than three days in a row; and/or
      (4)   In the judgment of the city staff, the water system should be
placed under Level 2 curtailment status.
   (C)   Level 2 curtailment shall result in the following actions
(restrictions).
      (1)   Lawn and garden watering.
         (a)   The watering of any lawn by any means is prohibited.
         (b)   The watering of landscaping bushes, shrubs and trees is
prohibited.
         (c)   The watering of any vegetable or flower garden or fruit tree is
restricted to watering by hand using either a hose, a container such as a
bucket or sprinkler can or a drip irrigation system. Such watering shall be
carried out in a careful and prudent manner, utilizing the smallest amount of
water sufficient to sustain the plant materials, without excess spillage, waste
or runoff. Such watering may be undertaken only between the hours of 9:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. on alternate days as described in division (C)(1)(a) above.
      (2)   Washing of vehicles and structures.
         (a)   The washing of any motorbike, motorcycle, motor vehicle, boat or
boat trailer, airplane, recreational vehicle or motor home is prohibited.
         (b)   The use of water to wash down any sidewalk, driveway, parking
lot or tennis court, or to fill a swimming pool, or to wash any building or
structure is prohibited.
      (3)   Other prohibited uses.
         (a)   The filling or refilling of a fountain, pond or other aesthetic
use of water which is not essential to the support of aquatic life is
prohibited.
         (b)   The use of water for fire drills, hydrant flushing or truck
washing is prohibited.
         (c)   The sale of water to persons who are not customers of the water
system is governed by §
51.01. All such sales are prohibited under this level of water restriction.
      (4)   Water system sign. The city’s water system sign will be switched to
indicate Level 2 curtailment and will suggest a serious water shortage and
mandatory conservation.
      (5)   Potable water. The city will cease to use potable water for street
cleaning, maintenance work, outdoor cleaning and all other non-critical water
use activities until the curtailment situation has passed.
(Ord. 1218, passed 4-16-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.43 WATER EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Level 3 curtailment is indicative of an extreme water supply shortage.
   (B)   Level 3 curtailment will be in effect when:
      (1)   The Palmer Index (long-term) registers less than -4 (i.e., -4.5 and
so on);
      (2)   The water treatment plant is not able to produce 60% of the current
daily demand for more than three days in a row; and/or
      (3)   In the judgment of city staff, the water system should be placed
under Level 3 curtailment status.
   (C)   Level 3 curtailment shall result in the following actions
(restrictions).
      (1)   All prohibited activities listed under curtailment Level 2 are also
prohibited under curtailment Level 3.
      (2)   Additional restrictions are as follows.
         (a)   Restaurants will discontinue routinely offering water to
customers. Water may be provided only when requested by the customer.
         (b)   Use of water from a fire hydrant for any use other than
firefighting is prohibited.
         (c)   Use of water from the city water system for dust control is
prohibited.
         (d)   Water for street sweeping and sewer flushing shall use waste
backwash water from the water treatment plant. Backwash water may also be sold
for construction uses or used for any other non-potable use as available and
city uses will have the highest priority for use of this resource.
         (e)   All customers will be restricted to use of the same volume of
water used at the home or business in February of the prior year. This base is
estimated to be the minimum use for domestic and business purposes. Water use
in excess of this base volume used shall be billed at twice the then current
volume rates for each month in which this use level is exceeded. Such rates may
be imposed only when Level 3 water conservation measures are imposed during a
full 30-day billing cycle for water service.
         (f)   No water connections to new residences, businesses or industry
shall be permitted during Level 3 water conservation restrictions. Reconnection
of an existing home or business to the water system is permitted.
(Ord. 1218, passed 4-16-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.44 CRITICAL SUPPLY.
   (A)   Level 4 curtailment is indicative of a critical water emergency and
the highest level of water curtailment.
   (B)   Level 4 curtailment will be in effect when, upon determination by the
City Manager and/or Public Works Director, the water system has been damaged
beyond immediate repair.
   (C)   Level 4 curtailment shall result in the following curtailment actions.
      (1)   The city will discontinue water service through its normal
distribution system.
      (2)   If water remains in the city reservoirs, water may be provided
directly from the reservoirs to individuals. If this water can be dispersed
through the distribution system without substantial losses, such water may be
provided through the system during set hours, for example, from 5:00 p.m. to 8:
00 p.m. daily so as to maximize the treated water supply for maximum sustenance
of life.
      (3)   In the event that reservoirs are destroyed or damaged, the city
will locate a source of potable water in another city or rural well and may
have to contract or commandeer private vehicles to transport water to the city
or install temporary lines or hoses from the source to the city. The city will
then provide, at no cost to residents, small quantities of potable water to the
residents in their containers from spigots, trucks or vats as can be located
within the city.
      (4)   This level of restriction will continue until the integrity of the
water system is restored.
      (5)   Water for any non-essential uses as specified in Level 3 above are
prohibited and further restrictions may be imposed by action of the City
Council.
(Ord. 1218, passed 4-16-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.45 PUBLICATION AND NOTICE.
   The city shall give every reasonable notice of the imposition of curtailment
actions, detailing to customers the prohibited activities by all available
media, including, but not limited to, posting of notices throughout the
community, publication in the print and electronic media and, if practicable,
mailing with water bills to each customer.
(Ord. 1218, passed 4-16-2001)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Penalties for violation of the restrictions set forth in §§
51.35 through
51.44 may incorporate any or all of the following.
      (1)   The first violation in any 60-day period shall be punishable by a
fine not to exceed $100.
      (2)   The second violation in any 60-day period shall be punishable by a
fine not to exceed $250.
      (3)   The third and additional violations in any 60-day period shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
      (4)   After a third violation in any 60-day period, the city may
terminate water service to the service address of the violator. Service may be
discontinued 48 hours following the date of delivery of a notice by certified
mail, announcing this impending action to the customer. A customer must provide
written assurance that the violation giving rise to the notice will not reoccur
during the imposition of water restriction measures prior to restoration of
service. Services which are disconnected shall be restored only upon payment of
a turn-on fee and all other applicable fees, payable at City Hall between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Mondays through Friday.
   (C)   Any person, other than Water Department personnel in the performance
of their official duties, who shall damage, deface, interfere or tamper with
any installed water meter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined a sum not
to exceed $300, in addition to any meter replacement costs.
(Ord. 1218, passed 4-16-2001; Ord. 1286, passed - -2020)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
Sewer Use
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Use of public sewers required
   
52.03   Private sewage disposal
   
52.04   Building sewers and connections
   
52.05   User charges
   
52.06   Use of the public sewers
   
52.07   Infiltration and inflow
   
52.08   Protection from damage
   
52.09   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
52.10   Administration
Pretreatment for Nonresidential Users
   
52.25   Policy
   
52.26   Definitions
   
52.27   General discharge prohibitions
   
52.28   Restricted substances
   
52.29   Dilution
   
52.30   Accidental discharges
   
52.31   Fees
   
52.32   Application and permit to discharge
   
52.33   Analysis and reporting requirements
   
52.34   Monitoring facilities
   
52.35   Inspection and sampling
   
52.36   Pretreatment facilities
   
52.37   Confidential information
   
52.38   Public nuisance
   
52.39   Cease and desist order
   
52.40   Submission of time schedule
   
52.41   Revoking a permit and terminating service
   
52.42   Public notification of violations
   
52.43   Implementation
   
52.44   Reconsideration
   
52.45   Appeals to the City Council
   
52.46   Damage
 
   
52.99   Penalty
SEWER USE
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CITY. The City of Myrtle Point.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of Myrtle Point, as defined by
the City Charter or ordinance, or the City Manager’s designate.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer that is designed as a sanitary sewer and a storm
sewer.
   CONNECTION CHARGE. The charge made by the city for connecting to the public
sewage works. It is to be differentiated from user charges, permit fees and
inspection fees.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Activities required to ensure the dependable and
economical function of sewage works.
      (1)   MAINTENANCE. Preservation of functional integrity and efficiency of
equipment and structures. This includes preventive maintenance, corrective
maintenance and replacement of equipment.
      (2)   OPERATION. Control of the unit processes and equipment that make up
the sewage works. This includes keeping financial and other management records,
laboratory control, process control, safety and emergency operation planning,
employment of attorneys and consultants, payment of court costs and payment of
any costs or fees reasonably associated with any of the above.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, joint-venture, firm, company,
cooperative, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
governmental entity or any other legal entity. The masculine gender shall
include the feminine and the singular shall include the plural.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion activity
expressed in moles per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and which is controlled by public authority.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The Public Works Director of the City of Myrtle
Point, or his or her designate.
   REPLACEMENT. Obtaining and installing equipment, accessories or
appurtenances that are necessary during the design or useful life, whichever is
longer, of the sewage works to maintain the capacity and performance for which
such works were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A conduit intended to carry liquid and water-carried wastes
from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions
together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not
intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and stormwaters as may be present. The term SEWAGE means
wastewater.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT (STP). Any arrangement of devices and structures used
for treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM SEWER (STORM DRAIN). A sewer designed to carry only stormwaters,
surface run-off, street wash waters and drainage.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   USER. Every person using any part of the public sewage works of the city.
   USER CHARGE. The charge levied on all users of the public sewage works. USER
CHARGES shall, at a minimum, cover each user’s proportionate share of the cost
of operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the public sewage
works.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 1136, passed 2-19-1990)
§ 52.02 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city,
is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within 100 feet
(30.5 meters) of the property line.
(Ord. 1136, passed 2-19-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§§
52.27 through
52.30, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the State Department
of Environmental Quality (DEQ).
   (C)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in §§
52.27 through
52.30, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
this subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned in accordance with state law at no
expense to the city.
   (D)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
   (E)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the DEQ.
(Ord. 1136, passed 2-19-1990)
§ 52.04 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the City Manager.
   (B)   The owner or agent of the building or establishment to which sewer
connection is to be made shall make application for a sewer connection permit
on a form provided by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by
any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the City Manager. Permit and inspection fees, if any, shall be paid
to the city at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer, including that incurred in restoration of public property
to its original condition, shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building. The exception is where one building stands at the rear of another on
an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway. In this
case, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear
building and the whole considered as one building sewer (refer to “building
drain” definition for allocation of sewer charges).
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Public Works Director, to
meet all requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions, or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Public Works Director before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the sewer connection permit shall notify the Public
Works Director when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Public Works Director.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 1136, passed 2-19-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 USER CHARGES.
   (A)   User charges shall be levied on all users of the public sewage works.
Such charges shall cover the cost of operation and maintenance, replacement and
other administrative costs of such sewage works. The user charge system shall
distribute these costs in proportion to each user’s contribution to the
wastewater loading of the public sewage works. These charges and any connection
charges shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Users of the sewage works shall be billed for these charges on basis
consistent with the city’s water billing cycle.
   (C)   The owner of the premises served by the sewage works shall be
responsible for payment of the sewer user charge for that property
notwithstanding the fact that the property may be occupied by a tenant or other
occupant who may be required by the owner to pay said charges.
   (D)   Sewer user charges levied in accordance with this subchapter shall be
a debt due to the city and a lien upon the property. If this debt is not paid,
consistent with the city’s water billing cycle and payment deadlines, it shall
be deemed delinquent and may be recovered by civil action in the name of the
city against the property owner, the person or both.
   (E)   In the event of failure to pay sewer charges after they have become
delinquent, the city shall have the right to remove or close sewer connections,
or discontinue water service, and enter upon the property for accomplishing
such purposes. The expense of such discontinuance, removal or closing, as well
as the expense of restoring service, shall be a debt due to the city and lien
upon the property and may be recovered by civil action in the name of the city
against the property owner, the person or both.
   (F)   Sewer service shall not be restored until all charges, including the
expense of interest (if any), removal, closing and restoration, shall have been
paid.
   (G)   Changes of ownership or occupancy of premises found delinquent shall
not be cause of reducing or eliminating these penalties.
   (H)   The sewer user charges established in division (A) above shall, at a
minimum, be reviewed biannually and revised periodically to reflect actual
costs of operation, maintenance and replacement of the sewage works, and to
maintain the equitability of the user charge with respect to proportional
distribution of the costs of operation and maintenance in proportion to each
user’s contribution to the total wastewater loading of the sewage works.
(Ord. 1136, passed 2-19-1990)
§ 52.06 USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the City Manager. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the City
Manager, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes
to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard
to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited to,
cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public
sewer;
      (3)   Waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; and
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the City Manager, after consultation with the Public Works Director,
that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process or
equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or can otherwise
endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In forming his
or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the City Manager will
give consideration to such factors as: quantities of subject wastes in relation
to flows and velocities in the sewers; construction material capacity of the
sewage treatment plant; degree of the sewers; nature of the sewage treatment
process; treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant; and other
pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° and 65°C);
      (3)   Garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of either the City Manager or Public Works Director;
      (4)   Waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by federal, state or local standards for such materials;
      (6)   Waters or wastes containing phenols, or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations which, after treatment of the
composite sewage, exceed federal, state or local standards for discharge to the
receiving waters;
      (7)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the City Manager in compliance with state
or federal regulations;
      (8)   Waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined in this subchapter.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent, cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   (1)   If waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and which in the judgment
of the City Manager may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to
life or constitute a public nuisance, the City Manager may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of division (L) below.
      (2)   If the City Manager permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the City Manager, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (F)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be installed in any type of
business or establishment, excluding residential dwellings, where grease or
other objectionable materials may be discharged into a public sewer. Such
interceptors (i.e., trap or oil/water separator) shall be of a size and design
approved by the City Engineer.
      (1)   Each grease interceptor shall be installed and connected so it is
at all times easily accessible for inspection, maintenance and removal of
intercepted grease. Buildings remodeled for use requiring interceptors shall
also be subject to these regulations.
      (2)   All grease interceptors must be installed in accordance with the
appropriate State Uniform Plumbing Code provisions, being OAR 918-750 et seq.
Abandoned grease interceptors must be disconnected as required by the city.
      (3)   The interceptors shall be maintained in efficient operating
condition by periodic removal of accumulated grease. The use of chemicals to
dissolve grease must be approved by the city prior to use. No such accumulated
grease, oil or other accumulated contaminants shall be introduced into any
drainage piping or public or private sewer discharging to the agency system.
      (4)   In the event the city, during maintenance of public sewer lines,
record situations of grease accumulating in lines sufficient to restrict the
normal flow of waste, upstream users shall be inspected. If the City Public
Works Director determines that an upstream user was responsible for the grease
or oil discharge, the user will be required to cease discharge of the
prohibited waste, install an interceptor, maintain the interceptor and may be
charged for the cost of cleaning the line. When, due to accumulated grease or
other material, an obstruction of the public sewer line occurs, is a violation
of 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(b)(3) or (6) and violation of this division (F).
   (G)   When sewer inspections provide evidence that an existing business is
discharging grease, oil, sand or other materials deleterious to the sewer
system into the public sewers, they shall be notified by certified mail. The
notice shall provide a date and time for compliance with installation of grease
traps/interceptors. Within 30 calendar days, the business must respond in
writing with either:
      (1)   A plan for mitigation of the discharge complete with all actions
which will be taken to minimize such discharges with a request for an exemption
to the requirement to install a trap/interceptor; or
      (2)   Notice to the city that an interceptor has been installed. If the
measures are determined to be adequate by the City Public Works Director and
City Engineer, the exemption shall be approved by the City Manager. If
determined not to be sufficient, then a grease trap/interceptor shall be
required. If the request for exemption is denied, this determination may be
appealed by the business owner to the City Council, whose decision is final.
   (H)   If an exemption is granted, the city retains the right to inspect the
premises at any time to ensure that the approved mitigation practices/program
is being utilized. Such exemptions shall be permitted for not longer than 36
months but may be renewed for periods not exceeding 36 months. During the
period of the permit, if an inspection of sewer mains occurs and the user is
identified as still discharging unacceptable amounts of grease or other
materials so as to significantly disrupt sewer flows or sewage treatment
processes, the city may then revoke the permit providing 90 days’ notice and
require installation of a grease trap/interceptor by the end of the 90-day
period.
   (I)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (J)   When required by the City Manager, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of wastes.
Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall
be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the City Manager and Public
Works Director. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (K)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample(s) should be taken. Normally,
but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24-hour
composites of all outfalls where pHs are determined by periodic grab samples.)
   (L)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
   (M)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the public
sewers, any waste from cesspools, septic tanks or residue from private sewer
pump stations without a permit approved by the City Public Works Director.
(Ord. 1136, passed 2-19-1990; Ord. 1214, passed 1-17-2000) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 INFILTRATION AND INFLOW.
   (A)   All property owners identified by the city as contributors to
excessive or improper infiltration or inflow into the public sewage works shall
be advised of their infiltration and inflow problems.
   (B)   All such situation properties shall be provided a 60-day grace period
in which to correct the infiltration and inflow problems as identified, said
60-day period to extend from the date of notification.
   (C)   By the end of the 60-day grace period, each property owner shall
notify the city that corrective actions have been taken or are in progress,
which actions shall be specified in the notification to the city.
   (D)   A property owner failing to notify the city of corrective actions
prior to the end of the 60-day grace period shall be subject to termination of
service, without further notice, and water service, if provided by the city,
shall be immediately discontinued and shut off until the violation shall have
been corrected in accordance with federal, state and local regulations.
   (E)   In the event any instance of excessive or improper infiltration or
inflow into the treatment works of the city shall continue beyond the 60-day
grace period, it is hereby declared that such continuing infiltration or inflow
is a public nuisance. The city shall have the right to abate such public
nuisance and to enter upon any private property within the city for such
purpose. Costs incurred by the city in said abatement, plus 10% administrative
overhead, shall be assessed against the property upon which such continuing
infiltration and inflow occurs.
(Ord. 1136, passed 2-19-1990)
§ 52.08 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 1136, passed 2-19-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The City Manager, Public Works Director and other duly authorized
employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter. The aforesaid shall have no authority to inquire into any processes
including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other
industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the City Manager, Public Works Director or duly
authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify the
company against loss or damage to its property by the city employees and
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required in §
52.06(J).
   (C)   The City Manager, Public Works Director and other duly authorized
employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work on
said easement, if any, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 1136, passed 2-19-1990)
§ 52.10 ADMINISTRATION.
   This subchapter shall be administered in conjunction with the city’s
pretreatment ordinance for nonresidential users of the sewerage system (§§
52.25 through 52.46). The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all
users of the city’s sewage works, except that the more restrictive provisions
and separate procedures of the nonresidential user ordinance shall apply to
users defined and regulated therein.
(Ord. 1136, passed 2-19-1990)
PRETREATMENT FOR NONRESIDENTIAL USERS
§ 52.25 POLICY.
   (A)   This subchapter sets requirements for the nonresidential discharge of
pollutants into the city sewerage system. The objectives of this subchapter are
to:
      (1)   Prevent the discharge into the city sewerage system of pollutants
which will interfere with the operation of the system or contaminate the
resulting sludge;
      (2)   Prevent the discharge into the city sewerage system of pollutants
which will pass through the system, inadequately treated, into receiving
streams; and
      (3)   Improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the city sewerage system.
   (B)   In achieving the objectives of this subchapter, it shall be the policy
of the city to actively support the community’s commerce and industry through
accommodation, assistance and cooperation consistent with the city’s
responsibility to protect the waters of the state from pollution and to secure
the health, safety and welfare of the city’s residents.
   (C)   Pollutants shall be accepted into the city sewerage system subject to
regulations and requirements as may be promulgated by state and federal
regulatory agencies or the city for the protection of sewerage facilities and
treatment processes, public health and safety, receiving water quality and
avoidance of nuisance. At a minimum, nonresidential users of the city sewerage
system shall comply with the applicable pretreatment standards developed under
state (OAR 340-45-063) and federal (40 C.F.R. part 403) regulations.
Pretreatment standards shall be developed to ensure that at a minimum the city
and nonresidential users comply with § 307(b) and (c) of the federal Water
Pollution Control Act as amended by the Clean Water Act of 1977, being 33
U.S.C. § 1717(b) and (c) and the regulations promulgated pursuant to these
sections of the Act.
   (D)   (1)   Wastewater discharge permit conditions shall be based on
federal, state and local regulations and requirements and on the results of
analysis of the type, concentration, quantity and frequency of discharge
including the geographical relationship of the point of discharge to sewerage
and treatment facilities.
      (2)   These permit conditions shall be reevaluated upon expiration of the
permit and may be revised from time to time as required to remain consistent
with local, state or federal laws, regulations and requirements or to meet any
emergency. Wastewater discharge permits may include, but shall not be limited
to, conditions pertaining to discharge standards, self-monitoring requirements,
treatment methods, housekeeping practices, inventory storage, manufacturing
methods and the like that are intended to protect the waters of the state.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the City Manager shall
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 52.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq., also known as the Clean Water Act, as amended through the effective date
of this subchapter.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF NONRESIDENTIAL USER. An authorized
representative of a nonresidential user shall be:
      (1)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice
president, if the nonresidential user is a corporation;
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor if the nonresidential user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively; and
      (3)   An agent of the nonresidential user who is responsible for the
overall operation of the facilities from which the discharge originates.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   CITY. The City of Myrtle Point.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the city as defined by the City Charter or
by city ordinance, or the City Manager’s designee.
   CITY SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A treatment works as defined by § 212 of the Act. This
definition includes any publicly owned sewers that convey wastewater, including
conduits, pumps, treatment plants, structures and appurtenances used to
transport, store or treat sewage, storm or surface water of any type.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use to which the only pollutant
added is heat.
   DEQ. The State Department of Environmental Quality.
   DISCHARGE. The deposit of pollutants into the city sewerage system.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
      (2)   Therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
POTW’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued
thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): § 405 of the Clean
Water Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
(including Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., and including state
regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to
subtitle D of the SWDA); the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.;
the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.; and the
Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et
seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NONRESIDENTIAL USER.
      (1)   All users of the city sewerage system which are not residential
users (users of single and two-family dwellings). NONRESIDENTIAL USERS include
public, commercial and industrial users identified in the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemented, under the following divisions.
Division A Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing
Division B Mining
Division D Manufacturing
Division E Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and Sanitary Services
Division F Wholesale Trade
Division G Retail Trade
Division I Services
Division J Public Administration
 
      (2)   A user in these Divisions may be excluded from the nonresidential
user requirements of this subchapter if it is determined that it will introduce
primarily domestic waste (wastewater emanating from dwellings) and waste from
sanitary conveniences.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation).
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, joint venture, firm, company,
cooperative, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
governmental entity or any other legal entity. The masculine gender shall
include the feminine and the singular shall include the plural.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion activity
expressed in moles per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any element or compound discharged into the city sewerage system
except water, unless the water has been heated or irradiated.
   POLLUTION. The alteration of the chemical, physical, biological or
radiological state of water.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction or elimination of pollutants in wastewater prior
to discharging the wastewater into the city sewerage system.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits
promulgated by the EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act, which
applies to industrial users. This term includes prohibitive discharge limits
established pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
   RESTRICTED SUBSTANCE. Pollutants which may be discharged into the city
sewerage system only as prescribed by the City Manager pursuant to §
52.28.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIC NUMBER. A classification pursuant to the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the President, Office
of Management and Budget, 1972, as amended and supplemented through the
effective date of this subchapter.
   SLUG LOAD. Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including, but
not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge, which
has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass through, or in any
other way violate the POTW’s regulations, local limits or permit conditions.
The results of such activities shall be available to the approval authority
upon request. significant industrial users are required to notify the POTW
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting potential for a slug
discharge.
   STATE. The State of Oregon.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total elements and
compounds which float on the surface of, or are suspended in, wastewater and
which are removable by laboratory filtration.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants identified
pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act or otherwise listed as toxic in regulations
previously promulgated by the EPA, or as identified by the City Manager.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid or water-carried pollutants including any groundwater,
surface water and stormwater that may be present, whether treated or untreated,
which is discharged, flows or infiltrates into the city sewerage system.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to §
52.32.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 52.27 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   A user may not introduce into the POTW any pollutant(s) which cause
pass through or interference. These general prohibitions and the following
specific prohibitions apply to each user introducing pollutants into the POTW
whether or not the user is subject to other National Pretreatment Standards or
any national, state or local pretreatment requirements.
   (B)   In addition, the following pollutants shall not be introduced into the
POTW:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F or 60°C using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21.
Prohibited pollutants include, but are not limited to: gasoline; kerosene;
naphtha; benzene; toluene; xylene; ethers; alcohols; ketones; aldehydes;
peroxides; chlorates; perchlorates; bromates; carbides; hydrides; and sulfides.
At no time shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the
point of discharge into the city sewerage system (or at any point in the city
sewerage system) be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the lower
explosive limit of the meter;
      (2)   Pollutants which will cause corrosive structural damage to the
POTW, but in no case discharges with pH lower than 5.0 or greater than 9.5;
      (3)   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which will cause obstruction
to the flow in the POTW resulting in interference. This includes, but is not
limited to, grease, garbage with particles greater than one-half inch in any
dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or
fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime,
stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags,
spent grains or hops, waste paper, wood, plastics, gas, tar, asphalt residues,
residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass
grinding or polishing wastes;
      (4)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which will cause interference with the POTW;
      (5)   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the POTW treatment plant exceeds 40°C (104°F);
      (6)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquid, gas or solid which, either alone
or in combination with other pollutants, is sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or is sufficient to prevent entry into the city
sewerage system for maintenance or repair;
      (10)   Any substance which may cause the city sewerage system’s effluent
or any other product of the city sewerage system, such as residues, sludges or
scums, to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or which may interfere with
the reclamation process;
      (11)   Any substance which will cause the city to violate its NPDES
permit;
      (12)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
      (13)   Any pollutants at a flow rate and/or pollutant discharge rate
which are excessive over relatively short time periods so that there is a
treatment process upset and subsequent loss of treatment efficiency. In no case
shall a slug load have a flow rate or discharge quantities of pollutants, that
exceed for any time period longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the
average flow rates or discharge quantities during normal operation. Exception
to this provision will be made when flow rate and/or pollutant discharge rate
is unintentionally and temporarily out of compliance due to factors beyond the
reasonable control of the nonresidential user, such as power outages, severe
weather conditions and other acts of God;
      (14)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the City
Manager or applicable state or federal standards;
      (15)   Any wastewater containing oil and grease in excess of 20
milligrams per liter of solution as determined by hexane extraction or silica
gel treated hexane extraction per 40 C.F.R. § 136.3. This provision will be
considered in the context of alternative testing methods which demonstrate that
the discharged substance(s) would not negatively impact sewerage treatment
processes or receiving streams; and
      (16)   Any unpolluted water, including, but not limited to, non-contact
cooling water, stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff or subsurface drainage.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.28 RESTRICTED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No nonresidential user shall discharge waste containing restricted
substances into the city sewerage system in excess of limitations specified by
conditions of its wastewater discharge permit or published by the City Manager.
   (B)   The City Manager shall publish and revise from time to time, standards
which establish limits for restricted substances. At all times these standards
should cover and be at least strict as those for pollutants as defined in state
and federal regulations.
   (C)   Discharge limits or standards in effect and incorporated into any
issued wastewater discharge permit remain in effect for that permit until it
expires, except as modified as provided in §
52.32(C).
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.29 DILUTION.
   No nonresidential user shall increase the use of process water or in any way
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
pretreatment to achieve compliance with the standards contained in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.30 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Telephone notice. Any nonresidential user becoming aware of a
discharge in violation of this subchapter into the city sewerage system shall
report such discharge immediately by telephone to the City Manager. Prompt
notification of such discharges will allow the city to take necessary
precautions to minimize hazards and to prevent damage to the receiving waters,
thereby avoiding or minimizing discharge violations and fines from state and
federal regulatory agencies. The notification shall include the location of the
discharge, type, concentration and volume of pollutant and corrective actions
proposed and/or taken.
   (B)   Written notice. Within five days following such a discharge, the
nonresidential user shall submit to the City Manager a detailed written report
describing the cause and location of the discharge, the type, concentration and
volume of pollutant discharged and any hazards which may be posed to life or
property and the measures taken or to be taken to prevent similar future
occurrences.
   (C)   Notice to employees. Each nonresidential user subject to §
52.32 shall permanently post a notice on its bulletin board or other prominent
place advising employees whom to call in the event of a discharge in violation
of this subchapter. Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause or
suffer such a discharge to occur or who are likely to detect such discharge are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 52.31 FEES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to reduce the city’s cost
of implementation of the pretreatment program through a system of equitable
charges or fees for certain services to be paid by the nonresidential users of
the city sewerage system who are subject to §
52.32. The applicable charges or fees shall be set forth in a schedule of fees.
   (B)   Fee items. The City Manager may adopt fees to reduce the city’s cost
of providing the following services:
      (1)   Setting up and operating the pretreatment program;
      (2)   Sampling, monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction;
      (4)   Reviewing and acting upon permit applications; and
      (5)   Other services as the City Manager may deem necessary to carry out
the requirements contained herein.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 52.32 APPLICATION AND PERMIT TO DISCHARGE.
   (A)   General. Each nonresidential user discharging, proposing to discharge
or having the potential to discharge significant contributions of wastewater
containing restricted substances into the city sewerage system shall secure a
wastewater discharge permit from the city if the nonresidential user:
      (1)   Is subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards as
promulgated by the EPA under § 307(b) or (c) of the Clean Water Act (CWA),
being 33 U.S.C. § 1317 (b) or (c);
      (2)   Has in its waste toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to §§ 307 and
502 of the CWA , being 33 U.S.C. § 1362;
      (3)   Has a non-domestic flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work
day;
      (4)   Contributes more than 5% of the average dry weather hydraulic,
organic or solids handling load to the city’s wastewater treatment plant; or
      (5)   Is determined by the state or city to have a significant impact or
potential for significant impact to adversely affect the city sewerage system
by either upset, inhibition, pass through of pollutants, sludge contamination
or other means.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Existing nonresidential users shall apply for a wastewater
discharge permit within 90 days after becoming subject to the requirements of
division (A) above. New nonresidential users subject to said requirements shall
apply at least 90 days prior to connecting to or discharging to the city
sewerage system.
      (2)   Any nonresidential user with a valid permit and proposing to make a
change in its existing discharge, which will substantially change the volume or
flow, or the characteristics of the discharge or establish a new point of
discharge, shall apply for an amended permit at least 60 days before making
such change.
      (3)   Applications shall be made to the City Manager in writing on forms
provided by the city and may include the following information:
         (a)   Name, address, telephone number and authorized representative of
the applicant and service address;
         (b)   SIC number;
         (c)   A list of environmental control permits held by or for the
applicant;
         (d)   A list of wastewater pollutants and their characteristic
actually or potentially discharged at the applicable plant site including
measured or estimated daily average and daily maximum concentrations of these
pollutants;
         (e)   A description of spill prevention measures or plans which are
currently in place in the plant;
         (f)   Water use and wastewater flow rates, including maximum daily,
average daily, average monthly and seasonal variations, if any;
         (g)   A schematic diagram of applicant’s industrial processes
including a listing of estimated average water flow through each process and
indicating point(s) of discharge to city sewerage system. Also, a detailed
site, floor or plumbing plan showing the size and location of all sewers, sewer
connections and appurtenances; and
         (h)   A description of activities, facilities and plant processes on
the premises including a description of types and quantities of products
produced, manufacturing methods used, types and quantities of principal and
minor materials used and a work and production schedule for the plant.
      (4)   The City Manager will evaluate the data furnished by the
nonresidential user and may require additional information or sampling of
wastewater characteristics. If the proposed discharge meets the requirements of
this subchapter, the city will issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to
appropriate terms and conditions.
   (C)   Modification of permit. Discharge conditions included in a wastewater
discharge permit shall remain in effect for that permit until it expires,
except that they may be revised from time to time as the City Manager deems
necessary to effectively manage industrial waste discharge. The nonresidential
user shall be informed of any proposed change in its permit at least 30 days
prior to the effective date of change, except in the event of an emergency.
   (D)   Duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to
exceed five years. The nonresidential user shall apply for permit re-issuance a
minimum of 90 days prior to the expiration of this existing permit if it
desires to continue the uninterrupted discharge of restricted substances.
   (E)   Conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to
all provisions of this subchapter. Permits may contain the following
conditions:
      (1)   Payment of applicable fees and charges;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum discharge of restricted
substances;
      (3)   Limits on the average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of pretreatment,
inspection or monitoring and sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring and sampling programs which may
include monitoring and sampling locations, frequency of monitoring and
sampling, number, types and standards for tests and reporting schedules;
      (6)   Compliance schedules;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the City Manager, and affording the
City Manager access thereto;
      (9)   Requirements for notification of the city of any new introduction
of restricted substances or any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater or restricted substances being discharged into the city
sewerage system;
      (10)   Requirements for notification of sludge discharges; and
      (11)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the City Manager to
achieve compliance with this subchapter.
   (F)   Transfer. A wastewater discharge permit will be issued to a specific
nonresidential user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit
shall not be assigned, transferred or sold without the approval of the City
Manager. Any succeeding nonresidential user shall agree to comply with the
terms and conditions of the existing permit as a condition precedent to the
approval by the City Manager of a transfer sale or assignment of the permit.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 52.33 ANALYSIS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit holders will be required to submit information, certifications,
compliance schedules and samples of discharge or perform tests and report such
test results to the City Manager as follows:
      (1)   When required by the terms and provisions of 40 C.F.R. § 403.12, as
amended through the effective date of this subchapter;
      (2)   When requested by state or local public agencies; or
      (3)   When deemed necessary by the City Manager for the proper treatment,
analysis or control of discharges.
   (B)   All tests and reports shall be at the cost of the permit holder.
   (C)   The city shall have the right to implement and enforce the
requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.12 by order of the City Manager. When deemed
necessary by the City Manager, a permit holder may be required to obtain,
install, operate and maintain an automatic sampler, analyzer or flow measuring
device to monitor its discharges in the manner directed by the city.
   (D)   All sampling and analysis shall be done in a manner and by a
laboratory previously approved by the City Manager. The City Manager shall
require all analysis related to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards to
be performed in accordance with the procedures established by the EPA pursuant
to § 304(g) of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1314(g) and contained in
40 C.F.R. part 136 or other applicable analytical procedures approved by the
EPA.
   (E)   To the degree practicable, the City Manager will provide each permit
holder or applicant with information on applicable local, state and federal
wastewater analysis and reporting requirements; provided, however, that any
failure to do so shall not excuse the permit holder from compliance with said
requirements.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 52.34 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   When required by the City Manager, the permit holder shall install and
maintain at its expense a suitable control manhole to facilitate observation,
sampling and measurement of wastewater being discharged into the city sewerage
system. Such manhole shall be located, if feasible, where it is accessible from
a public road or street. It shall be constructed in accordance with plans and
at a location approved by the City Manager and shall be arranged so that flow
measuring and sampling equipment and a shutoff gate or a screen may be
conveniently installed by the city.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 52.35 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The city shall have the right to inspect the facilities of any
nonresidential user subject to §
52.32(A) as necessary to determine compliance with pretreatment standards.
These inspections shall take place whether or not the provisions of this
subchapter are being complied with. The owner, operator or agent in charge of
premises where wastewater is created or discharged shall allow authorized
representatives of the city, state and EPA, upon presentation of their
credentials, access at all reasonable times to all parts of the premises for
the purpose of the performance of any of their duties, including, but not
limited to: inspection; observation; sampling; and/or records copying and
examination. The city, state and EPA shall have the right to set up on the
nonresidential user’s property such devices as may be necessary or proper to
conduct sampling, observation, inspection, compliance monitoring and/or
metering operations. The nonresidential user shall make arrangements with its
employees so that, upon presentation of their credentials, representatives from
the city, state or EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the
purpose of performing their responsibilities.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 52.36 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   As a condition of the granting of a wastewater discharge permit, the
permit holder may be required to install pretreatment facilities or make plant
or process modifications as deemed necessary by the City Manager to meet the
requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Whenever such facilities or modifications are required, they shall be
constructed, installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the permit
holder and in a manner and within the time prescribed by the City Manager. The
permit holder shall maintain records indicating routine maintenance check
dates, cleaning and waste removal dates and means of disposal of accumulated
wastes. Such records shall be retained for a minimum of three years and shall
be subject to review in accordance with §
52.35. Approval of proposed facilities or modifications by the City Manager
will not in any way guarantee that these facilities or modifications will
function in the required manner or attain the required results, nor shall it
relieve a permit holder of the responsibility of enlarging or otherwise
modifying or replacing such facilities to accomplish the intended purpose and
to meet the applicable standards, limitations and conditions of a wastewater
discharge permit.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 52.37 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data obtained by the city from reports,
questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs shall be
available to the public and other governmental agencies without restriction
unless the permit holder requests in writing that it be confidential and
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the City Manager that such records are
exempt from disclosure under ORS 192.345 or 192.355. Notwithstanding anything
herein to the contrary, all such data shall be available at least to the extent
necessary that the City Manager can ensure compliance with the requirements of
40 C.F.R. § 2.302 and to state and federal agencies as required during judicial
or enforcement proceedings involving the nonresidential user.
   (B)   When confidentiality is requested and the right thereto is established
by the permit holder, the confidential information shall not be made available
for inspection by the public but may be made available upon written request to
governmental agencies for uses related to this subchapter, the NPDES permit or
pretreatment programs. However, all portions of a report shall be available for
use by the city or state in judicial or enforcement proceedings involving the
person furnishing the report.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 52.38 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any discharge in violation of this subchapter, the conditions of the
wastewater discharge permit, or any other violation of this subchapter, is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Such nuisance may be abated or
enjoined and damages assessed therefor in accordance with other provisions in
this code or in any other manner provided by law.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.39 CEASE AND DESIST ORDER.
   (A)   In the event of any actual or threatened discharge into the city
sewerage system in violation of this subchapter or the conditions of a
wastewater discharge permit, which discharge presents an imminent or existing
danger to the health or welfare of persons, property or the environment or
which has caused or will cause damage to or interference with the operation of
the city sewerage system, the City Manager may issue an order to cease and
desist and direct that those nonresidential users responsible for such
violation:
      (1)   Comply forthwith;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with the time schedule set forth by the City
Manager; or
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action.
   (B)   (1)   If the nonresidential user in noncompliance fails to comply with
the order, the city shall take such steps as are deemed necessary or proper
including immediate severance of the sewer connection. The city shall reinstate
the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the actual or
threatened violation.
      (2)   The filing of an appeal pursuant to §§
52.44 and
52.45 shall not stay enforcement of the City Manager.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 52.40 SUBMISSION OF TIME SCHEDULE.
   If the City Manager finds that a discharge has taken or may take place in
violation of this subchapter or the conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit, he or she may require the nonresidential user to submit for approval,
within such time and with such modifications as deemed necessary, a detailed
time schedule or specific actions which the nonresidential user shall take in
order to prevent or correct the violation.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 52.41 REVOKING A PERMIT AND TERMINATING SERVICE.
   (A)   Any nonresidential user who violates any of the provisions of §§
52.27 through
52.30 or §§
52.32 through
52.37 or the conditions of its wastewater discharge permit, which violation
presents an imminent danger to health, property or the environment or which
violation has caused or will cause damage to or interference with the operation
of the city sewerage system, may have its wastewater discharge permit revoked
and sewer connection severed by order of the City Manager.
   (B)   The order shall be signed by the City Manager and shall specify the
nature and source of the violations. The order shall be delivered or sent by
regular mail to the address of the nonresidential user as shown on the permit.
The order may specify the corrective actions to be taken and shall allow
reasonable time for satisfactory correction. If the permit holder does not
correct the violation within the time specified, or such additional time as may
be allowed in writing by the City Manager, then the wastewater discharge permit
shall be revoked and the sewer connection severed as provided in the order.
   (C)   The filing of an appeal pursuant to §§
52.44 and
52.45 shall stay enforcement of the action by the City Manager under this
section pending final administrative action on the appeal. This provision
supplements and does not restrict other provisions of this code, laws or
regulations authorizing termination of service for delinquency in payments of
fees or charges.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 52.42 PUBLIC NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The city will publish in a daily newspaper with the largest daily
circulation in the area, not less than annually, a list of those nonresidential
users which during the previous 12 months were determined to be responsible for
discharge violations. This notification will summarize enforcement action taken
by the city during the same 12 months.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a SIGNIFICANT VIOLATION is one:
      (1)   Which remains uncorrected 45 days after notification of
noncompliance;
      (2)   Which is part of a pattern of noncompliance over a 12-month period;
      (3)   Which involves a failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (4)   Which resulted in the issuance of a cease and desist order.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 52.43 IMPLEMENTATION.
   The City Manager is authorized and directed to promulgate such rules and
regulations as may be deemed necessary or proper to carry out the purposes or
provisions of this subchapter. Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the
City Manager from seeking judicial or governmental agency assistance to
implement the purposes and provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 52.44 RECONSIDERATION.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision or action of the City Manager may file
a written request with the City Manager for reconsideration thereof within ten
days of such decision or action. The notice of appeal shall be on a form
provided by the City Manager and shall set forth in reasonable detail the
decision or action being appealed and the facts and arguments supporting the
appellant’s request for reconsideration. The City Manager shall render a final
written determination within ten days of receipt of such request for
reconsideration. The City Manager may establish such procedures as may be
deemed necessary or proper to conduct the reconsideration process. The filing
of a request for reconsideration shall be a condition precedent to the right to
appeal to the City Council pursuant to §
52.45.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 52.45 APPEALS TO THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the final determination of the City Manager
may appeal such determination to the City Council within ten days of
notification by the City Manager of the final determination. Written
notification of such appeal shall be filed with the city and City Manager
within ten days after receipt of the final determination of the City Manager.
The notice of appeal shall be on a form provided by the City Manager and shall
set forth in reasonable detail the decision or action being appealed and the
facts and arguments supporting the appellant’s request for reversal or
modification of the City Manger’s determination.
   (B)   The City Council shall conduct a hearing on the appeal and shall
render a decision thereon within 20 days of its filing. Prior to the hearing,
the City Manager shall provide the City Council with his or her findings and
recommendations regarding the appeal. Within ten days after the hearing, the
City Manager shall notify the appellant of the Council’s decision.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 52.46 DAMAGE.
   Any person who violates this subchapter or a condition of a wastewater
discharge permit, as a result of which the city performs or causes to be
performed preventive or corrective work or which results in damage to the city
sewerage system, shall be liable to the city for such damage and the cost of
such corrective work and/or additional treatment and for any penalties,
including the withholding of any grant money, levied against the city for
violation of state or federal permits resulting from said violation. The city
may collect such charges in the manner provided in this code for the collection
of sewer user charges, or in any other manner provided by law.
(Ord. 1287, passed 3-1-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of any provision of §§
52.02 through
52.08 shall result in an injunction, restraining order, stop-work order,
restitution and/or fine. Restitution shall allow recovery of any costs, public
or private, associated with or caused by the violation, including any
enforcement action by federal, state or local jurisdictions. The maximum fine
shall be $1,000 per each violation. Each event and/or each gallon shall
constitute a separate and distinct violation. The remedies provided herein are
in addition to any other remedy authorized by the laws of the state. None of
the remedies listed above shall be exclusive.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.02 through
52.08 shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
52.25 through
52.46 or any provision of a wastewater discharge permit shall be liable civilly
to the city in a sum not to exceed $1,000 for each day in which such violation
occurs. Civil penalties for the specific violations listed in the table below
shall be assessed for each day in which such violation occurs at the amounts
indicated.
 
Category of Violation                                   Amount of Civil Penalty
Failure to conduct monitoring required by a             $500
pretreatment permit
Failure to submit reports required by a pretreatment    $250
permit
Violation of federal pretreatment prohibitions, with or $500
without a pretreatment permit
Violation of limits in a pretreatment permit            $250
 
      (2)   Any person who knowingly violates §§
52.25 through
52.46 or any provision of a wastewater discharge permit, or makes any false
statement, representation or certification in any application, record, report,
plan or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to §§
52.25 through
52.46 or a wastewater discharge permit, or who knowingly falsifies, tampers
with or renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under §§
52.25 through
52.46 or a wastewater discharge permit, shall, upon conviction, be punished by
a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than 100 days,
or by both.
      (3)   The remedies provided for in this division (C) shall be cumulative
and not exclusive and shall be in addition to any and all other remedies
available to the city.
(Ord. 1136, passed 2-19-1990; Ord. 1215, passed 11-20-2000; Ord. 1287, passed
3-1-2021)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Title
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Horses
   
70.04   Pedestrians
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.15   Powers of the Council
   
70.16   Duties of the City Manager
   
70.17   Public danger
   
70.18   Standards
   
70.19   Authority of police and firefighters
Parades and Processions
   
70.30   Funeral processions
   
70.31   Parade permit
   
70.32   Permit application
   
70.33   Appeal to Council
   
70.34   Offenses against parade
   
70.35   Permit revocable
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 TITLE.
   This title may be cited as “City of Myrtle Point Uniform Traffic Code.”
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning, in
addition to the definitions contained in the State Vehicle Code, being ORS
Chapter 801.
   BUS STOP. A space on the edge of a roadway designated by sign for use by
buses loading or unloading passengers.
   HOLIDAY. New Year’s Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day,
Christmas Day and any other day proclaimed by the Council to be a holiday.
   LOADING ZONE. A space on the edge of a roadway designated by a sign for the
purple of loading or unloading passengers or materials during specified hours
of specified days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle that is self-propelled, including tractors,
fork-lift trucks, motorcycles, road building equipment, street cleaning
equipment and any other vehicle capable of moving under its own power,
notwithstanding that the vehicle may be exempt from licensing under the motor
vehicle laws of the state.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   STREET. Highway, road or street.
   TAXICAB STAND. A space on the edge of a roadway designated by sign for use
by taxicabs.
   TRAFFIC LANE. The area of the roadway used for the movement of a single line
of traffic.
   VEHICLE. As used in subsequent sections of this traffic code, includes
bicycles.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 1126, passed 4-17-1989)
§ 70.03 HORSES.
   No person shall ride, lead or drive any horse upon public property within
the city, other than upon established streets or alleys.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   Pedestrians must use crosswalks. No pedestrian shall cross a street
other than within a crosswalk in blocks with marked crosswalks or if within 150
feet of a marked crosswalk.
   (B)   Right angles. A pedestrian shall cross a street at a right angle,
unless crossing within a crosswalk.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
70.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.15 POWERS OF THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Subject to state laws, the City Council shall exercise all municipal
traffic authority for the city except those powers specifically and expressly
delegated herein or by another ordinance.
   (B)   The powers of the Council shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Designation of through streets;
      (2)   Designation of one-way streets;
      (3)   Designation of truck routes;
      (4)   Designation of parking meter zones;
      (5)   Restriction of the use of certain streets by any class or kind of
vehicle to protect the streets from damage;
      (6)   Authorization of greater maximum weights or lengths for vehicles
using city streets than specified by state law;
      (7)   Initiation of proceedings to change speed zones; and
      (8)   Revision of speed limits in parks.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 1126, passed 4-17-1989)
§ 70.16 DUTIES OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager, in consultation with the Chief of Police and Public Works
Director, shall exercise the following duties:
   (A)   Implement the ordinances, resolutions and motions of the Council by
installing, maintaining, removing and altering traffic control devices; such
installations shall comply with state standards for traffic control devices for
streets and highways;
   (B)   Establish, remove or alter the following classes of traffic controls:
      (1)   Crosswalks;
      (2)   Intersection channelization and areas where drivers of vehicles
shall not make right, left or U-turns, and the time when the prohibition
applies; and
      (3)   Parking areas and time limitations, including the form of
permissible parking (e.g., parallel or diagonal).
   (C)   Issue oversize or overweight vehicle permits; and
   (D)   Regulate the installation of non-regulatory signs installed within
city rights-of-way.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 1089, passed 11-2-1987; Ord. 1126, passed 4-
17-1989; Ord. 1160, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 70.17 PUBLIC DANGER.
   Under conditions constituting a danger to the public, the City Manager or
his or her designate may install temporary traffic control devices deemed to be
necessary.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 1089, passed 11-2-1987; Ord. 1126, passed 4-
17-1989)
§ 70.18 STANDARDS.
   The regulations of the City Manager or his or her designate shall be based
upon:
   (A)   Traffic engineering principles and traffic investigations;
   (B)   Standards, limitations and rules promulgated by the State
Transportation Commission; and
   (C)   Other recognized traffic control standards.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 1089, passed 11-2-1987; Ord. 1126, passed 4-
17-1989)
§ 70.19 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of police officer to enforce the provisions of
this code.
   (B)   In the event of a fire or other public emergency officers of the
Police and Fire Department may direct traffic as conditions require,
notwithstanding the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976)
PARADES AND PROCESSIONS
§ 70.30 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   A funeral procession shall proceed to the place of interment by the
most direct route which is both legal and practicable.
   (B)   The procession shall be accompanied by adequate escort vehicles for
traffic control purposes.
   (C)   All motor vehicles in the procession shall be operated with their
lights turned on.
   (D)   No person shall unreasonably interfere with a funeral procession.
   (E)   No person shall operate a vehicle that is not a part of the procession
between the vehicles of a funeral procession.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31 PARADE PERMIT.
   No person shall organize or participate in a parade which may disrupt or
interfere with traffic without obtaining a permit. A permit shall always be
required of a procession of people utilizing the public right-of-way and
consisting of ten or more persons or four or more vehicles; provided, however,
that the requirements of this section shall not apply to a funeral procession.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 1126, passed 4-17-1989) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Permit application. Unless the time requirement is waived, application
for parade permits shall be made to the City Manager at least 20 days prior to
the intended date of the parade. Applications shall be signed by the person
responsible for the proposed parade and shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The name and address of the person responsible for the proposed
parade;
      (2)   The date of the proposed parade;
      (3)   The desired route, including assembling points;
      (4)   The number of persons, vehicles and animals which will be
participating in the parade; and
      (5)   The proposed starting and ending time.
   (B)   Application review/approval.
      (1)   If the City Manager, in consultation with the Chief of Police,
determines that the parade can be conducted without endangering public safety
and without seriously inconveniencing the general public, he or she shall
approve the route and issue the permit. If the City Manager, in consultation
with the Chief of Police, determines that, the parade cannot be conducted
without endangering public safety or seriously inconveniencing the general
public, he or she may:
         (a)   Propose an alternate route;
         (b)   Propose an alternate date; or
         (c)   Refuse to issue a parade permit.
      (2)   The City Manager shall notify the applicant of his or her decision
within five days of receipt of the application. If the City Manager proposes
alternatives or refuses to issue a permit, the applicant shall have the right
to appeal the decision to the Council.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 1089, passed 11-2-1987; Ord. 1126, passed 4-
17-1989)
§ 70.33 APPEAL TO COUNCIL.
   (A)   An applicant may appeal the decision of the City Manager by filing a
written request of appeal with the city’s administrative office within five
days after the City Manager’s decision has been rendered.
   (B)   The Council shall schedule a hearing which shall not be later than the
second regular session following the filing of the written appeal and shall
notify the applicant of the date and time that he or she may appear either in
person or by a representative.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 1089, passed 11-2-1987; Ord. 1126, passed 4-
17-1989)
§ 70.34 OFFENSES AGAINST PARADE.
   (A)   No person shall unreasonably interfere with a parade or parade
participant.
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle that is not part of a parade between
the vehicles or persons comprising a parade.
   (C)   No parade participant shall dispense items, such as, but not limited
to, candy, flyers, stickers, in any manner except hand to hand to parade-goers.
It shall be a violation of this code for any parade participant to throw any
item. For the purpose of this section PARADE PARTICIPANT includes floats,
vehicles, animals, marching units or any other parade entries.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 1206, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35 PERMIT REVOCABLE.
   The City Manager may revoke a parade permit if circumstances clearly show
that the parade can no longer be conducted consistent with public safety.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 1089, passed 11-2-1987; Ord. 1126, passed 4-
17-1989)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of §§
70.03, 70.04, 70.30 through 70.35 and §§
72.01 through
72.13 is punishable by fine not to exceed $50.
      (2)   Violation of §§
71.01 through
71.06 is punishable by fine not to exceed $100.   
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 1089, passed 11-2-1987)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Crossing private property
   
71.02   Unlawful riding
   
71.03   Sleds on streets
   
71.04   Jake brakes
   
71.05   Damaging sidewalks and curbs
   
71.06   Removing glass and debris
Load Limits
   
71.20   Definitions
   
71.21   Pneumatic tires
   
71.22   Load limits; areas
   
71.23   Permits
   
71.24   Terms of permit
   
71.25   Revocation
   
71.26   Non-city streets
   
71.27   Exempted vehicles
   
71.28   Blocked street
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 CROSSING PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a vehicle shall proceed from one street to an intersecting
street by crossing private property. This provision shall not apply to the
operator of a vehicle who stops on the property for the purpose of procuring or
providing goods or services.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   (A)   No operator shall permit a passenger and no passenger shall ride on a
vehicle upon a street except on a portion of the vehicle designed or intended
for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an employee
engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or to a person riding within a
truck body in space intended for merchandise.
   (B)   No person shall board or alight from a vehicle while the vehicle is in
motion upon a street.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 SLEDS ON STREETS.
   No person shall use the streets for traveling on skis, toboggans, sleds or
similar devices, except where authorized.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 JAKE BRAKES.
   The use by the operator of any vehicle of a device designed to slow the
speed of such vehicle by means of engine compression, commonly known as “Jake
brakes” is prohibited.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 995, passed 1-15-1979) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 DAMAGING SIDEWALKS AND CURBS.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not drive upon a sidewalk or
roadside planting strip except to cross at a permanent or temporary driveway.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall place dirt, wood or other material in the
gutter or space next to the curb of a street with the intention of using it as
a driveway.
   (C)   No person shall remove a portion of a curb or move a motor vehicle or
device moved by a motor vehicle upon a curb or sidewalk without first obtaining
authorization and posting bond if required. A person who causes damage shall be
held responsible for the cost of repair.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 REMOVING GLASS AND DEBRIS.
   A party to a vehicle accident or a person causing broken glass or other
debris to be upon a street shall remove the glass and other debris from the
street.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976)
LOAD LIMITS
§ 71.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMBINED WEIGHT. The sum of the weight of the vehicle or combination of
vehicles and the weight of the load resting thereon or sustained thereby.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 1138, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 71.21 PNEUMATIC TIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate or cause
to be operated upon any street within the city or any vehicle not equipped with
pneumatic tires without first obtaining a permit therefor as provided in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1138, passed 4-2-1990) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 LOAD LIMITS; AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate or cause
to be operated upon the streets of the city any vehicle or combination of
vehicles having a combined weight in excess of 15 tons without first obtaining
a permit therefor as provided in this subchapter. The City Council, by
resolution, may exempt certain streets from the provisions of this section. Any
resolution exempting streets shall be accompanied by a city map illustrating
the same. Any such resolution and map are incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 1138, passed 4-2-1990) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.23 PERMITS.
   (A)   The City Manager or designate is authorized to issue a permit for the
operation of a vehicle/combination of vehicles not in compliance with §§
71.21 and/or 71.22 if, in his or her judgment, the interest of the public will
be served by the proposed movement and damage to the street will not be caused
by such movement.
   (B)   Any application for a permit involving continuous operation not in
compliance with §§
71.21 or
71.22 must be presented to and acted upon by the City Council. All permit
applications shall be in writing and upon forms provided by the City Manager.
(Ord. 1138, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 71.24 TERMS OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued pursuant to the provisions of §
71.23 shall include such terms and conditions as the issuing authority deems
necessary or desirable for the protection of the street and public interest. In
the case of a permit granted by the City Council, the applicant may be required
to furnish public liability and property damage insurance in a sum fixed by the
City Council and indemnity insurance or an indemnity bond in a sum fixed by the
City Council indemnifying the city for any damage to the streets that may be
caused by the movement and indemnifying the councilors, officers, employees and
agents of the city from any claims that may arise on account of the issuing of
the permit and use of the street in any movement permitted under the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1138, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 71.25 REVOCATION.
   A permit may be revoked if any of its terms and conditions are not complied
with.
(Ord. 1138, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 71.26 NON-CITY STREETS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any street within the
city which is a county road, under the maintenance and jurisdiction of said
county or is part of the state highway system.
(Ord. 1138, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 71.27 EXEMPTED VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to vehicles which
primarily provide a public service, such as: school buses, fire trucks and
garbage trucks; and vehicles distributing goods and services to public agencies
and institutions.
(Ord. 1138, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 71.28 BLOCKED STREET.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to vehicles using non-
exempt streets because a main thoroughfare of the city is blocked.
(Ord. 1138, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   Persons violating the provisions of §§
71.20 through
71.28 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $500. Each
day the violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense. Any person
violating the provisions of §§
71.20 through
71.28 shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 1138, passed 4-2-1990)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Methods of parking
   
72.02   Prohibited parking or standing
   
72.03   Prohibited parking
   
72.04   Use of loading zones
   
72.05   Unattended vehicles
   
72.06   Standing or parking of buses and taxicabs
   
72.07   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands
   
72.08   Lights on parked vehicle
   
72.09   Extension of parking time
   
72.10   Exemption
   
72.11   Citation on illegally parked vehicle
   
72.12   Failure to comply with parking citation
   
72.13   Owner responsibility
§ 72.01 METHODS OF PARKING.
   (A)   Where parking space markings are placed on a street, no person shall
stand or park a vehicle other than in the indicated direction and, unless the
size or shape of the vehicle makes compliance impossible, within a single
marked space.
   (B)   The operator who first begins maneuvering a motor vehicle into a
vacant parking space on a street shall have priority to park in that space, and
no other vehicle operator shall attempt to interfere.
   (C)   Whenever the operator of a vehicle discovers the vehicle is parked
close to a building to which the Fire Department has been summoned, the
operator shall immediately remove the vehicle from the area, unless otherwise
directed by police or fire officers.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 PROHIBITED PARKING OR STANDING.
   (A)   Where posted, parking shall be permitted within city alleys for
periods not to exceed ten consecutive minutes for retail purposes provided such
parking does not directly obstruct driveways or garage entrances. Signs shall
be installed at the business owner’s expense and shall conform to city
standards regarding signs.
   (B)   Parking or standing vehicles within city alleys for periods not to
exceed 30 consecutive minutes shall be permitted for the expeditious loading or
unloading of vehicles. Under no circumstance shall parking or standing a
vehicle in a city alley be permitted for a period in excess of 30 consecutive
minutes. Vehicles found to be in violation of these provisions shall be towed
at owner’s expense in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 74.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 1276, passed 1-5-2015) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   No operator shall park and no owner shall allow a vehicle to be parked upon
a street for the principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Repairing or servicing the vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an
emergency;
   (C)   Displaying advertising from the vehicle; and
   (D)   Selling merchandise from the vehicle, except when authorized to do so
by the City Manager.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 1089, passed 11-2-1987; Ord. 1126, passed 4-
17-1989) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 USE OF LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time, other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of persons or
materials, in a place designated as a loading zone where the hours applicable
to that loading zone are in effect.
   (B)   In no case, when the hours applicable to the loading zone are in
effect, shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed the time
limits posted. If no time limits are posted, then the use of the zone shall not
exceed 30 minutes.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   Whenever a police officer shall find a motor vehicle parked or standing
unattended with the ignition key in the vehicle, the officer is authorized to
remove the key from the vehicle and deliver the key to the person in charge of
the police station.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976)
§ 72.06 STANDING OR PARKING OF BUSES AND TAXICABS.
   The operator of a bus or taxicab shall not stand or park the vehicle upon a
street in a business district at a place other than a bus stop or taxicab
stand, respectively, except that this provision shall not prevent the operator
of a taxicab from temporarily stopping the taxicab outside a traffic lane while
loading or unloading passengers.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 RESTRICTED USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle other than a taxicab in a taxicab
stand, or a bus in a bus stop, except that the operator of a passenger vehicle
may temporarily stop for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading
or unloading passengers, when stopping does not interfere with a bus or taxicab
waiting to enter or about to enter the restricted space.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLE.
   No lights need be displayed upon a vehicle that is parked in accordance with
this chapter upon a street where there is sufficient light to reveal a person
or object at a distance of at least 500 feet from the vehicle.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 EXTENSION OF PARKING TIME.
   Where maximum parking time limits are designated by sign, movement of a
vehicle within a block shall not extend the time limits for parking.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 992, passed 11-20-1978)
§ 72.10 EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the parking or standing of
vehicles shall not apply to a vehicle of the city, county or state or public
utility while necessarily in use for construction or repair work on a street,
or a vehicle owned by the United States while in use for the collection,
transportation or delivery of mail.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 992, passed 11-20-1978)
§ 72.11 CITATION ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   Whenever a vehicle without an operator is found parked in violation of a
restriction imposed by this chapter or state law, the officer finding the
vehicle shall take its license number, and any other information displayed on
the vehicle which may identify its owner, and shall conspicuously affix to the
vehicle a parking citation instructing the owner to answer to the charge
against him or her or pay the penalty imposed within the time and at the place
specified in the citation.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 1089, passed 11-2-1987; Ord. 1139, passed 4-
2-1990)
§ 72.12 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PARKING CITATION.
   If the owner/operator does not respond to a parking citation affixed to a
vehicle within the period specified on the citation, the Municipal Judge or
City Manager or designate may send a letter to the owner of the vehicle
informing him or her of the violation and giving notice that if the citation is
disregarded for a period of ten days:
   (A)   The fine will be doubled; and
   (B)   If the vehicle has three or more outstanding citations, it may be
impounded. A vehicle so impounded shall not be released until all outstanding
fines and charges have been paid.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 1089, passed 11-2-1987; Ord. 1139, passed 4-
2-1990) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.13 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of a vehicle placed in violation of a parking restriction shall be
responsible for the offense, except when the use of the vehicle was secured by
the operator without the owner’s consent.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Operation generally
   
73.02   Impoundment
   
73.03   Definition
   
73.04   Effect of regulations
   
73.05   Inspection of bicycle
   
73.06   Brakes
   
73.07   Lights
   
73.08   Riding on bicycles
   
73.09   Riding on streets and bicycle paths
   
73.10   Racing
   
73.11   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
73.12   Carrying articles
   
73.13   Riding on sidewalk
   
73.14   Parking
Skateboards
   
73.25   “Commercial Downtown Zone” defined
   
73.26   Riding on sidewalks restricted
   
73.27   Creation of hazard prohibited
   
73.28   Attachment to moving vehicles prohibited
   
73.29   Liability for damage
   
73.30   Parent and guardian responsibility
   
73.31   Enforcement
 
   
73.99   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 OPERATION GENERALLY.
   In addition to observing all other applicable provisions of this subchapter
and state law pertaining to bicycles, a person shall not:
   (A)   Leave a bicycle, except in a bicycle rack; if no rack is provided, the
person shall leave the bicycle so as not to obstruct any roadway, sidewalk,
driveway or building entrance; a person shall not leave a bicycle in violation
of the provisions relating to the parking of motor vehicles; nor
   (B)   Ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within the downtown business area.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   No person shall leave a bicycle on public or private property without
the consent of the person in charge or the owner thereof.
   (B)   A bicycle left on public property for a period in excess of 24 hours
may be impounded by the Police Department.
   (C)   In addition to any citation issued, a bicycle parked in violation of
this subchapter may be immediately impounded by the Police Department.
   (D)   If a bicycle impounded under this subchapter is licensed, or other
means of determining its ownership exist, the police shall make reasonable
efforts to notify the owner. No impounding fee shall be charged to the owner of
a stolen bicycle which has been impounded.
   (E)   A bicycle impounded under this subchapter which remains unclaimed
shall be disposed of in accordance with the city’s procedures for disposal of
abandoned or lost personal property.
   (F)   Except as provided in §
73.06, a fee of $5 shall be charged to the owner of a bicycle impounded under
this section.
(Ord. 957, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Any non-motorized, two-wheeled vehicle.
(Ord. 1081, passed 9-21-1987)
§ 73.04 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No parent of any minor child and no guardian of any minor ward shall
authorize or knowingly permit any such minor child or ward to violate the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Provisions of this subchapter relating to bicycles shall apply
whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any public path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated
herein.
   (C)   Provisions of this subchapter shall apply in addition to the
regulation of vehicles as set forth in the state revised statutes.
(Ord. 1081, passed 9-21-1987) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 INSPECTION OF BICYCLE.
   The Police Chief or his or her delegate, upon request, shall inspect a
bicycle and keep a record of its serial number and the name of the owner.
Authorization of use shall be denied for any bicycle determined to be in an
unsafe mechanical condition.
(Ord. 1081, passed 9-21-1987)
§ 73.06 BRAKES.
   Every bicycle operated upon the streets in this city shall be equipped with
brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to hold such
vehicle.
(Ord. 1081, passed 9-21-1987)
§ 73.07 LIGHTS.
   No person shall ride or operate any bicycle upon any street, alley or public
place within the corporate limits of this city during the period from one-half
hour after sunset until one-half hour before sunrise, and all times when fog or
other atmospheric conditions render the operation of a bicycle dangerous to
traffic or the use of the streets, or at any other time when there is not
sufficient light to render clearly discernible any person on the streets at a
distance of 200 feet ahead without having a lighted lamp attached to the front
of the bicycle visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of
at least 300 feet in front of the bicycle and also a reflex mirror or lighted
lamp attached to the rear of the bicycle exhibiting a red light visible under
like conditions from a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of the
bicycle.
(Ord. 1081, passed 9-21-1987) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than with his or
her feet on the pedals and facing the front of the bicycle.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Ord. 1081, passed 9-21-1987) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 RIDING ON STREETS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a street shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the street as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a street shall not ride more than two
abreast except upon paths or parts of streets set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles.
(Ord. 1081, passed 9-21-1987) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 RACING.
   No person shall engage in or cause others to be engaged in any bicycle
racing upon the streets or other public places in this city unless the race is
a scheduled event permitted by the City Council and supervised by the Police
Department.
(Ord. 1081, passed 9-21-1987) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.11 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle entering or emerging from an alley, driveway or
building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or a sidewalk area extending across
any alley way, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said
sidewalk or sidewalk area; and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Ord. 1081, passed 9-21-1987)
§ 73.12 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handle bars
and in full control of the bicycle.
(Ord. 1081, passed 9-21-1987) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.13 RIDING ON SIDEWALK.
   No person shall ride or operate a bicycle upon a sidewalk in a business
district. Any person riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk in a residential district
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give an audible signal
before overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
(Ord. 1081, passed 9-21-1987) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.14 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street or upon a sidewalk except in a
rack to support the bicycle or against a building or at the curb in such a
manner as to afford the least obstruction of pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 1081, passed 9-21-1987) Penalty, see §
73.99
SKATEBOARDS
§ 73.25 “COMMERCIAL DOWNTOWN ZONE” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL DOWNTOWN ZONE. The area one block north of Spruce Street and one
block south of Spruce Street including Second Street, Third Street, Fourth
Street, Fifth Street, Sixth Street, Seventh Street and Eighth Street (Highway
42).
(Ord. 1225, passed 12-3-2001)
§ 73.26 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person may ride or operate a device commonly called or known as a
skateboard, roller skates, roller blades, motorized scooters, coaster, scooter
or any other toy vehicle, or similar device, upon a sidewalk in the Commercial
Downtown Zone, as defined in §
73.25.
   (B)   A person riding a skateboard upon a sidewalk or street outside of the
described commercial downtown zone, shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian and vehicle traffic and shall give audible signal before overtaking
and passing any pedestrian.
(Ord. 1225, passed 12-3-2001) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.27 CREATION OF HAZARD PROHIBITED.
   No person shall ride or operate a device commonly called or known as a
skateboard, roller skates, roller blades, motorized scooters, coaster, scooter
or any other toy vehicle, or similar device, upon a sidewalk in the city limits
in such manner as to create a hazard to pedestrians, vehicle traffic or other
persons lawfully using the streets or sidewalks.
(Ord. 1225, passed 12-3-2001) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.28 ATTACHMENT TO MOVING VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person riding upon any device commonly called or known as a skateboard,
roller skates, roller blades, motorized scooters, coaster, scooter or any other
toy vehicle, or similar device, may attach the same or himself or herself to
any moving vehicle upon the streets or sidewalks.
(Ord. 1225, passed 12-3-2001) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.29 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE.
   Any person riding upon or operating any device commonly called or known as a
skateboard, roller skates, roller blades, motorized scooters, coaster, scooter
or any other toy vehicle, or similar device, who damages or causes to be
damaged any property, whether publicly or privately owned, through the riding
or operation of any such device shall be liable for such damage; the liability
shall extend to parent or guardian in the case of a juvenile being in violation
of this section.
(Ord. 1225, passed 12-3-2001) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.30 PARENT AND GUARDIAN RESPONSIBILITY.
   No parent of any minor child and no guardian of any minor ward may authorize
or knowingly permit any such minor child or ward to violate the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 1225, passed 12-3-2001) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.31 ENFORCEMENT.
   It is the duty of the Police Department through its officers to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1225, passed 12-3-2001)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
73.04 through
73.14 shall, upon conviction, be punished by impounding his or her bicycle at
the City Hall, or other designated area of this city, in charge of the Police
Chief for such period as the Municipal Court shall designate.
   (C)   In the event a person is found to have violated any of the provisions
of §§
73.25 through
73.31, the police officer shall have the right to take such device into his or
her custody and hold the same until it is released by the court having
jurisdiction in the matter. Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
73.25 through
73.31 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not to exceed
$50, confiscation of the device or both.
(Ord. 1081, passed 9-21-1987; Ord. 1225, passed 12-3-2001)
CHAPTER 74: TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT
Section
   
74.01   Generally
   
74.02   Towing after notice
   
74.03   Authority
   
74.04   Immobilization sticker
   
74.05   Immobilization fee
   
74.06   Vehicle release
   
74.07   Redemption or sale
   
74.08   Hearing request
   
74.09   Towing after immobilization
   
74.10   Inventory of vehicle
   
74.11   Notice upon towing
   
74.12   Cash bond forfeiture
   
74.13   Unlawful to remove immobilized vehicle
   
74.14   Hearing
   
74.15   Failure to appear
   
74.16   Vehicle towed for nonparking violations
   
74.17   Disposition of vehicles
§ 74.01 GENERALLY.
   A law enforcement officer, without prior notice to the owner of a motor
vehicle, may cause the motor vehicle to be impounded and towed when the officer
reasonably believes:
   (A)   The operator of the vehicle does not possess a valid operator’s
license as required by ORS 807.010;
   (B)   The vehicle operator is driving uninsured or without other means to
prove financial responsibility under ORS 806.010;
   (C)   The operator has failed to transfer title of the vehicle, register the
vehicle or carry a valid vehicle registration card as required under ORS
803.300;
   (D)   The vehicle is illegally parked on a public or private street in a
restricted space, zone or traffic lane where parking is limited or prohibited
to designated classes of vehicles or periods of time, or any time the vehicle
interferes with the intended use of such space, zone or traffic lane as
proscribed in ORS 811.550. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this
division (D) shall be construed to include violations of other city parking
regulations as set forth in §
74.02;
   (E)   When a vehicle is left upon a public highway, street or right-of-way
in such a location or in such a manner as to create a hazard or obstruction to
traffic; and/or
   (F)   When the police officer has good cause to believe that the motor
vehicle is stolen.
(Ord. 1203, passed - -1999)
§ 74.02 TOWING AFTER NOTICE.
   (A)   A law enforcement officer, only after providing notice to the owner of
a motor vehicle as provided herein, may cause the motor vehicle to be impounded
and towed when the officer reasonably believes a vehicle is abandoned. For the
purpose of this section, ABANDONED means that the vehicle has been parked or
left standing on the public right-of-way for a period in excess of 24 hours
without authorization provided by law.
   (B)   A law enforcement officer shall provide written notice of intent to
impound/tow a vehicle when the officer determines that a vehicle is abandoned.
Notice shall be sent to the owner of the vehicle and any lessors or security
interest holders as shown in the records of the Department of Transportation.
The notice shall state that the vehicle will be towed unless the vehicle is
removed within five days of the date of mailing the notice. The notice shall
also be posted in a conspicuous place on the vehicle and must state the vehicle
will be towed on a date not later than five days of the date of posting.
Failure to provide notice under this section shall not affect the validity of
any action taken to tow and impound an abandoned vehicle pursuant to this
section.
(Ord. 1203, passed - -1999)
§ 74.03 AUTHORITY.
   Any law enforcement officer may immobilize a vehicle by installing on it, or
attaching to it, a device designed to restrict the normal movement of the
vehicle under the following condition only: The owner of the subject vehicle
has failed to pay all outstanding penalties for four or more parking citations.
(Ord. 1203, passed - -1999)
§ 74.04 IMMOBILIZATION STICKER.
   (A)   When immobilizing any vehicle, a law enforcement officer shall cause
to be affixed to the vehicle a readily visible notification sticker. The
sticker shall include the following information:
      (1)   The date and time the sticker was affixed;
      (2)   The identity of the law enforcement officer of the city who
immobilized the vehicle;
      (3)   A statement that the vehicle has been immobilized by the city for
delinquent parking violations;
      (4)   A statement that the vehicle may be released from such
immobilization at a designated place, by payment of the designated total of
unpaid parking violation penalties plus an immobilization fee;
      (5)   A statement that the owner may request a hearing within ten days of
immobilization and contest the immobilization and towing of the vehicle only.
If a hearing is requested the amount paid by the owner to effect release of the
vehicle shall be held as a cash bond pending the hearing;
      (6)   A statement that unless arrangements are made for release of the
vehicle within 24 hours, the vehicle will be towed and stored at the owner’s
expense and, after an additional 30 days have elapsed, may be disposed of as an
abandoned vehicle;
      (7)   A warning that removing or attempting to remove the device or
moving the immobilized vehicle before a release is obtained is unlawful; and
      (8)   The address and telephone number and office hours where additional
information may be obtained.
   (B)   The parking restrictions otherwise applicable pursuant to other
sections of this chapter shall not apply to any vehicle immobilized pursuant to
this section.
(Ord. 1203, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.05 IMMOBILIZATION FEE.
   Any vehicle immobilized shall be assessed an immobilization fee in an amount
to be set by Council resolution. This fee shall be in addition to any penalty
assessed pursuant to other sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 1203, passed - -1999; Ord. 1233, passed 1-6-2003)
§ 74.06 VEHICLE RELEASE.
   No immobilized vehicle shall be released from the device until the total of
unpaid parking violation penalties owning, plus the immobilization fee, have
been paid or a cash bond in an amount equal to the sum of the penalties and
immobilization fee has been posted.
(Ord. 1203, passed - -1999)
§ 74.07 REDEMPTION OR SALE.
   The Police Department shall remove impounded vehicles to a garage, parking
lot or other suitable storage place. The owner of the impounded vehicle or his
or her authorized agent may redeem such vehicle upon the payment of the towing
and storage charges. If redemption is not made within 30 days after the vehicle
is impounded, then such vehicle shall be disposed of in accordance with the
procedure provided by ordinance for the disposal of abandoned vehicles.
(Ord. 1203, passed - -1999)
§ 74.08 HEARING REQUEST.
   Any person desiring to contest an immobilization or towing may request a
hearing. Any hearing so requested shall be limited to circumstances surrounding
the immobilization/towing and shall not be a hearing on mitigating
circumstances surrounding the issuance of the underlying citation (if any). The
request must be made in person or in writing, at the offices of the Police
Department, not more than ten days after immobilization or towing.
(Ord. 1203, passed - -1999)
§ 74.09 TOWING AFTER IMMOBILIZATION.
   (A)   If the owner or his or her designee fails to contact the Police
Department in response to the immobilization of a vehicle within 24 hours of
the affixing of the immobilization device, the vehicle may be towed and stored
at the expense of the owner.
   (B)   The vehicle shall not be released until full payment of all parking
penalties, immobilization fee, towing and storage charges have been paid, or
cash bond, in an amount equal to the sum of the outstanding penalties,
immobilization fee, towing and storage charges have been posted with the city.
   (C)   The person towing the vehicle shall have a lien on the vehicle and its
contents for reasonable towing and storage charges and may retain possession of
the vehicle until such charges are paid, or bond, or some form of security, is
posted.
   (D)   A lien described under this section does not attach to the contents of
any vehicle taken into custody from public property until 15 days after taking
the vehicle into custody.
(Ord. 1203, passed - -1999)
§ 74.10 INVENTORY OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   The contents of any vehicle which is to be towed and impounded shall
be inventoried by the police officer. The inventory shall be conducted prior to
towing except where there is a reasonable suspicion to believe the safety of
the police officer or other persons is at risk, in which case the inventory
shall be made as soon as is safely practical.
   (B)   The inventory shall be made for the following purposes only:
      (1)   To promptly identify personal property for the protection of such
property while the vehicle is impounded;
      (2)   To prevent false claims for lost or stolen property; and/or
      (3)   To locate toxic, flammable, explosive or other dangerous
substances.
   (C)   The inventory shall be conducted throughout the passenger and engine
compartments of the vehicle, including accessible areas under or within the
dashboard areas, pockets in the doors or the back of the front seats, in any
consoles between seats and under floor mats and seats.
   (D)   Inventories of the following property shall be made:
      (1)   Of all personal property in plain view or in open containers;
      (2)   All open containers found in any unlocked compartments, including
the trunk, glove box and car-top carriers;
      (3)   All open containers found in any locked compartments; provided,
however, that person in possession of the vehicle consents to entry or the keys
to the compartments have been left with the vehicle; and
      (4)   No closed container shall be opened for inventory purposes; for the
purpose of this division (D)(4), CLOSED CONTAINER means any container secured
in such a manner that a reasonable person would know or should know that access
requires permission.
   (E)   The police officer shall prepare a written list of property
inventoried contemporaneously with the inventory. The inventory shall be
signed, dated, including the time the inventory was complete. A copy of the
inventory shall be filed with the Police Department, a copy shall be left with
the vehicle or tendered to the person in control of the vehicle if present at
the time of towing, and a copy shall be provided with the notice of removal
under §
74.11.
(Ord. 1203, passed - -1999)
§ 74.11 NOTICE UPON TOWING.
   (A)   After a vehicle has been towed and impounded and within 48 hours after
the vehicle is towed, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, notice
of removal shall be provided to the owner of the vehicle and any lessors or
security interest holders as shown in the records of the Department of
Transportation by sending, via certified mail, notice stating the following:
      (1)   The vehicle has been towed and impounded;
      (2)   The reason the vehicle has been towed and impounded;
      (3)   An address and telephone number that may be used to obtain
information on the charges which must be paid before the vehicle will be
released and on the procedures for procuring such release;
      (4)   The owner is entitled to and may request a hearing on the validity
of the impoundment by filing a request for hearing with the City Police
Department within ten calendar days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays, of the receipt of the notice;
      (5)   The location of the vehicle;
      (6)   The vehicle is subject to towing and storage charges, the amount of
charges that have accrued as of the date of the notice, the rate of the daily
storage charges and that daily storage charges will continue to accrue;
      (7)   The person who towed and is storing the vehicle has a lien on the
vehicle for the towing and storage charges, and will retain possession of the
vehicle until the charges are paid and, if the charges remain unpaid for more
than 30 days, may have the vehicle sold to satisfy the lien;
      (8)   The vehicle and its contents may be immediately reclaimed upon
presentation to the Police Department proof of ownership or right to
possession, payment to the Police Department of the fee specified in §
74.07, any payment to the person who towed and is storing the vehicle all
towing and storage charges; and
      (9)   The vehicle may be sold or otherwise disposed of if a person
entitled to possession of the vehicle does not reclaim the vehicle within 30
days of the date vehicle was towed.
   (B)   No notice is required under this section in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   The vehicle does not display license plates or other identification
by which registration or ownership of the vehicle can be determined; and
      (2)   The identity of the owner of the vehicle is not available from the
State Department of Transportation or other registration authority or the
identity and address of the owner cannot reasonably otherwise be determined.
(Ord. 1203, passed - -1999)
§ 74.12 CASH BOND FORFEITURE.
   Any person posting a cash bond, who has not made full payment of penalties,
fees and charges, shall be deemed to have forfeited the cash bond to the city
if no request for hearing is filed within ten calendar days following the date
of the immobilization, or within ten calendar days following the date of the
towing, in a case where the vehicle has been towed.
(Ord. 1203, passed - -1999)
§ 74.13 UNLAWFUL TO REMOVE IMMOBILIZED VEHICLE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove an
immobilization device, or to move, or attempt to move, an immobilized vehicle
without first obtaining approval for the release of the vehicle and having the
immobilization device removed.
   (B)   A person violating the provisions of this section shall be liable for
any damage caused by such attempt to move the vehicle or remove the device.
(Ord. 1203, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.14 HEARING.
   (A)   When a hearing is requested, it shall be held before the Municipal
Judge and only upon request of the registered owner.
   (B)   Any such hearing shall be set within six days of receipt of the
request, holidays, Saturdays and Sundays not included. The city shall send
written notice of hearing to the owner of the vehicle at the address set forth
in the owner’s request for hearing.
   (C)   A hearing under the provisions of this section shall be limited in
scope to the validity of the action taken to immobilize, or tow and store, the
subject vehicle and the amount of the lien to be attached to the subject
vehicle.
   (D)   The decision of the Municipal Judge shall be in written form and shall
be final from which no appeal may be taken.
   (E)   If the immobilization and towing of the subject vehicle is determined
to be valid, the Municipal Judge shall order the vehicle to be held in custody
until the costs of the hearing and all towing and storage costs, fees, fines
and other charges, all in an amount specifically stated are paid by the owner
or designee. The order shall further specify the time within which the charges
are to be paid, and if not so paid, the vehicle may be disposed of as an
abandoned vehicle.
   (F)   If the immobilization and towing of the subject vehicle is determined
to be invalid, the Municipal Judge shall order the immediate release of the
vehicle to the owner or designee, if it has not yet been released, and direct
that any towing or storage costs already paid be refunded. Under such
circumstances the city shall be responsible for any towing and storage charges.
   (G)   Nothing contained in this section shall affect the liability of the
owner of the subject vehicle for penalties outstanding on delinquent parking
citations, which shall be paid, and may be deducted from any funds deposited by
the owner or designee.
(Ord. 1203, passed - -1999)
§ 74.15 FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (A)   Any person posting a cash bond who fails to appear at a requested
hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to contest the immobilization
or towing and shall be deemed to have forfeited any cash bond to the city,
except where the owner shows good cause for failure to appear.
   (B)   Notice of the right of the city to cause forfeiture of any posting in
conformance with this chapter, shall either be given in person to the party
posting the bond, at the time of posting, or mailed to his or her last known
address.
(Ord. 1203, passed - -1999)
§ 74.16 VEHICLE TOWED FOR NONPARKING VIOLATIONS.
   A vehicle towed for violation of §
74.01 may be released upon proof of each of the following.
   (A)   Valid operator’s license. The person seeking release must either
possess a valid operator’s license or be accompanied by a valid licensed
driver. The city shall conduct a Department of Transportation search at the
time the license is presented to the records clerk to confirm validity. If
released, the vehicle will only be operated by the licensed party.
   (B)   Proof of ownership. The person seeking release must establish proof of
current ownership by presenting title issued by the Department of
Transportation.
   (C)   Proof of insurance or financial responsibility. The person seeking
release of the vehicle must prove that the vehicle that was towed is insured in
one of the following ways:
      (1)   Insurance policy listing the towed vehicle;
      (2)   A card from an insurance company verifying the issuance of a policy
covering the towed vehicle;
      (3)   Proof of a bond approved under ORS 806.090;
      (4)   Proof of a deposit with the State Treasurer under ORS 806.060; or
      (5)   Proof of a Department of Transportation policy for self insurance
under ORS 806.130.
(Ord. 1203, passed - -1999)
§ 74.17 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any company that tows or stores a vehicle pursuant to this chapter
shall have a lien on the vehicle for the just and reasonable charges for the
tow and storage services performed. The towing company may retain possession of
the vehicle until towing and storage charges have been paid. The priority for
such lien shall be inferior to the charges imposed by the city for
immobilization or towing of the vehicle.
   (B)   If the required towing and storage charges have been paid, the vehicle
shall be released immediately to the person(s) entitled to lawful possession.
For the purpose of this section, LAWFUL POSSESSION shall mean the owner, the
person who was lawfully in the possession or control of the vehicle at the time
it was towed or to a person who purchased the vehicle from the owner and who
produces written proof of ownership as well as satisfaction of §
74.16.
   (C)   If a vehicle is not reclaimed within 30 days after it is impounded,
the city may dispose of the vehicle and its contents. The city shall first give
the person who towed and is storing the vehicle ten days written notice of the
city’s intent to dispose of the vehicle under this section; provided, that such
written notice may be given prior to 30 days after the vehicle is impounded.
   (D)   At any time after 30 days after the vehicle notice of removal has been
provided pursuant to §
74.11, or 30 days after the date the vehicle is towed if no notice is required
pursuant to §
74.11(B), the city may institute proceedings to sell the vehicle and its
contents. The sale may be held with or without public auction. The city shall
have the vehicle appraised by a person who has been issued an appraiser’s
certificate by the State Department of Transportation that the city will be
disposing of the vehicle.
   (E)   Notice of sale of the vehicle shall be given to the owner and any
lessors and security interest holders as shown in the records of the Department
of Transportation, by registered or certified mail at least 30 days prior to
the sale. In addition, the city shall post a notice of sale in a public place
located within the City Hall. The notice of sale shall contain a particular
description of the vehicle, the name of the owner, the amounts due under this
chapter for towing, storage and other charges, and the time, place and manner
of sale. If the vehicle is appraised at a value of $2,500 or greater, notice of
sale shall be printed once a week for two successive weeks in a daily or weekly
newspaper generally circulated in the county.
   (F)   A person holding a security interest may, prior to sale, obtain
release of the vehicle by providing entitlement to possession as required by §
74.16 (and by paying the amounts due in §
74.09) and the towing and storage charges. If a person holding a security
interest in the vehicle fails to do so prior to the date of sale, the person’s
security interest is extinguished. If the city fails to notify a person holding
a properly perfected security interest of the sale as required by this section,
then the vehicle remains subject to the security interest, and any subsequent
purchaser takes the vehicle subject to the security interest.
   (G)   (1)   If the vehicle is appraised at a value of $500 or less, the city
may dispose of the vehicle and its contents by sale to a person who holds a
valid wrecker’s certificate issued under ORS 822.110 or may dispose of the
vehicle at public auction.
      (2)   (a)   If the vehicle is appraised at a value less than $1,000 but
more than $500, the city may dispose of the vehicle and its contents by sale to
a person who holds a valid wrecker’s certificate issued under ORS 822.110 if:
            1.   The owner of the vehicle, any lessor or holder of a security
interest shown in the records of the Department of Transportation sign a
release, under oath, disclaiming any interest in the vehicle; or
            2.   The owner of the vehicle, any lessor or holder of a security
interest shown in the records of the Department of Transportation have been
provided notice of removal as provided in §
74.02 and have failed to sign a release or reclaim the vehicle.
         (b)   In all other cases where the vehicle is appraised at a value
less than $1,000 but more than $500, the vehicle shall be sold at public
auction.
      (3)   If the vehicle is appraised at a value of $1,000 or more, the city
shall sell the vehicle at public auction.
   (H)   Upon sale and payment of the purchase price, the city shall execute a
certificate of sale in duplicate. The original certificate of sale shall be
delivered to the purchaser and the copy retained by the city. The certificate
of sale shall contain the name and address of the purchaser, the date of sale,
the price paid, a description of the vehicle and a stipulation that the sale is
without any warranty as to the condition or title of the vehicle. The purchaser
shall be notified that the purchaser might be required to apply for a salvage
title under ORS 819.010. The purchaser shall be entitled to be issued title and
a registration card for the vehicle, or to be issued a salvage title to the
vehicle.
   (I)   (1)   When a vehicle is sold pursuant to this section, the city shall
provide a return of sale to the Department of Transportation setting forth a
description of the vehicle, the purchase price, the name and address of the
purchaser, the costs incurred in the sale and the costs and expenses incurred
in the removal, preservation and custody of the vehicle.
      (2)   The city shall deduct from the proceeds of the sale the costs
incurred in the sale and the costs and expenses incurred in the removal,
preservation and custody of the vehicle; provided, however, that the city shall
only disburse proceeds to the person who towed and stored the vehicle if that
person property perfected their lien under ORS 87.176. The city’s finance
officer shall then deposit the proceeds from the sale in a fund specifically
designated for such purpose and shall file a copy of the return of sale, along
with a copy of any notices required by this section in the records of the city.
At any time within two years after the sale of a vehicle, the former owner or
former security interest holder may recover the proceeds, minus costs incurred
in the sale and costs of removal, preservation and custody of the vehicle and
fee charged pursuant to §
74.09, along with interest at the legal rate, by filing a claim with the city,
proving the person’s ownership or security interest in the vehicle as of the
date of sale. If no person has filed a claim within two years of the date of
sale, then the proceeds shall be deposited in city’s General Fund.
(Ord. 1203, passed - -1999)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES AND OFFENSES
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
92.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES AND OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
Nuisances Affecting Public Health and Safety
   
90.015   Prohibited health hazards
   
90.016   Prohibited hazards to public safety
   
90.017   Obnoxious vegetation
   
90.018   Trees, bushes and shrubs
   
90.019   Derelict buildings
   
90.020   Unauthorized dumping
   
90.021   Fences
   
90.022   Surface waters
   
90.023   Sidewalk accumulation
   
90.024   Odors and burning
   
90.025   Sifting or leaking loads
Nuisances Affecting Public Welfare
   
90.040   Radio and television interference
   
90.041   Unreasonable noise
   
90.042   Accumulation of debris and materials
   
90.043   Alarm systems
Conduct Prohibited on Public Property
   
90.055   Alcohol on public property and public rights-of-way
   
90.056   Animals
   
90.057   Notices and advertisements
   
90.058   Public nuisance property
Administration and Enforcement
   
90.070   Unenumerated nuisances
   
90.071   Notice to abate
   
90.072   Time frame for abatement
   
90.073   Abatement by the person responsible
   
90.074   Abatement by the city
   
90.075   Joint responsibility
   
90.076   Assessment of costs
   
90.077   Summary abatement
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. A vehicle parked in any public way for a period of more
than 48 consecutive hours.
   ABATE. To put an end to or to reduce in degree or intensity.
   ALARM. Any electronic or other signal that requests, causes or is intended
to cause a response by emergency services personnel (Police Department, Fire
Department, 9-1-1 Dispatch); or any assembly of equipment, mechanical or
electrical, arranged to signal the occurrence of an illegal entry or other
activity requiring urgent attention and to which emergency services personnel
are expected to respond.
   AUDIBLE ALARM. Any audible sound produced upon activation of an alarm
system.
   DERELICT BUILDING. A building which has been without lawful occupant for
more than 60 days and which is not sufficiently secured against the intrusion
of flora, fauna or unlawful occupancy.
   ENFORCING OFFICER. The person authority by the city to enforce nuisance
abatement provisions. This shall include, but not be limited to, the City
Manager, police officers, building inspectors, the Fire Chief and the State
Fire Marshal or designee.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm signal which announces a need for emergency services
personnel when no such need exists. This does not include an alarm signal
caused by violent weather conditions or other extraordinary circumstances not
reasonably subject to control by the alarm business operator or alarm user.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, estate, trust, partnership, association,
corporation or any other legal or commercial entity.
   PERSON IN CHARGE OF THE PROPERTY. An owner, agent of the owner, occupant,
lessee, contract purchaser or other person having possession or control of
property or supervision of a construction project.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE. The owner or the person in charge of the property or any
person who otherwise causes a nuisance to exist.
   RODENT HABITAT. Any condition which attracts or is likely to attract, feed
or harbor rats, mice or any other animal likely to carry disease or cause
injury to persons or damage to property.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018)
NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
§ 90.015 PROHIBITED HEALTH HAZARDS.
   No person shall allow, cause, create, permit or suffer a nuisance affecting
public health on private or public property. The following are not exclusive
but illustrative of nuisances affecting public health and may be abated as
provided in this chapter:
   (A)   Open vaults or privies constructed and maintained within the city,
except those constructed or maintained in connection with construction projects
in accordance with State Health Division regulations;
   (B)   Accumulations of debris, rubbish, manure and other refuse that are not
removed within a reasonable time;
   (C)   Putrescible wastes not removed at least every seven days;
   (D)   Stagnant water that affords a breeding place for mosquitoes and other
insect pests;
   (E)   Pollution of a body of water, well, spring, stream or drainage ditch
by sewage, industrial wastes or other substances placed in or near the water in
a manner that will cause harmful material to pollute the water;
   (F)   Decayed or unwholesome food offered for human consumption;
   (G)   An outside toilet, cesspool, septic tank, barn, stable, corral, pen,
chicken coop, rabbit hutch or other premises that are in such a state or
condition as to cause an offensive odor or that are in an unsanitary condition;
   (H)   Any building, structure, vehicle or equipment maintained or
constructed in such a way that it attracts or harbors rats, mice or any other
animal likely to carry disease or cause injury to persons or damage to
property;
   (I)   Liquid wastes drained from private premises;
   (J)   Mastics, oil, grease or petroleum products introduced into the sewer
or storm water system;
   (K)   Animal carcasses on streets or private or public property;
   (L)   Animals or birds afflicted with communicable diseases;
   (M)   Animals or birds maintained, kept or housed in such a number to create
offensive odors or noise; and
   (N)   Pigs or swine maintained, kept or housed in the city.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the temporary exhibition of pigs or swine on the
premises of the County Fairgrounds during an organized event, which is allowed
and not declared a public nuisance.
      (2)   Notwithstanding maintaining, keeping or housing of a pig or swine
commonly referred to as a miniature Vietnamese, Chinese or Oriental Potbellied
pig (sus scrofa), which is allowed and not declared a nuisance under the
following conditions.
         (a)   The pig or swine’s height shall be no greater than 18 inches at
the shoulder and its weight shall be no more than 95 pounds.
         (b)   No more than three pigs or swine shall be kept at any one
residence.
         (c)   The pig or swine shall be restrained and not allowed to run at
large.
         (d)   The pig or swine shall be kept or housed primarily within the
residence.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.016 PROHIBITED HAZARDS TO PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person shall allow, cause, create, permit or suffer a nuisance
affecting public safety on private or public property.
   (B)   The following are not exclusive but illustrative of nuisances
affecting public safety and may be abated as provided in this chapter:
      (1)   Woodpiles, wood, lumber, rocks, bricks, blocks or metal within the
streets or alleys or upon the sidewalks or planting strips for a period of time
longer than 24 hours after placement of such material without first obtaining a
permit from the City Council;
      (2)   A container with compartment of more than one cubic foot capacity
with a door or lid that locks or fastens automatically when closed that cannot
be easily opened from the inside, maintained or left in a place accessible to
children;
      (3)   A well, cistern, cesspool, excavation or other hole of a depth of
four feet or more and a top width of 12 inches or more uncovered, not fenced or
without a suitable protective construction;
      (4)   Unguarded machinery, equipment or other devices appealing,
dangerous and accessible to children;
      (5)   Lumber, logs or piling placed or stored in a manner to be
appealing, dangerous and accessible to children;
      (6)   Excavations remaining open for an unreasonable amount of time
without erecting proper safeguards or barriers;
      (7)   A building that has been found to be a dangerous building per §§
150.30 through
150.40; and/or
      (8)   A derelict building which is without lawful occupant and which is
insufficiently secured against the intrusion of flora, fauna or unlawful
trespass.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.017 OBNOXIOUS VEGETATION.
   (A)   No person shall allow, cause, permit or suffer obnoxious vegetation on
property or in the right-of-way of a street, alley or sidewalk abutting the
property. Obnoxious vegetation must be cut down or destroyed as often as needed
to prevent the creation of a health, fire, safety or traffic hazard or in the
case of weeds or other obnoxious vegetation, from maturing or going to seed.
   (B)   Obnoxious vegetation includes:
      (1)   Vegetation that is or is likely to become:
         (a)   A health hazard;
         (b)   A fire hazard;
         (c)   A traffic hazard, because it impairs the view of a public right-
of-way or otherwise makes the use of the thoroughfare hazardous; or
         (d)   Grass and weeds exceeding ten inches. Properties used for crop
cultivation and livestock grazing are exempt from the tall grass and weeds
provisions if a five foot wide cut or cleared fire break surrounds the
perimeter of the property.
      (2)   Poison oak or poison ivy; and
      (3)   Blackberry bushes or vines that extend into a public way, a pathway
frequented by children or cross a property line.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.018 TREES, BUSHES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   No person in charge of property shall allow or permit trees, bushes or
shrubs on property abutting a street, alley or sidewalk to interfere with
vehicular or pedestrian traffic. A person in charge of property shall keep all
trees, bushes or shrubs on the premises, including the adjoining parking strip,
trimmed so that any overhanging portions are at least eight feet above the
sidewalk and at least 12 feet above the roadway.
   (B)   No person in charge of property shall allow a dead or decaying tree to
stand if it is a hazard to the public or to persons or property on or near the
property.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.019 DERELICT BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No person responsible shall allow a building to remain without lawful
occupant and unsecured against intrusion for more than 60 days. Upon the sixty-
first day, a vacant building that is not secured shall be deemed derelict.
   (B)   The person responsible for a vacant building shall notify the city if
the building remains vacant for more than 60 days. The person responsible must
provide either proof the building is secure or a plan to abate the nuisance.
   (C)   The city may charge a fee for the administration of this section which
shall be set by resolution of the City Council. The fee will be calculated
based on costs of administration as well as the cost of additional fire
protection and law enforcement attention to such a building.
   (D)   Payment of the fee shall be in addition to and not a substitute for
any fines or penalties incurred under this section or under §§
150.30 through
150.40.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.020 UNAUTHORIZED DUMPING.
   (A)   No person shall deposit or allow, on public or private property, an
accumulation of rubbish, trash, debris, refuse or any substance that would mar
the appearance, create a stench or fire hazard, detract from the cleanliness or
safety of the property, constitute a rodent habitat or would be likely to
injure a person, animal or vehicle traveling on a public way.
   (B)   No person shall deposit trash, rubbish, debris or refuse which was
generated from a residence on business into public trash receptacles located in
city parks.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.021 FENCES.
   (A)   No person shall allow, construct, permit or maintain a barbed wire
fence along a sidewalk or public way. Notwithstanding, barbed or razor wire is
permissible for security fencing in industrial zones per standards set forth in
Chapter 153.
   (B)   No person shall allow, construct, permit, maintain or operate an
electric fence along a sidewalk or public way or along the adjoining property
line of another person.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.022 SURFACE WATERS.
   (A)   No person shall permit rainwater, ice or snow to fall from a building
or structure onto a street or public sidewalk or to flow across the sidewalk.
   (B)   The person in charge of property shall install and maintain in a
proper state of repair, adequate drainpipes or drainage system, so that
overflow water accumulating on the roof or about the building is not carried
across or on the sidewalk or other property.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.023 SIDEWALK ACCUMULATION.
   No person shall cause, permit or allow an accumulation of leaves, snow, ice,
rubbish or other litter or any obstruction upon a sidewalk abutting that
person’s property.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.024 ODORS AND BURNING.
   No person shall cause or allow any condition which causes an offensive odor
or is unsanitary. No person shall burn in wood stoves, fireplaces, burn barrels
or open fires any clothing, wet garbage, plastic, wire, insulation, automobile
parts, asphalt, petroleum treated material, rubber products, animal remains,
animal or vegetable matter resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking or
servicing of food or any other material which normally emits dense smoke or
noxious odors.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.025 SIFTING OR LEAKING LOADS.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move a vehicle on any street unless it is
constructed or loaded so as to prevent its contents from dropping, sifting,
leaking or otherwise escaping.
   (B)   Any person driving a vehicle from which any contents have dropped,
sifted, leaked or escaped must remove the substance or material from the street
within three hours.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC WELFARE
§ 90.040 RADIO AND TELEVISION INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or use an electrical, mechanical or other
device, apparatus, instrument or machine that causes reasonably preventable
interference with radio or television reception by a radio or television
receiver of good engineering design.
   (B)   This section does not apply to devices licensed, approved and operated
under the rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.041 UNREASONABLE NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall allow, cause, create or permit the continuance of
unreasonable noise.
   (B)   The following enumerated noises are not exclusive but illustrative of
unreasonable noises:
      (1)   The keeping of an animal which by loud and frequent or continued
noise disturbs the comfort and repose of a person in the vicinity;
      (2)   The use of an engine, machine or device which is so loaded or out
of repair, unmuffled or operated in such a manner as to create a loud or
unreasonable grating, grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (3)   The use of a mechanical device operated by compressed air, steam or
otherwise unless the noise created is muffled;
      (4)   The construction, including excavation, demolition, alteration or
repair of a building, vehicle or equipment other than between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m. except with a permit issued by the City Council; and
      (5)   The use or operation of any automatic or electric musical
instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, stereo or sound amplifying device so
loudly as to disturb persons at least five feet beyond the property on which
the sound originates. Sound produced in conjunction with officially organized
sporting events, parades, festivals, fairs and other events issued a permit
from the City Council are exempt from the noise limitations.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.042 ACCUMULATION OF DEBRIS AND MATERIALS.
   No person shall allow, cause, permit or suffer any old or scrap copper,
brass, pipe, rope, wire, rags, batteries, paper, plastic, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or junked, dismantled, wrecked, scrapped or ruined appliances,
motor vehicles or other vehicles, or appliance, motor vehicle or other vehicle
parts, iron, steel or other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous material, metal
or nonmetal materials to accumulate on public property or on private property
within the sight of the public.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.043 ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to require that owners of
alarm systems which summon or use emergency services (Police Department, Fire
Department, 9-1-1 Dispatch) maintain the reliability of their alarm systems in
order to prevent unnecessary and expensive responses to false alarms.
   (B)   False alarms. When a determination has been made by the City Police
Department that a false alarm has occurred, causing unnecessary response by
emergency services personnel, the following procedures will apply.
      (1)   First false alarm. In a 12-month period, the first false alarm will
result in a written notice of false alarm to the property owner, informing them
of the false alarm. The notice shall be sent by regular mail to the address on
file with the County Assessor. It shall be the property owner’s responsibility
to notify any tenant(s) of the property, as applicable.
      (2)   Second false alarm. In a 12-month period, the second false alarm
will result in a written notice of false alarm to the owner, which shall
include a warning that any subsequent false alarms will result in fines. The
notice shall be sent by certified mail.
      (3)   Three or more false alarms. If, within a 12-month period, three or
more false alarms occur at a property, fines in the amount set by resolution of
the City Council shall be billed to the property owner. All notices of false
alarms and assessments of fines shall be by certified mail.
   (C)   Suspension or revocation of service.
      (1)   Once a property owner has reached five false alarms in a 12-month
period, the Police Department may, with ten days’ written notice, discontinue
response to the location. The ten-day written notice shall be personally served
or sent by certified mail. This section is not applicable to fire alarms or
medical alarms.
      (2)   Emergency response will be resumed upon the occurrence of the
following:
         (a)   Receipt of full payment of all fines owed;
         (b)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the date of the last false
alarm;
         (c)   Written request from the property owner has been received; and
         (d)   Evidence of corrective action on the part of the owner is
presented, reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police or his or her designee.
      (3)   Based on the above criteria, the Chief of Police or his or her
designee shall determine whether to approve a request to resume response to an
alarm system.
      (4)   Any denial to resume response to an alarm system with a history of
false alarms may be appealed to the City Council within ten days of receipt of
such notice of denial.
   (D)   Silencing audible alarms. Any bell, horn or siren used in conjunction
with an alarm system which is permitted by the property owner to sound
continuously for more than 15 minutes, or resets it to create an intermittent
tone and continues to cycle for more than 15 minutes, is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance and may be summarily disconnected or otherwise silenced by
the Police Department or other emergency personnel. Disconnection may be by any
means necessary to silence the alarm. Any and all repairs shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (E)   Liability of city. The city or any official, employee or agent thereof
shall not be liable for any damage resulting from the silencing of alarms.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
CONDUCT PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
§ 90.055 ALCOHOL ON PUBLIC PROPERTY AND PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drink any alcoholic beverage upon any
street, sidewalk or other public right of way.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession while
upon any street, sidewalk or other public right-of-way any bottle, can or other
receptacle containing any alcoholic beverage which has been opened or a seal
broken or the contents of which have been partially removed.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the consumption of alcohol in sidewalk
cafés which have been issued permits by the city.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit the use of alcohol on public property
or public rights-of-way within the areas designated when a special event permit
with alcohol allowed has been issued by the city; provided, that the permittee
is in compliance with all applicable State Liquor Control Commission
requirements.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.056 ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person owning, in control of or responsible for any dog shall allow
that dog to be in any park or public right-of-way if the dog is not held
securely on a leash no greater than eight feet in length, except in such parks
or portions of parks which may be designated as off-leash areas; provided,
however, that a violation of any rule governing any designated off-leash area
shall be a violation of this section.
   (B)   No person shall bring or keep any animal in any park or public right-
of-way if the animal is not within the person’s immediate reach and control.
   (C)   No person shall allow any animal in that person’s ownership,
possession, custody or control to injure any other person or animal or damage
any property in any park or public right-of-way. Any person so allowing any
animal to cause any such injury or damage shall be liable for the full amount
of the injury or damage.
   (D)   No person shall allow any animal in the person’s possession, custody
or control to discharge any fecal material in any park or public right-of-way
unless the person promptly removes and disposes of the fecal material in an
appropriate trash receptacle. No person shall allow any animal in the person’s
possession, custody or control to enter or remain in any park or public right-
of-way unless the person has in the person’s possession appropriate scoop, bag
or other items necessary to remove and properly dispose of any fecal material
deposited by the animal.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.057 NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall affix or cause to be distributed any placard, bill,
advertisement or poster upon any real or personal property, public or private
without first securing permission from the owner or person in charge of the
property.
   (B)   Any placard, bill, advertisement or poster found posted or otherwise
affixed, upon any public property contrary to the provisions of this section
may be removed by any employee of the city. The person responsible for such
illegal posting shall be liable for the cost incurred in its removal.
   (C)   This section shall not be construed as an amendment to or a repeal of
any regulation now or hereafter adopted by the city regulating the use of and
location of signs and advertising.
   (D)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the distribution of
advertising material during any parade or approved public gathering.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.058 PUBLIC NUISANCE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person or person in charge of property shall allow, cause, create,
permit or suffer any place or business where patrons, employees, residents,
guests, owners or occupants have been cited for three or more of any of the
below listed behaviors on the property or within 50 feet of the property,
during any six-month period:
      (1)   Public nuisance: Ord. 1282;
      (2)   Assault: ORS 163.160, 163.165, 163.175 or 163.185;
      (3)   Sexual abuse: ORS 163.415 or 163.425;
      (4)   Public indecency: ORS 163.465;
      (5)   Endangering the welfare of a minor: ORS 163.575;
      (6)   Criminal trespass: ORS 164.245;
      (7)   Criminal mischief: ORS 164.345, 164.354 or 164.365;
      (8)   Disorderly conduct: ORS 166.025;
      (9)   Harassment: ORS 166.065;
      (10)   Unlawful use of weapon: ORS 166.220;
      (11)   Providing liquor to a person under 21 or to intoxicated person:
ORS 471.410;
      (12)   Purchase or possession of liquor by person under 21: ORS 471.430;
      (13)   Destroyed or totaled vehicles: ORS 819.010; and
      (14)   Abandoned vehicles: ORS 819.100.
   (B)   In addition to the abatement procedures prescribed in this chapter,
any violation of this section warrants the imposition of a fine, pursuant to §
90.999.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.070 UNENUMERATED NUISANCES.
   The acts, conditions or objects specifically enumerated and defined in this
chapter are declared public nuisances and may be abated by the procedures set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 90.071 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   On determination that a nuisance exists, the city shall cause that
written notice shall be served upon the person responsible for the nuisance.
   (B)   The notice to abate shall contain:
      (1)   A description of the real property, by street address or otherwise,
on which the nuisance exists;
      (2)   A direction to abate the nuisance within a specified time frame;
      (3)   A description of the items or conditions creating the nuisance;
      (4)   A statement that, unless the nuisance is removed, the city may
abate the nuisance, and the cost of abatement will be charged to the person
responsible;
      (5)   A statement that failure to abate a nuisance may warrant citation,
the imposition of a fine and seizure and disposal of personal property creating
the nuisance; and
      (6)   A statement that the person responsible may protest the notice to
abate by giving written notice to the City Manager within 72 hours from the
receipt or posting of the notice.
   (C)   If the person responsible is not the owner of the property where the
nuisance is located, an additional notice shall be sent to the owner’s address,
according to the property’s tax rolls, additionally stating that the cost of
abatement not paid by the person responsible may be assessed to and become a
lien on the property.
   (D)   If the notice is not received by the property owner or person
responsible for the nuisance a notice shall be posted on the premises or at the
site of the nuisance.
   (E)   If the notice is posted or personally delivered, the person posting or
delivering the notice shall execute and file a certificate stating the date and
place of the posting or delivery.
   (F)   An error in the name or address of the person responsible shall not
make the notice void.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 90.072 TIME FRAME FOR ABATEMENT.
   (A)   If abatement is required within 24 hours of receipt of the notice, the
notice must be personally delivered to the person responsible or posted on the
premises or at the site of the nuisance in two conspicuous locations.
   (B)   If the notice of abatement allows more than 24 hours to abate the
nuisance, the notice may be personally delivered, posted on the premises or at
the site of the nuisance or mailed by certified mail.
   (C)   The concerns for the public’s health, safety and welfare and the
extent of the nuisance shall be considered by the city in determining the time
frame for abatement.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 90.073 ABATEMENT BY THE PERSON RESPONSIBLE.
   (A)   Within the time frame specified in the notice to abate, the person
responsible shall remove the nuisance or shall request an extension of time or,
within 24 hours of receipt or of posting, file a protest that no nuisance
exists.
   (B)   If the person responsible or property owner requests an extension of
time, the City Manager may grant reasonable extensions or accommodations to the
specified time frame.
   (C)   If the person responsible or the property owner protests that no
nuisance exists, a written statement that specifies the basis for the protest
shall be filed with the City Manager. An appeal fee, in an amount set by
resolution of the City Council, shall be paid at the time a written protest is
filed with the City Manager. No protest shall be heard unless the appeal fee is
paid. If the Council or its designee determines that no nuisance exists, the
appeal fee shall be refunded to the person who paid it.
   (D)   The statement shall be referred to the City Council as a part of its
regular agenda at its next meeting. At the time set for consideration of the
abatement, the person protesting may appear and be heard by the Council. The
Council shall determine whether a nuisance in fact exists and set a time frame
for the abatement of the nuisance. The determination shall be entered in the
official minutes of the Council. Council determination shall be required only
in cases where a written statement has been filed as provided. The decision of
the Council shall be final.
   (E)   If the Council determines that a nuisance in fact exists, the person
responsible shall abate the nuisance within the time frame specified.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 90.074 ABATEMENT BY THE CITY.
   (A)   If the nuisance has not been abated by the person responsible within
the time allowed, the City Manager may order the nuisance to be abated and take
any actions reasonably necessary to abate, including seizure and disposal of
personal property.
   (B)   The Enforcing Officer charged with abatement of the nuisance or
contractors acting under the direction of the Officer, shall have the right to
enter into or upon property at reasonable times to investigate or abate a
nuisance. In the event that abatement requires access to a home or other area
which may create a reasonable expectation of privacy, the Enforcing Officer
shall obtain a warrant allowing entry and abatement.
   (C)   Prior to removing and disposing of items creating the nuisance, the
Enforcing Officer shall post a notice at the site of the nuisance and
personally serve the responsible party or send the person responsible for the
nuisance a certified letter, identifying the pending abatement by the city and
the time frame thereof.
   (D)   The City Manager shall keep an accurate record of the expense incurred
by the city in physically abating the nuisance and shall include an additional
charge equal to 10% of those expenses for administrative costs.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 90.075 JOINT RESPONSIBILITY.
   If more than one person is a person responsible for the nuisance, they shall
be jointly and severally liable for abating the nuisance or for the costs
incurred by the city in abating nuisance.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 90.076 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   The City Manager shall forward to the owner and the person
responsible, by certified mail, a notice of assessment stating:
      (1)   The total cost of the abatement, including administrative costs;
      (2)   The costs as indicated will be assessed to and become a lien
against the property unless paid within 30 days from the date of the notice;
and
      (3)   That if the owner or the person responsible objects to the cost of
the abatement as indicated, a notice of objection may be filed with the City
Manager not more than five days from the date of the notice of assessment.
   (B)   No later than 30 days after the date of objection, the Council, in
regular course of business, shall hear and make a decision on the objections to
the costs assessed.
   (C)   If the costs of the abatement are not paid within 30 days from the
date of the notice of assessment, an assessment of the costs, as stated or as
decided by the City Council, shall be made by resolution and shall be recorded
as a lien on the property from which the nuisance was removed or abated.
   (D)   The lien shall be enforced on the same manner as liens for street
improvements, utility bills and other city liens and shall bear interest at the
current statutory interest rate. Interest shall accrue from the date the
resolution is approved by the City Council.
   (E)   An error in the name of the owner of the person responsible or a
failure to receive the notice of assessment will not void the assessment, and
it shall remain a valid lien against the property.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 90.077 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   City officials may proceed to summarily abate a health or other nuisance
which imminently endangers human life or property. The person responsible for
such a nuisance shall reimburse the city for costs incurred in abating the
nuisance.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   A fine may be imposed for violation of any part of this chapter in an
amount to be set by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   Each day’s violation of a provision of this chapter constitutes
a separate offense.
      (2)   The abatement of a nuisance is not a penalty for violation of this
chapter but is an additional remedy. The imposition of a fine does not relieve
a person of the duty to abate the nuisance.
(Ord. 1282, passed 9-4-2018)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
91.01   Fuel tanks
§ 91.01 FUEL TANKS.
   (A)   All new installations of fuel tanks within the city limits will be
required to apply for a permit from the city administrative offices for a set
fee. This permit must be issued before installation.
   (B)   One tank only will be allowed per block in the Commercial-Residential
Zone.
   (C)   All new installations must meet fire and safety standards as set by
the City Council.
   (D)   This section is in addition to any state requirements.
(Ord. 1061, passed 8-19-1985)
CHAPTER 92: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Library
   
92.01   Library established
   
92.02   Library Board
   
92.03   Library Trust Fund
   
92.04   State laws adopted
   
92.05   Prohibitions
Camping
   
92.20   Purpose
   
92.21   Definitions
   
92.22   Prohibited camping
   
92.23   Permitted overnight sleeping
   
92.24   Removal of established campsites
 
   
92.99   Penalty
LIBRARY
§ 92.01 LIBRARY ESTABLISHED.
   A free public library is hereby established in the city under the provisions
of ORS Chapter 357, relating to public libraries.
(Ord. 917, passed 10-1-1973; Ord. 939, passed 10-6-1975)
§ 92.02 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   The Mayor, subject to confirmation of the City Council, shall appoint
a Library Board consisting of five members. Present Library Board members shall
continue in office until expiration of their respective terms. All subsequent
appointments shall be for a term of four years, except that the terms of office
hereafter shall expire and appointments shall be effective upon July 1, rather
than upon a calendar year basis. Appointments to fill vacancies shall be made
for the unexpired terms. No person shall hold appointment as a member for more
than two full consecutive terms, but any person may be appointed again to the
Board after an interval of one year.
   (B)   At least three members of the Library Board shall be residents of the
city.
   (C)   The public Library Board shall each year, on or before August 1, meet
and organize by the election of a Chairperson. The librarian shall serve as
secretary to the Board and keep the record of its actions.
   (D)   The Library Board shall:
      (1)   Consult with and advise the city librarian on all matters affecting
operational policies of the library;
      (2)   Accept gifts of books and other suitable materials for the public
library;
      (3)   Make recommendations to the City Council with respect to services,
facilities, employment of staff and all matters pertaining to the maintenance
and improvement of the city’s public library; and
      (4)   Submit an annual report on the operations of the library to the
City Council and to the trustees of the state library.
   (E)   The Library Board may accept gifts, devises or bequests of money or
property to the Library Trust Fund. Gifts, devises or bequests to the city for
the library or for library purposes shall be deemed given to the Library Trust
Fund unless a contrary intent on the part of the donor is evidenced.
(Ord. 917, passed 10-1-1973; Ord. 939, passed 10-6-1975; Ord. 958, passed 11-1-
1976; Ord. 1174, passed 7-18-1994)
§ 92.03 LIBRARY TRUST FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established as a separate fund of the city, for the
benefit of the public library, a fund to be designated as the “Library Trust
Fund.”
   (B)   The Library Trust Fund and the income therefrom shall be used
exclusively for the benefit of the city’s public library for books, library
materials, other property used by the library or capital improvements, but not
including salaries of library personnel. Subject to any other requirements of
law, all expenditures and disbursements from the Library Trust Fund shall be as
approved by the Library Board.
   (C)   Assets of the Fund may be segregated into separate accounts, and such
separate accounts may, for convenience or in order to comply with the
conditions or requests of the donor, be designated by separate names. The
assets of the various accounts may nevertheless be commingled as may be deemed
expedient by the city for investment or accounting purposes.
   (D)   Assets of the Library Trust Fund, including all separate accounts
thereof, if any, may from time to time be invested and reinvested in such
depositories or securities as may be lawful for investment of city funds.
(Ord. 917, passed 10-1-1973)
§ 92.04 STATE LAWS ADOPTED.
   The following enumerated laws of the state relating to public libraries,
together with all acts and amendments applicable to cities which are now or may
be hereafter enacted, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter: ORS 357.410; 357.435; 357.460; 357.470; 357.480; 357.490; 357.510;
357.520; 357.525; 357.530; 357.540; 357.570; and 357.955.
(Ord. 917, passed 10-1-1973)
§ 92.05 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall willfully or maliciously write upon, injure, deface,
tear or destroy a book, plate, picture, engraving, mat, newspaper, magazine,
pamphlet, recording, manuscript or statue belonging to the public library of
the city.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or maliciously detain any book, newspaper,
magazine, pamphlet, recording or manuscript belonging to the public library of
the city for 30 days after notice in writing from the librarian of such
library, given after the expiration of time which by regulations of such
library such book, newspaper, magazine, pamphlet, recording or manuscript may
be kept.
(Ord. 917, passed 10-1-1973) Penalty, see §
92.99
CAMPING
§ 92.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the safety of citizens and
regulate use of public and private property by establishing time, place and
manner guidelines concerning camping and overnight sleeping.
(Ord. 1290, passed - -2023)
§ 92.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPSITE. Any place where any bedding, sleeping bag or other material used
for bedding purposes, or any stove or fire is placed, established or maintained
for the purpose of maintaining a temporary place to live, whether or not such
place incorporates the use of any tent, lean-to, shack or any other structure
or any vehicle or part thereof.
   EMERGENCY CIRCUMSTANCES. The local conditions, whether related to a human
conflict, the weather or labor disputes, have reached a level of magnitude high
enough to cause the Mayor to issue a declaration making the emergency official.
   FAMILY. Two or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption, legal
guardianship or other duly authorized custodial relationship or not more than
two unrelated adults.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that is self-propelled or designed for self-
propulsion.
   PARKING LOT. A developed location that is designated for parking motor
vehicles, whether surfaced with asphalt, concrete, gravel or other material.
   PUBLICLY OWNED PROPERTY. Any real property or structures owned, leased or
managed by the city or other government agency including public rights-of-way.
   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any real property owned by the city that is used for
the free and unimpeded passage of the public. PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY include, but
are not limited to, streets, roads, highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks,
public trails and paths and all other easements which provide the public with a
right of access or give the city the right to construct, maintain, repair and
operate a public improvement.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle, whether self-propelled or towed, that is
designed for use as temporary living quarters.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, trash, debris, yard waste, food waste or other
discarded materials.
   STORE or STORAGE. To put aside or accumulate for use when needed, to put for
safekeeping, to place or leave in a location.
   TO CAMP. To set up or to remain in or at a campsite.
(Ord. 1290, passed - -2023)
§ 92.22 PROHIBITED CAMPING.
   (A)   It is found and declared that:
      (1)   From time to time, persons establish campsites on sidewalks, public
rights-of-way, in parks or other public properties, under bridges and so forth;
      (2)   Such persons, by camping in the public rights-of-way, create unsafe
conditions and, by camping on public properties without camping facilities and
without regulation, create unsanitary living conditions which pose a threat to
the peace, health and safety of themselves and the community;
      (3)   Camping, lying or sleeping on a playground or sports field during
the day fundamentally undermines the public’s ability to use that public
property for its intended purpose;
      (4)   This section’s regulations are meant strictly to regulate the use
of publicly owned property, and are not intended to regulate activities on
private property; and
      (5)   The enactment of this provision is necessary to protect the peace,
health and safety of the city and its inhabitants.
   (B)   No person shall camp in or upon any sidewalk, street, alley, lane or
other public right-of-way, unless otherwise allowed by declaration of the Mayor
in emergency circumstances.
   (C)   Lying or sleeping in a city owned park during hours of closure is not
prohibited as long as the individual is experiencing homelessness, is not on a
playground or sports field and is not violating any other provision of this
section. No person shall camp in publicly owned locations if those locations
are without sufficient sanitation facilities.
   (D)   Upon finding it to be in the public interest and consistent with
Council goals and policies, the Council may, by motion, exempt a special event
from the prohibitions of this section. The motion shall specify the period of
time and location covered by the exemption.
(Ord. 1290, passed - -2023) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 PERMITTED OVERNIGHT SLEEPING.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the above prohibitions or any other regulation of the
city:
      (1)   Persons may sleep overnight in a vehicle or tent in a parking lot
of a religious institution, place of worship, business or public entity that
owns or leases property on which a parking lot and occupied structure are
located, with written permission of the property owner. The property owner may
not grant permission for more than three vehicles or tents used for sleeping at
any one time. For the purpose of this division (A)(1), VEHICLE includes a car,
camper and trailer.
      (2)   Property owners wishing to allow more than three vehicles or tents
used for sleeping on their property may submit a request in writing to the
city. The request should identify the number of vehicles and/or tents planned
to occupy the site, the size and location of the site; availability of sanitary
facilities and any special circumstances necessitating the additional vehicles
or tents and the anticipated duration.
      (3)   Persons may sleep overnight in the back yard of a single-family
residence, with permission of the owner and tenant of the residence. Not more
than one family may sleep in any back yard, and not more than one tent may be
used for sleeping in the back yard. As an alternative, but not in addition to
sleeping overnight in the back yard, not more than one family may sleep in a
vehicle parked in the driveway of a single-family residence, with permission of
the owner and tenant of the residence.
      (4)   Persons may sleep overnight in a vehicle, on a paved or graveled
surface located on a vacant or unoccupied parcel, with the permission of the
property owner, if the owner registers the site with the city. The city may
require the site to be part of a supervised program operated by the city. The
property owner may not grant permission for more than three vehicles used for
sleeping at any one time.
   (B)   A property owner who allows a person or persons to sleep overnight on
a property pursuant to divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) above shall:
      (1)   Provide or make available sanitary facilities;
      (2)   Provide garbage disposal services so that there is no accumulation
of solid waste on the site;
      (3)   Provide a storage area for campers to store any personal items so
the items are not visible from any public street;
      (4)   Require a tent or camping shelter in a backyard to be not less than
five feet away from any property line; and
      (5)   Not require or accept the payment of any monetary charge nor
performance of any valuable service in exchange for providing the authorization
to camp on the property; provided, however, that nothing in this section will
prohibit the property owner from requiring campers to perform services
necessary to maintain safe, sanitary and habitable conditions at the campsite.
   (C)   A property owner who permits overnight sleeping pursuant to divisions
(A) or (B) above may revoke that permission at any time and for any reason. Any
person who receives permission to sleep on that property as provided in this
section shall leave the property immediately after permission has been revoked.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the City Manager,
or his or her designee, may:
      (1)   Prohibit overnight sleeping on a property if the city finds that
such an activity on that property is incompatible with the uses of adjacent
properties or constitutes a nuisance or other threat to the public welfare; or
      (2)   Revoke permission for a person to sleep overnight on city-owned
property if the city finds that the person has violated any applicable law,
ordinance, rule, guideline or agreement or that the activity is incompatible
with the use of the property or adjacent properties.
   (E)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, may impose administrative
civil penalties on property owners who fail to comply with the requirements of
divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (F)   In addition to any other penalties that may be imposed, any campsite
used for overnight sleeping in a manner not authorized by this section or other
provisions of this code shall constitute a nuisance and may be abated as such.
   (G)   With authorization from the City Manager, or his or her designee, in
connection with a specific special event, persons may sleep overnight on public
property at which a special event is being held. The authorization shall be
limited to no more than eight days in any two-week period.
   (H)   Nothing in this subchapter creates any duty on the part of the city or
its agents to ensure the protection of persons or property with regard to
permitted overnight sleeping.
(Ord. 1290, passed - -2023) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 REMOVAL OF ESTABLISHED CAMPSITES.
   Any campsite established or maintained in violation of this subchapter shall
be removed in accordance with the provisions of ORS 195.505.
(Ord. 1290, passed - -2023)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
92.05 is punishable, upon conviction in the Municipal Court, by a fine of not
more than $250 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
92.20 through
92.24 shall, upon conviction, be subjected to a fine in the amount not to
exceed $25. Each day a violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalties that may be imposed, any
campsite or camp facilities or camp paraphernalia used for overnight sleeping
in a manner not authorized by §
92.23 or other provisions of this code shall constitute a public nuisance and
may be abated as such. Movement from one location within city limits to another
does not constitute abatement by the owner.
(Ord. 917, passed 10-1-1973; Ord. 1290, passed - -2023)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   SECONDHAND STORES
      
112.   RENTAL PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
      
113.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Garage Sales
   
110.01   Definition
   
110.02   Exemptions
   
110.03   Permits
   
110.04   Limitation of permits
   
110.05   Time and duration of sales
   
110.06   Advertising
Traveling Shows and Other Amusements
   
110.20   Definitions
   
110.21   Exceptions
   
110.22   Licensing required
   
110.23   Administration
   
110.24   Application
   
110.25   Revocation
   
110.26   Transfer of license
   
110.27   License fees
Games
   
110.40   Licensing required
   
110.41   Issuance of licenses
   
110.42   Application
   
110.43   License fees
   
110.44   Violations
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GARAGE SALES
§ 110.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE. A public sale of new or used goods within the city limits by an
individual or group of individuals from any private property, including, but
not limited to, garages, porches, carports and yards when said individual, or
group or individuals, is not in the business of selling such goods, or is not
licensed as a secondhand dealer or junk dealer, or when the property from which
such sale is to be conducted is not within a zone permitting commercial
businesses or otherwise permitted under the provisions of the ordinances of
this city, including its zoning ordinance. GARAGE SALE shall also mean and
include a public sale of the type commonly referred to as a flea market.
(Ord. 980, passed 11-21-1977)
§ 110.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   The offering for sale of a single item and the public display of a
sign indicating that the item is for sale; and
   (B)   Sales commonly referred to as rummage sales which are conducted by
fraternal, civic, patriotic, religious, service, charitable, educational or
eleemosynary organizations existing within the city.
(Ord. 980, passed 11-21-1977)
§ 110.03 PERMITS.
   (A)   At least three days in advance of a garage sale, the individual or
group of individuals proposing to sponsor the same shall obtain a permit
therefore from the City Recorder. No fee shall be charged for the permit.
   (B)   The permit shall be in writing and shall set forth:
      (1)   The true name and address of the owner of the goods to be the
object of such sale;
      (2)   The true name and address of the person or persons conducting the
sale;
      (3)   The description of the place from which such sale is to be held;
and
      (4)   The dates and period of time at which the sale is to be conducted.
(Ord. 980, passed 11-21-1977; Ord. 1041, passed 10-18-1982)
§ 110.04 LIMITATION OF PERMITS.
   No more than five garage sale permits shall be issued in any 12-month period
to the same applicant, or for garage sales to be conducted at the same
location. Garage sales more frequently conducted shall be regulated and covered
by ordinances of the city relating to secondhand stores.
(Ord. 980, passed 11-21-1977; Ord. 1041, passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 TIME AND DURATION OF SALES.
   Garage sales may be conducted only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. and shall be limited to not more than three consecutive days in duration.
(Ord. 980, passed 11-21-1977) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 ADVERTISING.
   Signs advertising a garage sale shall not be posted at any public or private
place other than public notice boards and upon private property with the
consent of the owner or occupant. The person erecting or posting any such sign
shall cause the same to be removed within three days after the garage sale has
been held.
(Ord. 980, passed 11-21-1977; Ord. 1041, passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
TRAVELING SHOWS AND OTHER AMUSEMENTS
§ 110.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATHLETIC CLUB. Any room or place used by the public for exercise, sports or
games engaged in by athletes.
   CARD PARLOR. Any room or place used or intended for use by the public for
the playing of cards.
   THEATER. Any building or area used by the public for dramatic performances
or the showing or viewing of motion pictures.
(Ord. 1090, passed 11-2-1987)
§ 110.21 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No entertainment or show given by or under the auspices of the schools
of the city wherein the principal entertainment is supplied by members of said
schools, and no entertainment or show given by or under the auspices of any
lodge, church or society in the city wherein the members are the principal
participants in such entertainments shall be required to have a license for
such entertainment or show from the city.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to shows, plays or amusements given in
any theater established and maintained throughout the year as a going concern
in the city.
   (C)   No entertainment or carnival given by any county fair association
shall be required to make payment of any license fee or secure a license from
said city.
(Ord. 1090, passed 11-2-1987)
§ 110.22 LICENSING REQUIRED.
   All shows, theaters and other exhibitions not enumerated in §
110.21 shall be required to have a license from the city before being permitted
to give any show or entertainment within the city and shall be required to pay
the city the license fee established by resolution of the City Council. License
fees shall be based upon seating capacity, and, for the purposes of this
subchapter, 20 inches constitutes a seat. No show or entertainment shall be
permitted to receive an audience until the license fee is paid. Tent shows and
circuses shall pay the license fee(s) and secure a separate license for the
main show and side shows.
(Ord. 1090, passed 11-2-1987; Ord. 1101, passed 5-2-1988) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.23 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Chief, or designate, shall investigate the character and
qualifications of applicants for licenses. If denial of license issue is
recommended, the Police Chief, or designate, shall report to the City Council
the reason(s) therefor.
(Ord. 1090, passed 11-2-1987; Ord. 1101, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 110.24 APPLICATION.
   Licenses shall be issued by the city only upon written application, stating
the applicant’s consent to the terms of this subchapter and to the inspection
of the licensed premises at any time by a public officer of the city. When
application for license is made by or on behalf of a partnership, corporation
or association, the application shall be made by the manager, officer, agent or
other person managing the show, theater, exhibition, card parlor, bowling
alley, athletic club or other amusement.
(Ord. 1090, passed 11-2-1987; Ord. 1101, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 110.25 REVOCATION.
   (A) A license may be revoked if it is found that the licensee, his or her
agent, employee, representative or ether person managing the licensed premises
knowingly permitted the licensed premises to violate any city ordinances.
Before such revocation, the licensee or person managing the licensed premises
shall be notified and may have a hearing before the City Council if demand for
a hearing is made within eight days from the date of notification. Notice may
be given personally or by leaving the same at the licensed premises.
   (B)   If any license is revoked, the unearned portion of the license fee
shall not be refunded.
(Ord. 1090, passed 11-2-1987; Ord. 1101, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 110.26 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued as provided in this subchapter shall be transferred or
assigned, except by consent of the City Council.
(Ord. 1090, passed 11-2-1987) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.27 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   License fees to be charged for card parlors, bowling alleys and
athletic clubs shall be established by resolution of the City Council. The
license required for these businesses is based on the assumption that they are
maintained throughout the year as a going concern within the city.
   (B)   No additional license fee shall be required by the city for any boxing
exhibition or wrestling match held in conjunction with an athletic club
conducted as a going concern within the city. Any boxing exhibition or
wrestling match not held under the auspices of an established athletic club
operated within the city as a going concern shall be subject to §
110.21(B).
(Ord. 1090, passed 11-2-1987; Ord. 1101, passed 5-2-1988)
GAMES
§ 110.40 LICENSING REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership or corporation to operate,
lease or permit to be operated or used within the city, any pinball game,
amusement device, music box or electronically operated game of amusement
without first obtaining a license therefor. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
deemed to permit licensing of devices prohibited by law.
(Ord. 1095, passed 2-1-1988) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.41 ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   Licenses required by this subchapter shall be issued semi-annually to expire
on June 30 and December 31 of each year, or annually to expire on December 31
of each year. The City Recorder, or designate, may prorate the license fee if
the license period is not a full six months or full year, as the case may be;
however, no license shall be issued for a lesser fee than two-thirds of the
period charge.
(Ord. 1095, passed 2-1-1988)
§ 110.42 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Licenses required by this subchapter shall be issued only upon written
application, on a form approved by the city, of the owner of the device, game
or equipment to be licensed and shall contain:
      (1)   A description of the device, game of equipment adequate to identify
it, including any manufacturer’s serial numbers;
      (2)   The name of the applicant, with a statement that he or she owns
free and clear of all liens and encumbrances the device, game or equipment to
be licensed;
      (3)   The location of the place where the device, game or equipment may
be found;
      (4)   The date of the application;
      (5)   The period of the license;
      (6)   The total license fee; and
      (7)   The signature of the applicant.
   (B)   An application signed by the City Recorder, or designate, shall serve
as a license.
   (C)   False statement in an application for a license issued under this
subchapter shall be grounds for immediate revocation of the applicant’s
license; no prorated refund shall be given.
(Ord. 1095, passed 2-1-1988)
§ 110.43 LICENSE FEES.
   License fees for devices, games and equipment which are operated within the
city shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 1095, passed 2-1-1988)
§ 110.44 VIOLATIONS.
   If a device, game or piece of equipment, required to be licensed under this
subchapter, is operated in the city without a license, the Police Chief, or
designate, may seize the device, game or piece of equipment and hold it at City
Hall until a license is obtained therefor. If the owner, or representative,
within three months of seizure, does not obtain the necessary license, or
obtain the device, game or piece of equipment from the City Police Department
for the purpose of removing it from the city, said device, game or piece of
equipment shall become property of the city.
(Ord. 1095, passed 2-1-1988)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §§
110.01 through
110.06 shall be punished, upon conviction thereof, by a fine of not more than
$100, or imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or both such fine and
imprisonment.
   (C)   Any person violating any term or prevision of §§
110.20 through
110.27 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine not to exceed $300.
(Ord. 980, passed 11-21-1977; Ord. 1090, passed 11-2-1987)
CHAPTER 111: SECONDHAND STORES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   License fee
   
111.04   Qualifications of applicant
   
111.05   Requirements for issuance of license
   
111.06   Transfer of license prohibited
   
111.07   Prohibitions
   
111.08   Written record required
   
111.09   Property to be retained; notice by police officer
   
111.10   Violations
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Includes natural persons, partnerships, corporations and
associations.
   SECONDHAND STORE. Any place in which used and secondhand goods, wares and
merchandise, except automobiles, are or may be purchased for resale, kept for
sale and sold or exchanged as a regular and usual part of the business being
conducted at such place, and at which place the handling of the goods, wares
and merchandise comprises one-half, or more, in value or in quantity of the
goods, wares and merchandise kept there for sale or trade.
(Ord. 1100, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall conduct, keep, manage or operate, either as owner, lessor,
lessee, principal, agent, employee or attorney, in fact or otherwise, within
the corporate limits of the city, any secondhand store, unless a license, as
provided below, has been obtained.
(Ord. 1100, passed 5-2-1988) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee for secondhand stores shall be established by resolution of
the City Council. License fees shall be payable annually in advance and shall
expire on December 31 of the calendar year in which the license is issued.
License fees shall not be prorated for the balance of a calendar year.
(Ord. 1100, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 111.04 QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT.
   (A)   The Police Chief, or designate, shall investigate the qualifications
of applicants for secondhand store license. The Chief of Police may interview
the applicant or any employee of the applicant prior to recommending a
determination to the application.
   (B)   (1)   An application may be denied for the following reasons:
         (a)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime or offense involving
theft and related offenses, burglary, criminal trespass, criminal mischief or
robbery as those crimes are defined in ORS Chapter 164 or its counterpart in
another jurisdiction;
         (b)   The applicant has engaged in dishonest, fraudulent or illegal
practices or conduct in any business or profession;
         (c)   The applicant failed to supply the required application
information or submits false or misleading information;
         (d)   The applicant has previously violated the provisions contained
in this chapter or its counterpart in another jurisdiction;
         (e)   The applicant has failed to pay any fee required to be paid by
this chapter; or
         (f)   The location of the business is inconsistent with the zoning
ordinance or other development regulation of the city.
      (2)   If denial of license issue is recommended, the Police Chief, or
designate, shall report to the City Manager the reason(s) therefor.
(Ord. 1100, passed 5-2-1988; Ord. 1244, passed 11-21-2001)
§ 111.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to a person conducting a secondhand store
within the city unless the person shall meet the standards contained herein
this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Licenses shall be issued only upon written application, stating
the applicant’s consent to the terms of this chapter and to the inspection of
the licensed premises and written records at any time by a police officer of
the city. Such application shall be verified under oath and shall include the
following information:
         (a)   The full name and any other name used by applicant, date of
birth, residence, present and previous occupations of the applicant and that of
all full- or part-time employees;
         (b)   A statement whether the applicant is a United States citizen;
         (c)   The business name and location of the principal place of
business, as well as the zoning designation of the location;
         (d)   The length of time the applicant has been a resident of the
state;
         (e)   Information regarding any criminal convictions; and
         (f)   Such other information as the City Manager shall find reasonably
necessary.
      (2)   When application for license is made by or on behalf of a
partnership, corporation or association, the application shall be made by the
manager, officer, agent or other person managing a secondhand store.
(Ord. 1100, passed 5-2-1988; Ord. 1244, passed 11-21-2001)
§ 111.06 TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned.
(Ord. 1100, passed 5-2-1988) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly buy, sell, receive, dispose of or possess
any article of personal property from which the manufacturer’s serial number or
other identification mark has been removed, defaced or covered for the purpose
of concealing or misrepresenting the article. Any person receiving an offer to
purchase or acquire an article of personal property which is defaced as
described above shall immediately notify the Police Chief.
   (B)   No secondhand dealer may purchase or acquire secondhand merchandise,
except old rags or paper, from a person under 18 years of age without the
written consent of the parent or guardian of the person.
(Ord. 1100, passed 5-2-1988) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 WRITTEN RECORD REQUIRED.
   Persons managing secondhand stores shall keep a written record which
itemizes and accounts for all personal property purchased, received, sold or
given away. The record shall give an adequate description of the property, the
date of the transaction and the name of the person(s) selling, delivering or
receiving the items. Written records may be inspected at any time by a public
officer of the city.
(Ord. 1100, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 111.09 PROPERTY TO BE RETAINED; NOTICE BY POLICE OFFICER.
   All personal property purchased or acquired by a secondhand store shall be
held or retained by the store for at least five days from the date of purchase
or acquisition. When a secondhand dealer is notified by a police officer to
retain an article purchased by the dealer, in order for the police to determine
whether the article is stolen, the dealer, upon receipt of the notice, shall
retain the article for 15 days from receipt of the notice.
(Ord. 1100, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 111.10 VIOLATIONS.
   A license may be cancelled if it is found that the licensee, his or her
agent, employee, representative or other person employed in or managing the
licensed premises knowingly permitted the secondhand store to violate any city
ordinance. Before such cancellation, the licensee or person managing the
licensed place shall be notified and may have a hearing before the City Council
if demand for a hearing is made within three days from the date of
notification. Notice may be given either personally or by leaving the same at
the licensed premises.
(Ord. 1100, passed 5-2-1988) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $300.
(Ord. 1100, passed 5-2-1988)
CHAPTER 112: RENTAL PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
Section
Screening of Rental Applicants by Landowners
   
112.01   Intent
   
112.02   Definition
   
112.03   Applications
   
112.04   Maintenance of information
 
   
112.99   Penalty
SCREENING OF RENTAL APPLICANTS BY LANDOWNERS
§ 112.01 INTENT.
   (A)   The city desires to encourage safe and affordable housing for the
citizens within the city. Through careful screening of rental applicants, the
landowners and community will benefit. The screening process should be based on
information collected and data from rental applications. A properly implemented
screening process will benefit landowners by minimizing unnecessary repairs and
maintenance costs.
   (B)   The City Council believes the screening process will reduce law
enforcement needs associated with rental property. The reduction of law
enforcement needs will improve the safety of the areas surrounding rental
properties.
(Ord. 1164, passed 7-6-1993)
§ 112.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RENTAL PROPERTY. Any real property or structures rented for occupancy as a
residence or business for periods of 30 days or more.
(Ord. 1164, passed 7-6-1993)
§ 112.03 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Every owner, or owner’s designated agent, of rental property shall
require application information from rental applicants.
   (B)   The applications shall request at least the following information:
      (1)   Full name of applicant;
      (2)   Previous address;
      (3)   Previous rental history, including landlord information, dates and
reasons for moving;
      (4)   Name of other occupants;
      (5)   Credit references; and
      (6)   Sworn statement by applicant stating all information is correct.
(Ord. 1164, passed 7-6-1993)
§ 112.04 MAINTENANCE OF INFORMATION.
   Every owner, or the owner’s designated agent, shall maintain the rental
application information during occupancy by the tenant and for one year after
occupancy ends.
(Ord. 1164, passed 7-6-1993)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   A person convicted of violating a provision of §§
112.01 through
112.04 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 in accordance with §
10.99.
(Ord. 1164, passed 7-6-1993)
CHAPTER 113: VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
   
113.01   Authority
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   License required
   
113.04   License application
   
113.05   Rates established
   
113.06   Grounds for denial of application
   
113.07   Duration of license; investigation
   
113.08   Transfer of license
   
113.09   Proper repair of vehicles
   
113.10   Insurance required
   
113.11   Operators of taxicabs; deliveries
   
113.12   Driver’s permit required
   
113.13   Permits denied when
   
113.14   Denial of driver’s permit; appeal
   
113.15   Suspension and revocation of driver’s permit
   
113.16   Suspension and revocation of taxicab license; notice
   
113.17   Operations of taxicabs
   
113.18   Legal compliance
   
113.19   Taxi stands
§ 113.01 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to ORS 221.495, the city is authorized to grant franchises,
to license, control and regulate privately owned taxicabs, limousines and other
vehicles for hire that operate within their respective jurisdictions.
   (B)   The city’s power to regulate includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Regulating entry into the business of providing taxicab, limousine
or other similar services;
      (2)   Requiring a license or permit as a condition for operation of
taxicabs, limousines and other vehicles for hire and revoking, canceling or
refusing to reissue a license or permit for failure to comply with regulatory
requirements;
      (3)   Controlling the maximum rates charged and the manner in which rates
are calculated and collected;
      (4)   Regulating routes for such vehicles, including restricting access
to airports;
      (5)   Establishing safety, equipment and insurance requirements; and
      (6)   Establishing any other requirements necessary to assure safe and
reliable service by such vehicles.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATE THE BUSINESS OF A TAXICAB. The regular solicitation and acceptance
of fares and the carrying of packages for a fee within the city.
   TAXICABS.
      (1)   Vehicles that:
         (a)   Are passenger vehicles with a passenger seating capacity that
does not exceed five;
         (b)   Carry passengers for hire where destination and route traveled
may be controlled by a passenger and the fare is calculated on the basis of any
combination of an initial fee, distance traveled or waiting time; and
         (c)   Transport persons or property, or both, between points in the
state.
      (2)   TAXICABS include vehicles whose method of propulsion include motor,
animal or human power.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999)
§ 113.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate the business of a taxicab within this city without
first being licensed as provided in this chapter. This section shall apply to
those who operate taxicabs from another city and who regularly solicit and do
business within this city but shall not apply to those who operate taxicabs
from another city and who only occasionally solicit and do business within this
city.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   An applicant for taxicab license shall make application and shall
provide the following information:
      (1)   Name, business address and residence of the owner or owners of the
business;
      (2)   Make, year, type and passenger seating capacity of each taxicab for
which application is made;
      (3)   A statement whether the owner or owners of the business have ever
been convicted of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of municipal ordinance,
other than minor traffic and parking offenses; and
      (4)   Such other information as the City Council may deem necessary for
the proper protection of the public.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by a fee to be set by resolution
of the City Council.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999)
§ 113.05 RATES ESTABLISHED.
   Prior to granting of the license, the City Council shall establish, by
resolution, rates which shall be charged for transport of persons and packages
by taxicab. Such rates shall be posted in plain view of occupants of the
passenger compartment, and no other rate than that so established shall be
charged.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999)
§ 113.06 GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The City Council, upon receiving the report, shall approve or
disapprove the request for license, by roll call vote, which vote shall be
recorded in the minutes of the Council.
   (B)   The Council may deny any application for license if it finds that:
      (1)   The applicant’s financial responsibility and experience would be
such that the person’s operation of a taxicab business would pose a reasonable
hazard to public health, safety and welfare;
      (2)   The applicant or officers thereof having prior criminal
convictions; and/or
      (3)   There is insufficient demand for additional taxicab service.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999)
§ 113.07 DURATION OF LICENSE; INVESTIGATION.
   Such license shall be for a period of not more than two years. Before any
license is granted, the City Manager shall direct the Chief of Police to
conduct an investigation of the applicant and, in connection therewith, may
require the applicant to be fingerprinted. The Chief of Police shall, within 30
days of the receipt by the City Council of the request for license, make the
Chief’s report as to the applicant’s financial ability and whether applicant
has prior convictions for violation of the laws of this chapter or any other
state or municipal ordinances.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999)
§ 113.08 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license to operate the business of a taxicab may be sold, assigned,
mortgaged or otherwise transferred without prior approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 PROPER REPAIR OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall operate the business of a taxicab in this city unless each
vehicle so used is in proper repair and equipped in accordance with the State
Motor Vehicle Code, being ORS Chapter 801.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.10 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate any taxicab unless there first is
filed with the City Recorder a certificate of insurance to a policy issued by
an insurance company licensed to conduct business in this state attesting that
such insurance company will assume responsibility for injuries to persons and
property caused by the operation of the taxicab in the following amounts:
      (1)   For death or injury to any one person in any one accident, $50,000;
      (2)   For death or injury to two or more persons in any one accident,
$100,000; and
      (3)   For damage to property of others resulting from any one accident,
$10,000.
   (B)   Such policy of insurance shall contain a provision against
cancellation except upon 30 days’ prior written notice to the City Council.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.11 OPERATORS OF TAXICABS; DELIVERIES.
   No person driving or operating a taxicab licensed under this chapter shall
make delivery of any package, bottle or other container containing any
alcoholic beverage, drug or other thing whose sale is forbidden by statute,
ordinance or charter within the corporate limits of this city. This section
shall not forbid the carrying of such beverage, drug or thing as an incident to
the carrying of a passenger in whose lawful possession such thing is held.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.12 DRIVER’S PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall be regularly employed, either full-time or part-time, as a
taxicab driver by any person or firm licensed under this chapter unless such
person has first been issued a permit as such taxicab driver by the Chief of
Police.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.13 PERMITS DENIED WHEN.
   No driver’s permit shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who does not have a valid chauffeur’s license issued by the
State Motor Vehicles Division;
   (B)   A person who has been convicted of aggravated murder or murder as
those crimes are defined in ORS Chapter 163;
   (C)   A person who has been convicted of:
      (1)   A crime or offense against a person included in ORS Chapter 163 or
its counterpart in another jurisdiction; or
      (2)   A crime of offense involving theft and related offenses, burglary
and criminal trespass, criminal mischief or robbery as those crimes are defined
in ORS Chapter 164 or their counterpart in another jurisdiction, within the
time periods specified, as follows.
 
Years Immediately Preceding Application Crimes
for Permits
2                                       Class B or C misdemeanor
5                                       Class C felony or Class A misdemeanor,
                                        excluding major traffic offenses
10                                      Class A or B felony
 
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a major traffic offense as defined
in ORS 801.555 or its counterpart in another jurisdiction within one year
immediately preceding application for a permit;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of four Class A, B or C traffic
infractions within one year immediately preceding application for a permit; or
   (F)   An applicant who fails to supply information so required or who
submits false or misleading information.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999)
§ 113.14 DENIAL OF DRIVER’S PERMIT; APPEAL.
   (A)   An applicant whose application for a driver’s permit has been refused
by the Chief of Police may appeal that decision to the City Council.
   (B)   Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the City Recorder, within 14
days after notice of the action complained of, a written notice describing with
certainty the action of the Chief of Police from which the appeal is taken and
a declaration that such person takes an appeal to the Council from such action.
   (C)   The City Manager shall fix the time for the appeal to be heard by the
City Council, place the hearing of the appeal upon the calendar of the Council
and notify the appellant and the Chief of Police of the time fixed, no less
than five days prior to that time.
   (D)   The Council shall take such action upon the appeal and such action by
the Council shall be final.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999)
§ 113.15 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF DRIVER’S PERMIT.
   The City Council, upon recommendation of the Chief of Police, may suspend or
revoke a driver’s permit upon occurrence of any condition which would make such
person ineligible to obtain such a license.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999)
§ 113.16 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF TAXICAB LICENSE; NOTICE.
   (A)   The City Council may, after notice of hearing, suspend or revoke the
taxicab license of any holder upon finding that such holder has knowingly and
willfully violated any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Written notice of the suspension or revocation hearing shall be mailed
by certified mail to the licensee not more than 30 or less than ten days prior
to the date of the hearing.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999)
§ 113.17 OPERATIONS OF TAXICABS.
   (A)   The provisions of ORS 814.140 are hereby incorporated into this
chapter by this reference, and licensees under this chapter are required to
comply herewith the requirements of that statute.
   (B)   Insofar as the application of ORS 814.140 to a horse-drawn buggy or
carriage(s) are inappropriate, the City Manager may modify the license to
exclude the application of specific provisions of this statute to the
operations of buggies or carriages.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999)
§ 113.18 LEGAL COMPLIANCE.
   The licensee shall in all operations comply with all laws, rules and
regulations of state and federal governments, this chapter and all other
ordinances of the city which may apply to the operation of taxicabs or a
taxicab business in this city. Violations of any laws specified herein may
constitute grounds for revocation of any license issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999)
§ 113.19 TAXI STANDS.
   An operator may request a designated taxi stand from the City Council. The
request shall be endorsed by the property owner adjacent to the proposed
location of the stand. The operator shall also provide the city with the name
and address (as shown by the most recent tax assessment records of the county)
of all property owners within 200 feet of the designated stand. After receipt
of the request and property information, the City Recorder shall send a notice
of the application to the nearby property owners; and advise such owners that
the City Council shall hold a hearing on the proposed taxi stand at a specified
time. At the time specified, the Council shall hold a hearing and take public
comment on the location of the taxi stand. The Council may grant, deny or
modify the request for a stand.
(Ord. 1210, passed - -1999)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   [Reserved]
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   TREES
      
152.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
153.   DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Restroom facilities required
Numbering of Buildings
   
150.15   Uniform numbering system established
   
150.16   Numbering system; requirements; prohibitions; city map
   
150.17   City Manager authority; notice
   
150.18   Failure to correct
Dangerous Buildings and Structures
   
150.30   Definitions
   
150.31   Nuisance declared
   
150.32   Initial action
   
150.33   Right of entry
   
150.34   Notice
   
150.35   Hearing
   
150.36   Declaration of dangerous building
   
150.37   Council order
   
150.38   Abatement by city
   
150.39   Assessment
   
150.40   Administration
 
   
150.99   Penalty
   GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 RESTROOM FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC BUILDINGS. Includes all buildings or structures
now existing or hereafter constructed intended primarily for public use and all
such buildings or structures owned, occupied, maintained or possessed to which
the public is admitted for any business or commercial transaction, use or
service.
      RESTROOM FACILITIES. A minimum of one toilet and one lavatory, each
connected to and serviced by running water and sanitary sewer service.
   (B)   Restroom facilities required. The owner or person in possession of
each public building or semi-public building in the city shall cause the same
to be equipped and maintained with restroom facilities in operating condition.
(Ord. 923, passed 11-18-1974)
NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a uniform numbering system for all
buildings (except accessory structures) erected or to be erected within the
city limits. The proper number, as shown on the city map(s) on file in the City
Administrative Office, shall be attached to the door or door frame of the main
entrance to the building or as near thereto as practicable.
   (B)   All numbers placed on buildings in accordance with this section shall
be constructed of such material and shall be attached to the numbered building
in such a manner, as to be clearly visible from the street fronting the main
entrance to the building.
(Ord. 1134, passed 1-15-1990)
§ 150.16 NUMBERING SYSTEM; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITIONS; CITY MAP.
   (A)   (1)   The base line for the house numbering system running northerly
and southerly shall be described as follows: beginning at a point which is 250
feet north of the platted centerline of Second Street and Alder Street and
running due east, also due west from said point of beginning.
      (2)   The base line for the building numbering system running easterly
and westerly shall be described as follows: Beginning at a point, said point
being the centerline intersection of Maple Street and First Street, thence
northerly, parallel to the east right-of-way line of First Street to the
intersection of Alder Street and First Street extended, thence due north; also,
southerly from said point of beginning parallel to the east right-of-way line
of First Street extended, to the intersection with the area previously known as
the railroad track, thence due south.
      (3)   Building numbering shall be determined by ranges or rows of blocks,
as shown on city map(s). All streets beginning at any range of blocks shall
begin with the number of that range, and all streets beginning or ending within
any range or row of blocks shall begin or end with the numbers for the
proportionate distance from the range as determined from the adjacent parallel
streets.
      (4)   The distance between numbers varies as shown on the city map(s).
The distance per number on curved streets shall, wherever practicable, be
determined from proportionate division along the centerline of said streets and
the frontage determined by the normal projection from said street centerline to
the property line.
   (B)   The numbers for buildings on the north side of streets running
easterly and westerly shall be odd numbers commencing with number 101, and the
numbers for buildings on the southerly side of streets running easterly and
westerly shall be even numbers commencing with number 102. The numbers of
buildings on the easterly side of streets running northerly and southerly shall
be odd numbers commencing with the number 101, and the numbers of buildings on
the westerly side of streets running northerly and southerly shall be even
numbers commencing with the number 102.
   (C)   Numbers shall be placed on every building, in accordance with city map
(s) on file at the City Administrative Office, within 30 days after adoption of
this subchapter. Every building hereafter erected within the city shall have on
the street side thereof the number in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter within 15 days after its completion.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to take down, alter or deface any
assigned number, or to render an improper number, or to substitute and display
any other number than the one given in accordance with the preceding sections.
(Ord. 1134, passed 1-15-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 CITY MANAGER AUTHORITY; NOTICE.
   If any building within the city is incorrectly numbered or unnumbered, or
the number thereof has become defaced or illegible, the City Manager or
designate shall notify the occupant or owner of the needed correction. The
occupant or owner shall cause the same to be numbered correctly within 15 days
of receipt of said notification. The notice may be served by leaving a copy
thereof at the building, addressed to the owner or occupant of the building or
by posting such notice on the door or at the entrance way of the building.
(Ord. 1134, passed 1-15-1990)
§ 150.18 FAILURE TO CORRECT.
   If an owner of a building now erected or hereafter erected within the city,
or other person having custody and control of said building, refuses or
neglects to make such numbering correction specified in the notice referred to
in § 150.17, the City Manager may cause the city to make such numbering
correction. Costs incurred by the city in the correction, plus 10%
administrative overhead, shall be billed to the owner of the building. The
amount billed shall become a lien against the property until paid. The city may
enforce collection of the lien in the same manner as provided by ordinance or
statute for the enforcement of city liens in general.
(Ord. 1134, passed 1-15-1990)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
§ 150.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING.
      (1)   A structure that, for lack of proper repairs, or because of age,
dilapidated condition, poorly installed electrical wiring or equipment,
defective chimney, defective gas connection or heating apparatus, or for any
other reason, is liable to cause fire or is situated or occupied in manner that
endangers other property or human life;
      (2)   A structure containing combustible or explosive materials or
inflammable substances in a quantity or condition liable to cause fire or
danger to the safety of the building premises or to human life;
      (3)   A structure that is in a filthy or unsanitary condition liable to
cause the spread of contagious or infectious disease; and/or
      (4)   A structure in such weak, dilapidated or deteriorated condition
that it endangers a person or property because of the probability of partial or
entire collapse.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
(Ord. 1181, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 150.31 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Every building found by the Council to be a dangerous building is declared
to be a public nuisance and may be abated by the procedures specified in this
subchapter or by a suit for abatement brought by the city.
(Ord. 1181, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 150.32 INITIAL ACTION.
   When a city official determines that there is a dangerous building, the
official shall report it to the Council. The Council shall, within a reasonable
time, fix a time and place for a public hearing.
(Ord. 1181, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 150.33 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The City Manager, Public Works Director, Fire Chief, Police Chief and other
duly authorized employees of the city, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for inspection
purposes when there is reasonable cause to believe a dangerous building exists
on the property. Such entry may only be made after requesting entry from the
occupant if the property is occupied or from the owner of the building if the
property is unoccupied.
(Ord. 1181, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 150.34 NOTICE.
   (A)   Mailed notice. After the Council sets the public hearing, the city
shall notify the owner of the building and, if not the same person, the owner
of the property on which the building is situated. The notice shall also be
sent to any occupant of the building. The notice shall state:
      (1)   A hearing will be held concerning the nuisance character of the
property;
      (2)   The time and place of the hearing; and
      (3)   The hearing may be cancelled if abatement is completed before a
specified date.
   (B)   Published and posted notices. Ten days’ notice of the hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city or by posting
notices in three public places in the city.
(Ord. 1181, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 150.35 HEARING.
   At the hearing, the owner or other persons interested in the dangerous
building shall have a right to be heard. The Council, as part of the hearing,
may inspect the building and may consider the facts observed during the
inspection in determining whether or not said building is dangerous. The
Council may also request information regarding the condition of the building
from the building or property owner and city officials.
(Ord. 1181, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 150.36 DECLARATION OF DANGEROUS BUILDING.
   If the Council determines that the building is dangerous the Council shall
by resolution:
   (A)   Declare the building as a dangerous building;
   (B)   Order the building to be abated or removed within a specified time;
and/or
   (C)   Order the building made safe and prescribe what must be done to make
it safe within a specified time.
(Ord. 1181, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 150.37 COUNCIL ORDER.
   Notice of the Council’s findings and any orders made by the Council shall be
given to the owner of the building, the owner’s agent or other person
controlling it within five days of the adoption of the orders. If the orders
are not obeyed and the building not made safe within the time specified by the
order, the Council may order the building demolished or made safe at the
expense of the property on which it is situated.
(Ord. 1181, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 150.38 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   If the Council’s orders are not complied with, the Council may specify the
work be done, file a statement with the City Recorder and advertise for bids
for the completion of the work. Bids shall be received, opened and the contract
awarded pursuant to city contracting policies.
(Ord. 1181, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 150.39 ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   The Council shall determine the probable cost of the work and assess
the cost against the property upon which the building is situated. The notice
shall specify that the abatement of the property has not been completed in
accordance with the City Council’s declaration. The notice shall specify a time
and place when the Council shall consider whether the property shall be abated
by the city in accordance with §
150.38. The notice shall specify the nature of the abatement to be undertaken
by the city and an estimate of its cost. A notice of the proposed lien shall be
provided to the owner of the property by registered mail to the address shown
on the County Assessor’s records. Notices shall also be provided to those
persons occupying the property by posting and/or mailing. Notice shall also be
provided to those persons who have a recorded interest in the property, as
shown by the County Recorder’s records. The notice shall be sent at least ten
days prior to the time set by the Council for consideration of the notice.
   (B)   The Council shall receive written materials from any person interested
in the property or its abatement. At the time and place identified in the
notice the Council shall consider whether the city should abate the nuisance
and impose the costs thereof against the property. The Council shall declare
the costs of the abatement to be an assessment lien against the real property.
The Council may reassess the property when the abatement is completed to
reflect the actual costs of the abatement following the same process identified
in this section. The city’s lien shall have the priority of assessment liens
specified in ORS Chapter 223. The City Attorney shall proceed to foreclose any
liens not paid for within 30 days of assessment in the manner specified in ORS
Chapter 223.
(Ord. 1181, passed 6-19-1995; Ord. 1208, passed 7-19-1999)
§ 150.40 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Summary abatement. City officials may proceed to summarily abate a
building that is unmistakably dangerous which imminently endangers human life
or property. The owner of the building or property shall reimburse the city for
costs incurred in abating the structure.
   (B)   Errors in procedure. Failure to conform to the requirements of this
subchapter, not substantially affecting a legal right of a person, will not
invalidate a proceeding under this subchapter.
(Ord. 1181, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
150.01 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $100 or imprisonment not to exceed
ten days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   A person who owns, possesses, controls or manages a dangerous building
and who allows the building to remain dangerous for ten days after the date set
by the Council order shall be punishable, upon conviction, in accordance with §
10.99, by a fine of not less than $75 for each offense. A violation of §§
150.30 through
150.40 shall be considered a separate offense for each day the violation
continues.
(Ord. 923, passed 11-18-1974; Ord. 1181, passed 6-19-1995)
CHAPTER 151: TREES
Section
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Permits
   
151.05   Planting, maintenance and removal
   
151.06   Protection of trees
   
151.07   Appeals
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the “Myrtle Point Tree Ordinance.”
(Ord. 1183, passed 12-4-1995)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote and protect the public health,
safety and general welfare of the residents of the city by providing for the
regulation of the planting, maintenance and removal of trees and shrubs within
the city.
(Ord. 1183, passed 12-4-1995)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HERITAGE TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on
public property, significant to the community due to species rarity, age, size,
quality, association with historic events, persons or structures or scenic
enhancement.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks and all other areas owned by the city and open to the public.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Streets, alleys and walkways, including portions of
dedicated rights-of-way which are not currently used as a street or alley.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
located within public rights-of-way within the city.
(Ord. 1183, passed 12-4-1995)
§ 151.04 PERMITS.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained from the city before planting, pruning or
otherwise affecting a park or street tree. The tree plan shall establish the
requirements for administrative approval of permits. There shall be no fee
required for this permit.
   (B)   With a permit, adjacent property owners may plant street trees as long
as selection, location and planting of such trees is in accordance with this
chapter.
   (C)   Any park or street tree planted subsequent to adoption of this chapter
and not in compliance therewith shall be removed at the expense of the person
who planted it.
(Ord. 1183, passed 12-4-1995)
§ 151.05 PLANTING, MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the tree
species size classes as defined in this chapter, and no trees may be planted
closer together than the following: small trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40
feet; and large trees, 50 feet; except in special plantings designed or
approved by a landscape architect.
   (B)   No street trees other than those species listed in the tree plan as
small trees may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead
utility wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water,
sewer, transmission or other utility line.
   (C)   The distance trees may be planted will be in accordance with the size
classes, and no trees may be planted closer than the following to any curb or
sidewalk: small trees, two feet; medium trees, three feet; and large trees,
four feet.
   (D)   No street trees shall be planted closer than 20 feet of any street
corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No
street trees shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fire hydrant.
   (E)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all public rights-of-way and
public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or
enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
   (F)   The city many remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part
thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is
injurious to sewer, water, electric, telephone, cable or other utility line,
public improvements or is infected with any injurious fungus, insect or other
pest.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or city
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
For the purpose of this division (G), TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting
back of limbs to stubs within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to remove
the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms of
other causes or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where
other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this chapter at
the determination of the Tree Commission.
   (H)   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface
of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface.
   (I)   (1)   The city shall continue to manage and fund the sweeping of
streets and public parking lots within the city.
      (2)   Private property owners and/or occupants shall continue to be
responsible for removing leaves collected on awnings, canopies or building
roofs and for sweeping sidewalks. Sidewalk leaves may be swept into the
streets.
(Ord. 1183, passed 12-4-1995) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 PROTECTION OF TREES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, destroy, break or
injure any street tree or park tree.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to attach or keep attached to any
street or park tree or to the guard or stake intended for the protection of
such tree, any rope, wire, chain, sign or other device whatsoever, except as a
support for such tree.
   (C)   During the construction, repair, alteration or removal of any building
or structure, it shall be unlawful for any owner or contractor to leave any
street tree in the vicinity of such building or structure without a good and
sufficient guard or protectors as shall prevent injury to such tree arising out
of or by reason of such construction or removal.
   (D)   Excavations or construction shall not be placed within six feet of any
street or park tree without approval of the Public Works Director. During such
excavation or construction steps shall be taken to protect adjacent street or
park trees.
   (E)   All building materials or debris shall be kept at least four feet from
any tree.
(Ord. 1183, passed 12-4-1995) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 APPEALS.
   Any decision made under this chapter by the city may be appealed to the Tree
Commission. Any decision of the Tree Commission may be appealed to the City
Council. Appeals must be made in writing and filed within 14 days. The decision
of the City Council shall be final.
(Ord. 1183, passed 12-4-1995)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter is punishable in accordance
with §
10.99.
(Ord. 1183, passed 12-4-1995)
CHAPTER 152: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Local Improvements
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Initiation
   
152.03   Notice of hearing
   
152.04   Hearing
   
152.05   Alternative procedure for initiation
   
152.06   Creation of local improvement district
   
152.07   Manner of doing work
   
152.08   Construction of improvement; bids
   
152.09   Costs and expenses
   
152.10   Method of assessment; alternative methods of financing
   
152.11   Assessment procedure
   
152.12   Notice of assessment
   
152.13   Lien records and foreclosure proceedings
   
152.14   Errors in assessment calculations
   
152.15   Installment payment assessments
   
152.16   Filing of ordinances
   
152.17   Deficit assessments
   
152.18   Rebates and credits
   
152.19   Abandonment of proceedings
   
152.20   Curative provisions
   
152.21   Reassessments
   
152.22   Remedies
   
152.23   Segregation of liens
   
152.24   Interpretation
Streets and Sidewalks
   
152.35   Curbs and curbing in residential districts
   
152.36   Placing of sidewalks in residential districts
   
152.37   Construction of sidewalks, crosswalks and curbs
   
152.38   Responsibility for sidewalk repairs and maintenance
LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, except where the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning, the terms LOCAL IMPROVEMENT, OWNER
and LOT have the meanings given those terms by ORS 223.387, as now or hereafter
constituted; and the property which is to be assessed for the cost or part of
the cost of a local improvement, and the property on which the local
improvement is located, shall be known together as a LOCAL IMPROVEMENT
DISTRICT.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.02 INITIATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Council, in its discretion, shall deem it necessary to
make any local improvement to be paid for in whole or in part by special
assessment according to benefits conferred, or whenever the owners of one-half
of the property to benefit specially from the local improvement shall by
written petition request the Council to make a local improvement, the Council,
by resolution, shall declare its intention to make the local improvement.
   (B)   The improvement resolution shall describe the general nature, location
and extent of the proposed local improvement and of the proposed local
improvement district, declare the Council’s intention to make the improvement,
indicate the method and manner of carrying out the improvement, contain an
estimate of the probable total cost of the improvement, indicate the method of
assessment to be used to arrive at a fair apportionment of the whole or any
portion of the cost of the improvement to the properties specially benefited,
set a public hearing on the improvement and direct that notice be given of the
proposed improvement and of the public hearing.
   (C)   The improvement resolution may include alternative proposals relating
to a proposed local improvement; provided, however, that all of the information
required for a particular local improvement shall be included for each
alternative proposal.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.03 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   After adoption of the improvement resolution, the City Recorder shall
cause notice of the proposed improvement and of the public hearing to be given
by one publication, not less than ten days prior to the public hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city, and by mailing copies of the
notice by registered or certified mail to the owner of a lot affected by the
proposed improvement.
   (B)   The notice shall contain:
      (1)   A general description of the proposed local improvement and the
property to be specially benefited thereby. The description of property need
not be by metes and bounds but shall be such that an average person can
determine from it the general location of the property;
      (2)   An estimate of the total cost of the improvement and the portion
anticipated to be paid for by special assessments;
      (3)   The time and place of the public hearing;
      (4)   A statement of a place where preliminary project design and other
additional information concerning the improvement is available to the public;
      (5)   If, prior to such hearing, there shall be presented to the City
Recorder valid, written remonstrances against the improvement on forms provided
by the city, signed by owners of two-thirds of the frontage of the property to
be specially benefited by such improvement, then the improvement will be
abandoned for at least six months; and
      (6)   Any other information the Council may direct to be included.
   (C)   Any mistake, error, omission or failure with respect to the mailing of
notice shall not be jurisdictional or invalidate the local improvement
proceedings.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.04 HEARING.
   (A)   At the time of the public hearing, the Council shall hear and consider
any written remonstrances and any testimony, both oral and written, on the
proposed local improvement and may continue the hearing as it deems necessary.
If the written remonstrances shall represent less than the amount of property
required to defeat the proposed improvement, then, after such hearing, the
Council may in its discretion order the local improvement to be made. If the
Council elects to order such improvement, it shall, within 90 days after the
date of the hearing, provide by ordinance for the establishment of the local
improvement district and the construction of the improvement.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the fact that the proposed improvement was petitioned
for by one-half of the benefited property owners, the Council may refuse to
proceed with the improvement if it finds the proposed improvement to be
untimely or not in the best interests of the city.
   (C)   At the public hearing, the Council may direct a modification of the
proposed local improvement by revising the scope of the improvement, by
reducing or enlarging the local improvement district which it deems will be
benefited by the improvement or make such other modifications in the
proceedings as it finds reasonable. If the Council modifies the scope of the
improvement so that assessment is likely to be increased upon one or more lots,
or if the Council enlarges the local improvement district, or if the Council
causes a substantial change in any of the particulars contained in the
improvement resolution, a new improvement resolution shall be adopted, new
estimates made and new notices mailed to the owners within the proposed local
improvement district. However, no new publication shall be required.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.05 ALTERNATIVE PROCEDURE FOR INITIATION.
   Whenever all of the owners of any property to be benefited and assessed for
any local improvement have signed a petition directed and presented to the
Council requesting such local improvement, the Council may initiate and
construct such local improvement without publishing or mailing notice to the
owners of the affected property and without holding public hearing regarding
the proposed local improvement.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.06 CREATION OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT.
   The Council, by ordinance, shall provide for the establishment of the local
improvement district and the making of the local improvement in substantial
conformity with the proposal set forth in the initiating resolution.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.07 MANNER OF DOING WORK.
   Local improvements may be made in whole or in part by the city, by another
governmental agency, by contract or by any combination thereof.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.08 CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENT; BIDS.
   (A)   Immediately after the effective date of the ordinance establishing the
local improvement district, the City Engineer shall cause necessary right-of-
way and easements to be acquired and the improvement to be made in accordance
with the terms of said ordinance if the work is to be performed by the city or
another governmental agency. If any part of the work of the improvement is to
be done under contract bids, the City Engineer shall cause detailed plans and
specifications to be prepared and filed and a notice calling for bids to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city not less than
five days prior to the opening of bids.
   (B)   Contracts for all or part of the work of the local improvement may be
let by the Council to the lowest responsible bidder whose bid is in the best
interests of the city, as determined in the sole discretion of the Council. The
Council shall have the right to reject any or all bids when they are deemed
unreasonable or unsatisfactory in the Council’s discretion. If the Council
rejects all bids, it may direct the City Engineer to readvertise for bids or
direct the work to be performed by city forces. The city shall provide for the
bonding of all contracts for the faithful performance of any contract let under
its authority; and the provisions thereof, in case of default, shall be
enforced by action in the name of the city.
   (C)   If the Council finds, upon opening bids for the work of such
improvement, that the bid in the best interest of the city is substantially in
excess of the City Engineer’s estimate, it may, in its discretion, provide for
holding a special hearing to consider objections to proceeding with the
improvement on the basis of such bid.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.09 COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   The costs and expenses of local improvements which may be assessed against
the property specially benefited by the improvement shall include the costs of
construction and installation of the improvement; advertising, legal,
administrative, engineering and assessment costs; financing costs, including
interest charges; the costs of any necessary property, right-of-way or easement
acquisition and condemnation proceedings; and any other necessary expenses.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.10 METHOD OF ASSESSMENT; ALTERNATIVE METHODS OF FINANCING.
   (A)   The Council, in adopting a method of assessment of the costs of any
local improvement, may:
      (1)   Use any just and reasonable method of determining the extent of the
local improvement district consistent with the benefits derived;
      (2)   Use any method of apportioning the sum to be assessed as is just
and reasonable between the properties determined to be specially benefited;
and/or
      (3)   Authorize payment by the city of all or any part of the costs of a
local improvement when, in the opinion of the Council, the topographical or
physical conditions or unusual or excess public travel or use, or other
character of the work involved warrants only a partial payment or no payment by
the benefited property of the costs of the local improvement.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall preclude the Council from
using any other available means of financing local improvements, including
federal or state grants-in-aid, water or sewer fees or charges, revenue or
general obligation bonds or any other legal means of financing. If such other
means of financing local improvements are used, the Council may, in its
discretion, levy special assessments according to the benefits derived to cover
any remaining part of the costs of the local improvement.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.11 ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   When the estimated cost of an authorized local improvement has been
ascertained on the basis of the City Engineer’s estimate of costs, the award of
a contract or any other basis acceptable to the Council, or after the work has
been completed and the actual cost thereof has been determined, the City
Recorder, or such other person as the Council may direct, shall prepare the
proposed assessments to the respective lots within the local improvement
district, and shall file it in the office of the City Recorder, and shall
submit it to the Council. Such submission may be in the form of a proposed
resolution.
   (B)   Upon the receipt of the proposed assessments, the Council shall, after
any modifications, adopt a resolution directing notice of such proposed
assessments to be mailed or personally delivered to the owners or reputed
owners of the lots proposed to be assessed, containing the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the owner or reputed owner, the description of the
property assessed, the total estimated or actual project cost assessed against
benefited property and the amount of the assessment against the described
property;
      (2)   A date and time by which written objections to the proposed
assessment stating specifically the grounds for objection must be received and
the date and time of a public hearing at which time the Council will consider
any objections; and
      (3)   A statement that the assessment in the notice, or as it may be
modified by the Council, will be levied by the Council after the hearing, and
that thereafter will be charged against the property and be immediately payable
in full or in installments if applicable.
   (C)   Supplementary notice of the proposed assessment and public hearing
thereon in form and content to be determined by the City Recorder may also be
published or posted by the City Recorder.
   (D)   The Council shall hold the public hearing on the proposed assessments
to consider those objections filed in writing and may adopt, correct, modify or
revise the proposed assessments, and shall determine the amount of assessment
to be charged against each lot within the local improvement district according
to the special and peculiar benefits accruing thereto from the improvement, and
shall by ordinance spread the assessments.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.12 NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Within ten days after the effective date of the ordinance levying the
assessments, the City Recorder shall send by registered or certified mail to
the owner of the assessed property a notice containing the following
information:
      (1)   The date of the ordinance levying the assessment, the name of the
owner of the property assessed, the amount of the specific assessment and a
description of the property assessed;
      (2)   A statement that application may be filed to pay the assessment in
installments in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter; and
      (3)   A statement that the entire amount of the assessment, less any part
for which application to pay in installments is made, is due within 30 days of
the date of the letter and, if unpaid on that date, will accrue interest and
subject the property to foreclosure.
   (B)   Supplementary notice of assessment in form and content to be
determined by the City Recorder may also be published or posted by the City
Recorder.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.13 LIEN RECORDS AND FORECLOSURE PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   After passage of the assessment ordinance by the Council, the City
Recorder shall enter in the city lien docket a statement of the amounts
assessed upon each particular lot, parcel of land or portion thereof, together
with a description of the improvement, the name of the owners and the date of
the assessment ordinance. Upon such entry in the lien docket, the amount so
entered shall become a lien and charge upon the respective lots, parcels of
land or portions thereof which have been assessed for such improvement.
   (B)   All assessment liens of the city shall be superior and prior to all
other liens or encumbrances on property insofar as the laws of the state
permit. Interest shall be charged at a rate to be fixed by the Council and set
out in the assessment ordinance but not to exceed 10% per annum, until paid, on
all amounts not paid within 30 days from the date of the letter notifying the
owner of the ordinance levying the assessment; and after expiration of the 30
days from said date, the city may proceed to foreclose or enforce collection of
the assessment liens in the manner provided by the general law of the state;
provided, however, that the city may at its option enter a bid for the property
being offered at a foreclosure sale, which bid shall be prior to all bids
except those made by persons who would be entitled under the laws of the state
to redeem such property.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 1011, passed 5-5-1980)
§ 152.14 ERRORS IN ASSESSMENT CALCULATIONS.
   Claimed errors in the calculation of assessments shall be brought to the
attention of the City Recorder, who shall determine whether there has been an
error in fact. If the City Recorder finds that there has been an error in fact,
he or she shall recommend to the Council an amendment to the assessment
ordinance to correct such error. Upon enactment of any such amendment, the City
Recorder shall cause the necessary correction to be made in the city lien
docket and shall cause a corrected notice of assessment to be sent by
registered or certified mail.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.15 INSTALLMENT PAYMENT ASSESSMENTS.
   The Bancroft Bonding Act (ORS 223.205 through 223.295) shall apply to
assessments levied in accordance with this subchapter. Unless otherwise
provided in a particular assessment ordinance, the owner of any property
assessed for a local improvement in accordance with this subchapter in the sum
of $25 or more, at any time within 30 days after notice of the assessment is
first mailed (or within such time as the Council may from time to time
establish), may file with the City Recorder a written application to pay the
whole of the assessment in 20 semi-annual installments together with interest
at a rate to be fixed by the Council and set out in the assessment ordinance
but not to exceed 10% per annum, or if any part of the assessment has been
paid, the unpaid balance of the assessment in such installments with such
interest.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 1011, passed 5-5-1980)
§ 152.16 FILING OF ORDINANCES.
   The City Recorder shall file copies of the ordinance establishing the local
improvement district and the assessment ordinance with the Director of Records
and Elections of the county; provided, however, that failure to file such
ordinances shall not invalidate or affect any proceedings in connection with
the local improvement district and shall not impose any liability on the city,
the City Recorder or any official, officer or employee of the city.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.17 DEFICIT ASSESSMENTS.
   If the initial assessment has been made on the basis of estimated cost, and,
upon completion of the improvement the actual cost is found to be greater than
the estimated cost, the Council may make a deficit or supplemental assessment
for the additional cost. Proposed assessments upon the respective lots within
the local improvement district for the proportionate share of the deficit shall
be made, notices sent, a public hearing held and opportunity for objections
considered; and determination of the assessment against each particular lot,
block or parcel of land shall be made as in the case of the initial assessment
and the deficit or supplemental assessment spread by ordinance. The deficit
assessments shall be entered in the city lien docket, notices published and
mailed and the collection of the assessment made in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter relating to the original assessment.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.18 REBATES AND CREDITS.
   If assessments have been made on the basis of estimated cost, and, upon
completion of the improvement project, the cost is found to be less than the
estimated cost, the Council shall ascertain and declare the same by ordinance;
and when so declared, the excess amounts shall be entered on the city lien
docket as a credit upon the appropriate assessment. Thereafter, the person who
paid the original assessment, or his or her legal representative or successor,
shall be entitled to repayment of the excess amount. If the property owner has
filed an application to pay the assessment by installment, he or she shall be
entitled to such refund only when such installments, together with interest
thereon, are fully paid. If the property owner has neither paid such assessment
nor filed an application to pay in installments, the amount of such refund
shall be deducted from such assessment, and the remainder shall remain a lien
on such property until legally satisfied.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.19 ABANDONMENT OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The Council shall have full power and authority to abandon and rescind
proceedings for local improvements made under this subchapter at any time prior
to the final completion of such improvements. If liens have been assessed upon
any property under such procedure, they shall be canceled, and any payments
made on such assessments shall be refunded to the person paying the same, his
or her assigns or successors.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.20 CURATIVE PROVISIONS.
   No improvement assessment shall be rendered invalid by reason of a failure
to have all of the information required to be in any City Engineer’s or City
Recorder’s report, the improvement resolution or ordinance, the assessment
ordinance, the lien docket or notices required to be published, mailed or
posted; nor by the failure to list the name of or mail notice to the owner of
any property as required by this subchapter; nor by reason of any other error,
mistake, delay, omission, irregularity or other act, jurisdictional or
otherwise, in any of the proceedings or steps herein specified, unless it
appears that the assessment is unfair or unjust in its effect upon the person
complaining. The Council shall have the power and authority to remedy and
correct all such matters by suitable action and proceedings.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.21 REASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever all or part of any assessment for any local improvement has
been or shall be declared void or set aside for any reason, or its enforcement
refused by any court having jurisdiction thereof, or whenever the Council is in
doubt as to the validity of all or any part of such assessment, the Council may
make a new assessment or reassessment in the manner provided by the laws of the
state.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, ASSESSMENT includes deficit or
supplemental assessments and reassessments.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.22 REMEDIES.
   Subject to the curative provisions of §
152.20 and the rights of the city to reassess pursuant to §
152.21, all actions of the Council taken pursuant to this subchapter are
reviewable solely and exclusively by writ of review in accordance with the
procedures in ORS 34.010 through 34.100. Review of an ordinance levying any
assessment may be commenced only by a property owner who has filed a written
objection to the proposed assessment in accordance with §
152.11.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.23 SEGREGATION OF LIENS.
   (A)   Whenever the ownership of any portion of a tract of real property less
than the entire tract is transferred, any lien against said real property in
favor of the city shall, upon request of the owner of any portion of said
tract, be segregated as herein provided and not otherwise.
   (B)   Applications for the segregation of liens shall be made to the City
Recorder describing the tract to be segregated and the names of the owners of
the respective tracts. A certificate of the County Assessor shall be furnished
showing the assessed valuation of the various tracts of land concerned as of
January 1 of the year in which the segregation is requested, if available, and,
if not available, as of January 1 of the preceding year.
   (C)   The City Recorder shall thereupon compute a segregation of the lien
against the real property upon the same basis as the same was originally
computed and apportioned and reflect this segregation in the city lien docket;
provided, however, that no segregation shall be made unless all parts of the
original tract of land after the segregation have a true cash value as
determined from the certificate of the assessor of 60% or more of the amount of
the lien as to the various tracts concerned.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 152.24 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all future local
improvement districts and, to the extent further actions or proceedings may be
required, to all existing districts.
(Ord. 931, passed 4-7-1975)
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 152.35 CURBS AND CURBING IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   All curbs and curbing on all streets in residential districts within
the city, except where the curbs or curbing now is or hereinafter may be by
ordinance located otherwise, shall be located with the outside edge of the curb
or the curb nearest the center of the street, located ten feet from the
property line on streets running north and south and 12 feet from the property
line on streets running east and west.
   (B)   Residential districts within the city are designated and defined to be
and include all districts within said city except the following districts:
      (1)   Spruce Street from the west side of First Street to the west side
of Railroad Avenue;
      (2)   Maple Street from the west side of First Street to the west side of
Railroad Avenue; and
      (3)   All cross streets between the north side of Maple Street and the
south side of Ash Street from First Street to Eighth Street, inclusive.
(Ord. 365, passed 5-19-1926)
§ 152.36 PLACING OF SIDEWALKS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   All sidewalks in the residential sections of the city shall be, in
addition to the other requirements that have been heretofore made or which may
be established hereafter, located within the outside edge otherwise described
as the edge nearest the center of the street, six feet distant from the
property line.
   (B)   This regulation shall embrace all sidewalks in the residential
districts of the city, except those regulated by a special ordinance heretofore
or hereafter to be made.
(Ord. 343, passed 5-19-1924)
§ 152.37 CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS, CROSSWALKS AND CURBS.
   (A)   All sidewalks, crosswalks and curbs, except as otherwise provided in
this section, shall be constructed of cement with a concrete foundation.
   (B)   All sidewalks, crosswalks and curbs shall be laid according to the
plans and specifications of the City Engineer or the City Council and shall
conform wherever possible to the established grade.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to preclude the
City Council from ordering wooden sidewalks where there is no established
grade, or where it is difficult to establish such grade, or where the City
Council may deem it advisable and expedient to have such wooden sidewalks.
   (D)   All sidewalks and crosswalks constructed of concrete and cement, and
not otherwise provided for in this section, shall be five feet in width and
four inches in thickness.
   (E)   All curbs not otherwise provided for in this section shall be of
concrete and cement and six inches in thickness and 12 inches in depth and
shall conform to the grades of the adjacent street and nearby sidewalk.
   (F)   All sidewalks, crosswalks and curbs shall be kept in good repair and
condition at all times and shall be of the same material as the original
construction.
   (G)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any sidewalk,
crosswalk or curb heretofore constructed by ordinance or under the supervision
of the Council or anyone authorized to superintend the construction of same.
   (H)   For the purpose of regulating the construction of sidewalks and curbs,
the Business District of the city is hereby designated as Spruce Street and
Maple Street, First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh and Eighth
Streets, between Maple Street and the alley 100 feet north of Spruce Street.
   (I)   All sidewalks in the business section or adjacent to any property of a
business or public nature shall be located adjacent to the curb and shall be 12
feet wide and at least four inches in thickness.
   (J)   All driveways or entrances or passageways for vehicular traffic shall
be constructed of concrete and at least six inches in thickness.
   (K)   All sidewalks on First Street, commonly known as Spruce Street
extended, and on Second Street, commonly known as Maple Street extended,
between the east side of Railroad Avenue and the west side of Bender Avenue
shall be constructed with the outer edge 17.5 feet from the center of said
street and adjacent to the curb of said street as now constructed.
   (L)   All curbs on Harris Street between the east side of Fourth Street and
the alley between Fifth and Sixth Streets shall be located or placed six feet
from the property line on said streets.
   (M)   All sidewalks on the south side of Harris Street from the alley west
of Sixth Street to the east side of Fourth Street shall be located with the
outer edge 18 feet from the center of said street and shall be eight feet in
width.
   (N)   All sidewalks on the east side of Fourth Street from the south side of
Harris Street south for 186 feet shall be constructed with the outer edge 26
feet, six inches from the centerline of said street, adjacent to the curb and
with the parking space between the sidewalk and the property line.
   (O)   All sidewalks on Railroad Avenue between the south side of Spruce
Street and the south side of Doborout Street shall be four feet in width and
constructed along and adjacent to the property line and with a parking strip of
18 inches only, between sidewalk and curb.
(Ord. 565, passed 8-4-1941)
§ 152.38 RESPONSIBILITY FOR SIDEWALK REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Duty of owners to make sidewalk repairs. It is made the duty of each
owner of land adjoining any street in the city to maintain in good condition
and repair the sidewalks on the street adjoining his or her land.
   (B)   Notice of repair. If an owner of property within the city allows a
sidewalk along the same to become out of repair, it shall be the duty of the
City Manager or Public Works Director to serve a notice to repair sidewalk upon
the owner, agent or occupant of said property. The notice may be personally
served or sent by mail. The notice shall direct the owner, agent or occupant
thereof to repair the sidewalk within 30 days. If the notice is sent to the
agent or occupant of the property, a copy of the notice shall be sent to the
property owner.
   (C)   Permit for repairs. Before making sidewalk repairs, the owner, agent
or occupant shall obtain a permit from the city to do so. Application for a
permit shall be made on forms provided by the city, shall describe the kind of
repairs to be made, materials to be used and specifications therefor and shall
be reviewed/approved by the Public Works Director.
   (D)   Repairs by the city. If the owner, agent or occupant of the property
fails, neglects or refuses to make the sidewalk repair within the designated
time, the city shall cause the repair to be made. An accurate record shall be
kept of the cost of labor/materials incurred by the city in the sidewalk
repair.
   (E)   Establishment of liens. Costs incurred by the city in making sidewalk
repairs, plus 20% administrative/engineering overhead, shall be billed to the
owner of the adjoining property. The amount billed shall become a lien against
the property until paid. The city may enforce collection of the lien in the
same manner as provided by ordinance or statute for the enforcement of city
liens in general.
   (F)   Liability of owners. The owner(s) of land adjoining any street in the
city shall be liable to any person suffering injury by reason of any defect in
the sidewalks on the streets adjoining said land. If the city is required to
pay damages for injury to persons or property caused by the failure of a person
to perform the duty to repair, which this section imposes, the person so
failing shall compensate the city for the amount of damages paid, together with
all costs of defense or settlement. The city shall maintain an action in a
court of competent jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1123, passed 4-17-1989)
CHAPTER 153: DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Definitions
   
153.002   Title, purpose and general administration
   
153.003   Legal lot determination
   
153.004   Nonconforming situations
   
153.005   Interpretations
   
153.006   Enforcement
Zoning Districts
   
153.020   Establishment of zoning districts
   
153.021   Zoning district regulations
   
153.022   Allowed land uses by zoning district
   
153.023   Development standards; exceptions
Special Use Standards
   
153.035   Purpose and applicability
   
153.036   Accessory dwellings
   
153.037   Bed and breakfast inns
   
153.038   Residential care homes and facilities
   
153.039   Home occupations
   
153.040   Manufactured homes on lots
   
153.041   Mobile home and manufactured dwelling parks
   
153.042   Mobile homes and recreational vehicles used as dwellings
   
153.043   Multiple-family development standards
   
153.044   Commercial development standards
   
153.045   Water (W) Zone development
   
153.046   Certain residential uses granted special status
Overlay Zones Generally
   
153.060   Purpose
   
153.061   Applicability
Floodplain (FP) Overlay Zone
   
153.075   Findings of fact, purpose and objectives
   
153.076   Definitions
   
153.077   General provisions
   
153.078   Administration
   
153.079   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
   Hazards (HZ) Overlay Zone
   
153.090   Purpose and intent
   
153.091   Administration
   
153.092   Hazard zone classifications
   
153.093   Official maps
   
153.094   Development requirements for Class B and Class C lands
   
153.095   Certification of mitigation
   
153.096   Inspection
Historic-Cultural (HC) Overlay Zone
   
153.110   Purpose
   
153.111   Review process
Wetland Protection (/WP) Overlay Zone
   
153.125   Purpose
   
153.126   Limitations on use
Access and Circulation
   
153.140   Purpose
   
153.141   Vehicular access and circulation
   
153.142   Pedestrian access and circulation
Landscaping, Fences and Walls, Outdoor Lighting
   
153.155   Purpose
   
153.156   Applicability
   
153.157   Landscaping and screening
   
153.158   Fences and walls
   
153.159   Outdoor lighting
Parking and Loading
   
153.170   Purpose
   
153.171   Applicability
   
153.172   Automobile parking standards
   
153.173   Bicycle parking standards
   
153.174   Loading
Public Facilities
   
153.185   Purpose and applicability
   
153.186   Transportation standards
   
153.187   Public use areas
   
153.188   Sanitary sewer and water service improvements
   
153.189   Storm drainage and surface water management
   
153.190   Utilities
   
153.191   Easements
   
153.192   Construction plan approval
   
153.193   Installation
   
153.194   Performance guarantee and warranty bond
General Review Procedures
   
153.205   Purpose and applicability
   
153.206   Type I procedure; staff review and zoning checklist
   
153.207   Type II procedure; administrative review
   
153.208   Type III procedure; quasi-judicial review, public hearing
   
153.209   Type IV procedure; legislative review
   
153.210   Time limit; consolidated review; city planning official
Site Plan Review
   
153.225   Purpose
   
153.226   Applicability
   
153.227   Review procedure
   
153.228   Application submission requirements
   
153.229   Approval criteria
   
153.230   Assurances
   
153.231   Compliance with conditions; modifications; permit expiration
Land Divisions and Property Line Adjustments
   
153.245   Purpose
   
153.246   General requirements
   
153.247   Preliminary plat approval process
   
153.248   Preliminary plat submission requirements
   
153.249   Preliminary plat approval criteria
   
153.250   Land division-related variances
   
153.251   Final plat submission requirements and approval criteria
   
153.252   Filing and recording
   
153.253   Re-platting and vacation of plats
   
153.254   Property line adjustments
Conditional Use Permits
   
153.265   Purpose
   
153.266   Approvals process
   
153.267   Application submission requirements
   
153.268   Criteria, standards and conditions or approval
Modifications to Approved Plans and Conditions
   
153.280   Purpose
   
153.281   Applicability
   
153.282   Major modifications
   
153.283   Minor modifications
Amendments to Zoning Map or Code
   
153.295   Purpose
   
153.296   Procedure
   
153.297   Criteria
   
153.298   Record of amendments
   
153.299   Transportation planning rule compliance
Adjustments and Variances
   
153.310   Purpose
   
153.311   Intent
   
153.312   Adjustments (minor variances)
   
153.313   Variances
   
153.314   Expiration
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Where a
term listed in this section is defined more explicitly in another part of this
chapter or in codes incorporated therein by reference (e.g., building code),
the term is not redefined herein for purposes of that other code.
   ABUTTING. Contiguous or adjoining.
   ACCESS. See TRANSPORTATION-RELATED DEFINITIONS.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure of secondary importance or function on a
site. In general, the primary use of the site is not carried on in an accessory
structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached from the primary structure.
Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include, but are not limited to: garages;
decks; fences; arbors; gazebos; heat pumps; workshops; and other structures.
See also PRIMARY STRUCTURE.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use or activity that is a subordinate part of a primary use
and that is clearly incidental to a primary use on a site. See also PRIMARY
STRUCTURE.
   ADJACENT. Abutting or located directly across a street right-of-way or
easement.
   APPLICANT. A person who applies for a permit or approval under this chapter.
An APPLICANT can be the owner of the property, a contract purchaser or someone
who is legally authorized to represent the owner, such as a builder, developer
or contract purchaser.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN. Any establishment located in a structure designed for
a single-family residence and structures appurtenant thereto, regardless of
whether the owner or operator of the establishment resides in any of the
structures, that meets the standards of §
153.036.
   BLOCK. All of the property bounded by streets, rights-of-way (pedestrian or
vehicle ways), water features or any combination thereof, but is not divided or
separated in any way by streets or water features.
   BLOCK FACE/STREET FRONTAGE. All of the property fronting on one side of a
street that is between intersecting or intercepting streets, or that is between
a street and a water feature or end of a dead end street. An intercepting
street determines the boundary of the block frontage only on the side of the
street that it intercepts. See the figure below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1221.jpg]
   BUILDING. See applicable building codes.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person who enforces the building ordinances and
regulations for the city and other ordinances and regulations as assigned.
   CAPACIT Y. Maximum holding or service ability, as used for transportation,
utilities, parks and other public facilities. See also the definition of
“occupancy” in applicable building codes.
   CARPORT. A stationary structure consisting of a roof, its supports, not more
than one wall or storage cabinets substituting for a wall, used to shelter
motor vehicles, recreational vehicles or boats; does not include temporary
shelters or canopies not affixed to a permanent foundation per applicable
building codes.
   CHANGE OF USE. Change in the primary type of use on a site.
   CHILD CARE. Facilities that provide care and supervision of minor children
for periods of less than 24 hours. Family child care providers provide care for
not more than 16 children in a home. See ORS 329A.440(4) for applicable
requirements.
   CITY. The City of Myrtle Point, Oregon.
   CLEAR AND OBJECTIVE. Decision criteria and standards that do not involve
substantial discretion or individual judgment in their application.
   CLUB. Any organization, group or association supported by the members
thereof, the purpose of which is to render a service customarily rendered for
members and their guests but shall not include any organization, group or
association, the chief activity of which is to render a service customarily
carried on as a business.
   COMMERCIAL. Land use involving buying/selling of goods or services as the
primary activity. See also RETAIL SALES AND SERVICES.
   COMMERCIAL OUTDOOR RECREATION (LAND USE). Includes firing ranges, golf
courses, driving ranges and the like.
   COMMON AREA. Land jointly owned to include open space, landscaping or
recreation facilities (e.g., may be managed by a homeowners’ association).
   COMMUNITY SERVICES (LAND USE). Uses of a public, nonprofit or charitable
nature generally providing a local service to people of the community, except
for schools, which are categorized separately. Generally, they provide the
service on the site or have employees at the site on a regular basis. The
service is ongoing, not just for special events. Private lodges, clubs and
nonprofit organizations that have membership provisions may be considered a
COMMUNITY SERVICE. Uses providing mass shelter or short-term housing where
tenancy may be arranged for periods of less than one month when operated by a
public or nonprofit agency may also be considered a COMMUNITY SERVICE. The use
may also provide special counseling, education or training of a public,
nonprofit or charitable nature. See also RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS and PARKS AND
OPEN SPACES.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The current adopted comprehensive plan of the city.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use that requires a conditional use permit. See §§
153.265 through
153.268.
   CONDOMINIUM. Ownership of a single unit in a multi-unit structure that
includes common areas and facilities; includes both residential and commercial
condominiums. See ORS Chapter 100 for applicable requirements.
   CORNER LOT. See LOT, CORNER LOT.
   CORNER RADIUS. The radius of a street corner, as measured around the curb or
edge of pavement, except as otherwise specified by applicable engineering
design standards.
   COUNCIL/CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Myrtle Point, Oregon.
   COUNTY. Coos County, Oregon.
   DAYS. Calendar days, unless specifically stated as working days. Working
days include Monday through Friday, excluding federal holidays.
   DEAD-END STREET. See TRANSPORTATION-RELATED DEFINITIONS.
   DEDICATION. The designation of land by its owner for any public use as shown
on a subdivision plat or deed. The term may also be used for DEDICATIONS to a
private homeowners’ association.
   DENSITY(IES). A measurement of the number of dwelling units in relationship
to a specified amount of land based on the minimum lot size per dwelling unit
required by the applicable zone.
   DEVELOPMENT-RELATED DEFINITIONS.
      (1)   ALTER/ALTERATION. A change in use or occupancy or physical change
to a structure or site. ALTERATION does not include normal maintenance and
repair. ALTERATIONS may or may not require land use approval, but property
owners should check with the city before preparing project plans or commencing
development. ALTERATIONS include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Changes in use or occupancy;
         (b)   Changes to the exterior of a building;
         (c)   Changes to the interior of a building;
         (d)   Increases or decreases in floor area of a building;
         (e)   Changes to other structures on the site or the development of
new structures;
         (f)   Changes to exterior improvements;
         (g)   Changes to landscaping; and
         (h)   Changes in the topography of the site.
      (2)   BUILDING FOOTPRINT. The outline of a building, as measured around
its foundation, or building coverage, whichever is greater.
      (3)   BUILDING LINE. A line running parallel to a lot line that is the
same distance from the lot line as the closest portion of a building on the
site, typically used in reference to required setback yards. See the figure
below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1223.jpg]
      (4)   BUILDING/STRUCTURE HEIGHT. Building height, for the purposes of
this chapter, is measured as the vertical distance above a reference datum (per
building codes) to the highest point of a flat roof or to the mid-point of a
sloping roof. The height of a stepped or terraced building is the maximum
height of any segment of the building, except that parapets, cornices and other
projections are allowed pursuant to the height limitations in each zoning
district.
      (5)   CLEARING. As in clearing and grading, any activity that removes
existing vegetation or strips surface material from any portion of the site and
exceeding typical yard maintenance for a single-family dwelling.
      (6)   DEVELOP. To construct or alter a structure or to make a physical
change to the land including excavations, clearing and fills. See also
ALTERATION.
      (7)   DEVELOPMENT. All improvements on a site, including alterations to
land and new or remodeled structures, parking and loading areas, landscaping,
paved or graveled areas and areas devoted to exterior display, storage or
activities.
      (8)   DRIVEWAY. The area that provides vehicular access to a site from a
street, or the area that provides vehicular circulation on a site. Where
required by this code for emergency apparatus, a DRIVEWAY must be kept clear of
all obstructions.
      (9)   DRIVEWAY APRON/APPROACH. The edge of a driveway where it meets a
public right-of-way. Note: The design standards of the applicable roadway
authority apply.
      (10)   EMERGENCY APPARATUS LANE or FIRE LANE. Unobstructed area or
driveway meeting the State Fire Marshal’s Office requirements; typically not be
used for parking or loading area.
      (11)   GRADING. All cuts, fills, embankments, stockpile areas and
equipment maneuvering areas associated with development.
      (12)   PARKING. See PARKING AREA.
      (13)   STRUCTURE. Except as provided by applicable building codes, any
object constructed in or on the ground. STRUCTURE includes buildings, decks,
fences, towers, flag poles, signs, utility vaults and other similar objects.
STRUCTURE does not include paved areas or vegetative landscaping materials.
      (14)   VEHICLE AREAS. All of the areas on a site where vehicles may
circulate or park including parking areas, driveways, drive-through lanes and
loading areas. See also DRIVEWAY and PARKING AREA.
   DISCONTINUED USE. A use that physically left the land it was on, a permitted
use that ceased or a use terminated at the end of a lease or contract. See §
153.004.
   DISCRETIONARY. A permit action or decision that involves substantial
judgment or discretion.
   DRIVE-THROUGH or DRIVE-UP FACILITY. A facility or structure that is designed
to allow drivers to remain in their vehicles before and during an activity on
the site. DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES may serve the primary use of the site or may
serve accessory uses. Examples are: drive-up windows; automatic teller
machines; coffee kiosks and similar vendors; menu boards; order boards or
boxes; gas pump islands; car wash facilities; auto service facilities, such as
air compressor, water and windshield washing stations; quick-lube or quick-oil
change facilities; and drive-in theaters. All driveways queuing and waiting
areas associated with a DRIVE-THROUGH/DRIVE-UP FACILITY are similarly regulated
as part of such facility.
   DRIVEWAY. See DEVELOPMENT-RELATED DEFINITIONS.
   DRIVEWAY APRON/APPROACH. See DEVELOPMENT-RELATED DEFINITIONS.
   DUPLEX. See RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE TYPES.
   DWELLING. See RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE TYPES.
   EASEMENT. A grant of rights by a property owner that allows others to use
the owner’s land for a specific purpose, such as access or to locate utilities.
EASEMENTS are recorded and on record in the county.
   EMERGENCY APPARATUS LANE or FIRE LANE. Unobstructed area or driveway
requirements of the State Fire Marshal’s Office; typically not be used for
parking or loading area.
   FLOODPLAIN/HAZARD AREA. Area as so indicated by the federal flood insurance
rate map, as amended. See also §§
153.075 through
153.079 for definitions applicable to the Floodplain Overlay Zone.
   FINAL PLAT. The diagrams, drawings and other writing containing all the
descriptions, locations, dedications, provisions and information concerning a
land division, pursuant to ORS Chapter 92 and §§
153.245 through
153.254.
   FLOOR AREA. Area of building, which may be described in terms of gross
(overall) square feet, or net marketable/leasable space.
   GARAGE. A covered permanent structure designed to provide shelter for
vehicles and which is accessory to a dwelling or other primary use. Carports
are considered GARAGES.
   GRADE. The lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground,
paving or sidewalk within the area between the building and the property line
or, when the property line is more than five feet from the building, between
the building and a line five feet from the building. This is the definition
used in the State Structural Specialty Code (the International Building Code as
amended by the state.)
   GRADING. See DEVELOPMENT-RELATED DEFINITIONS.
   GROUND COVER. Living or processed plant material (e.g., mulch and bark
chips), river rock and cinders used for aesthetic purposes and to prevent
erosion (i.e., cover bare ground) in designated landscape areas. See §§
153.155 through
153.159.
   GROUP LIVING. Characterized by the residential occupancy of a structure by a
group of people who do not meet the definition of household living. The size or
composition of the group is different than that of a household. Tenancy is
arranged on a month-to-month basis or for a longer period. Uses where tenancy
may be arranged for a shorter period are not considered residential as they are
considered to be a form of transient lodging (see RETAIL SALES AND SERVICE USES
and COMMUNITY SERVICES). Generally, GROUP LIVING structures typically have a
common eating area for residents, though individual units may have a kitchen.
The residents may or may not receive any combination of care, training or
treatment, as long as they also reside at the site.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. Any substance, material or waste listed below:
      (1)   Nuclear or radioactive materials or waste;
      (2)   Chemicals subject to reporting under Title III of the Superfund
Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA) of 1986, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 9601 et
seq., published July 1987, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency;
      (3)   Materials listed in the hazardous materials table in 49 C.F.R. §
172.101; and
      (4)   Other substances as determined by applicable state or federal
agency.
   HOME OCCUPATION or HOME OCCUPATION SITE. A business activity that is carried
out on the same site as a dwelling unit and which is accessory to the household
living use on the site, subject to the provisions of §§
153.035 through
153.046.
   HOTEL/MOTEL. A building or portion thereof designed and used for occupancy
of transient individuals lodged with or without meals for a continuous period
not to exceed 29 days. (See ORS 446.310.)
   HOUSE. See RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE TYPES.
   HOUSEHOLD. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, civil union,
legal adoption or guardianship, plus not more than five additional persons, who
live together in one dwelling unit; or one or more handicapped persons as
defined in the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, being Pub. L. 100-430, plus
not more than five additional persons, who live together in one dwelling unit.
   INCIDENTAL AND SUBORDINATE TO. Secondary to and less apparent than the
primary use or other portion of the development.
   INDUSTRIAL SERVICE USES. Industrial service firms are engaged in the repair
or servicing of industrial, business or consumer machinery, equipment, products
or by-products. Examples include: welding shops; machine shops; tool repair;
electric motor repair; sales, repair, salvage or wrecking of heavy machinery,
metal, building materials, autos or trucks (does not include junk yards);
towing and temporary vehicle storage; heavy truck servicing and repair; tire
re-treading or recapping; truck stops; building, heating, plumbing or
electrical contractors; printing, publishing and lithography; exterminators;
recycling operations; janitorial and building maintenance services; fuel oil
distributors; solid fuel yards; research and development laboratories;
industrial laundry, dry-cleaning and carpet cleaning plants; photo-finishing
laboratories; and similar uses.
   JUNK YARD.
      (1)   Any property or establishment on which one or more persons are
engaged in breaking up, dismantling, sorting, storing, distributing, buying or
selling scrap or waste materials.
      (2)   Any establishment or place of business on which two or more
inoperable motor vehicles or an equivalent volume of waste or refuse are
maintained, stored, bought or sold. Includes wrecking yards, automobile
graveyards, garbage dumps and scrap metal processing facilities.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises where three or more dogs or cats aged six months
or older are boarded or bred for compensation. Establishments where animals are
offered for sale as the primary use, such as pet stores, are not classified as
KENNELS.
   LAND DIVISION. The process of dividing land to create parcels or lots. See
§§
153.245 through
153.254.
   LANDSCAPING. Any combination of living plants such as trees, shrubs, plants,
vegetative ground cover or turf grasses and may include structural features
such as walkways, fences, benches, plazas, works of art, reflective pools,
fountains or the like. Also includes irrigation systems, mulches, topsoil and
re-vegetation or the preservation, protection and replacement of trees.
   LAND USE. The activity or activities that occur on a piece of land.
Activities may be individually identified as primary or accessory uses.
   LAND USE DECISION. A final decision or determination made by the city (or
other agency with jurisdiction) that concerns the adoption, amendment or
application of the statewide planning goals, the comprehensive plan or any land
use regulation (i.e., this chapter) where the decision requires the
interpretation or exercise of policy or legal judgment. (ORS 197.015) Note: All
decisions requiring quasi-judicial review by the city are LAND USE DECISIONS.
Decisions subject to administrative review are considered LIMITED LAND USE
DECISIONS, pursuant to ORS 197.015.
   LEGISLATIVE. A legislative action or decision is the making of law, as
opposed to the application of existing law to a particular use (e.g., adoption
of, or amendment to, a comprehensive plan or development regulation). See also
§
153.209.
   LOADING AREA. The area available for the maneuvering and standing of
vehicles engaged in delivering and loading goods, freight or other articles.
See also §§
153.170 through
153.174.
   LOT. A lot is a legally defined piece of land other than a tract that is the
result of a land division. The following definitions for LOT apply to the state
definition of both lot (result of subdividing) and parcel (result of
partitioning). See also OWNER and SITE.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot that has frontage on more than one intersecting
street. A street that curves with angles of 120 degrees or less, measured from
the centerline of the street, is considered two intersecting streets for the
purpose of evaluating if a lot is a CORNER LOT. See the figures below.
      (2)   FLAG LOT. A lot with two distinct parts (see figures below):
         (a)   The flag, which is the only building site; and is located behind
another lot; and
         (b)   The pole, which connects the flag to the street; provides the
only street frontage for the lot; and at any point is less than the minimum lot
width for the zone.
      (3)   THROUGH/REVERSE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot that has frontage on two
parallel or approximately parallel streets.
   LOT AREA. The total surface area (measured horizontally) within the boundary
lines of a lot.
   LOT CONSOLIDATION. The reduction in the number of lots; i.e., the creation
of one lot from two or more existing lots.
   LOT COVERAGE. The total area of a lot covered by building(s) or impervious
surfaces, as provided by the applicable land use district development
standards.
   LOT, DOUBLE-FRONTAGE. See LOT, THROUGH LOT.
   LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. See PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT.
   LOT LINES/PROPERTY LINES. The property lines along the edge of a lot or
site.
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE. A lot line, or segment of a lot line, that abuts a
street. On a corner lot, the FRONT LOT LINE is the shortest of the lot lines
that abut a street. If two or more street lot lines are of equal length, then
the applicant or property owner can choose which lot line is to be the front
lot line for the purpose of determining required setbacks. However, a through
lot has two FRONT LOT LINES regardless of whether the street lot lines are of
equal or unequal length. See the figures below.
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE. A lot line that is opposite a front lot line. A
triangular lot has two side lot lines but no REAR LOT LINE. For other
irregularly shaped lots, the REAR LOT LINE is all lot lines that are most
nearly opposite the front lot line. See the figures below.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE. A lot line that connects front and rear lot lines.
On a corner lot, the longer lot line that abuts a street is a SIDE LOT LINE.
See the figures below.
      (4)   SIDE STREET LOT LINE. A lot line that is both a side lot line and a
street lot line. See the figures below.
      (5)   STREET LOT LINE. A lot line, or segment of a lot line, that abuts a
street. STREET LOT LINE does not include lot lines that abut a dedicated alley.
On a corner lot, there are two (or more) street lot lines. STREET LOT LINE can
include front lot lines and side lot lines; however, both are considered front
yards for the purpose of measuring required setbacks. See the figures below.
   Corner Lots
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1225.jpg][https://export.amlegal.com/media/
7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/IMAGES/0-0-0-1227.jpg][https://
export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/IMAGES/0-0-0-
1229.jpg]
   Flag Lot
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1231.jpg]
   Front and Side Lot Lines
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1233.jpg]
   Street Lot Lines
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1235.jpg]
   Lot Lines on Irregular Lots
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1237.jpg]
   LOT OF RECORD. A legally created lot or parcel meeting all applicable
regulations in effect at the time of creation, and held in separate ownership,
or any other lot deemed a legal lot under §
153.003.
   MAIN FLOOR. Building floor closest to street level and within four feet of
finished grade.
   MAIN/PRIMARY BUILDING ENTRANCE. A main entrance is the entrance to a
building that most pedestrians are expected to use. Generally, each building
has one main entrance, however, some buildings may have more than one primary
entrance or may have entrances that open directly into the building’s lobby or
principal interior ground level circulation space.
   MAJOR REMODELING. Projects where the floor area or the developed area of the
site increases by 35% or more.
   MANEUVERING AREA/AISLE. The driving area in a parking lot where motor
vehicles are able to turn around and access parking or loading spaces.
   MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES. See RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE TYPES.
   MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOME PARK (LAND USE). Any place where four or more
manufactured dwellings are located within 500 feet of one another on a lot,
tract or parcel of land under the same ownership, the primary purpose of which
is to rent or lease space or keep space for rent or lease to any person for a
charge or fee paid or to be paid for the rental or lease or use of facilities
or to offer space free in connection with securing the trade or patronage of
such person. MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARK does not include a lot or lots located
within an approved subdivision being rented or leased for occupancy by no more
than one manufactured dwelling per lot. See also ORS Chapter 446.
   MANUFACTURING AND PRODUCTION (LAND USE). Manufacturing and production firms
are involved in the manufacturing, processing, fabrication, packaging or
assembly of goods. Examples include: processing of food and related products;
breweries and distilleries when not accessory to a commercial use; slaughter
houses or meat packing; taxidermist; lumber mills, pulp and paper mills and
other wood products manufacturing; woodworking, including cabinet makers;
production of chemical, rubber, leather, clay, bone, plastic, stone or glass
materials or products; concrete batching and asphalt mixing; production or
fabrication of metals or metal products including enameling and galvanizing;
manufacture or assembly of machinery, equipment, vehicles, appliances; sign
making; production of prefabricated structures, including mobile homes; and the
production of energy.
   MIXED-USE. The combination on a site of residential uses with commercial
(e.g., office, retail or services), civic or light industrial uses.
   MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING. See RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE TYPES.
   NONCONFORMING DEVELOPMENT. An element of a development, such as lot area,
setback, height, lot coverage, landscaping, sidewalk or parking area, or lack
thereof, that was created in conformance with development regulations but which
subsequently, due to a change in the zone or applicable code standards, is no
longer in conformance with the current applicable development regulations. See
§
153.004.
   NONCONFORMING SITUATION. A nonconforming development or nonconforming use. A
situation may be nonconforming in more than one aspect. For example, a site may
contain a nonconforming use and also have some nonconforming development. See
also NONCONFORMING DEVELOPMENT and NONCONFORMING USE. See §
153.004.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use that was allowed by right when established or a use
that obtained a required land use approval when established but that
subsequently, due to a change in the zone or zoning regulations, the use or the
amount of floor area of the use is now prohibited in the zone. See §
153.004.
   OFFICE (LAND USE). Uses are characterized by activities conducted in an
office setting and generally focusing on business, government, professional,
medical or financial services.
   OFF-STREET PARKING. All off-street areas designed, constructed, used or
required or intended to be used for the parking of motor vehicles. See §§
153.170 through
153.174 for parking standards.
   ON-STREET PARKING. Parking in the street right-of-way, typically in parking
lanes or bays, when allowed by the applicable roadway authority. See §§
153.170 through
153.174 for parking standards.
   ORIENTATION. To cause to face toward a particular point of reference (e.g.,
a building oriented to the street).
   OWNER. The owner of the title to real property or the contract purchaser of
real property of record, as shown on the latest assessment records in the
Office of the County Assessor. OWNER also includes a deed holder or contract
purchaser whose name does not appear in the latest assessment records, but who
presents to the city a copy of a deed or contract of sale signed by the owner
of record.
   PARCEL. A legally defined area of land created through a partition.
   PARKS AND OPEN SPACES (LAND USE). Public parks or private common areas
consisting mostly of recreational facilities, community gardens or natural
areas.
   PARKING AREA. The area devoted to the standing, maneuvering and circulation
of motor vehicles. PARKING AREAS do not include driveways or areas devoted
exclusively to non-passenger loading or fire apparatus lanes.
   PARKING LOT PERIMETER. The boundary of a parking lot area that usually
contains a landscaped buffer area.
   PARKING SPACE. An improved space designed to provide standing area for a
motor vehicle. See §§
153.170 through
153.174 for parking space standards.
   PARKING VERSUS STORAGE. Parking is to leave a motor vehicle for a temporary
time. Storage is to place or leave in a location for storage, maintenance,
repair, future sale or rental or future use for an indefinite period of time.
   PARTITION. To divide an area or tract of land into two or three parcels
within a calendar year when such area or tract of land exists as a unit or
contiguous units of land under single ownership at the beginning of such year.
See ORS 92.010(8).
   PLANTER STRIP. A landscape area for street trees and other plantings within
the public right-of-way, usually a continuous planter area between the street
and a sidewalk.
   PLAT. Diagrams, drawings and other writing containing all the descriptions,
locations, dedications, provisions and information concerning a land division.
This term includes the state law definitions of PARTITION PLAT and SUBDIVISION
PLAT. See also §§
153.245 through
153.254.
   PRACTICABLE. Capable of being done after taking into consideration
reasonable cost, existing technology and logistics in light of overall project
purposes.
   PRIMARY STRUCTURE. A structure or combination of structures of chief
importance or function on a site. In general, the primary use of the site is
carried out in a PRIMARY STRUCTURE. The difference between a primary and
accessory structure is determined by comparing the size, placement, design,
appearance and the orientation of the structures on a site.
   PRIMARY USE. An activity or combination of activities of chief importance on
the site. One of the main purposes for which the land or structures are
intended, designed or ordinarily used. A site may have more than one PRIMARY
USE.
   PROJECT. An existing or proposed use or development subject to one or more
land use approvals.
   PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT. The relocation of a single common property line
between two abutting properties not resulting in an increase in the number of
lots, pursuant to §§
153.245 through
153.254. See the figure below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1239.jpg]
   Property Line Adjustment
   PROPERTY LINE: FRONT, REAR, INTERIOR SIDE, STREET SIDE. See LOT LINE.
   PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT. See TRANSPORTATION-RELATED DEFINITIONS.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS. Development of public infrastructure, as required by
the city, special district or road authority, as applicable. See §§
153.185 through
153.194.
   QUASI-JUDICIAL. An action or decision that requires substantial discretion
or judgment in applying the standards or criteria of this chapter to the facts
of a development or land use proposal and requires a public hearing.
   RADIO FREQUENCY TRANSMISSION FACILITIES (LAND USE). Includes all devices,
equipment, machinery, structures or supporting elements necessary to produce
non-ionizing electromagnetic radiation within the range of frequencies from 100
KHz to 300 GHz and operating as a discrete unit to produce a signal or message.
Towers may be self-supporting, guyed or mounted on poles or buildings.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK (LAND USE). A commercial use providing space and
facilities for motor homes or other recreational vehicles for recreational use
or transient lodging. There is no minimum required stay in a recreational
vehicle park, however, the city may establish the maximum length of stay. Uses
where unoccupied recreational vehicles are offered for sale or lease, or are
stored, are not included as RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS AND PLACES OF WORSHIP (LAND USE). Uses primarily
providing meeting areas for religious activities; may include schools as an
accessory use.
   RESIDENTIAL USE/RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE TYPES (LAND USES).
      (1)   ATTACHED HOUSE (TOWNHOME OR ROWHOUSE). A dwelling unit located on
its own lot that shares one or more common or abutting walls with one or more
dwelling units on adjacent lot(s).
      (2)   DUPLEX. A building that contains two primary dwelling units on one
lot. The units must share a common wall or common floor/ceiling.
      (3)   DWELLING UNIT. A building, or a portion of a building, that has
independent living facilities including provisions for sleeping, cooking and
sanitation, and that is designed for residential occupancy by a group of
people. Buildings with more than one set of cooking facilities are considered
to contain multiple dwelling units or accessory dwelling units, as applicable,
unless the additional cooking facilities are clearly accessory to the primary
use, such as an outdoor grill or wet bar.
      (4)   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure constructed for movement on the
public highways that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is
intended for human occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and
that was constructed in accordance with federal manufactured housing
construction and safety standards and regulations in effect at the time of
construction.
      (5)   MOBILE HOME. A structure constructed for movement on the public
highways that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended
for human occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and that was
constructed between January 1, 1962, and June 15, 1976, and met the
construction requirements of the state mobile home law in effect at the time of
construction.
      (6)   MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT. A structure or grouping of structures
containing three or more dwellings on the same lot.
      (7)   MULTI-FAMILY STRUCTURE. A structure containing three or more
dwelling units. The land underneath the structure is not divided into separate
lots.
      (8)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle with or without motive power, that
is designed for human occupancy and to be used temporarily for recreational,
seasonal or emergency purposes and as further defined by state law and/or
administrative rules.
      (9)    RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. As defined under ORS 430.010 (for alcohol
and drug abuse programs); ORS 443.400 (for persons with disabilities); and ORS
443.880; RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES provide housing and care for six to 15
individuals who need not be related. Staff persons required to meet state-
licensing requirements is not counted in the number of facility residents and
need not be related to each other or the residents.
      (10)   RESIDENTIAL HOME. A residential treatment or training or adult
foster home licensed by or under the authority of the department, as defined in
ORS 443.400, under ORS 443.400 through 443.825, a residential facility
registered under ORS 443.480 through 443.500 or an adult foster home licensed
under ORS 443.705 through 443.825 that provides residential care alone or in
conjunction with treatment or training or a combination thereof for five or
fewer individuals who need not be related. (See also ORS 197.660.)
      (11)   RESIDENTIAL TRAILER. A structure constructed for movement on the
public highways that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is
intended for human occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and
that was constructed before January 1, 1962.
      (12)   SENIOR HOUSING. Housing designated and/or managed for persons over
a specified age. Specific age restrictions vary. May include assisted living
facilities, retirement homes, convalescent or nursing homes and similar uses
not otherwise classified as residential homes or residential facilities.
      (13)   SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSE. A detached dwelling unit located on its own
lot.
   RETAIL SALES AND SERVICE USES (LAND USE). Retail sales and service uses
sell, lease or rent new or used products, goods or services. They include
services such as barber/salon, accountant, restaurant, bar, repair service and
similar uses. See also VEHICLE REPAIR.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. See TRANSPORTATION-RELATED DEFINITIONS.
   ROADWAY; ROADWAY AUTHORITY. See TRANSPORTATION-RELATED DEFINITIONS.
   SCHOOLS (LAND USE). Public and private schools, secular or parochial, at the
primary, elementary, middle, junior high or high school level.
   SELF-SERVICE STORAGE. Mini-storage or other storage areas for individual or
business uses. The storage areas are designed to allow private access by the
tenant for storing personal property.
   SETBACK/SETBACK YARD. The minimum distance required between a specified
object, such as a building, and another point, measured from lot lines to a
specified object. Typically, a SETBACK refers to the minimum distance (yard
dimension) from a building to a specified property line.
   SHARED DRIVEWAY. See TRANSPORTATION-RELATED DEFINITIONS.
   SHARED PARKING. Required parking facilities for two or more uses, structures
or lots or parcels, which are satisfied jointly with the same facilities. See
§§
153.170 through
153.174.
   SIGN. Any outdoor device, or device visible from outdoors, providing
identification, advertising or directional information for a specific business,
group of businesses, service, product, brand, person, organization, place or
building. Included in this definition of SIGNS are graphic devices such as
logos, trademarks and attention attracting objects such as wind-driven spinners
and portable sign devices, logo sculpture and banners, balloons, streamers,
strobe lights, flags, inflatable structures, projected picture signs,
holographic projection signs, laser projected designs/images/copy and other
attention attracting media and devices.
   SITE. For land divisions, property line adjustments and lot consolidations,
the SITE is the lots, lots of record, parcels or tracts proposed to be divided
or reconfigured. For all other purposes, the SITE is an ownership except as
follows.
      (1)   If a proposed development includes multiple ownerships, then the
SITE is the combined area of all contiguous ownerships.
      (2)   If a proposed development includes only a portion of an ownership,
and the balance of the ownership is vacant, then the applicant may choose to
define the SITE as the portion of the ownership that is proposed for
development.
      (3)   If a proposed development includes only a portion of an ownership,
and there is other development on the ownership, then the applicant may choose
to define the SITE as the portion of the ownership that is currently developed
plus the portion proposed for development.
   SITE FRONTAGE. The part of a site that abuts a street. See also BLOCK/STREET
FRONTAGE.
   STREET-FACING/ORIENTED TO STREET. A wall plane of a structure that faces or
is oriented within 45 degrees or less from a street lot line.
   SUBDIVISION. To divide land into four or more lots within a single calendar
year. See also §§
153.245 through
153.254 and ORS 92.010.
   TOPOGRAPHICAL CONSTRAINT. Where existing slopes, landforms (e.g., streams,
canals, rock outcropping and the like) or existing manmade feature (e.g.,
embankment or berm) make conformance with a code standard impracticable.
   TRACT. A piece of land within a platted subdivision reserved for open space,
utility corridor, recreation facilities, sensitive lands or other purpose; may
be dedicated to a homeowner’s association or other entity for maintenance.
   TRANSPORTATION-RELATED DEFINITIONS. (See also §
153.186 for related standards.)
      (1)   ACCESS. A way or means of approach to provide pedestrian, bicycle
and/or motor vehicular entrances or exits to a property.
         (a)   ACCESS POINT. Any driveway, street, turnout or other means of
providing for the movement of vehicles to or from a public roadway.
         (b)   REASONABLE ACCESS. Access that does not require excessive out-
of-direction travel or pose a safety hazard.
      (2)   ACCESS EASEMENT. An easement recorded for the purpose of providing
vehicle, bicycle and/or pedestrian access from a public street to a parcel
across intervening property under separate ownership from the parcel being
provided access. Cross access is a service drive providing vehicular access
between two or more separate sites, so that the driver need not enter the
public street system between sites.
      (3)   ACCESSIBLE. Two meanings are possible depending on the specific
code provision: In general, ACCESSIBLE means approachable by pedestrians,
vehicles or other transportation mode, as applicable. ACCESSIBLE may also mean
approachable and useable by people with disabilities, in conformance with the
federal Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
Either or both definitions may apply in a particular situation. See ACCESSIBLE
ROUTE.
      (4)   ACCESS MANAGEMENT. The systematic control of the location, spacing,
design and operation of driveways, median openings interchanges and street
connections to a roadway to minimize conflicts between turning and through
vehicles, bicyclists and pedestrians. The purpose of ACCESS MANAGEMENT is to
provide vehicular access to land development in a manner that preserves the
safety and efficiency of the transportation system. Public facility measures to
support ACCESS MANAGEMENT include roadway design applications, such as median
treatments and auxiliary lanes, and the appropriate spacing of traffic signals.
Measures that may be included as conditions of approval for development
decisions include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Standards such as minimum spacing of driveways and on-site
vehicle storage requirements;
         (b)   Mitigation related to site conditions such as right-in-right-out
only approaches, medians, dedicated turn lanes and shared driveways; and
         (c)   Provision for future opportunities for mitigation by land
dedication or easement.
      (5)   ACCESS SPACING/INTERSECTION SPACING. The minimum required distance
from an intersection of a public or private street to the nearest driveway or
other access connection, measured from the closest edge of the pavement of the
intersecting street to the closest edge of the pavement of the connection along
the traveled way.
      (6)   ACCESS WAY. A walkway providing a through connection for
pedestrians between two streets, between two lots, or between a development and
a public right-of-way. It may be an access way for pedestrians and bicyclists
(with no vehicle access), or a walkway on public or private property (i.e.,
with a public access easement); may also be designed to accommodate emergency
vehicles. See also WALKWAY.
      (7)   DEAD-END STREET. A street that connects to another street at only
one end, does not have a city-approved turnaround on its other end, and may or
may not be extended to serve future development. A pedestrian connection may
extend from the end of a DEAD-END STREET to connect with another street of any
type, or with another pedestrian connection.
      (8)   DRIVEWAY. An area providing vehicle access to a site, except
streets.
      (9)   DRIVEWAY, SHARED. When land uses on two or more lots or parcels
share one driveway. An easement or tract (owned in common) must be created and
recorded for this purpose.
      (10)   LEVEL OF SERVICE (LOS). A quantitative standard for transportation
facilities describing operational conditions. See CITY TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM
PLAN.
      (11)   PATHWAY. A walkway, bikeway or access way conforming to city
standards and separated from the street right-of-way, that may or may not be
within a public right-of-way.
      (12)   PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT. An easement granted to the public for
vehicular and pedestrian access, or for non-motorized access.
      (13)   RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area that allows for the passage of people or
vehicles. RIGHT-OF-WAY includes all public streets, highways, alleys and public
access ways (e.g., pedestrian connections). A RIGHT-OF-WAY may be dedicated or
deeded to the public for public use and under the control of a public agency,
or it may be privately owned, provided the public is granted access. A RIGHT-
OF-WAY that is not dedicated or deeded to the public will be in a public access
easement and may be separately contained in a tract.
      (14)   ROAD or ROADWAY AUTHORITY. The city or other agency (e.g., the
State Department of Transportation, the city or the county) with jurisdiction
over a road or street.
      (15)   ROADWAY. The portion of a right-of-way that is improved for motor
vehicle and bicycle travel, subject to applicable state motor vehicle licensing
requirements. ROADWAY includes vehicle travel lanes and on-street parking
areas. ROADWAY does not include area devoted to curbs, parking strips or
sidewalks.
      (16)   SIDEWALK. A paved walkway within a public street right-of-way that
is generally located adjacent to and separated from the roadway by a curb,
swale or planter strip.
      (17)   SIGHT DISTANCE. The unobstructed viewing distance measured from
one object or location to another object or location, usually required the
purpose of traffic safety.
      (18)   STREET. A right-of-way that is intended for motor vehicle,
pedestrian or bicycle travel or for motor vehicle, bicycle or pedestrian access
to abutting property. For the purposes of this chapter, STREET does not include
alleys, rail rights-of-way that do not also allow for motor vehicle access or
freeways and their on-ramps.
      (19)   STREET CONNECTIVITY. Expressed as the number of street and/or
access way connections within a specific geographic area. Higher levels of
connectivity provide for more direct transportation routes and better
dispersion of traffic, resulting in less traffic on individual streets and
potentially slower speeds through neighborhoods.
      (20)   STREET STUB. A temporary street ending where the street will be
extended through adjacent property in the future, as those properties develop.
Not a permanent street-end or dead-end street. See also DEAD-END STREET.
      (21)   THROUGH STREET. A street that connects to other streets at both
ends or is planned to do so in the future, pursuant to an adopted
transportation plan.
      (22)   TURNAROUND. A vehicle maneuvering area at the end of a dead-end
street (e.g., hammerhead, cul-de-sac or other configuration) that allows for
vehicles to turn around.
      (23)   WALKWAY. A sidewalk or path, including any access way, improved to
city standards or to other roadway authority standards, as applicable. See also
ACCESS WAY, PATHWAY, SIDEWALK.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vacation structure or self-propelled vehicle equipped with
wheels for street or highway use; intended for human occupancy; equipped with
plumbing, sink or toilets; used for vacation and recreational purposes; and not
used as a residence. See ORS 446.003(5) and (24); and see RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   USE (LAND USE). The purpose for which land or a structure is designed,
arranged, intended, occupied or maintained.
   UTILITIES. For the purpose of this chapter, there are two types of
utilities.
      (1)   PRIVATE UTILITIES. Telephone, electric, telecommunication and
similar franchise facilities.
      (2)   PUBLIC UTILITIES. Water and wastewater conveyance and treatment
facilities.
   UTILITIES (LAND USE). Utilities are infrastructure services, which need to
be located in or near the area where the service is provided. Basic utility
uses may or may not have regular employees at the site. Services may be public
or privately provided. Examples include: water and sewer pump stations; sewage
disposal and conveyance systems; electrical substations; water towers and
reservoirs; water quality and flow control facilities; water conveyance
systems; stormwater facilities and conveyance systems; telephone exchanges;
suspended cable transportation systems; public safety facilities; district
heating and cooling systems; solar, wind or geothermal power generation
facilities that are not accessory to a primary use; and emergency communication
broadcast facilities. Larger-scale utility facilities, and those that do not
conform to the above definition (e.g., biomass power generation), may be
classified as industrial uses or “other” uses (e.g., utility corridor) as
applicable.
   VARIANCE. A City Council decision to lessen or otherwise modify the
requirements of this chapter. See §§
153.310 through
153.314.
   VEHICLE REPAIR. Repair of passenger vehicles, trucks or other motor vehicles
such as motorcycles, boats and recreational vehicles.
   VEHICLE SERVICING. Gas stations, unattended card key stations, car washes,
commercial vehicle maintenance and/or oil and lubrication services and similar
uses.
   VISION CLEARANCE AREA. The areas near intersections of roadways and motor
vehicle access points where a clear field of vision is necessary for traffic
safety and to maintain adequate sight distance. See §
153.141.
   WAREHOUSE, FREIGHT MOVEMENT AND DISTRIBUTION. The storage or movement of
goods, except as accessory to a primary permitted use on the subject site.
   WASTE COLLECTION AREAS. Include areas set aside or designed to be used for
garbage collection and collection of materials for recycling. WASTE COLLECTION
AREAS include areas occupied by dumpsters and other solid waste receptacles.
   WASTE-RELATED USE. Characterized by uses that receive solid or liquid wastes
from others for disposal on the site or for transfer to another location, uses
that collect sanitary wastes or uses that manufacture or produce goods or
energy from the biological decomposition of organic material. WASTE-RELATED
USES also include uses that receive, store, sort and distribute post-consumer
recyclable materials; and those that receive hazardous wastes from others and
are subject to the hazardous waste management regulations of OAR 340-100-0001
through 340-100-0043.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT. Cellular towers, antennae, monopoles and
related facilities used for radio signal transmission and receiving.
   YARD. The area defined by setbacks (i.e., between the setback line and
nearest property line).
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.002 TITLE, PURPOSE AND GENERAL ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Title. The official name of this chapter is “The Myrtle Point
Development Code.” It may be referred to as “development code” and “code.”
   (B)   Purpose. This chapter is enacted for the purpose of promoting the
public health, safety and welfare; to encourage the most appropriate use of
land within the city, consistent with the city’s comprehensive plan; to
stabilize and protect the value of property; to manage traffic flow and prevent
overcrowding of public ways; to provide adequate light and air circulation in
new development; to facilitate adequate and economical provision of public
improvements and services; and to provide a method of code administration and
enforcement that is consistent with the needs of a small city with limited
administrative capacity.
   (C)   Compliance and scope.
      (1)   Compliance with the provisions in the development code. No
structure or lot shall hereinafter be used or occupied, and no structure or
part thereof shall be erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or
otherwise altered, except as permitted by this chapter. Furthermore,
annexations and amendments to the zoning map or development code shall conform
to applicable provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Obligation by successor. The requirements of this chapter apply to
the owner(s) of record, persons undertaking the development or the use of land
and to those persons’ successors in interest.
      (3)   Transfer of development standards prohibited. No lot area, yard,
landscaping or open space that is used to satisfy a requirement of this chapter
for one use shall be used to satisfy the same requirement for another use,
except as otherwise specifically allowed by this chapter.
   (D)   Rules of code construction.
      (1)   Provisions of this code declared to be minimum requirements. The
provisions of this chapter in their interpretation and application shall be
held to be minimum requirements adopted for the protection of the public
health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   Most restrictive requirements apply. Where the requirements of this
chapter vary from other provisions of this chapter or vary from other
applicable regulations, the most restrictive regulation, or that imposing the
highest standard, shall govern. Where the applicability of a code provision is
unclear, the Planning Commission or, upon referral, the City Council, may issue
a formal interpretation pursuant to §
153.004.
      (3)   Tenses. Words used in the present tense include the future; the
singular form includes the plural; the plural includes the singular.
      (4)   Requirements versus guidelines. The use of the word “shall,”
“must,” “required” or similar terms means the provision is a requirement. The
use of the word “should,” “encouraged,” “recommended” or similar term means the
provision is recommended (i.e., as in a guideline) and may be imposed as a
requirement only where applicable code criteria provide for discretion in the
city’s decision-making process.
   (E)   Development code consistency with comprehensive plan and laws.
      (1)   Comprehensive plan. This development code implements the city’s
comprehensive plan. All provisions of this chapter shall be construed in
conformity with the comprehensive plan, including all comprehensive plan
elements and facility master plans of the city, except as otherwise required by
applicable state or federal law.
      (2)   Compliance with other laws required. In addition to the
requirements of this chapter, all uses and development must comply with all
other applicable city, regional, state and federal regulations.
      (3)   References to other regulations. All references in this chapter to
other city, regional, state or federal regulations are for informational
purposes only and do not constitute a complete list of such regulations. These
references do not imply any responsibility by the city for enforcement of
regional, state or federal regulations. Where a proposal, permit or approval is
subject to both city and state or federal regulations, the property owner is
responsible for consulting the applicable agencies and complying with their
respective regulations.
   (F)   Land use consistent with development code and zoning map.
      (1)   Zoning of areas to be annexed. Concurrent with annexation of any
land to the city, the City Council, upon considering the recommendation of the
Planning Commission, shall approve zoning for the subject land pursuant to §§
153.295 through
153.299. The comprehensive plan shall guide the designation of zoning for
annexed areas.
      (2)   Land use consistent with development code. A lawful use is one that
is permitted in accordance with this chapter, including nonconforming uses
pursuant to §
153.004; provided, that state or federal law does not prohibit the use. Where a
proposed use is not specifically identified by this chapter, the Planning
Official shall refer to §
153.005 and determine whether the use is similar to another use (or uses) that
is (are) permitted, allowed conditionally or prohibited by this chapter. The
Planning Official shall refer the matter to the Planning Commission to be heard
at the next scheduled meeting pursuant to §
153.005. The Planning Commission may refer the similar use interpretation to
City Council.
      (3)   Development code and zoning map. Land and structures may be used or
developed only as provided by the applicable land use (zoning) district, as
described in the text of this chapter and designated on the city’s zoning map,
including all amendments thereto.
      (4)   Content of official zoning map. The boundaries of the base zones,
overlay zones and other map designations are as illustrated on the city’s
zoning map. The zoning map is published separately but is a part of this
chapter. Maps that delineate areas subject to additional zoning regulations may
be included in the zoning map and code, adopted by separate ordinance and/or
adopted by reference. Examples may include the location of historical
landmarks, special street setbacks, base flood (floodplain) elevation and other
areas subject to regulation under this chapter.
      (5)   Changes to official zoning map. A proposed change to the official
zoning map is subject to the amendment process described in §§
153.295 through
153.299.
      (6)   Boundary lines. Zoning district boundaries are determined pursuant
to §
153.020(B). Where boundary lines are unclear, the Planning Official shall refer
requests for boundary line determinations and interpretations to the Planning
Commission to be heard at the next scheduled meeting pursuant to §
153.005. The Planning Commission may refer such requests for a boundary line
determinations and interpretations to City Council.
   (G)   Provisions of this code are minimum requirements.
      (1)   Minimum requirements intended. In their interpretation and
application, the provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum
requirements, adopted for the protection of the public health, safety and
general welfare.
      (2)   Most restrictive requirements apply. When the requirements of this
chapter vary from other provisions of this chapter or with other applicable
standards, the most restrictive or that imposing the highest standard shall
govern.
   (H)   Pre-existing approvals.
      (1)   Legality of pre-existing approvals. Developments and uses for which
government approvals were granted prior to February 3, 2012, may occur pursuant
to such approvals, except that modifications to those approvals shall be
subject to review under §§
153.280 through
153.283. Modifications to approved plans and conditions of approval, as
applicable. See also §
153.004.
      (2)   Subsequent development applications. All developments and uses
commencing on or after February 3, 2012, shall conform to the current
provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Zoning checklist and building permits. The designated Building
Official issues building permits, and the city coordinates with the designated
Building Official to ensure compliance with the city’s land use and development
regulations. A building permit shall not be issued until the Planning Official
has transmitted an approved zoning checklist to the Building Official. In
reviewing a zoning checklist, the Planning Official may determine that other
permits or approvals are required before a zoning checklist may be approved and
before development may commence or a building permit may be issued. See
application review procedures and approval criteria in this chapter.
   (J)   Official action.
      (1)   Official actions.
         (a)   Except for legislative actions, the City Planning Commission and
City Planning Official are vested with authority to issue permits and grant
approvals in conformance with this chapter.
         (b)   Legislative proposals under this chapter (e.g., zone changes and
comprehensive plan amendments) are subject to City Council review and approval.
The Planning Commission reviews and makes recommendations on legislative
proposals.
         (c)   The City Planning Official may refer a permit application or a
request for code interpretation to the Planning Commission, pursuant to §
153.207.
         (d)   City officials shall issue no permit and grant no approval for
any development or use that violates or fails to comply with this chapter.
         (e)   The City Council, pursuant to §
153.208(D), reviews and takes action on appeals of Planning Commission
decisions.
         (f)   The City Planning Official may issue a stop work order on any
development or use that is in violation of this code or that fails to comply
with any land use condition of approval.
      (2)   Void future actions. Any permit or approval issued or granted in
conflict with the provisions of this chapter shall be void unless the city
modifies it in conformance with this chapter. The Planning Official shall
determine when an approval is void and he or she shall refer it back to the
decision body for modification to ensure code compliance.
      (3)   Referral to Planning Commission. In addition to those actions,
which require Planning Commission approval, the City Planning Official may
refer any question or permit request to the Planning Commission, who then shall
take action on the request pursuant to the applicable provisions of this
chapter. See also §§
153.005,
153.205 through
153.210,
153.225 through
153.231,
153.245 through
153.254,
153.265 through
153.268,
153.280 through
153.283,
153.295 through
153.299 and
153.310 through
153.314.
      (4)   Notices and validity of actions. The failure of any person to
receive mailed notice or failure to post a notice shall not invalidate any
actions pursuant to this chapter; provided, that a good faith effort was made
to notify all parties entitled to notice. See §§
153.205 through
153.210.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.003 LEGAL LOT DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to establish
criteria and a process for determining when a lot of record exists for the
purpose of allowing development on a nonconforming lot (e.g., substandard lot
that does not meet lot area, setback or coverage regulations). The owner of lot
of record shall not be denied development of one single-family dwelling per lot
of record; provided, that applicable building codes are met; the city shall
accept a legal lot determination as sufficient evidence of a hardship for
purposes of approving a variance under §§
153.310 through
153.314.
   (B)   Criteria. A lot of record is a plot of land that meets one or more of
the following criteria, pursuant to ORS 92.010 through 92.190. Other
requirements such as setbacks, lot coverage, parking, landscaping and screening
continue to apply.
      (1)   The plot of land was lawfully created through a subdivision or
partition plat in the county prior to annexation to the city;
      (2)   The plot of land was created through a deed or land sales contract
recorded with the county before the city or county, as applicable, adopted its
respective planning, zoning, subdivision or partition regulations. For a plot
of land created through a deed or land sales contract within the city, that
date is February 3, 2012; or
      (3)   The plot of land was created through a deed or land sales contract
recorded with the county prior to January 1, 2007, and the subject plot of land
would have complied with the applicable planning, zoning, subdivision or
partition regulations in effect at the time it was created.
   (C)   Legal lot determination procedure. Requests to validate a lot of
record shall follow the procedures in ORS 92.010 through 92.190.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.004 NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section provides standards and procedures for existing
land uses and developments that do not comply with this chapter. The
regulations are intended to provide some relief from code requirements for uses
and developments established prior to February 3, 2012, that do not comply with
current standards. This section contains three sections with standards:
Division (B) below applies to nonconforming uses (e.g., industrial use in
residential zone); division (C) below applies to nonconforming developments
(e.g., structure does not meet setback or height standards); and division (D)
below applies to nonconforming lots (e.g., lot is smaller than minimum area
required by code).
   (B)   Nonconforming use. Where at the time of adoption of this chapter a use
of land exists that would not be permitted under the current code but was
lawful at the time it was established, the use may continue; provided, that the
provisions of divisions (B)(1) through (B)(4) below apply.
      (1)   Expansion of nonconforming use limited. Expansion in area of land
or space occupied by a nonconforming use shall not exceed 20% of the subject
site or building area that existed as of February 3, 2012. A nonconforming use
may be expanded only once. Such expansion requires approval of a conditional
use permit.
      (2)   Location of nonconforming use. A nonconforming use shall not be
moved in whole or in part from one lot to another lot, except as to bring the
use into conformance with this chapter.
      (3)   Discontinuation or abandonment of nonconforming use. A
nonconforming use that is discontinued for any reason (except fire or other
catastrophe beyond the owner’s control) for a period of more than 12 months
shall be deemed abandoned and shall no longer be an allowed use; except the
Planning Commission may approve an extension, in which case the extension shall
be limited to one 12-month period. For purposes of calculating the 12-month
period, a use is discontinued or abandoned upon the first occurrence of any one
of the following:
         (a)   The date when the use of land is physically vacated;
         (b)   The date the use ceases to be actively involved in the sale of
merchandise or the provision of services; for example, as evidenced by the
removal of signs, goods/stock or office equipment or the disconnection of
telephone or utility service;
         (c)   The date of termination of any lease or contract under which the
nonconforming use has occupied the land;
         (d)   The date a request for final reading of water and power meters
is made to the applicable utility districts;
         (e)   The date when the owner’s utility bill or property tax bill
account became delinquent; or
         (f)   The date of an event similar to those listed in divisions (B)(3)
(a) through (B)(3)(e) above, as determined by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Application of code criteria and standards to nonconforming use.
Once the city deems a use abandoned pursuant to division (B)(3) above, any
subsequent use of the subject lot shall conform to the current standards and
criteria specified by this chapter. After the city has deemed a nonconforming
use abandoned, the use shall not be allowed to resume, in whole or in part,
under the same or different ownership/management; any such activity is a
violation of this chapter and subject to enforcement proceedings.
   (C)   Nonconforming development. Where a development exists on the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter that could not be built under the
terms of this chapter by reason of restrictions on lot area, lot coverage,
height, yard, equipment, access, parking, landscaping, its location on the lot
or other requirements concerning the development; and the development was
lawful when constructed, the development may remain on the site as long as it
remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Alterations. Any expansion of a nonconforming structure or
development shall not exceed 20% of the subject building area or development,
including structures, paving, outdoor storage and other developed areas that
existed as of February 3, 2012. Such expansion requires approval of a
conditional use permit; no such nonconforming building or development may be
enlarged or altered in a way that increases its nonconformity, but any
development or portion thereof may be enlarged or altered in a way that
satisfies the current requirements of this chapter or will decrease its
nonconformity.
      (2)   Destruction. Should such nonconforming development or nonconforming
portion of development be destroyed by any means to an extent more than 50% of
its current value as assessed by the County Assessor, it shall be reconstructed
only in conformity with this chapter.
      (3)   Roadway access. The owner of a nonconforming access connection
(i.e., street or highway access) may be required to bring the nonconforming
access into conformance with the standards of the State Department of
Transportation, notwithstanding the provisions of this section.
      (4)   Relocation or removal. Should a nonconforming structure or
development be moved for any reason and by any distance, it shall thereafter
conform to the regulations of this chapter.
      (5)   Existing uses granted special status (allowed) in industrial zones.
Notwithstanding the restrictions of any other section of this development code,
all single-family, two-family (duplex) or accessory residential dwellings and
manufactured homes built before February 3, 2012, on industrially zoned
properties shall be deemed conforming to the base zoning district. This status
extends to existing dwellings used as group care homes, group care facilities,
daycare facilities, family daycare and home occupations. Any expansion of an
existing structure or development shall not exceed 20% of the original subject
building area or development. If any building on these properties is destroyed,
as defined in division (C)(2) above, it may be rebuilt not in excess of 20%
greater than the original subject building area or development as it existed
when it was destroyed, subject to the regulations of any applicable overlay
district. If an existing single-family residence is converted to a permitted
use in the base zoning district, the special status granted here is rescinded,
and the use of the property must thereafter conform to the zoning district
requirements in this code.
   (D)   Nonconforming lot. If a lot situated within a subdivision which has
been duly platted, approved and recorded in the office of the County Clerk at
the time of the passage of this chapter, or if any other lot or aggregate of
other lots held in a single ownership, as so recorded at such time, have an
area or dimensions which do not meet the lot size requirements of the zone in
which the property is located, the holdings may be occupied by a use permitted
in the zone subject to other requirements of the zone; provided, that if there
is an area deficiency, residential use shall be limited to a single-family
dwelling.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012; Ord. 1268, passed 3-18-2013; Ord. 1271, passed 2-
3-2014) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.005 INTERPRETATIONS.
   Some terms or phrases within this chapter may have two or more reasonable
meanings. This section provides a process for resolving differences in the
interpretation of this chapter text.
   (A)   Authorization of similar uses. The City Planning Official or Planning
Commission may rule that a use not specifically listed among the allowed uses
in a zone is permitted, or permitted with conditions (subject to a conditional
use permit), if it is similar to a use that is specifically allowed in the zone
with respect to its effect on adjacent properties. However, uses and activities
that this chapter specifically prohibits in the subject zone, and uses and
activities that the Planning Commission finds to be are similar to those that
are prohibited, are not allowed.
   (B)   Code interpretation requests. A request for a code interpretation
shall be made in writing to the Planning Official. Where the Planning Official
finds that this chapter is not clear, he or she shall refer the request to the
Planning Commission for its interpretation; the Commission may choose to refer
the request to the City Council if it pertains to legislative intent. The
Planning Official shall advise the person making the inquiry in writing as to
whether the Planning Commission or City Council will review the request within
14 days after the request is made on whether or not the city will make an
interpretation.
   (C)   Written interpretation. If the Planning Commission decides to issue an
interpretation, it shall do so at its next regularly scheduled Planning
Commission meeting; alternatively, the Council may schedule a public hearing
pursuant with division (D) below. Within ten days of the Planning Commission’s
decision, the Planning Official shall mail or deliver the decision in writing
to the person requesting it, to any other person who specifically requested a
copy of the decision and to those who provided public hearing testimony on the
interpretation. The decision shall become effective 14 days after the date it
is mailed/delivered.
   (D)   Referral to public hearing. Prior to an interpretation becoming
effective, any member of the public may request a public hearing on the matter
by submitting a letter requesting a hearing to the Planning Official. Public
hearings shall be conducted pursuant to §
153.208.
   (E)   Interpretations on file. The city shall keep on file a record of all
code interpretations.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.006 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations and other remedies.
      (1)   The city may find a violation of this chapter is a public nuisance
and take enforcement action accordingly pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   The City Council may designate a certain class of violations of
this chapter as a Class A misdemeanor, which, upon conviction thereof, is
punishable as prescribed in ORS Chapter 161. Such person is guilty of a
separate violation for each and every day during any portion of which any
violation of this chapter is committed or continued. The penalties imposed by
ORS Chapter 161 are in addition to and not in lieu of any other remedies
available to the city.
   (B)   Abatement of violation required. A finding of a violation of this
chapter shall not relieve the owner of the duty to abate the violation.
   (C)   Responsible party. Compliance with this chapter is the responsibility
of each property owner. If a provision of this chapter is violated by a
business or other entity, the officer or officers of that entity shall be
subject to the penalties imposed by this section.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012) Penalty, see §
153.999
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 153.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Purpose and classification of zoning districts. Every parcel, lot and
tract of land within the city is designated with a zoning district. The use of
land is limited to the uses allowed by the applicable zoning district. Zoning
designations shall be as provided on the city’s zoning map, which shall be
consistent with the city’s comprehensive plan. The City Recorder maintains
official copies of the zoning map and comprehensive plan. Where a conflict
between documents arises, the comprehensive plan shall govern.
   (B)   Determination of land use district boundaries. Where, due to the
scale, lack of scale, lack of detail or illegibility of the zoning map, or due
to any other reason, there is uncertainty, contradiction or conflict as to the
intended location of a district boundary line, the boundary line shall be
determined by the Planning Official or, upon referral, the Planning Commission,
pursuant with §
153.005 and in accordance with all of the following criteria.
      (1)   Rights-of-way. Boundaries that approximately follow the centerlines
of streets, highways, alleys, bridges or other rights-of-way shall be construed
to follow such centerlines. Whenever any public right-of-way is lawfully
vacated, the lands formerly within the vacated right-of-way shall automatically
be subject to the same zoning district designation that is applicable to lands
abutting the vacated areas. In cases where the right-of-way formerly served as
a zoning district boundary, the vacated lands within the former right-of-way
shall be allocated proportionately among the subject zoning districts.
      (2)   Parcel, lot, tract. Boundaries indicated as approximately following
the boundaries of a parcel, lot or tract shall be construed as following such
boundaries.
      (3)   Jurisdiction boundary. Boundaries indicated as approximately
following a city or county boundary, or the urban growth boundary, shall be
construed as following said boundary.
      (4)   Natural features. Boundaries indicated as approximately following a
river, stream, topographic contour or other changeable natural feature, not
corresponding to any feature listed in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) above,
shall be construed as following such feature, except that the location may be
corrected administratively through a code interpretation procedure in
accordance with § 153.005. Unless otherwise specified, the boundary of the
Water (W) Zone shall be the mean high water line or the line of non-aquatic
vegetation, whichever is higher.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.021 ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   All real property in the city is subject to the zoning regulations of this
section, §§
153.022 and
153.023. Certain types of land uses are also subject to the special use
regulations in §§ 153.035 through 153.046. In addition, some properties are
subject to both the general zoning regulations of this section, §§
153.022 and
153.023 and the overlay zone regulations of this chapter. Property owners,
realtors, project proponents and others are advised to verify the regulations
that apply to a particular property before beginning a new project, purchasing
real estate or marketing a property for sale.
   (A)   Residential (R) Districts. The R Districts are intended to meet the
housing needs of the community, including, but not limited to, the need for
single-family dwellings, manufactured dwellings, manufactured dwelling parks,
two-family (duplex) dwellings, multi-family dwellings and attached single-
family (townhome) dwellings. The R Districts also allow some nonresidential
uses customarily found in residential areas, including, but not limited to,
home businesses, parks, schools, family daycare, residential care, accessory
dwelling units and places of worship. Lands designated for residential are
zoned either R-1 (Residential), R-2 (Manufactured Homes) or R-3 (Manufactured
Home Park).
   (B)   Commercial-Residential (CR) District. The CR District is intended to
provide areas suitable for a wide variety of commercial uses and allow limited
residential uses.
   (C)   Light Industrial (LI) District. The Light Industrial (LI) District is
intended to provide areas suitable for light industrial uses, including uses
that combine industrial and limited commercial uses.
   (D)   Heavy Industrial (HI) District. The Heavy Industrial (HI) District is
intended to provide a suitable area for a wide range of light industrial and
heavy industrial uses. Development standards, including conditional use permit
procedures for some uses, are intended to maintain compatibility between HI
District uses and adjacent districts.
   (E)   Open Space (OS) District. The Open Space (OS) District is intended to
provide a suitable area for a wide range of parks and open space uses,
including, but not limited to, the County Fairgrounds, city parks, crop
cultivation, recreational areas, conservation activities and limited use
livestock grazing and accessory uses. The OS District also allows other uses,
such as recreational vehicle parks, with approval of a conditional use permit.
   (F)   Public Facilities (PF) District. The Public Facilities (PF) District
is intended to provide a suitable area for a wide range of public uses,
including, but not limited to, the County Fairgrounds, city parks and schools
and their accessory uses.
   (G)   Water (W) District. The Water (W) District is intended to provide for
conservation activities within identified estuarine areas of the city,
consistent with the city’s comprehensive plan and the Coquille River estuary
management plan. Minor navigational improvements are also allowed, subject to a
conditional use permit.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.022 ALLOWED LAND USES BY ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Table
153.022 identifies the land uses that are allowed in the Residential Districts.
   (B)   The specific land use categories are described and uses are defined in
§
153.001.
   (C)   A zoning checklist is required before changing a use, applying for a
building permit or commencing development.
Table 153.022 - Land Uses Allowed in Zoning Districts
Uses                                                Status of Use in District
                                                                                 Open
                                                              Com- Indus. Public Space Limitations
Use Categories (examples of uses are provided in § Residenti Re   (LI) & Fac.   (OS)  and Special
153.001)                                            al (R)    s.   (HI)   (PF)   &     Use
                                                              (CR)               Water Standards1
                                                                                 (W)
Table 153.022 - Land Uses Allowed in Zoning Districts
Uses                                                                    Status of Use in District
                                                                                                     Open
                                                                                  Com- Indus. Public Space
Use Categories (examples of uses are provided in § 153.001)            Residenti Re   (LI) & Fac.   (OS)  Limitations and Special Use Standards1
                                                                        al (R)    s.   (HI)   (PF)   &
                                                                                  (CR)               Water
                                                                                                     (W)
Commercial Categories2
Bed and breakfast inn                                                   CU+S      S    N      N      N     §
                                                                                                           153.037
Drive-up/drive-in/dr ive-through uses (includes, but is not limited to,
drive-up windows, drive-up ATMs, auto service and repair and similar    N         CU   CU     N      N      
uses and facilities)
Educational services, e.g., tutoring/training center or similar         N         P    P      N      N      
commercial services (not a school or home occupation)
                                                                                       LI: CU        OS:   *In PF and OS Districts, entertainment uses must be accessory to a
Entertainment, major event                                              N         CU   HI: N  CU*    CU*   public use
                                                                                                     W: N
Family daycare (16 or fewer children) under ORS 657A.250 and ORS                                           Existing, lawfully- established family daycare are granted special
657A.440(4)                                                             P         P    N      N      N     status, subject to §
                                                                                                           153.004
Home occupation                                                                                            §
- greater than 500 square feet of use                                   S+CU      S    N      N      N     153.039; existing, lawfully-establis hed home occupations are
                                                                                                           granted special status, subject to §
- less than 500 square feet of use                                      S         S    N      N      N     153.004

Lodging (hotels, motels, inns)                                          N         P    LI: CU N      N      
                                                                                       HI: N
Medical center or clinic                                                N         P    CU     N      N      
Office                                                                  N         P    P      N      N      
Commercial Categories2
Outdoor recreation, commercial                                          N         CU   N      CU*    CU*   *In PF and OS Districts, commercial uses must be accessory to a
                                                                                                           public use
Retail sales and service, enclosed in building                          N         P    P*     N      N     *In the HI District, retail use must be accessory to an industrial
Retail sales and service, not enclosed                                  N         CU   CU*    N      N     use

Self-service storage, commercial                                        N         CU   P      N      N      
Vehicle servicing, gas station or vehicle repair                        N         CU   P      N      N      
Industrial Categories
Industrial service                                                      N         CU   P      N      N      
Manufacturing and production                                            N         CU   CU     N      N      
Other industrial uses (not listed)                                      N         N    CU*    N      N     *Unlisted industrial uses allowed in HI District only, subject to CU
                                                                                                           permit
Warehouse and freight movement                                          N         CU   P      N      N      
Waste-related, including biomass energy                                 N         N    CU*    N      N     *Waste-related uses allowed in HI District only, subject to CU
                                                                                                           permit
Wholesale sales, enclosed in a building                                 N         P    P      N      N      
Wholesale sales, not enclosed in a building                             N         CU   CU     N      N      
Institutional Categories
Community service                                                       P         P    P      P      P      
Daycare center (does not include family daycare or group care home/     CU        P    N      CU*    N     Daycare center allowed in PF District only when accessory to a
facility)                                                                                                  public use
Parks and open space                                                    P         P    CU     P      P      
Religious institutions and houses of worship                            CU        CU   CU     CU     N      
Schools                                                                 CU        CU   CU     CU     N      
Utilities                                                               P         P    P      P      CU     
Other Categories
Accessory structures (with a permitted use)                                                                 
- not taller or larger than primary use                                 P         P    P      P      P      
- taller or larger than primary use                                     CU        CU   CU     P      P      
Agriculture - animals                                                   Keeping of cattle requires 2-acre minimum lot size; except keeping of cattle on smaller lots is allowed
                                                                        with a conditional use permit; other animals subject to city nuisance ordinances
Agriculture - crop cultivation, commercial gardening/horticultu re,     P         P    P      P      P      
plant nursery
Conservation                                                            P         P    P      P      P     Subject to review and approval by natural resource regulatory
                                                                                                           agencies, as applicable
Micro-generation facilities (e.g., generation of solar, wind, biomass   P         P    P      P      P     §
or similar energy for on-site use only)                                                                    153.023(A)
Other Categories
Mining                                                                  N         N    CU     N      N      
Radio frequency transmission facilities                                 CU        CU   CU     N      N      
Regional utility corridors (e.g., irrigation, electrical, gas, oil and  CU        CU   CU     CU     CU     
similar transmission lines) extending through the city
Temporary uses (limited to uses that are allowed as primary uses in     Temporary uses are regulated the same as other uses; except the City Council may waive site plan review
zoning district)                                                        for uses that are six months or less in duration, provided zoning checklist approval is required
Transportation facilities: operation, maintenance, preservation, right-
of-way acquisition, and construction activities in accordance with the
city’s comprehensive plan, transportation element and public works
standards, including construction of streets and roadways as part of    P         P    P      P      P      
approved land division and emergency measures necessary for public
safety and protection of property, when approved by the applicable
roadway authority
Other uses (unlisted use)                                               CU        CU   CU     CU     CU    Uses similar to “not permitted” uses are not permitted
Residential Categories
Group living
                                                                                                           §
Group care facility (6-15 individuals receiving care)                   P         P    N      N      N     153.038; existing, lawfully-establis hed group care facilities are
                                                                                                           granted special status, subject to §
                                                                                                           153.004
                                                                                                           §
Group care home (5 or fewer individuals receiving care)                 P         P    N      N      N     153.038; existing, lawfully-establis hed group care homes are
                                                                                                           granted special status, subject to §
                                                                                                           153.004
Household living
                                                                                                           Existing, lawfully- established accessory dwellings are granted
Accessory dwelling (second dwelling on a single-family lot)             S         S    N      N      N     special status, subject to §
                                                                                                           153.004
                                                                                                           §§
Manufactured home                                                       S         S    N      N      N     153.040 through
                                                                                                           153.042 and ORS Chapter 446; existing, lawfully-establis hed
                                                                                                           manufactured homes are granted special status, subject to § 153.004
                                                                        R-1: N
Mobile home/manufactured dwelling park                                  R-2:      N    N      N      N     §
                                                                        CU+S                               153.041 and ORS Chapter 446
                                                                        R-3: S
Multi-family dwellings (three or more dwellings on lot, including                                          §
senior housing, assisted living and single room occupancy uses but not  S         S    N      N      N     153.043
group living)
                                                                                                           *Existing, lawfully- established single-family dwellings are granted
Single-family dwelling (not attached)                                   P         P    N*     N*     N     special status, subject to §
                                                                                                           153.004
                                                                                                           Existing, lawfully- established two- family (duplex) dwellings are
Two-family dwelling (duplex)                                            P         P    N      N      N     granted special status, subject to §
                                                                                                           153.004
Residential Categories
Use of recreational vehicle as dwelling (must be connected to water,
electrical supply and sewage disposal systems) and in an approved       P         N    N      N      N     § 1533.042 and ORS 197.493
manufactured dwelling park, mobile home park or RV park
Key:
P = Permitted
S = Permitted with special use standards
CU = Conditional use permit required
N = Not permitted
1See also §§
153.035 through
153.046 and §§
153.060 for special use standards and §§
153.075 through
153.079,
153.090 through
153.096,
153.110,
153.111,
153.125 and
153.126 for specific overlay zone regulations
2Section
153.044, commercial development standards applies to all commercial uses
 
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012; Ord. 1268, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 153.023 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Standards. The standards in Table 153.023 apply to all new or expanded
development, including projects that do not require land use approval. See §§
153.205 through
153.210 for land use application requirements.
Table 153.023 - Standards for New or Expanded Development
Standards by    Residential (R- Commercial-  Industrial (LI) Public Fac. (PF)
Zoning District 1, R-2 & R-3)   Residential  & (HI)          Open Space (OS)
                                (CR)                         Water (W)
Table 153.023 - Standards for New or Expanded Development
                                                              Residential Commercial- Industrial Public Fac. (PF)
Standards by Zoning District                                  (R-1, R-2 & Residential (LI) &     Open Space (OS)
                                                              R-3)        (CR)        (HI)       Water (W)
                                                                          80%, except            PF: 70%
Maximum lot coverage; total area covered by structures and                90% for                OS: 20%
impervious paved surfaces, including decks and accessory      60%         lots        80%
structures                                                                fronting               W: 0%
                                                                          Spruce
                                                                          Street
                                                              35 ft, subject to the following standards:
                                                              The city may limit height as required for fire
                                                              protection.
                                                              The height of a new dwelling shall not exceed the
                                                              height of an existing dwelling on an abutting lot by
Maximum structure height                                      more than one foot for every one foot of combined
                                                              side or rear yard setback, as applicable, separating
                                                              the two dwellings.
                                                              Notwithstanding the provisions of this table, an
                                                              increased height is allowed in any zone, subject to
                                                              approval of a conditional use permit and provided
                                                              fire protection requirements met.
                                                              6,000 sq.   5,000 sq.
                                                              ft.; except ft.; except
                                                              7,500 sq.   7,500 sq.
                                                              ft. for     ft. for
                                                              two- family two- family
                                                              (duplex)    (duplex)
                                                              dwelling,   dwelling,
                                                              and 3,750   and 3,750
                                                              sq. ft. for sq. ft. for
                                                              attached    attached
                                                              single-     single-
                                                              family      family
Minimum lot area (square feet), except existing lots of       (townhome)  (townhome)  None: Building code
record smaller than standard may be developed pursuant to §  dwelling    dwelling    standards must be met.
153.003                                                       For multi-  For multi-
                                                              family use, family use,
                                                              7,500 sq.   7,500 sq.
                                                              ft., plus   ft., plus
                                                              an          an
                                                              additional  additional
                                                              1,000 sq.   1,000 sq.
                                                              ft. for     ft. for
                                                              each        each
                                                              dwelling    dwelling
                                                              unit over   unit over
                                                              two on a    two on a
                                                              lot.        lot.
Minimum lot width at front building line                                              None:
Common wall/zero lot line development                         30 ft       30 ft       Building
Minimum lot depth                                             65 ft       65 ft       code
                                                                                      standards  Not applicable
Non-common wall development                                   50 ft       50 ft       must be
                                                                                      met.

Minimum common open space area in new residential
subdivisions and multi-family developments, as of a % of the  20%         10%         Not applicable
overall site. Applies to all land use applications submitted
after February 3, 2012
                                                              15 ft. in R-1, R-2, R-3, PF and OS Zones and 0 ft.
                                                              in CR, LI and HI Zones; except 20 ft. for the
                                                              following: garage openings; carport entries;
                                                              structures where vehicles are serviced, stored or
                                                              repaired; structures associated with vehicle queuing
                                                              areas (e.g., kiosks, drive-up/drive-through
                                                              facilities, ATMs and the like) and similar
                                                              structures.
Minimum front or street side setback on lot abutting standard Notwithstanding the above, developments adjacent to
right-of-way                                                  Spruce Street shall be setback not more than 5 ft.,
                                                              except the setback may be increased where a plaza is
                                                              proposed between a building and the property line.
                                                              Developments adjacent to Hwy 42 shall conform to the
                                                              highway corridor/gateway landscape standards in §§
                                                              153.155 through
                                                              153.159, which may require a setback yard for
                                                              landscaping.
                                                              See also §
                                                              153.023(B).
                                                              Where an existing street right-of-way is less than
                                                              the standard width provided in §§
                                                              153.185 through
Minimum front or street side setback on lot abutting sub-     153.194, the minimum front or street setback equals
standard right-of-way                                         one-half of the ultimate/planned width of the
                                                              abutting right-of-way, per the city’s transportation
                                                              system plan, as measured from the street or highway
                                                              centerline, as applicable.
                                                              5 ft., except where
                                                              common wall/zero-lot
                                                              line development is
Minimum interior side setback                                 approved with 0 ft.
                                                              setback, or where
                                                              greater setback is
                                                              required per CU permit. Three ft., except where
                                                              15 ft.,                 common wall/zero lot line
                                                              except a                development is approved with
                                                              setback of  3 ft.,      0 ft. setback, or where
                                                              5 ft. is    except as   greater setback is required
                                                              permitted   required by per CU permit.
Minimum rear setback                                          for         utility
                                                              accessory   easement or
                                                              structures  building
                                                              of 12 ft.   code
                                                              or less in
                                                              height
Note: Other standards or easements may preclude building to the allowable lot size, coverage, setback or height.
See also the special use standards in §§
153.035 through
153.046 and the overlay zone requirements in this chapter for areas subject to flood hazard or potential geologic
hazard.
 
   (B)   Setback yard exceptions. Setback yards provide space for private yards
and building separation for fire protection/security, building maintenance,
sunlight and air circulation. The setback standards are also intended to allow
for flexibility in maintaining existing structures and in developing attached
housing, consistent with the policies of the city’s comprehensive plan.
Setbacks may be adjusted through the following means.
      (1)   Minor encroachments into a setback yard for chimneys, porches,
decks, eaves and similar parts of a structure are permitted, pursuant to
applicable building codes.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may reduce the required front yard setback
requirement for a new or expanded building where it finds that one or more
buildings on lots abutting the subject site and on the same block face (street
frontage) have less than the minimum front yard setback. In such cases, the
Commission may establish a minimum setback that is equal to the average front
setback on the two abutting lots. Where only one building is on an abutting lot
on the same block face, the Commission shall find the average using the
standard setback and the setback of the existing building. The above exception
does not apply to garage openings, carport entries and structures where
vehicles are serviced, stored or repaired; the minimum street setback of 20
feet shall be maintained for those structures.
      (3)   All other setback yard exceptions are subject to review and
approval of a variance pursuant to §§
153.310 through
153.314.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
SPECIAL USE STANDARDS
§ 153.035 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The special use standards in this subchapter address the
unique requirements of certain land uses and building types, as identified with
an “S” in Table 153.022. The standards in this subchapter do not replace but
supplement the standards in §§
153.021 through
153.023.
   (B)   Applicability. The city applies the special use standards at the time
a new use, a change in use or a development is proposed that requires review
under the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.036 ACCESSORY DWELLINGS.
   Accessory dwellings, where allowed, are subject to review and approval
through a Type II procedure (see § 153.207) and shall conform to all of the
following standards.
   (A)   One unit. A maximum of one accessory dwelling unit is allowed per
legal lot.
   (B)   Floor area. An accessory dwelling shall not exceed 600 square feet of
floor area, or 40% of the primary dwelling unit floor area, whichever is
smaller. The unit may be a detached cottage, a unit attached to a dwelling or
in a portion of an existing dwelling. The floor area of the primary dwelling
garage is not included in the calculation of maximum floor area.
   (C)   Lot size. The minimum lot size for a lot with an accessory dwellings
is 6,000 square feet.
   (D)   Building design. The accessory dwelling shall have exterior siding and
roofing which in color, material and appearance are the same, similar or
superior to exterior siding and roof material used on nearby residences (e.g.,
horizontal wood or wood-appearance siding is considered “superior” to metal
siding). The accessory dwelling shall comply with applicable State Structural
Specialty Code, being OAR 918-460-0000 to 918-460-051 requirements.
   (E)   Building height. The height of an accessory dwelling shall not exceed
the height of the primary dwelling.
   (F)   Parking. Two off-street parking spaces are required, total, for a
single-family dwelling and an accessory dwelling on the same lot.
   (G)   Screening and buffering. The city may require a landscape hedge or
fence be installed on the property line separating a detached accessory
dwelling from an abutting single-family dwelling for the purposes of visual
screening and privacy between uses. Screening and buffering shall conform to
the standards of §§
153.155 through
153.159.
   (H)   Standards for existing nonconforming structures. Conversion of an
existing legal nonconforming structure to an accessory dwelling is allowed;
provided, that the conversion does not increase the nonconformity.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012; Ord. 1281, passed - -2018)
§ 153.037 BED AND BREAKFAST INNS.
   Bed and breakfast inns, where allowed, are subject to review and approval
through a Type II procedure (see § 153.207) and shall conform to all of the
following standards.
   (A)   Accessory use. The use must be accessory to a household already
occupying the site.
   (B)   Maximum size. Six bedrooms for guests and a maximum of 12 guests are
permitted per night.
   (C)   Length of stay. Maximum length of stay is 28 days per guest; anything
longer is classified as a hotel or commercial lodging.
   (D)   Employees. Up to two nonresident employees. There is no limit on
residential employees.
   (E)   Food service. May be provided only to overnight guests of the
business, except where a restaurant use is allowed (e.g., CR District).
   (F)   Signs. Signs shall not exceed a total of four square feet of surface
area on each side of one or two faces. See also sign regulations in this
municipal code.
   (G)   Screening and buffering. The city may require a landscape hedge or
fence be installed on the property line separating a detached accessory
dwelling from an abutting single-family dwelling for the purposes of visual
screening and privacy between uses. Screening and buffering shall conform to
the standards of §§
153.155 through
153.159.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.038 RESIDENTIAL CARE HOMES AND FACILITIES.
   Residential care homes and residential care facilities, where allowed, shall
conform to all of the following standards and procedures. Note: Residential
facilities are not the same as acute care facilities, which are classified as
community service uses; and they are not the same as senior housing facilities
that provide limited or no medical care, which are classified as multi-family
housing.
   (A)   Licensing. Residential care homes and residential care facilities are
residential treatment or training homes or adult foster homes licensed by the
state. All residential care homes and residential care facilities shall be duly
licensed, consistent with ORS 197.660 through 197.670.
   (B)   Residential care homes. Residential care homes may provide residential
care alone, or in conjunction with treatment and/or training, for five or fewer
individuals who need not be related. Staff persons required to meet state-
licensing requirements are not counted in the number of facility residents and
need not be related to each other or the residents.
   (C)   Residential care facilities. Residential care facilities may provide
residential care alone, or in conjunction with treatment and/or training, for
six to 15 individuals who need not be related. Staff persons required to meet
state-licensing requirements are not counted in the number of facility
residents and need not be related to each other or the residents.
   (D)   Access. See §§
153.140 through
153.142.
   (E)   Parking. See §§
153.170 through
153.174.
   (F)   Screening and buffering. The city may require a landscape hedge or
fence be installed on the property line separating a residential care facility
from an abutting single-family dwelling for the purposes of visual screening
and privacy between uses. Screening and buffering shall conform to the
standards of §§
153.155 through
153.159.
   (G)   Review procedure. Residential care homes are subject to review and
approval through a Type I (zoning checklist) procedure under §
153.206. Residential care facilities are subject to review and approval through
a Type III (public hearing) procedure under §
153.208.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.039 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   This code permits home occupations by right in certain zones; provided, that
business owners meet the standards of this section.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to encourage those who are
engaged in small commercial ventures that could not necessarily be sustained if
it were necessary to lease commercial quarters, or which by the nature of the
venture are appropriate in scale and impact to be operated within a residence.
   (B)   Home occupation in Residential Zones. Home occupations of less than
500 square feet in the Residential (R-1, R-2 and R-3) Zones, are permitted
subject to a Type I (zoning checklist) review. Home occupations greater than
500 square feet in a Residential (R) Zone are allowed, subject to approval of a
conditional use permit.
   (C)   Home occupation in Commercial-Residential Zone. Home occupations of
any size are permitted in the Commercial Residential (CR) Zone subject to a
Type I (zoning checklist) review.
   (D)   Home occupation good neighbor standards. Home occupations shall
conform to all of the standards below, except the city may approve adjustments
to the standards through the conditional use permit approval; provided, that
all uses and structures on the subject property conform to applicable city
regulations, including, but not limited to, building codes and nuisance
regulations.
      (1)   Appearance of residence.
         (a)   The home occupation shall be restricted to lawfully built
enclosed structures and be conducted in such a manner as not to give an outward
appearance of a business.
         (b)   The home occupation shall not result in any structural
alterations or additions to a structure that will change its primary use or
building code occupancy classification.
         (c)   The home occupation shall not violate any conditions of
development approval (i.e., prior land use development permit or approval).
         (d)   No products and/or equipment produced or used by the home
occupation may be displayed to be visible from outside any structure.
      (2)   Storage.
         (a)   Outside storage visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent
properties that exceeds what is customary for a single-family residence in the
vicinity is prohibited.
         (b)   On-site storage of hazardous materials (including toxic,
explosive, noxious, combustible or flammable material) beyond those normally
incidental to residential use is prohibited.
         (c)   Storage of inventory or products and all other equipment,
fixtures and activities associated with the home occupation shall be enclosed
in a structure or otherwise screened from view from adjacent properties and
public right-of-way.
      (3)   Employees.
         (a)   Other than family members residing within the dwelling located
on the home occupation site, there shall be not more than one employee at the
home occupation site at any given time. For the purpose of this section, HOME
OCCUPATION SITE means the legal lot on which the home occupation is conducted.
         (b)   Additional individuals may be employed by or associated with the
home occupation, as long as they do not report to work or pick-up/deliver at
the home occupation site.
         (c)   The home occupation site shall not be used as a headquarters for
the assembly of employees for instruction or other purposes, including dispatch
of employees to other locations.
      (4)   Advertising and signs. Signs shall not exceed a total of four
square feet of surface area on each side of one or two faces.
      (5)   Vehicles, parking and traffic.
         (a)   Not more than two commercially licensed vehicles associated with
the home occupation are allowed at the home occupation site. Vehicles shall be
of a size that would not overhang into the public right-of-way when parked.
         (b)   There shall be no commercial vehicle deliveries from 9:00 p.m.
to 7:00 a.m.
      (6)   Business hours. There shall be no restriction on business hours,
except that clients or customers are permitted at the home occupation only from
7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Monday through Friday.
      (7)   Prohibited home occupation uses.
         (a)   Any activity that produces radio, television or other electronic
interference; noise, glare, vibration, smoke or odor beyond allowable levels as
determined by local, state or federal standards, or that can be detected beyond
the property line, is prohibited.
         (b)   Any activity involving on-site retail sales, including garage
sales exceeding the thresholds of a temporary use, is prohibited, except that
the sale of items that are incidental to a permitted home occupation is
allowed. For example, the sale of lesson books or sheet music from music
teachers, art or craft supplies from arts or crafts instructors, computer
software from computer consultants and similar incidental items for sale by
home business is allowed.
         (c)   The following uses and uses with similar objectionable impacts,
because of motor vehicle traffic, noise, glare, odor, dust, smoke or vibration,
are prohibited:
            1.   Ambulance service;
            2.   Animal hospital, veterinary services, kennels or animal
boarding;
            3.   Auto and other vehicle repair, including auto painting; and
            4.   Repair, reconditioning or storage of motorized vehicles,
boats, recreational vehicles, airplanes or large equipment on-site.
      (8)   Enforcement. The city’s designated Code Enforcement Officer or
other law enforcement official may visit a home occupation site to ensure
compliance with all applicable regulations.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012; Ord. 1271, passed 2-3-2014) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.040 MANUFACTURED HOMES ON LOTS.
   Manufactured homes are permitted on individual lots, subject to all of the
following design standards. Manufactured dwellings relocated into the city
shall conform to city standards. The following standards do not apply to units
existing within the city prior to February 3, 2012; provided, that they were
lawfully established. See also §§
153.041 and
153.042 regarding mobile homes.
   (A)   Floor plan. The manufactured home shall be multi-sectional and have an
enclosed floor area of not less than 1,000 square feet.
   (B)   Roof. The manufactured home shall have a pitched roof with a slope not
less than three feet in height for each 12 feet in width (14 degrees).
   (C)   Residential building materials. The manufactured home shall have
exterior siding and roofing which in color, material and appearance are similar
or superior to the exterior siding and roof material used on nearby residences
(e.g., horizontal wood or wood-appearance siding is considered “superior” to
metal siding and roofing).
   (D)   Garages and carports. If the manufactured home has a garage or
carport, the garage or carport shall be constructed of materials like those
used on the house.
   (E)   Thermal envelope. The manufactured home shall be certified by the
manufacturer to meet the thermal envelope requirements equivalent to those for
a single-family dwelling constructed under the State Building Code, being ORS
455.010 et seq. Evidence demonstrating that the manufactured home meets “Super
Good Cents” energy efficiency standards, or equivalent standard, is deemed to
satisfy the exterior thermal envelope certification requirement.
   (F)   Placement. The manufactured home shall be placed on an excavated and
back-filled foundation and enclosed at the perimeter such that the manufactured
home is located not more than 16 inches above grade and complies with the
minimum set-up standards of the adopted State Administrative Rules for
Manufactured Dwellings, OAR Chapter 918. Where the building site has a sloped
grade, no more than 16 inches of the enclosing material shall be exposed on the
uphill side of the home;
   (G)   Floodplain. Manufactured homes, when placed in a flood hazard area,
pursuant to OAR Chapter 52.9, shall comply with the following supplemental
standards.
      (1)   The stand shall be a minimum of 12 inches above base flood
elevation (BFE) unless the foundation wall is opened on one side or end so that
floodwater cannot be trapped. (See § 4-3.1(5) of the Manufactured Dwelling
Specialty Code.)
      (2)   The bottom of the longitudinal chassis frame beam in A Zones and
the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member supporting the dwelling
in V Zones shall be a minimum of 12 inches above BFE. (See the definition of
“lowest floor” in the Manufactured Dwelling Specialty Code, being OAR 918-460-
0000 to 918-460-0500.)
      (3)   The manufactured dwelling shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement during the base flood. Anchoring methods may
include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors (reference FEMA’s Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Hazard Areas
guidebook for anchoring techniques, 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(6)).
      (4)   Electrical crossover connections shall be a minimum of 12 inches
above BFE. (See § 6-4.2(1) of the Manufactured Dwelling Specialty Code.)
   (H)   Foundation skirt. The foundation area of the manufactured home shall
be fully skirted with concrete, horizontal wood or vinyl siding or other
materials, pursuant to applicable building codes.
   (I)   Prohibited. The manufactured home shall not be located in a designated
historic district.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.041 MOBILE HOME AND MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARKS.
   Manufactured/mobile home parks (not including recreational vehicles) are
permitted on parcels of one acre or larger, subject to compliance with the
following.
   (A)   Permitted uses are single-family residences, manufactured home park
manager’s office, home occupations and accessory structures that are necessary
for the operation and maintenance of the manufactured dwelling park (e.g.,
landscape maintenance).
   (B)   Development of manufactured and mobile home parks, including placement
of manufactured and mobile homes with a park, shall comply with applicable
building codes and state requirements for mobile home and manufactured dwelling
parks in ORS Chapter 446.
   (C)   When manufactured dwellings are oriented with their back or side yards
facing a public right-of-way, the city may require installation of fencing and/
or planting of a landscape buffer of five to ten feet in width between the
right-of-way and a manufactured home park for the privacy and security of park
residents or for privacy of adjacent residences.
   (D)   Compliance with the city’s floodplain overlay is required.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.042 MOBILE HOMES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES USED AS DWELLINGS.
   (A)   General standards. Mobile homes shall contain minimum of 650 square
feet of floor space and be installed and equipped as follows.
      (1)   Piers and footings.
         (a)   The main structural beam of such mobile home shall be supported
by concrete piers on eight-foot or nearer centers.
         (b)   The piers shall be supported by a reinforced concrete footing at
least six inches by 12 inches in size.
         (c)   If constructed laterally to the mobile home, the footing shall
extend to the exterior walls.
      (2)   Anchoring.
         (a)   All units shall be adequately anchored to the footings at the
center of the unit and at all corners.
         (b)   Anchoring studs shall be embedded in the concrete footings.
      (3)   Wheels. Prior to occupancy of the unit, the wheels shall be
removed.
      (4)   Skirting.
         (a)   All such mobile homes shall be skirted from the base of the
exterior wall to the ground level.
         (b)   Such skirting, of other than masonry, shall be supported by a
frame approved by a building inspector.
         (c)   Such skirting shall be maintained in neat and orderly condition
at all times.
         (d)   The material used for the purpose of skirting shall be masonry,
metal, exterior plywood or the equivalent.
      (5)   Entryways. All entryways to such mobile homes shall be served by a
permanent porch at least four feet by eight feet in size which shall be
constructed and maintained in a neat and orderly condition.
   (B)   Use restrictions. No recreational vehicle shall be used or occupied as
a dwelling except in an established mobile home park or recreational vehicle
park. No mobile home shall be used or occupied for any purpose except in an
established mobile home park or in the R-2 or R-3 Zones.
   (C)   Temporary use. Notwithstanding other provision of this section, a
recreational vehicle or mobile home may be used as a temporary dwelling within
any zone:
      (1)   Without a permit provided such use occurs:
         (a)   Not more than one time during any consecutive 30-day period; and
         (b)   For a period not to exceed 72 continuous hours.
      (2)   With a valid visitor permit or temporary dwelling permit as
provided in this section.
         (a)   Visitor permit.
            1.   The City Planning Official, through a Type I procedure, may
issue a visitor permit, either in person or over the telephone, upon collecting
the following information:
               a.   Name of applicant;
               b.   Address;
               c.   Telephone number;
               d.   Date of arrival; and
               e.   Estimated date of departure.
            2.   Visitor permits shall be valid for a period not exceeding 14
consecutive days and shall not be issued more than one time during any
consecutive 30-day period.
         (b)   Temporary dwelling permit.
            1.   The Planning Commission, through a Type III procedure, may, at
its discretion, upon showing of a need, grant a temporary dwelling permit.
            2.   Temporary dwelling permits shall be valid for a period not
exceeding 60 consecutive days unless the Planning Commission grants an
extension.
            3.   The Planning Commission may impose terms and conditions of a
temporary dwelling permit and/or on extensions of such permit.
         (c)   Permit revocation; violations.
            1.   The City Council may revoke a temporary dwelling permit for
the protection of public peace, safety, health and general welfare.
            2.   A violation of any provision of this section or the failure to
comply with any terms and conditions of a permit issued or extended under this
section may be enforced in one or more of the following ways:
               a.   Revocation of the permit by order of the City Council or
its designee;
               b.   As provided in §
153.006; and/or
               c.   A ban on the use of the recreational vehicle or mobile home
as a temporary dwelling for a period up to 60 consecutive days by order of the
City Council.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.043 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   New multiple family developments (projects consisting of three or more
dwelling units on a lot, excluding upper-story housing in commercial buildings)
shall conform to all of the following standards, which are intended to promote
livability for residents and compatibility with nearby uses. Figures 153.043(a)
and 153.043(b) provide conceptual illustrations of the requirements listed
below.
   (A)   Purpose. The following standards are intended to ensure that multi-
family developments are planned with adequate open space and are designed to
prevent conflicts between residential uses, on-site recreation and vehicle
circulation and parking areas. Design standards that orient multi-family
dwellings with visibility of adjacent streets, walkways and yards also support
crime prevention through natural surveillance of such areas.
   (B)   Applicability. This section applies to new multi-family developments.
      (1)   Building orientation.
         (a)   Multi-family buildings shall generally orient to a public street
or shall orient to an internal driveway containing a separated or raised
walkway connecting each dwelling unit entrance to the parking area, any on-site
recreation areas and the street right-of-way.
         (b)   Parking areas, to the extent practicable, shall not be placed
between residences and adjacent streets, but instead should be oriented
internally to the development site as generally depicted in the following
exhibits.
      (2)   Common open space and landscaping. A minimum of 20% of the site
area in the R Districts and 10% of the site area in the CR District shall be
designated and permanently reserved as common area or open space, in accordance
with all of the following criteria.
         (a)   For the purpose of this division (B)(2), SITE AREA is defined as
the subject lot or lots after subtracting any required dedication of street
right-of-way.
         (b)   The common area or open space shall contain one or more of the
following: outdoor recreation area; tree grove (e.g., existing mature trees);
turf play fields or playgrounds; sports courts; swim pool; walking fitness
course; natural area with picnic benches; or similar open space amenities as
appropriate for the intended residents.
         (c)   In order to be counted as eligible toward the minimum open space
area, such areas shall have dimensions of not less than 20 feet.
         (d)   Open space and common areas not otherwise developed with
recreational facilities shall be landscaped; alternatively, the Planning
Commission may approve a tree preservation plan (retain mature tree groves) in
lieu of landscaping.
      (3)   Private open space. Private open space areas shall be required for
dwelling units based on the following criteria.
         (a)   A minimum of 40% of all ground-floor dwelling units shall have
front or rear patios or decks containing at least 48 square feet of usable
area. For the purpose of this division (B)(3), GROUND-FLOOR HOUSING means the
housing unit entrance (front or rear) is within five feet of the finished
ground elevation (i.e., after grading and landscaping).
         (b)   A minimum of 40% of all upper-floor housing units shall have
balconies or porches containing at least 48 square feet of usable area. For the
purpose of this division (B)(3)(b), UPPER-FLOOR HOUSING means housing units
that are more than five feet above the finished grade.
      (4)   Trash receptacles. Trash receptacles shall be oriented away from
building entrances, setback at least ten feet from any public right-of-way and
adjacent residences and shall be screened with an evergreen hedge or solid
fence or wall of not less than six feet in height. Receptacles must be
accessible to trash pick-up trucks.
   Figure
153.043(a) Acceptable Site Plan
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1283.jpg]
   Figure
153.043(b) Unacceptable Site Plan
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1285.jpg]
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.044 COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following standards are intended to improve the quality of the built
environment in areas where commercial development is allowed. The standards
ensure that new commercial buildings are easily accessible to pedestrians and
contribute to an attractive, walkable commercial area. The standards are also
intended to protect and enhance the city’s Historic Commercial Core.
   (A)   Driveway access requires city or ODOT approval, as applicable, in
conformance with §§
153.140 through
153.142. Driveways and any drive-up/through queuing areas shall be designed so
that vehicles do not obstruct any fire apparatus access lane, walkway or public
right-of-way.
   (B)   Buildings shall have at least one primary entrance facing an adjacent
street, so that the entrance is visible and easily accessible from the public
right-of-way for pedestrians. This provision is met by complying with all of
the following standards.
   Figure
153.044(a)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1287.jpg]
      (1)   Buildings adjacent to Spruce Street shall have a primary entrances
oriented to Spruce Street with no parking located between the building and
sidewalk. Buildings on corner lots may have a corner entrance or an entrance
oriented to Spruce Street or the side street.
      (2)   Building adjacent to streets other than Spruce Street shall be
oriented to provide direct and convenient pedestrian access to a public
sidewalk; the distance between a building’s primary entrance and the sidewalk
shall be minimized.
      (3)   Where parking must be located between a building’s primary entrance
and a public sidewalk, a landscape buffer shall be provided between the parking
lot and sidewalk in conformance with the landscape standards in §§
153.155 through
153.159.
   (C)   All new buildings shall contain canopies, awnings, overhangs, recesses
or other features providing weather-protection over the primary building
entrance(s). Such weather-protection shall cover an area of not less than 16
square feet and extend a minimum of four feet from each primary building
entrance.
   (D)   Building architecture in the Downtown Core shall be consistent with
the historic building pattern with regard to form, detailing, materials and
color. In reviewing proposed building plans, the city decision-making body
shall consider the following elements in determining design consistency: roof
form (e.g., flat or pitched) and roof detailing (e.g., parapet, cornice or
gable); building exterior cladding (e.g., masonry brick, stone block, stucco or
wood); windows, canopies/awnings, signs and doors (e.g., placement,
proportions, orientation and detailing); height/scale (e.g., division of upper
and lower building stories and general alignment with adjacent buildings); and
materials and color. The city decision-making body may exercise reasonable
discretion in interpreting this division (D), consistent with the purpose and
intent of this section.
   (E)   Off-street parking is not required for uses within the Commercial
Core. Off-street parking for uses in all other locations shall be provided in
conformance with §§
153.170 through
153.174.
   (F)   The Planning Commission may require landscaping, screening, lighting,
materials or pedestrian walkway improvements to ensure compatibility with
adjacent uses, including, but not limited to, uses in residential districts.
All developments adjacent to Oregon State Route 42 (OR 42) shall conform to the
highway corridor/gateway landscape standards in §§
153.155 through
153.159.
   (G)   Drive-up, drive-in and drive-through facilities (e.g., coffee kiosks,
drive-up windows, teller machines, drop-boxes and similar facilities) shall not
encroach into any street, sidewalk or bicycle way. Where such facilities are
located adjacent to a street or highway, the drive-up/in/through vehicle
queuing (waiting area) and service window/teller machine/drop box or the like
shall be setback not less than ten feet from the street or highway right-of-
way; the setback area shall contain a landscaped buffer conforming to §§
153.155 through
153.159. The ten-foot setback does not apply to permitted buildings, canopies
or drive aisles where vehicles exit the site.
   Figure
153.044(b)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1289.jpg]
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.045 WATER (W) ZONE DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. This section contains development standards for the Water (W)
Zone, consistent with the city’s comprehensive plan and the Coquille River
estuary management plan. The W Zone contains one district, designated
“conservation.” Uses and activities must conform to the purpose of that
conservation district, which is to manage this area for long-term uses of
renewable resources that do not require major alteration of the estuary, except
for the purposes of restoration.
   (B)   Permitted uses and activities. The following uses and activities are
permitted:
      (1)   Undeveloped, low-intensity, water-dependent recreation, boat ramps
or public use where no dredging or fill for navigational access is needed;
      (2)   Research and educational observations;
      (3)   Navigational aids and communication facilities;
      (4)   Protection of habitat, nutrient, fish, wildlife and aesthetic
resources, active restoration of fish and wildlife habitat or water quality and
estuarine enhancement;
      (5)   Passive restoration measures;
      (6)   Riprap for protection of uses existing as of October 7, 1977,
unique natural resources, historical and archeological values and public
facilities;
      (7)   Bridge crossings, their support structures and dredging necessary
for their installation;
      (8)   Aquaculture that does not involve dredge or fill or other estuarine
alteration other than incidental dredging for harvest of benthic species or
removable in-water structures such as stakes or racks;
      (9)   Boat ramps for public use where not dredging or fill for
navigational access is needed; and
      (10)   Pipelines, cables and utility crossings, including incidental
dredging necessary for their installation, except as otherwise restricted under
§
153.023(A).
   (C)   Conditional uses and activities. Minor navigational improvements are
allowed subject to approval of a conditional use permit under §§
153.265 through
153.268.
   (D)   Special provisions.
      (1)   Policies 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 contained in the estuarine resources
element of the city’s comprehensive plan are included herein by reference and
made a part of this chapter.
      (2)   All uses in the Water Zone shall be conducted in accordance with
all applicable state and federal laws and regulations, and nothing in this
section is to be construed as modifying or superseding those authorities.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.046 CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL USES GRANTED SPECIAL STATUS.
   Special status has been granted to existing single-family, two-family
(duplex) and accessory dwellings and manufactured homes in industrial zones.
This status includes dwellings used as group care homes, group care facilities,
family daycare and home occupations. Notwithstanding the restrictions of any
other section of this chapter, these properties shall be deemed to be
conforming to the base zoning district.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012; Ord. 1268, passed 3-18-2013)
OVERLAY ZONES GENERALLY
§ 153.060 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to statewide Planning Goal 5:
   (A)   The Floodplain Overlay Zone (FP) regulates land use in areas subject
to flood hazard;
   (B)   The Hazards Overlay Zone (HZ) regulates land use in areas subject to
geologic hazards;
   (C)   The Historic-Cultural Overlay Zone (/HC) regulates alterations to
significant historic-cultural resources; and
   (D)   The Wetland Protection Overlay Zone (/WP) regulates alterations to
jurisdictional wetlands.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.061 APPLICABILITY.
   Overlay zone provisions shall be applied in addition to other zone
requirements as indicated by the overlay zone designations set forth on the
amended zone map and/or as provided in this development code.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
FLOODPLAIN (FP) OVERLAY ZONE
§ 153.075 FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities and, when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses
that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss.
   (B)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of the Floodplain Overlay Zone
to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public
and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions
designed:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
      (7)   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
      (8)   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
   (C)   Methods of reducing flood losses. In order to accomplish its purposes,
this Floodplain Overlay Zone include methods and provisions for:
      (1)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in
damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
      (4)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which
may increase flood damage;
      (5)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert floodwaters or may increase flood hazards in other
areas; and
      (6)   Coordinating and supplementing the provisions of the State Building
Code, being ORS 455.010 et seq. with local land use and development ordinances.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012; Ord. 1283, passed 12-4-2018)
§ 153.076 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the interpretation of any provision of
these Floodplain Overlay Zone regulations or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After detailed
rate making has been completed in preparation for publication of the flood
insurance rate map, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE,
A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE or V. For purposes
of these regulations, the term SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA is synonymous in
meaning with the phrase AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. Also referred to as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. Designation on maps always
includes the letters A or V.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BELOW-GRADE CRAWL SPACE. An enclosed area below the base flood elevation in
which the interior grade is not more than two feet below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade and the height, measured from the interior grade of the
crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation, does not exceed four feet
at any point.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials located within the area of special flood hazard.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has
its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, post, piers, pilings or columns.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters
from any source; and
         (c)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by
FLOODING, as defined in this section, and are akin to a river of liquid and
flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is
carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
      (2)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in FLOODING as defined above.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has
been made available digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map
(DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOODPLAIN. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of these Floodplain Overlay Zone
regulations found in §
153.079(B)(1).
   MANUFACTURED DWELLING. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED DWELLING does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels)
of land divided into two or more manufactured dwelling lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the
start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REQUEST FOR REVIEW. A request for a review of the interpretation of any of
the flood provisions or a request for a variance or waiver.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured dwelling on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured dwelling.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided, that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of these Floodplain
Overlay Zone regulations which permits construction in a manner that would
otherwise be prohibited by these Floodplain Overlay Zone regulations.
   WATER DEPENDENT. A structure for commerce or industry which cannot exist in
any other location and is dependent on the water by reason of the intrinsic
nature of its operations.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012; Ord. 1283, passed 12-4-2018)
§ 153.077 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. This Floodplain Overlay Zone shall apply to all areas
of special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard. The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance Administration in a
scientific and engineering report entitled The Flood Insurance Study for Coos
County, Oregon and Incorporated Areas dated December 7, 2018, with accompanying
flood insurance rate maps are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of these Floodplain Overlay Zone regulations. The flood insurance study is
on file at City Hall, 424 Fifth Street, Myrtle Point, Oregon. The best
available information for flood hazard area identification as outlined in these
Floodplain Overlay Zone regulations shall be the basis for regulation until a
new FIRM is issued which incorporates the data required by these Floodplain
Overlay Zone regulations.
   (C)   Penalties for noncomplianace. No structure nor land shall hereafter be
constructed, located, extended, converted or altered without full compliance
with the terms of these Floodplain Overlay Zone regulations and other
applicable regulations. Violations of the provisions of the Floodplain Overlay
Zone regulations by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a violation of this development code. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as
is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
   (D)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of these
Floodplain Overlay Zone regulations, all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (E)   Warning and disclaimer of liability.
      (1)   The degree of flood protection required by these Floodplain Overlay
Zone regulations is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based
on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur
on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural
causes. These Floodplain Overlay Zone regulations do not imply that land
outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages.
      (2)   These Floodplain Overlay Zone regulations shall not create
liability on the part of the city, any officer or employee thereof, or the
Federal Insurance Administration, for any flood damages that result from
reliance on these Floodplain Overlay Zone regulations or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
   (F)   Abrogation. These Floodplain Overlay Zone regulations are not intended
to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where these regulations and another ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012; Ord. 1283, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.078 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Zoning clearance permits and maintenance of records.
      (1)   Zoning clearance permit required. A zoning clearance permit shall
be obtained before construction or development begins within any area of
special flood hazard established in this chapter. The permit shall be for all
structures, including manufactured dwellings, as defined herein, and for all
development including grading, filling, storage of materials and other
activities, also as defined herein.
      (2)   Application for zoning clearance permit. Application for a
development permit shall be made on forms furnished by the city and may
include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the
nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing
or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities and the
location of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of floodproofing in any
structure;
         (c)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in §
153.079(B)(2); and
         (d)   Description of the extent to which a watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Designation of the local administrator. The City Manager is hereby
appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this section by
granting or denying development permit applications in accordance with the
provisions herein.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the local administrator. Duties of the
local administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following.
      (1)   Permit review. The local administrator shall:
         (a)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of these Floodplain Overlay Zone regulations have been satisfied;
         (b)   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from federal, state or local governmental agencies
from which prior approval is required; and
         (c)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway and, if located in the floodway, assure
compliance with the encroachment provisions of §
153.079(D).
      (2)   Use of other base flood data (in A Zones). When base flood
elevation data has not been provided (A Zones) in accordance with §
153.077(B), the local administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize
any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or
other source, in order to administer §
153.079(B) and (D).
      (3)   Information to be obtained and maintained. The local administrator
shall:
         (a)   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the flood
insurance study, FIRM or required as in division (C)(2) above, obtain and
record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basements and below-grade crawlspaces) of all new or substantially
improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement; and
         (b)   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures
where base flood elevation data is provided through the flood insurance study,
FIRM or as required in division (C)(2) above:
            1.   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean
seal level); and
            2.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in division
(A)(2)(c) above.
         (c)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of these Floodplain Overlay Zone regulations.
      (4)   Alteration of watercourses. The local administrator shall:
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the Department of Land Conservation
and Development and other appropriate state and federal agencies, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Insurance Administration; and
         (b)   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished.
      (5)   Requirement to submit new technical data. The local administrator
shall:
         (a)   Notify FEMA within six months of project completion when an
applicant had obtained a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) from FEMA,
or when development altered a watercourse, modified floodplain boundaries or
modified base flood elevations. This notification shall be provided as a letter
of map revision (LOMR);
         (b)   The property owner shall be responsible for preparing technical
data to support the LOMR application and paying any processing or application
fees to FEMA; and
         (c)   The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to
sign the community acknowledgment form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR
application, until the applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met
the requirements of this code and all applicable state and federal laws.
      (6)   Interpretation of FIRM boundaries. The local administrator shall
make interpretations where needed, as to exact location of the boundaries of
the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions). The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in division (D) below.
   (D)   Variance procedure.
      (1)   Appeal Board.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall hear and decide appeals and
requests for variances from the requirements of these Floodplain Overlay Zone
regulations.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by
the city in the enforcement or administration of these Floodplain Overlay Zone
regulations.
         (c)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Planning Commission, or
any taxpayer, may appeal such decision to the City Council.
         (d)   In passing upon such applications, the Planning Commission shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of these Floodplain Overlay Zone regulations and:
            1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
            2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
            3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
            4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community;
            5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
            6.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
            7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
            8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
            9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
            10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
            11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
         (e)   Upon consideration of the factors of division (D)(1)(d) above
and the purposes of these Floodplain Overlay Zone regulations, the Planning
Commission may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems
necessary to further the purposes of these Floodplain Overlay Zone regulations.
         (f)   The local Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of
all appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Insurance
Administration upon request.
      (2)   Conditions for variances.
         (a)   Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the
elevation standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing items listed in divisions (D)(1)(d)1. through (D)(1)
(d)11. above have been fully considered. As the lot size increases, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
         (b)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
         (c)   Variances shall not be issued within a designated floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
         (d)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (e)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, nor conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         (f)   Variances, as interpreted in the National Flood Insurance
Program, are based on the general zoning law principle that they pertain to a
physical piece or property, they are not personal in nature and do not pertain
to the structure, its inhabitants, economic or financial circumstances. They
primarily address small lots in densely populated residential neighborhoods. As
such, variances from the flood elevations should be quite rare.
         (g)   Variances may be issued for nonresidential buildings in very
limited circumstances to allow a lesser degree of floodproofing than watertight
or dry floodproofing, where it can be determined that such action will have low
damage potential, complies with all other variance criteria except division (D)
(2)(a) above and otherwise complies with §
153.079(A)(1) through (A)(3).
         (h)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012; Ord. 1283, passed 12-4-2018)
§ 153.079 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all areas of special flood hazards, the
following standards are required.
      (1)   Anchoring.
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
         (b)   All manufactured dwellings must likewise be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
(Reference FEMA’s Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Hazard Areas
guidebook for additional techniques.)
      (2)   Construction materials and methods.
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
         (b)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         (c)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air-conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding.
      (3)   Utilities.
         (a)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
         (b)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters.
         (c)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding consistent with
the State Department of Environmental Quality.
      (4)   Subdivision proposals.
         (a)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
         (b)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
         (c)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood damage.
         (d)   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least 50
lots or five acres (whichever is less).
      (5)   Review of building permits. Where elevation data is not available
either through the flood insurance study, FIRM or from another authoritative
source (see § 153.078(C)(2)), applications for building permits shall be
reviewed to assure that proposed construction will be reasonably safe from
flooding. The test of reasonableness is a local judgment and includes use of
historical data, high water marks, photographs of past flooding and the like,
where available. Failure to elevate at least two feet above grade in these
zones may result in higher insurance rates.
      (6)   AH Zone drainage. Adequate drainage paths are required around
structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all areas of special flood hazards where base
flood elevation data has been provided (Zones A1-30, AH and AE) as set forth in
§§
153.077(B) or 153.078(C)(2), the following provisions are required.
      (1)   Residential construction.
         (a)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to a
minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters.
         (c)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by
a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria.
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
            4.   If a building has more than one enclosed area below the lowest
floor, each area shall be equipped with adequate flood openings.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction.
         (a)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated at or above the base flood elevation; or,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall:
            1.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
            2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
            3.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
accepted standards of practice for meeting provisions of this division (B)(2)
based on their development and/or review of the structural design,
specifications and plans. Such certifications shall be provided to the official
as set forth in §
153.078(C)(3)(b).
         (b)   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed,
must meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
division (B)(1)(b) above.
         (c)   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall be
notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot
below the floodproofed level (e.g., a building floodproofed to the base flood
level will be rated as one foot below).
         (d)   Applicants shall supply a comprehensive maintenance plan for the
entire structure, including, but not limited to: exterior envelope of
structure; all penetrations to the exterior of the structure; all shields,
gates, barriers or components designed to provide floodproofing protection to
the structure; all seals or gaskets for shields, gates, barriers or components;
and the location of all shields, gates, barriers and components as well as all
associated hardware and any materials or specialized tools necessary to seal
the structure.
         (e)   Applicants shall supply an emergency action plan (EAP) for the
installation and sealing of the structure prior to a flooding event that
clearly identifies what triggers the EAP and who is responsible for enacting
the EAP.
      (3)   Manufactured dwellings.
         (a)   Manufactured dwellings supported on solid foundation walls shall
be constructed with flood openings that comply with division (A)(1)(b) above.
         (b)   The bottom of the longitudinal chassis frame beam in A Zones,
shall be at or above BFE.
         (c)   The manufactured dwelling shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse and lateral movement during the base flood. Anchoring
methods may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties
to ground anchors.
         (d)   Electrical crossover connections shall be a minimum of 12 inches
above BFE.
         (e)   Reference FEMA’s Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Hazard
Areas guidebook for additional techniques.
      (4)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles placed on sites are
required to:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices and has no permanently attached additions; or
         (c)   Meet the requirements of division (B)(3) above and the elevation
and anchoring requirements for manufactured dwellings.
      (5)   Small accessory structures. Relief from elevation or floodproofing
as required in divisions (B)(1) or (B)(2) above may be granted for small
accessory structures that are:
         (a)   Less than 200 square feet and do not exceed one story;
         (b)   Not temperature controlled;
         (c)   Not used for human habitation and are used solely for parking of
vehicles or storage of items having low damage potential when submerged;
         (d)   Not used to store toxic material, oil or gasoline, or any
priority persistent pollutant identified by the State Department of
Environmental Quality unless confined in a tank installed in compliance with
these Floodplain Overlay Zone regulations or stored at least one foot above
base flood elevation;
         (e)   Located and constructed to have low damage potential;
         (f)   Constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
         (g)   Anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of
the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy, during conditions of the base flood;
         (h)   Constructed to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls by allowing for the automatic entry and exit of floodwater. Designs for
complying with this requirement must be certified by a licensed professional
engineer or architect or:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above the higher of the exterior or interior grade or floor immediately below
the opening; or
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwater in both directions without manual intervention.
         (i)   Constructed with electrical and other service facilities located
and installed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of the base flood.
      (6)   Below-grade crawl spaces. Below-grade crawlspaces are allowed
subject to the following standards as found in FEMA Technical Bulletin 11-01,
Crawlspace Construction for Buildings Located in Special Flood Hazard Areas.
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Hydrostatic loads and the effects of buoyancy can usually be addressed through
the required openings stated in division (B)(6)(b) below. Because of
hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace construction is not allowed in areas with flood
velocities greater than five feet per second unless the design is reviewed by a
qualified design professional, such as a registered architect or professional
engineer. Other types of foundations are recommended for these areas.
         (b)   The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the base flood
elevation (BFE) and, as such, must have openings that equalize hydrostatic
pressures by allowing the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. The bottom
of each flood vent opening can be no more than one foot above the lowest
adjacent exterior grade.
         (c)   Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation
walls of the crawlspace used to elevate the building, but also any joists,
insulation or other materials that extend below the BFE. The recommended
construction practice is to elevate the bottom of joists and all insulation
above BFE.
         (d)   Any building utility systems within the crawlspace must be
elevated above BFE or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate
within the system components during flood conditions. Ductwork, in particular,
must either be placed above the BFE or sealed from floodwaters.
         (e)   The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be
more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior grade.
         (f)   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the
interior grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall
must not exceed four feet at any point. The height limitation is the maximum
allowable unsupported wall height according to the engineering analyses and
building code requirements for flood hazard areas.
         (g)   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should
be drained within a reasonable time after a flood event. The type of drainage
system will vary because of the site gradient and other drainage
characteristics, such as soil types. Possible options include natural drainage
through porous, well-drained soils and drainage systems such as perforated
pipes, drainage tiles or gravel or crushed stone drainage by gravity or
mechanical means.
         (h)   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five
feet per second for any crawlspace. For velocities in excess of five feet per
second, other foundation types should be used.
      (7)   Additional information. For more detailed information, refer to
FEMA Technical Bulletin 11-01.
   (C)   Before regulatory floodway. In areas where a regulatory floodway has
not been designated, no new construction, substantial improvements or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and AE on
the community’s FIRM unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community.
   (D)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
153.077(B) are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris,
potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions apply.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(3) below, encroachments are
prohibited, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements and
other development unless certification by a registered professional civil
engineer is provided demonstrating through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that encroachments
shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge.
      (2)   If division (D)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section.
      (3)   Projects for stream habitat restoration may be permitted in the
floodway, provided:
         (a)   The project qualifies for a Department of the Army, Portland
District Regional General Permit for Stream Habitat Restoration (NWP-2007-
1023);
         (b)   A qualified professional (a registered professional engineer; or
staff of NRCS; the county; or fisheries, natural resources or water resources
agencies) has provided a feasibility analysis and certification that the
project was designed to keep any rise in 100-year flood levels as close to zero
as practically possible given the goals of the project;
         (c)   No structures would be impacted by a potential rise in flood
elevation; and
         (d)   An agreement to monitor the project, correct problems and ensure
that flood-carrying capacity remains unchanged is included as part of the local
approval.
      (4)   Temporary structures placed in the floodway: Relief from no-rise
evaluation, elevation or dry floodproofing standards may be granted for a
nonresidential structure placed during the dry season (June to October) and for
a period of less than 90 days. A plan for the removal of the temporary
structure after the dry season or when a flood event threatens shall be
provided. The plan shall include disconnecting and protecting from water
infiltration and damage all utilities servicing the temporary structure.
      (5)   Temporary storage of goods and materials, not including hazardous
materials, is allowed in the floodway for a period of less than 90 days within
the dry season (June to October).
   (E)   Standards for shallow flooding areas (AO Zones). Shallow flooding
areas appear on FIRMs as AO Zones with depth designations. The base flood
depths in these zones range from one to three feet above ground where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, or where the path of flooding is unpredictable
and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is usually characterized
as sheet flow. In these areas, the following provisions apply.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures and manufactured dwellings within AO Zones shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated above the highest grade adjacent to the
building, a minimum of one foot above the depth number specified on the FIRM
(at least two feet if no depth number is specified).
      (2)   New construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures within AO Zones shall either:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade of the building site, one foot or more above the depth
number specified on the FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is
specified); or
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
completely floodproofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. If this method is
used, compliance shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect as in division (B)(2)(c) above.
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures are required.
      (4)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within AO Zones on the
community’s FIRM either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices and has no permanently attached additions; or
         (c)   Meet the requirements of division (E)(1) above and the elevation
and anchoring requirements for manufactured dwellings.
   (F)   Critical facilities. Construction of new critical facilities shall be,
to the extent possible, located outside the limits of the Special Flood Hazard
Area (SFHA) (100-year floodplain). Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated three feet above BFE or to the height of the 500-year
flood, whichever is higher. Access to and from the critical facility should
also be protected to the height utilized above. Floodproofing and sealing
measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by
or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of
the base flood elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the
extent possible.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012; Ord. 1283, passed 12-4-2018)
HAZARDS (HZ) OVERLAY ZONE
§ 153.090 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of the Hazard Overlay Zone is to provide protection for
both the city and its residents through the provision of the development
standards based on physiographic conditions, including, but not limited to,
slope of the land, natural drainage ways, soil characteristics and lands
subject to land movements or erosion.
   (B)   The provisions of this development code seek to address geologic
hazards identified on city lands that may be subject to reasonably anticipated
or predictable hazard events (i.e., 100-year frequency) while allowing
development where the property owner shows through expert evidence and
mitigating measures that the proposed development can be made reasonable safe
from known hazards. The property owner, including subsequent property owners,
take responsibility for the hazard and any potential damage that might result.
Issuance of a building permit under this code is not considered an assurance or
guarantee that the site will not fail or that damage will not be incurred.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.091 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   All applications for development shall be reviewed by the City
Planning Official through a Type II procedure for compliance with the Hazard
Overlay Zone. The City Planning Official may elect to have the Planning
Commission complete the review. Those requests that are reviewed by the
Planning Commission shall be accompanied by a report from the City Planning
Official concerning compliance with the hazard overlay. The City Planning
Official or the Planning Commission may require additional investigation or a
revised report from the geologist or engineer to ensure the site adequately
addresses the intent of this chapter. The City Planning Official or Planning
Commission may deny the issuance of a permit if subsequent investigation or
reporting does not provide satisfactory evidence that safe development can
occur on the site.
   (B)   All decisions of the City Planning Official may be appealed to the
Planning Commission. Decisions made by the Planning Commission concerning
hazard overlay compliance shall be appealed in accordance with §
153.207.
   (C)   If, at the time of application, the applicant can prove through
testimony of a registered engineer or engineering geologist that a parcel shown
to be on Class B or Class C lands does not have any geologic or soils hazards
that will adversely affect development on the parcel in question or on any
other parcel, the City Planning Official or the Planning Commission may waive
mitigation requirements.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.092 HAZARD ZONE CLASSIFICATIONS.
   The following factors shall be used to determine the classifications of
various hazard overlay zones and their constraints to building and development
upon them.
   (A)   Class A lands: no hazard. Class A lands are those which have no
constraints as defined by this code. The underlying zone and, if applicable,
other overlay zones in which the parcel is located, may limit development.
   (B)   Class B lands: steep slopes. Class B lands are those which lie on
slopes greater than 15%. Class B lands shall require a site review report as
described under §
153.094.
   (C)   Class C lands: soil limitations.
      (1)   Class C lands are those that have hazardous conditions based on
soil characteristics identified in the county’s resource conservation service
soil survey, but may be on slopes of less than 15%. These soils are listed in
the city’s comprehensive plan’s soil inventory. Class C hazards may include,
but are not limited to: shrink/swell; slope stability failures or ponding; or
poor drainage. Class C lands also include any existing unstable landforms, such
as areas of evident slumps, slides, ground creep, debris flows, seeps and
springs or other groundwater manifestations that would have an impact on soil
stability. Class C lands do not include those that are subject to flooding or
are found within the floodplain as identified in the comprehensive plan. Class
C lands shall require a site review report as described under §
153.094.
      (2)   The above classifications are cumulative in their effect and, if a
parcel of land falls under two or more classifications, it shall be subject to
the regulations of each classification. Those restrictions applied shall
pertain to the entire parcel on which development occurs.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.093 OFFICIAL MAPS.
   (A)   The city has adopted official maps denoting the identified areas of
natural hazard. The maps are generalized in nature and provide basic reference
to soils that may contain hazards. On-site investigation shall be required as
per §
153.094 to make a final determination of whether hazards exist on lands to be
developed. If the City Planning Official suspects that property not identified
on the official maps may be subject to a natural hazard described in §
153.092, he or she may withhold issuance of the development permit for 30 days
to study the facts relating to the land. Compliance shall be required only
after a report from an engineer or engineering geologist as applicable to the
problem identified, certifies that the land in question complies with the
description of a natural hazard in §
153.092. In this case, the burden of proof is on the city.
   (B)   Annexation of lands to the city subsequent to the adoption of this
overlay requires a determination of existing hazards. Any hazards identified on
the land to be annexed shall be amended to the official maps. If the city
initiates the annexation, the city shall pay the cost of determination of
hazards; if a property owner initiates the annexation, the property owner is
responsible for determining the existence of hazards on the property or
properties being annexed.
   (C)   Amendment of the natural hazard maps shall require review and approval
by the City Council pursuant to §§
153.310 through
153.314.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.094 DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR CLASS B AND CLASS C LANDS.
   (A)   Development or redevelopment on lands identified as Class B or Class C
that requires the issuance of a structural building permit or entails
excavation or fill of greater than 50 cubic yards shall be subject to
conditions, restriction and recommendations outlined in a site review report to
be completed by an engineer or engineering geologist.
   (B)   This report shall include the following:
      (1)   Client or party that commissioned the report;
      (2)   Name, signature and registration number of engineer or geologist
who completed the investigation on which the report is based, as well as the
dates when the work was done;
      (3)   Written description and map of site in regard to location and
general setting, major geographic and geologic features, topography, slope and
existing cut and fill materials;
      (4)   Project description and preliminary site map including location on
the site, drainage, local vegetation and proposed cut and/or fill;
      (5)   Discussion of any existing slope stability problems on the parcel
under investigation, as well as on surrounding parcels;
      (6)   Discussion of soil types on the site. The reporting of soil types
must be consistent with classifications used by the National Resource
Conservation Service Soils Survey of the county;
      (7)   Specific recommendations for cut slope and fill stability, seepage,
erosion and drainage control or other design criteria to mitigate recognized
geologic hazards;
      (8)   A statement that the site has been adequately investigated and can
be safely developed in keeping with the report recommendations if the
recommendations are employed and are reasonably maintained and that anticipated
or predictable hazard events will not destroy or seriously damage the structure
or require major repair to it; and
      (9)   In addition to any development recommendations in the site review
report, the following standards will apply.
         (a)   Any cuts and/or fills greater than 50 cubic yards in Class B
lands must be designed by an engineer to comply with the Uniform Building Code,
being ORS 455.010 et seq. Such cuts and/or fills shall be designed in such a
manner that they will be stable for the use intended.
         (b)   All development which removes vegetation or disturbs topsoil and
which leaves the disturbed soil at a slope of 20% or more shall be replanted in
a manner to reestablished vegetation within a one-year period from issuance of
a certificate of occupancy.
         (c)   Any development that increases the natural runoff by decreasing
the infiltration of the soil shall conform to the following standards.
            1.   All roof drainage must be collected, controlled and directed
either by underground pipe or concrete asphalt gutter to a city street or storm
drain.
            2.   All drainage from driveways, parking areas and other
impervious surfaces must be collected and directed to a city street or storm
drain by underground pipe or concrete or asphalt gutter.
            3.   Other alternate methods of stormwater disposal, such as a
leach field, may be approved by the City Public Works Department.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.095 CERTIFICATION OF MITIGATION.
   Once the development is completed, the engineer or geologist who provided
the hazards report shall declare to the city that all recommended mitigating
measures were followed as stipulated in the site report.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.096 INSPECTION
   Nothing in this subchapter shall abridge the city’s right to inspect work in
progress or in its completed state, to make appropriate measurements and tests
to determine if the development was made according to plan and to require
alterations prior to final approval of the development.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
HISTORIC-CULTURAL (HC) OVERLAY ZONE
§ 153.110 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Historical Cultural (HC) Overlay Zone is to promote the
historic, educational, cultural, economic and general welfare of the public
through the preservation, restoration and protection of buildings, structures,
appurtenances, sites, places and elements of historic value to the city.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.111 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Within the HC Overlay it shall be the Planning Commission’s
responsibility to act as an architectural review board. The Planning Commission
through a Type III review shall review proposals to alter, move, renovate,
demolish or change a use of any site, structure or object that has local,
regional, statewide or national significance, as designated by the city’s
comprehensive plan or as otherwise designated by the City Council.
   (B)   Application shall be made to the Commission by the property owner for
the alteration, moving, renovation, demolition or change of use of any
historical site; and before any permit can be issued, the following process
shall occur.
      (1)   The applicant for a permit shall present information concerning the
proposed action to the Planning Commission, upon which the Commission shall
make findings and recommendations, which shall address the following:
         (a)   Whether historical significance will be substantially affected
by the proposed change;
         (b)   Whether financial or other hardship to the owner in preserving
the historical significance is outweighed by the public interest in preserving
historic values;
         (c)   Whether the site, structure or object will maintain its historic
significance;
         (d)   Whether the proposed action or change has any substantial
economic, social, environmental or energy consequences on public and private
interests involved; and
         (e)   Whether it has deteriorated or changed so as to become hazardous
to public health, safety or welfare.
      (2)   If, upon due consideration of divisions (B)(1)(a) through (B)(1)(e)
above, the Commission recommends preservation of the property, the Commission
shall determine whether there are alternative ways in which historic values may
be preserved. All permit review and approval actions, at the option of the
Commission, may be tabled for a period of up to 90 days during which time the
city will determine through a statewide public advertisement whether or not
there is public or private interest in purchasing the property with the intent
of rehabilitation, maintenance and protection of the property.
      (3)   If such interest is found, the Commission shall disapprove the
application for a permit.
      (4)   If negotiations end without a change of ownership or no public or
private interest in rehabilitating, maintaining or otherwise protecting the
property is found, a renewed application for a permit shall be considered by
the Commission without prejudice and the Commission shall approve, approve with
conditions or deny the permit application based on applicable code criteria,
including any state or federal regulations that apply.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
WETLAND PROTECTION (/WP) OVERLAY ZONE
§ 153.125 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Wetland Protection (/WP) Overlay Zone in the city is to
preserve and protect significant wetland areas. It is the policy of the city to
protect significant wetland areas within the city limits. Areas affected by
this overlay zone are those identified in the city’s comprehensive plan, Goal 5
resource inventory worksheets and reference in the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service National Wetland Inventory Map(s) filed with the County Planning
Department.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.126 LIMITATIONS ON USE.
   Development in significant wetlands is prohibited consistent with city
policy. All development proposals shall require a comprehensive plan amendment,
including a Goal 5 economic, social, environmental and energy assessment and
findings showing that the wetland is not significant and that the conflicting
use can be permitted.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012) Penalty, see §
153.999
ACCESS AND CIRCULATION
§ 153.140 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter contains standards for vehicular access and circulation and
pedestrian accessibility. Standards for street improvements are provided in §§
153.185 through
153.194.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.141 VEHICULAR ACCESS AND CIRCULATION.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. This section serves as the roadway access
management policy of the city until such time as the city adopts a
transportation system plan. It is intended to promote transportation safety and
adequate levels of transportation service.
   (B)   Applicability. This section applies to new development and changes in
land use necessitating new or expanded street access, including land divisions.
   (C)   Access permit required. Access to a public street (e.g., a new
driveway opening or highway approach) requires permit approval by the
applicable roadway authority (city, county or ODOT). The City Planning Official
reviews permit requests for access to city streets through a Type I procedure.
   (D)   Traffic study requirements. The applicable roadway authority in
reviewing a development proposal or permit request for street access may
require a traffic study prepared by a qualified professional to determine
applicable requirements. The scope of work for a traffic study shall be subject
to review and approval by the roadway authority. Where the roadway authority is
the county or ODOT, the city may defer to the roadway authority’s advice in
determining the need for, and required elements of, a traffic study.
   (E)   Conditions of approval. Where an existing or proposed driveway
approach does not meet a roadway authority’s standards, the roadway authority
may require the closing or consolidation of existing such access, recording of
reciprocal access easements (i.e., for shared driveways), development of a
frontage street, installation of traffic control devices and/or other
mitigation as a condition of granting development approval to ensure the safe
and efficient operation of the street and highway system.
   (F)   Driveway approaches. All driveway approaches (connections to a public
right-of-way) shall conform to all of the following design standards.
      (1)   Vehicle access onto higher classification streets (e.g., collector
and arterial streets) shall be minimized; where practicable, access shall be
taken first from a lower classification street.
      (2)   Driveways shall be designed and located to provide exiting vehicles
with an unobstructed view of oncoming vehicles and pedestrians.
      (3)   Construction of driveway accesses along acceleration or
deceleration lanes or tapered (reduced width) portions of a roadway should be
avoided due to the potential for vehicular conflicts.
      (4)   Driveways shall be located to allow for safe maneuvering in and
around loading areas.
      (5)   Driveway width and surfacing shall provide for required emergency
vehicle access and truck/trailer turning radius, as applicable.
      (6)   Driveways shall have a paved asphalt or concrete surface with
minimum dimensions and appropriate signage designating any restrictions on
access (e.g., one-way, exit-only and the like). The city may approve use of
gravel, crushed rock or a similar (durable) all-weather surface for driveways
in the OS and PF Zones.
      (7)   Where sidewalks or walkways occur adjacent to the roadway, driveway
aprons shall be constructed of concrete and shall be installed between the
street right-of-way and the private drive. The roadway authority may require
driveway aprons in areas without sidewalks or walkways, as needed, to protect
the adjacent roadway pavement.
      (8)   Where the Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101
et seq. compliant sidewalks exist, driveway aprons shall meet accessibility
requirements where they join such sidewalks.
      (9)   Where a drainage ditch crosses under a driveway, a culvert
extending under and beyond the edges of the driveway on both sides of the
driveway is required, pursuant to applicable design standards.
      (10)   Access locations and turning movements at driveway approaches may
be restricted to ensure traffic safety and operations.
      (11)   Access onto the state highway is subject to review and approval by
ODOT.
   (G)   Access spacing. Driveway approaches shall be setback from street
intersections in accordance with the clear vision requirements of division (K)
below and in accordance with the requirements of the applicable roadway
authority.
   (H)   Site circulation. New developments shall be required to provide a
circulation system that accommodates expected vehicular and pedestrian traffic
on the site.
   (I)   Fire access and turnarounds. Comply with the State Marshal’s Office,
as applicable.
   (J)   Vertical clearances. Driveways, private streets, aisles, turn-around
areas and ramps shall have a minimum vertical clearance of 13 feet and six
inches for their entire length and width.
   (K)   Vision clearance. No visual obstruction (e.g., sign, structure, solid
fence or shrub vegetation) between three feet and eight feet in height shall be
placed in “vision clearance areas” at street intersections. The minimum vision
clearance area may be modified by Planning Commission upon finding that more or
less sight distance is required (i.e., due to traffic speeds, roadway alignment
and the like). Light poles, utility poles, tree trunks (limbed up eight feet)
and similar objects may be allowed within a required clear vision area, subject
to standards of the applicable roadway authority.
   (L)   Exceptions and adjustments. The city may approve deviations to
driveway spacing on city streets where existing driveway spacing, or driveway-
intersection spacing, is substandard. The city may also approve reduced spacing
on city streets where mitigation measures, such as consolidating access (shared
driveways), limiting driveways to one-way or imposing turning restrictions
(e.g., right in/out only), provides for adequate sight distance, traffic
operations and safety.
   (M)   Joint use driveways. The number of driveway and street intersections
with OR 42 shall be minimized. When necessary for traffic safety and access
management purposes or to provide access to more than one lot, the city may
require joint use driveways. Joint use driveways (i.e., driveways providing
access to more than one lot) are appropriate for developments adjacent to one
another where access onto the street system limited. In such cases, driveways
shall be stubbed to property lines, allowing extension and joint use of
driveways with future development.
   (N)   Joint use access easement and maintenance agreement. Where the
Planning Commission authorizes a joint use driveway, the property owners shall
record an easement with the deed allowing joint use of, or cross access
between, adjacent properties served by the subject driveway. In addition, the
property owners shall record a joint maintenance agreement with the deed
defining maintenance responsibilities of property owners. The city shall not be
responsible for maintaining the driveway.
   (O)   Construction. Except for driveways serving individual single-family
dwellings, the following development and maintenance standards apply to all
driveways.
      (1)   Protection of public ways. During site development and
construction, driveways and access roads shall be graveled to prevent tracking
of mud onto any adjacent paved streets.
      (2)   Surface options. Driveways, parking areas, aisles and turnarounds
may be paved with asphalt, concrete or similar durable paving material to
prevent soil compaction and erosion. All paving materials shall be subject to
review and approval by the Public Works Director.
      (3)   Surface water management. New development and redevelopment that
increases impervious surface area shall provide for surface water management,
pursuant to §
153.189.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.142 PEDESTRIAN ACCESS AND CIRCULATION.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. This section implements the transportation
policies of the city. It is intended to provide for safe and convenient
pedestrian access and circulation in developments.
   (B)   Applicability. This section applies to developments requiring site
plan review.
   (C)   Site layout and design. To provide safe, direct and convenient
pedestrian circulation, developments shall contain pedestrian walkways as
follows.
      (1)   Continuous walkway system. The pedestrian walkway system shall
extend throughout the development site and connect to adjacent sidewalks, if
any, and all future phases of development, as applicable.
      (2)   Safe, direct and convenient. Walkways within developments shall
provide safe, reasonably direct and convenient connections between primary
building entrances and all adjacent parking areas, recreational areas/
playgrounds and public rights-of-way based on the following definitions.
         (a)   PRIMARY ENTRANCE. The main public entrance to the building. In
the case where no public entrance exists, street connections shall be provided
to the main employee entrance, as applicable.
         (b)   REASONABLY DIRECT. A route that does not deviate unnecessarily
from a straight line or a route that does not involve a significant amount of
out-of-direction travel.
         (c)   SAFE AND CONVENIENT. The route is reasonably free from hazards
and provides a reasonably smooth and consistent surface and direct route of
travel between destinations. The Planning Commission may require landscape
buffering between walkways and adjacent parking lots or driveways.
      (3)   Walkway construction. Walkway surfaces may be concrete, asphalt,
brick/masonry pavers or other city-approved durable surface and shall be at
least four feet in width. The city may require walkways six feet in width, or
wider, in commercial developments and in other developments where pedestrian
traffic warrants wider walkways.
      (4)   Accessible routes. Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), being 42
U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. accessible walkways may be required, per applicable
building codes.
   Figure
153.142 Pedestrian Access and Circulation Details
   (walkway subject to ADA requirements)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1291.jpg]
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
LANDSCAPING, FENCES AND WALLS, OUTDOOR LIGHTING
§ 153.155 PURPOSE.
   This section establishes standards for landscaping, fences, screening walls
and outdoor lighting. It is intended to protect public health and safety, while
maintaining compatibility with adjacent land uses and thereby protecting
property values.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1293.jpg]
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.156 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Section 153.157 establishes minimum landscape requirements. It applies
to new developments subject to site plan review.
   (B)   Section 153.158 applies when a fence or wall is to be erected,
extended or otherwise altered; it also applies in all situations where this
chapter requires screening or buffering (e.g., around outdoor or unenclosed
storage or uses).
   (C)   Section 153.159 applies to all new outdoor lighting.
   (D)   The Planning Commission may adjust the standards of this subchapter by
reducing the amount or changing the type of screening, buffering or lighting
required where it determines that the adjustment is consistent with the purpose
in §
153.155.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.157 LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING.
   (A)   Landscape area standard. Developments subject to site plan review
shall contain landscaping, which shall be equal to or greater than 10% of the
developed area of the site. Such landscaping shall consist of at least 50%
planted area and conform to the standards in division (B) below.
   (B)   Landscape standards.
      (1)   Myrtle trees. Credit toward meeting landscape area requirement
shall be given where one or more mature Myrtle tree(s) in good health is (are)
incorporated into a required landscape area and the proposed development plan
adequately protects said trees. In such cases, the Planning Commission may
award credit at a ratio of one to two; so that for every one square foot of
site area reserved for existing Myrtle trees (as measured under a tree’s drip
line), a credit of up to two square feet of required landscape area may be
awarded. Where credit is awarded, the Planning Commission may require the
property owner to record a tree conservation easement, which shall run with the
land.
      (2)   Commercial Core streetscape. For the purpose of this division (B)
(2), the Commercial Core is depicted in Figure 153.157(a) and includes parcels
fronting each side of Spruce Street. Streetscape standards within the Core are
as follows:
         (a)   Landscaping in the Commercial Core shall generally consist of
street trees and planter containers, window boxes and/or similar landscape
areas that complement the streetscape, do not obstruct pedestrians and are
easily maintained. See Figure 153.157(a).
         (b)   The street right-of-way shall provide for a 4-foot wide
pedestrian through zone, a four-foot wide amenity zone (trees lights, planters,
benches and the like), an eight-foot parking zone with sidewalk/curb extensions
at intersections and a 12-foot vehicle travel lanes on each side of the street.
   Figure
153.157(a) Commercial Core Area Boundary
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1295.jpg]
         (c)   The Planning Commission may grant credit toward meeting the 10%
landscape area requirement in division (A) above for projects within Commercial
Core where a pedestrian plaza is incorporated into the site plan. A pedestrian
plaza may consist of a widened sidewalk adjacent to a storefront (e.g., within
a private front yard) or a seating area/courtyard within a side or rear yard.
In such cases, the Planning Commission may award credit at a ratio of one to
two; so that for every one square foot of site area improved as a pedestrian
plaza (e.g., with pavers, plant containers and bench/seating), a credit of up
to two square foot may be awarded. Where credit is awarded, the Planning
Commission may require the property owner to record a public access easement
(e.g., plaza adjacent to a sidewalk), which shall run with the land.
   Figure
153.157(b) Commercial Core Area Streetscape Standards
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1297.jpg]
      (3)   Parking lot landscaping. Parking lots shall be landscaped as
follows. See also Figure 153.157(c).
         (a)   An area equal to 10% or more of the paved parking surface shall
be landscaped. Landscaping shall be distributed to provide a partial tree
canopy over parking area and to provide a buffer along the parking area
perimeter.
         (b)   The tree species shall be selected from those that are listed by
the Oregon State University extension service, or other credible reference, and
which are deemed suitable for the local climate. Such trees shall not be listed
as noxious or invasive species and shall not conflict overhead utilities (See
Pacific Power guidelines), not cause damage to pavement or underground
utilities, and not bear fruit or seeds that would damage property or create a
hazard.
         (c)   Trees shall be planted at least two feet from any curb or paved
area. Where trees are planted in sidewalk tree wells, root barriers shall be
installed with the trees.
         (d)   The landscaped area shall be planted with shrubs, grass or
living groundcover to assure 90% coverage within two years.
         (e)   The portion of a required landscaped yard, buffer strip or
screening strip abutting parking stalls, when planted in accordance with the
requirements of this section, may be counted toward required parking lot
landscaping.
         (f)   Parking lot landscaping shall be protected from damage by a
secured wheel guards to prevent vehicles entering into landscaped areas.
   Figure
153.157(c) Parking Lot Landscaping
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1299.jpg]
      (4)   Plant selection. New development shall contain a combination of
evergreen and deciduous trees, shrubs and ground cover plants, the selection of
which shall be based on all of the following criteria.
         (a)   Only plants that are appropriate to the local climate, exposure
and water availability. The presence of utilities and drainage conditions shall
also be considered. The city may rely on the Oregon State University extension
service bulletins, Pacific Power tree planting guides and similar sources in
evaluating landscape plans.
         (b)   Trees shall be no less than two-inch caliper for street trees
and one and one-half inch caliper for other trees at the time of planting.
Trees to be planted under or near power lines shall be selected so as to not
conflict with power lines at maturity.
         (c)   Shrubs shall be planted from two-gallon containers, minimum, and
shall be spaced in order to provide the intended canopy cover within two years
of planting; larger containers may be required where the purpose of the shrubs
is to provide screening.
         (d)   Where practical, use plants that are indigenous to the local
area and that are suited to developed areas; for example, where practical,
existing mature Myrtle trees that are in good health should be retained with
development.
         (e)   Selected plants shall have root and canopy growth
characteristics that avoid conflicts with utilities.
         (f)   Natural vegetation shall be retained where practical, provided
it does not conflict with clear vision requirements and utilities.
         (g)   Landscape materials shall be used to screen pedestrian walkways
and from vehicle circulation and parking areas; plants shall not obstruct
pedestrian ways.
         (h)   Landscape plans shall provide focal points within a development,
for example, by preserving large or unique trees or groves or by using
flowering plants or trees with fall color.
         (i)   Deciduous trees should be used where summer shade and winter
sunlight is desirable.
         (j)   Landscape plans shall use a combination of plants for year-long
color and interest.
         (k)   Where applicable, denser concentrations of landscaping shall be
used to screen outdoor storage and mechanical equipment areas and to stabilize
graded areas such as cuts and fills, berms, swales and stormwater retention
areas.
         (l)   When new vegetation is planted, soils shall be amended and
irrigation provided, as necessary, until the plants are able to grow on their
own.
   (C)   Screening requirements. Screening is required for outdoor storage
areas, unenclosed uses and parking lots and may be required in other situations
as determined by the Planning Commission through site plan review. Landscaping
shall be provided pursuant to the following standards and as generally
illustrated in Figure 153.157(d).
      (1)   Outdoor storage and unenclosed uses.
         (a)   All areas of a site containing or proposed to contain outdoor
storage of goods, materials, equipment and vehicles (other than required
parking lots and service and delivery areas, per site plan review), and areas
containing junk, salvage materials or similar contents, shall be screened from
view from adjacent rights-of-way and residential uses by a sight-obscuring
fence, wall, landscape screen or combination of screening methods.
         (b)   See also §
153.158 for related fence and wall standards.
      (2)   Parking lots.
         (a)   The edges of parking lots shall be screened to minimize vehicle
headlights shining into adjacent rights-of-way and residential yards.
         (b)   Parking lots abutting sidewalk or walkway shall be screened
using a low-growing hedge or low garden wall; provided, that such screening
shall not exceed four feet in height.
      (3)   Other uses where requiring screening. The Planning Commission may
require screening in other locations where it determines it is in the public
interest.
   Figure 153.157(d) Screening of Outdoor Storage and Unenclosed Uses
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7b91dae34bbd024fd9ca00228f700bb39b6294ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1301.jpg]
   (D)   Maintenance. For public health and safety, screening shall be
maintained in good condition, or otherwise replaced by the property owner.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.158 FENCES AND WALLS.
   (A)   Height.
      (1)   Residential uses. Fences and freestanding walls (i.e., exclusive of
building walls) for residential uses shall not exceed the following height
above grade, where grade is measured from the base of the subject fence or
wall:
         (a)   Within front or street-side yard setback: four feet; except the
following additional height is allowed.
            1.   A fence may be constructed to a maximum height of six feet
where the fence is of open chain link or other “see-through” composition that
allows 90% light transmission.
            2.   One incidental garden structures (e.g., arbor or gate) not
exceeding eight feet in height and six feet in width is allowed within a front
or street-facing yard provided it does not encroach into a required clear
vision area.
         (b)   Within an interior side or rear yard setback: six feet,
provided, however, the fence or wall height, as applicable, shall not exceed
the distance from the fence/wall line to the nearest primary structure on an
adjacent property.
      (2)   Nonresidential uses. Fences and freestanding walls (i.e., exclusive
of building walls) for nonresidential uses shall not exceed the following
height above grade, where grade is measured from the base of the subject fence
or wall:
         (a)   Within front or street-side yard setback: four feet, except the
following additional height is allowed for properties not located within the
Commercial Core Area, as illustrated by Figure 153.157(a).
            1.   A fence or wall may be constructed to a maximum height of six
feet where the fence is setback behind the front/street side property line
behind a five-foot landscape buffer.
            2.   A fence or wall may be constructed to a maximum height of
eight feet where the fence is setback behind the front/street side property
line behind a ten-foot landscape buffer.
            3.   Where approved by the Planning Commission, a fence constructed
of open chain link or other “see-through” composition that allows 90% light
transmission may reach a height of up to eight feet.
         (b)   Within an interior side or rear yard setback: eight feet,
provided, however, the fence or wall height, as applicable, shall not exceed
the distance from the fence/wall line to the nearest primary structure on an
adjacent property.
      (3)   All zones. Fences and walls shall comply with the vision clearance
standards of §
153.141(K). The allowable height of a fence or wall may be restricted to less
than the dimensions under division (A)(2) above to maintain required sight
distance at a street intersection or driveway approach.
   (B)   Materials.
      (1)   Permitted fence and wall materials include weather-treated wood;
untreated cedar and redwood; metal (e.g., chain link, wrought iron and similar
fences); bricks, stone, masonry block, formed-in-place concrete or similar
masonry; vinyl and composite (e.g., recycled) materials designed for use as
fencing; and similar materials as determined by the Planning Commission. In
addition, evergreen hedges may be considered screening walls for the purpose of
this subchapter, subject to Planning Commission approval.
      (2)   Prohibited fence and wall materials include: straw bales, tarps,
barbed or razor wire (except in Heavy Industrial Zone); scrap lumber, untreated
wood (except cedar or redwood), corrugated metal, sheet metal and scrap
materials; dead, diseased or dying plants; and materials similar to those
listed herein.
   (C)   Permitting. Projects subject to site plan review are required to
include information on proposed fences and walls, if any, and a building permit
may be required for certain fences and walls, per applicable building codes.
   (D)   Maintenance. For public health and safety, walls and fences shall be
maintained in good condition or otherwise removed or replaced by the property
owner.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.159 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   General requirements. This section is intended to provide adequate
levels of outdoor lighting while minimizing negative impacts of light
pollution.
   (B)   Applicability. All outdoor lighting shall comply with the standards of
this section. The Planning Commission may require installation of lighting, or
limit certain types of lighting, as a condition of land use or development
approval for security purposes or to maintain privacy and compatibility between
different land uses.
   (C)   Standards.
      (1)   Light poles shall not exceed a height of 20 feet. This limitation
does not apply to flag poles and streetlights.
      (2)   Except as provided for up-lighting of flags and permitted building-
mounted signs, all outdoor light fixtures shall be directed downward to
preserve the night sky (celestial views).
      (3)   Lighting shall be shielded to minimize light spillover onto
adjacent properties.
      (4)   Lighting shall be installed where it will not obstruct public ways,
driveways or walkways.
      (5)   Lighting placed over a sidewalk or walkway shall maintain a minimum
vertical clearance of eight feet and an unobstructed width (pedestrian through
zone) of at least 36 inches.
   (D)   Adjustments. The Planning Commission, through site plan review, may
approve adjustments to the above standards. In approving an adjustment, the
Planning Commission must find that the proposed lighting is necessary for
security and does not unduly impact adjacent residential uses or pose a hazard
to public health or safety.
   (E)   Permitting. A building permit may be required for certain electrical
connections, per applicable building codes.
   (F)   Maintenance. For public health and safety, outdoor lighting shall be
maintained in good condition or otherwise replaced by the property owner.
   (G)   Materials and installation. Lighting shall consist of materials
approved for outdoor use and shall be installed according to the manufacturer’s
specifications.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
PARKING AND LOADING
§ 153.170 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter provides basic and flexible standards for parking. This is
particularly important in the city where commercial blocks are relatively short
and building parcels small. Therefore, parking facilities must be sized and
designed properly to ensure they operate safely and do not create hazards to
drivers or pedestrians.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.171 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter applies to new development and changes in use from a less
intensive use (less parking demand) to a more intensive use (more parking
demand). The requirements of this subchapter are applied through site plan
review. Where a proposed development or change in use does not necessitate
additional parking and does not modify an existing parking area, this
subchapter does not apply.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.172 AUTOMOBILE PARKING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Vehicle parking; minimum standards by use. The minimum number of
required off-street vehicle parking spaces shall be determined in accordance
with one of the following procedures:
      (1)   Pursuant to the standards in Table 153.172;
      (2)   Pursuant to a parking demand analysis prepared by a qualified
professional and subject to review and approval by the Planning Commission.
Such demand analysis must consider average parking demands for existing and
proposed uses on the subject site, opportunities for shared parking (parking
agreement) with other uses in the vicinity, existing public parking in the
vicinity and potential carpool or private shuttle usage; or
      (3)   Where a use is not specifically listed in Table 153.172, parking
requirements shall be determined by finding that a use is similar to one of
those listed in Table 153.172 in terms of parking demand, or by estimating
parking needs individually using the demand analysis option described in
division (A)(2) above.
   (B)   Exception for Commercial Core. There is no minimum number of required
off-street parking spaces for uses within the Commercial Core, as defined in §
153.157(B)(1). The Planning Commission may permit such uses to expand without
adding parking, upon finding that the expansion does not unduly impact an
adjacent residential use or pose a hazard to public health or safety.
   (C)   Exception for existing uses. There is no minimum number of required
off-street parking spaces for existing uses lawfully established as of February
3, 2012. The Planning Commission may permit such uses to expand without adding
parking, upon finding that the expansion does not unduly impact an adjacent
residential use or pose a hazard to public health or safety.
Table 153.172 - Minimum Required Parking by Use
Use Categories (Examples of uses and Minimum Parking per Land Use (fractions
definitions are in Chapter 5.)       rounded down to the closest whole number)
Table 153.172 - Minimum Required Parking by Use
Use Categories
(Examples of
uses and       Minimum Parking per Land Use (fractions rounded down to the closest whole
definitions    number)
are in Chapter
5.)
Commercial Categories
Bed and        2 spaces per use; additional parking may be required by the city through the
breakfast inn  conditional use permit review (§§ 153.265 through 153.268)
Drive-up/
drive-in/
drive-through  No requirement. See special use requirements in §§
(drive-up      153.021 through
windows,       153.023
kiosks, ATMs,
similar uses/
facilities)
Educational
services, not
a school
(e.g.,         1 space per 400 sq. ft. floor area
tutoring or
similar
services)
Entertainment, Per conditional use permit review (§§ 153.265 through 153.268)
major event
Hospitals      1 space per 2 beds
Hotels, motels
and similar    1 spaces for every 2 guest rooms
uses
Mortuary       1 space per 150 floor space
Offices,
including      1 space per 400 sq. ft. floor area
banks
Outdoor
recreation,    per conditional use permit review (§§ 153.265 through 153.268)
commercial
Quick vehicle  2 spaces plus vehicle queuing space, or per conditional use permit review (§§
servicing or   153.265 through 153.268)
vehicle repair
Retail sales   Health clubs, gyms, continuous entertainment (e.g., bowling alleys): 1 space
and commercial per 300 sq. ft.
service (see   Restaurants and bars: 1 space per 300 sq. ft. floor area
also drive-up  Retail: 1 space per 500 sq. ft. floor area
uses)          Theaters and cinemas: 1 per 6 seats
Self-service   2 spaces, plus adequate space for loading/unloading
storage
Surface
parking lot,
when not       per conditional use permit review (§§ 153.265 through 153.268)
accessory to a
permitted use
Industrial Categories
Industrial     1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of floor area
service
Manufacturing  1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of floor area; or as required by conditional use
and production permit review (§§ 153.265 through 153.268)
Industrial Categories
Warehouse and  0.5 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of floor area; or as required by conditional use
freight        permit review (§§ 153.265 through 153.268)
movement
Waste-related  As required by conditional use permit review (§§ 153.265 through 153.268)
Wholesale
sales, e.g.,
building
materials,
heavy
equipment,     1 space per 1,000 sq. ft.
agricultural
supplies or
products and
similar
wholesale
goods
Institutional Categories
Basic          Parking based on applicant’s projected parking demand, subject to city approval
utilities
Community
service,
including      Parking based on applicant’s projected parking demand, subject to city approval
government
offices and
services
Daycare, adult
or child
daycare        1 space per employee
including
family daycare
Parks and open Parking based on projected parking demand
space
Religious
institutions   1 space per 75 sq. ft. of main assembly area; or as required by conditional use
and houses of  permit (§§ 153.265 through 153.268)
worship
Schools        Parking based on projected parking demand, subject to city approval
Other Categories
Accessory uses
(with a        Parking based on applicant’s projected parking demand, subject to city approval
permitted use)
Agriculture,
including, but
not limited    See retail sales and wholesale, as applicable
to, nurseries
and similar
horticulture
Radio
frequency      None, except as required by conditional use permit (§§ 153.265 through 153.268)
transmission
facilities
Temporary uses Parking based on applicant’s projected parking demand, subject to city approval
Transportation
facilities
(operation,    None, except for park-and-ride facilities; and where temporary parking is
maintenance,   required for construction staging areas
preservation
and
construction)
Residential Categories
Household living
Accessory
dwelling
(second        2 spaces total for primary dwelling and accessory dwelling
dwelling on a
single-family
lot)
Duplex         4 spaces per duplex (2 spaces per dwelling unit)
Group living,
such as
nursing or
convalescent
homes, rest
homes,         0.5 space per 4 bedrooms, except the Planning Commission may require more or
assisted       less parking based on the presence of on-street parking and/or the expectation
living,        that residents drive, or where owner provides shuttle service for residents
congregate
care and
similar
special needs
housing
               1 space per studio or 1-bedroom unit
Multi-family   1.5 spaces/unit per 2-bedroom unit
               2 spaces/unit per 3-bedroom or larger unit
Single-family
dwelling,
including      2 spaces per dwelling
manufactured
homes on lots
 
   (D)   General parking standards.
      (1)   Location. Motorized vehicle parking is allowed only on streets with
an improved paved shoulder of sufficient width, within garages, carports and
other structures, or on driveways or parking lots that have been developed in
conformance with this chapter. The special use standards in §§
153.021 through
153.023 control the location of parking for some uses, and §§
153.140 through
153.142 provides design standards for new driveways and pedestrian walkways
through parking areas.
      (2)   Mixed-use projects. If more than one type of land use occupies a
single structure or parcel of land, the total requirements for off-street
automobile parking shall be the sum of the requirements for all uses, unless it
can be shown that the peak parking demands are actually less (i.e., the uses
operate on different days or at different times of the day). The Planning
Commission may adjust the total parking standard for mixed-use projects
pursuant to the parking demand analysis procedure in division (A) above.
      (3)   Parking area lighting. Lighting at levels appropriate for
pedestrian safety shall be provided over parking areas and walkways. Light
standards shall be directed downward only and shielded to prevent lighting
spillover into any adjacent residential district or use. See also §
153.159.
      (4)   Screening of parking areas. Parking spaces shall be located or
screened so that headlights do not shine onto adjacent residential uses. See
also §§
153.157 and
153.158.
      (5)   Accessibility. Parking shall be provided for those disabilities in
accordance with applicable building codes (the Americans with Disabilities Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.) requirements.
      (6)   Maintenance. All parking lots shall be maintained by the property
owner and kept in good condition and repair.
   (E)   Shared parking. Required parking facilities for two or more uses,
structures or parcels of land may be satisfied by the same parking facilities
used jointly, to the extent that the owners or operators show that the need for
parking facilities does not materially overlap (e.g., uses primarily of a
daytime versus nighttime nature; weekday uses versus weekend uses) and provided
that the right of joint use is evidenced by a recorded deed, lease, contract or
similar written instrument establishing the joint use. Shared parking requests
shall be subject to review and approval through site plan review.
   (F)   Off-site parking. Except for single-family dwellings, the vehicle
parking spaces required by this subchapter may be located on another parcel of
land, provided the parcel is within 400 feet of the use it serves and the
Planning Commission has approved the off-site parking through site plan review.
The distance from the parking area to the use shall be measured from the
nearest parking space to a building entrance, following a sidewalk or other
pedestrian route. The right to use the off-site parking must be evidenced by a
recorded deed, lease, easement or similar written instrument.
   (G)   Parking stall design and minimum dimensions. Where a new off-street
parking area is proposed, or an existing off-street parking areas is proposed
for expansion, the entire parking area shall be improved in conformance with
this chapter. At a minimum the parking spaces and drive aisles shall be paved
with asphalt, concrete or a city-approved material allowing for stormwater
infiltration (e.g., pavers, porous concrete, grass concrete blocks and the
like); provided, that the Americans With Disabilities Act requirements are met.
Parking areas shall generally conform to the minimum dimensions in Figure
153.172 and Table 153.172. All off-street parking areas shall contain wheel
stops, perimeter curbing, bollards or other edging as required to prevent
vehicles from damaging buildings or encroaching into walkways, landscapes or
the public right-of-way. Parking areas shall also provide for surface water
management, pursuant to §
153.189.
   (H)   Exceptions and adjustments to parking area dimensions. The dimensions
in division (F) above are minimum standards. The Planning Commission may adjust
the dimensions through site plan review based on evidence that a particular use
will generate vehicles that require more or less maneuvering area.
   Figure 153.172 - Parking Area Minimum Dimensions
[IMAGE]
 
Table 153.172 - Parking Area Minimum Dimensions*
         Parking         Stall Depth   Aisle Width     Bay Width
         Angle    Curb   Single Double One-Way Two-Way One-Way Two-Way Stripe
         (degrees Length D1     D2     A1      A2      B1      B2      Length
         )
         *See also §§
Standard 153.035 through
space    153.046 for parking location requirements related to multi-family and
         commercial land uses; §§
         153.140 through
         153.142 for driveway standards; and §§
         153.155 through
         153.159 for requirements related to landscaping, screening, fences,
         walls and outdoor lighting.
 
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.173 BICYCLE PARKING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards. New and expanded uses subject to site plan review shall
provide bicycle parking spaces as follows.
Table 153.173 Minimum Required Bicycle Parking Spaces
Use Required # of Spaces
Table 153.173 Minimum Required Bicycle Parking Spaces
Use                                      Required # of Spaces
Commercial (not required for parcels     2 bicycle spaces per primary use or 1
with less than 1,000 square feet of      per 10 vehicle spaces, whichever is
commercial or office space)              greater
Community service                        2 spaces, or as required by city
                                         2 bicycle spaces per primary use or 1
Industrial                               per 10 vehicle spaces, whichever is
                                         greater
Institutional uses and places of worship 2 bicycle spaces per 10 vehicle spaces
Multi-family residential (not required
for parcels with fewer than 4 dwelling   2 bicycle spaces per 4 dwelling units
units)
                                         2 bicycle spaces per primary use or 1
Other uses                               per 10 vehicle spaces, whichever is
                                         greater
Parks (active recreation areas only)     4, or as required by city
Schools                                  2 bicycle spaces per classroom
 
   (B)   Design. Bicycle parking shall consist of steel racks designed
specifically for bicycle storage, or other sturdy structures that provide a
safe and secure means of storing a bicycle and do not obstruct pedestrian or
vehicle circulation.
   (C)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to single-family and duplex
housing, home occupations and agricultural uses. The Planning Commission may
exempt other uses upon finding that, due to the nature of the use or its
location, it is unlikely to have any patrons or employees arriving by bicycle.
   (D)   Hazards. Bicycle parking shall not impede or create a hazard to
pedestrians or vehicles. Parking areas shall be located so as to not conflict
with vision clearance standards (see §§ 153.140 through 153.142).
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.174 LOADING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide adequate loading
areas for commercial and industrial uses that do not interfere with the
operation of adjacent streets and OR 42.
   (B)   Applicability. This section applies to new development and changes in
use approved on or after February 3, 2012, where such uses are expected to have
visits by service or delivery trucks on a regular basis.
   (C)   Standard. Planning Commission shall determine the need for off-street
loading spaces, if any, based on information presented in the applicant’s site
plan review application. At a minimum, when an off-street loading space is
required, it shall be large enough to accommodate the largest vehicle that is
expected to serve the use without obstructing vehicles or pedestrian traffic on
adjacent streets and driveways. OR 42 shall not be obstructed and the Planning
Commission may restrict the use of other public rights-of-way, so applicants
are advised to provide complete and accurate information about the potential
need for loading spaces.
   (D)   Placement, setbacks and landscaping. Loading areas shall conform to
the commercial development standards of §
153.042 and the access and screening requirements of §§
153.140 through
153.142 and 153.155 through 153.159. Where parking areas are prohibited between
a building and the street, loading areas are also prohibited.
   (E)   Exceptions and adjustments. The Planning Commission may approve a
loading area adjacent to or within a street right-of-way through site plan
review only where it finds that loading and unloading operations are short in
duration (i.e., less than one hour), infrequent, do not obstruct traffic during
peak traffic hours, do not interfere with emergency response services and are
acceptable to the applicable roadway authority (i.e., if different than the
city).
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
PUBLIC FACILITIES
§ 153.185 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Purpose. This subchapter provides standards for public infrastructure
and utilities installed with new development, consistent with the policies of
the city’s comprehensive plan and adopted city master plans.
   (B)   Applicability. This subchapter applies to all new development,
including projects subject to land division (subdivision or partition) approval
and developments subject to site plan review where public facility improvements
are required. All public facility improvements within the city shall occur in
accordance with the standards and procedures of this subchapter. When a
question arises as to the intent or application of any standard, the Planning
Commission shall interpret the code pursuant to §
153.005.
   (C)   Public works infrastructure design standards. All public facility
improvements shall conform to the city’s Public Infrastructure Design Standards
Manual (Manual). Where a conflict occurs between this chapter and the Manual,
the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
   (D)   Public improvement requirement. No building permit may be issued until
all required public facility improvements are in place and approved by the
Public Works Director, or otherwise bonded, in conformance with the provisions
of this chapter and the Public Infrastructure Design Standards Manual.
Improvements required as a condition of development approval, when not
voluntarily provided by the applicant, shall be roughly proportional to the
impact of the development on public facilities. Findings in the development
approval shall indicate how the required improvements directly related to and
are roughly proportional to the impact of development.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.186 TRANSPORTATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   No development shall be approved unless adequate transportation
facilities are available or such improvements will be constructed and
operational, as required by this chapter and the city’s transportation system
plan.
      (2)   Development resulting in increased traffic on OR 42 shall meet the
traffic operations standards per the current state highway plan.
      (3)   All new driveway approaches (access to a public street) shall
conform to §§
153.140 through
153.142.
   (B)   Street location alignment and grades.
      (1)   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
planned system of thoroughfares and rights-of-way. Specific street location and
alignment shall be determined in relation to existing and planned streets,
topographic conditions, public convenience and safety, and in appropriate
relation to the proposed use of the land to be served by such streets.
      (2)   Grades of streets shall conform as closely as possible to the
original topography. New streets or street extensions exceeding a grade of 15%
over a distance more than 200 feet are discouraged. Where such grades are
unavoidable, the Planning Commission may require a secondary access to the
subdivision, installation of fire protection sprinkler systems in dwellings
and/or other mitigation to protect public health and safety.
      (3)   Where the location of a street is not shown on an adopted city
street plan, the location of streets in a development shall provide for the
reasonable continuation and connection of existing streets to adjacent
developable properties, conforming to the standards of this chapter.
      (4)   All streets that stub into a development site shall be extended
with development, unless prevented by environmental or topographical
constraints, existing development patterns or compliance with other standards
in this chapter. In such situations, the applicant must provide evidence that
the environmental or topographic constraint precludes reasonable street
connection.
      (5)   Proposed streets or street extensions shall be located to allow
continuity in street alignments and to facilitate future development of vacant
or re-developable lands.
      (6)   In order to promote efficient vehicular and pedestrian circulation
throughout the city, interconnected streets shall be required pursuant with
this chapter.
   (C)   Minimum rights-of-way and street sections. In order to provide for
streets of suitable location, width and design to accommodate expected vehicle,
pedestrian and bicycle traffic; to afford satisfactory access to law
enforcement, fire protection, sanitation and road maintenance equipment; and to
provide a convenient and accessible network of streets, avoiding undue
hardships to adjoining properties, the following street design standards apply.
Where a range of street width or improvement options is indicated, the Planning
Commission shall determine requirement based on the advice of a qualified
professional and the following factors:
      (1)   Operational safety of the street system for motor vehicles,
pedestrians and bicycles;
      (2)   Level of service standards of the applicable roadway authority;
      (3)   Provision of on-street parking;
      (4)   Placement of utilities;
      (5)   Street lighting;
      (6)   Slope stability and erosion control (minimize cuts and fills);
      (7)   Storm drainage;
      (8)   Emergency vehicles/apparatus and emergency evacuation;
      (9)   Traffic calming (slow traffic in residential areas);
      (10)   Appropriate transitions between varying street widths (i.e.,
existing streets and new streets); and
      (11)   Other factors related to public health, safety and welfare.
Table 153.186 Minimum Street, Sidewalk and Bikeway Standards*
Classification Paved Right-of- Travel Bike  On-Street Shoulders  Sidewalks/
               Width Way Width Lanes  Lanes Parking   (per side) Planters
Table 153.186 Minimum Street, Sidewalk and Bikeway Standards*
               Paved    Right-   Travel   Bike   On-Street Shoulders Sidewalks/
Classification Width    of- Way  Lanes    Lanes  Parking   (per      Planters
                        Width                              side)
Alley          15 ft.   20 ft.   15 ft.   None   None      Paved     Not
                                                                     Applicable
                        50 ft.-
               20 ft.   60 ft.                             Gutter or 5 ft. SW /
Collector -    or 28    Slope    10 ft.   Shared None or   gravel    swale* one
hillside       ft.      easement (x2)            one side  and       side
                        may be                             swale*
                        required
                                                                     6 ft. SW
                                                                     both sides
Collector      40 ft. - 60 ft.   12 ft.   5 ft.  Optional  Paved-    (park
               50 ft.            (x2)     (x2)             gutt er   strip or
                                                                     tree well
                                                                     optional)
                                                 Parallel            8 ft. both
Commercial     40 ft.   56 ft.   12 ft.   Shared both      Paved-    sides
Code                             (x2)            sides     gutt er   See Fig.
                                                                     153.157(A)
               Maximum length of 400 feet and serving not more than 18 single-
               family dwellings. Minimum cul-de-sac turnaround radius: 50-feet
Cul-de-sac     for right-of-way and 40-feet for roadway. Sidewalk required on
               cul-de-sac street but not on cul-de-sac turnaround. See also §
               153.186(H)
                        50 ft.                             Gutter or
Local -        20 ft. - slope    14 ft. -        None or   gravel    5 ft. SW /
hillside       28 ft.   easement 16 ft.   Shared one side  and       swale* one
                        may be                             swale*    side
                        required
                                                 Parallel            5 ft. SW /
Local          32 ft.   50 ft.   14 ft.-  Shared both      Paved-    3-4 ft.
                                 16 ft.          sides     gutt er   Planter
                                                                     Both Sides
                                                                     6 ft. SW
                                                                     both sides
OR 42          Highway design is subject to the state highway plan.  (park
                                                                     strip or
                                                                     tree well
                                                                     optional)
 
   (D)   Intersections and block length. The following standards apply to the
creation of new streets and situations where a street is extended to serve
development.
      (1)   Intersections. Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as
nearly as possible at right angles. Street intersections shall have a minimum
intersection angle of 75 degrees. All legs of an intersection shall meet the
above standard for at least 100 feet back from the point of intersection. No
more than two streets shall intersect at any one point. Street jogs and
intersection offsets of less than 125 feet are not permitted. Intersections
shall be designed to facilitate stormwater runoff into city approved stormwater
facilities.
      (2)   Block length. The block length (distance between street
intersections) in new residential subdivisions shall generally be not less than
200 feet and not more than 600 feet. The Planning Commission may adjust this
standard upon finding that topographic or other physical barriers require
longer blocks. Where the city permits subdivisions with blocks longer than 600
feet, the development design shall incorporate public access ways (walkways)
breaking up longer blocks and connecting streets at regular intervals pursuant
to division (D)(3) below.
      (3)   Access ways. The Planning Commission may also require developers to
provide an access way where the creation of a cul-de-sac or dead-end street is
unavoidable and the access way connects the ends of the street to another
street or public access way. Where an access way is required, it shall be not
less than ten feet wide and shall contain a minimum six-foot wide paved surface
approved by the Planning Commission. Access ways shall be contained within a
public right-of-way or public access easement, as required by the Planning
Commission.
   (E)   Extension of streets and bikeways.
      (1)   Connectivity to adjoining lands.
         (a)   The street system of proposed subdivisions shall be designed to
connect with existing, proposed and planned streets outside of the subdivision.
Where a proposed development abuts unplatted land or a future phase of a
development, street stubs shall be provided to allow for the logical extension
of the street system into the adjacent area.
         (b)   All street stubs shall be provided with a temporary turn-around
unless specifically exempted by the State Fire Marshal’s Office, and the
restoration and extension of the street shall be the responsibility of any
future developer of the abutting land.
      (2)   Future street plan. Where a subdivision is proposed adjacent to
other developable land, a future street plan shall be filed by the applicant in
conjunction with an application for a subdivision in order to facilitate
orderly development of the street system. The plan shall show the pattern of
existing and proposed future streets from the boundaries of the proposed land
division and shall include other divisible parcels within 600 feet surrounding
and adjacent to the proposed subdivision. The street plan is not binding;
rather, it is intended to show potential future street extensions with future
development and ensure that the proposed development does not preclude future
street connections to adjacent development land.
      (3)   Temporary street ends. Streets shall be extended to the boundary
lines of the parcel or tract to be developed when the city determines that the
extension is necessary to give street access to, or permit a satisfactory
future division of, adjoining land. Street ends shall contain turnarounds
constructed to the State Fire Marshal’s Office standards (for streets over 150
feet in length) and be designed to facilitate future extension in terms of
grading, width and temporary barricades.
      (4)   Half streets. Half street improvements are not permitted, except
that the city may accept a temporary half-street improvement where the
subdivider dedicates a right-of-way for a full street and provides a financial
guarantee for the remainder of the street improvement, pursuant to the
performance bond provisions of §§
153.245 through
153.254.
   (F)   Engineering design standards. Street design shall conform to the
standards of the applicable roadway authority; for city streets, that is the
Public Infrastructure Design Standards Manual. Where a conflict occurs between
this chapter and the Public Infrastructure Design Standards Manual, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern.
   (G)   Substandard existing right-of-way. Where an existing right-of-way
adjacent to a proposed development is less than the standard width, the
Planning Commission may require the dedication of additional rights-of-way at
the time of subdivision, partition or site plan review, pursuant to the
standards in Table 153.186.
   (H)   Cul-de-sacs. Streets shall be planned to continue to and through
abutting properties, consistent with this section. A cul-de-sac street shall
only be used when environmental or topographical constraints, existing
development patterns or compliance with other standards in this code preclude
street extension and through circulation. For example, the Planning Commission
may approve a cul-de-sac where a future street extension is infeasible. When a
cul-de-sac is allowed, all of the following provisions shall be met.
      (1)   The cul-de-sac shall not exceed a length of 400 feet, except where
the decision-making body determines that topographic or other physical
constraints of the site require a longer cul-de-sac; the length of the cul-de-
sac shall be measured along the centerline of the roadway from the near side of
the intersecting street to the farthest point of the cul-de-sac.
      (2)   The cul-de-sac shall terminate with a circular or hammer-head
turnaround meeting the State Fire Marshal’s Office requirements and the
standards of Table 153.186.
      (3)   The cul-de-sac shall provide, or not preclude the opportunity to
later install, a pedestrian and bicycle access way between it and adjacent
developable lands. Such access ways shall conform to division (D)(3) above.
   (I)   Private streets and gated streets. Private streets, including gated
drives serving more than two dwellings (i.e., where a gate limits access to a
development from a public street), are not permitted.
   (J)   Street names. No new street name shall be used which will duplicate or
be confused with the names of existing streets in the city or vicinity.
   (K)   Survey monuments. Upon completion of a street improvement and prior to
acceptance by the city, it shall be the responsibility of the developer’s
registered professional land surveyor to provide certification to the city that
all boundary and interior monuments have been reestablished and protected.
   (L)   Street signs. The city, county or state with jurisdiction shall
install all signs for traffic control and street names. The cost of signs
required for new development shall be the responsibility of the developer.
Street name signs shall be installed at all street intersections. Stop signs
and other signs may be required.
   (M)   Streetlight standards. Streetlights shall conform to the city’s Public
Infrastructure Design Standards Manual.
   (N)   Street cross-sections. The final lift of asphalt or concrete pavement
shall be placed on all newly constructed public roadways prior to final city
acceptance of the roadway unless otherwise approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.187 PUBLIC USE AREAS.
   (A)   Whereas new subdivisions are required to reserve open space in
accordance with §§
153.245 through
153.254, the Planning Commission may accept such public use areas as part of
the city’s system of parks and recreation areas.
   (B)   Where a proposed open space, park, playground or other public use
shown in a plan adopted by the city is located in whole or in part in a
subdivision, the city may require the public dedication or reservation of the
subject site on the final plat for the subdivision if, and only if, the impact
of the development on the city park system is roughly proportionate to the
dedication or reservation being made. (See also §§ 153.245 through 153.254.)
   (C)   The city may purchase or accept voluntary dedication or reservation of
areas within the subdivision that are suitable for the development of parks and
other public uses; however, the city is under no obligation to accept such
areas offered for dedication or sale.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.188 SANITARY SEWER AND WATER SERVICE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Sewers and water mains required.
      (1)   All new development is required to connect to city water and
sanitary sewer systems. Sanitary sewers and water mains shall be installed to
serve each new development and to connect developments to existing mains in
accordance with the city’s sanitary sewer master plan, water system master plan
and applicable engineering requirements.
      (2)   When streets are required to be stubbed to the edge of the
subdivision, sewer and water system improvements shall also be stubbed with the
streets, except as may be waived by the Planning Commission when alternate
alignment(s) are provided.
   (B)   Sewer and water plan approval. Development permits for sewer and water
improvements shall not be issued until the Planning Commission has approved all
sanitary sewer and water plans in conformance with city standards.
   (C)   Over-sizing. The city may require as a condition of development
approval that sewer and water lines serving new development be sized to
accommodate future development within the area as projected by the applicable
water and sewer master plans; and the city may authorize other cost-recovery or
cost-sharing methods as provided under state law.
   (D)   Inadequate facilities. Development permits may be restricted or
rationed by the Planning Commission where a deficiency exists in the existing
water or sewer system that cannot be rectified by the development and which, if
not rectified, will result in a threat to public health or safety, surcharging
of existing mains or violations of state or federal standards pertaining to
operation of domestic water and sewerage treatment systems. The Planning
Commission may require water booster pumps or sanitary sewer lift stations be
installed with backup power.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.189 STORM DRAINAGE AND SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known as the erosion prevention and
sediment control and storm and surface water management ordinance. Divisions
(C) to (G) relate to erosion prevention and sediment control. Divisions (H) to
(N) relate to storm and surface water management.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS).
         (a)   Erosion prevention and sediment control, and storm and surface
water management regulations are listed in the Oregon Department of Environment
Quality (DEQ) and National Marine Fishery Services (NMFS) manuals as follows:
            1.   Erosion and Sediment Control Manual which may be found at:
http://www.deq.state.or.us/wq/stormwater/escmanual.htm;
            2.   Storm Water Discharges Associated with Construction Activities
which may be found at: http://www.deq.state.or.us/wq/stormwater/docs/nwr/
indbmps.pdf; and
            3.   Standard Local Operating Procedures for Endangered Species
(SLOPES) which may be found at:
https://pcts.nmfs.noaa.gov/pls/pcts-pub/
sxn7.pcts_upload.download?p_file=F15992/2008_08-13_SL OPES
IV_Transportation_200804070.pdf.
         (b)   Hard copies of these documents may also be available at City
Hall.
      CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA). The Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
      DIRECTOR. The City Manager or his or her designee.
      EROSION. The process in which, by action of wind or water, soil particles
are displaced and transported. Type of EROSION includes, but are not limited
to, the following:
         (a)   GULLY. Concentrated flow, head cutting and down cutting;
         (b)   RILL. Increased topographic relief, higher run-off velocities
and soil incision;
         (c)   SPLASH. Raindrop impact, dispersal and mobilization of soil
particles;
         (d)   SHEET. Saturated soils, soil particles entrained in run-off
water and uniform removal; and
         (d)   STREAM BANK. Natural drainage patterns, toe cutting and bank
sloughing.
      EROSION PREVENTION. Any practice that protects the soil surface and
prevents soil particles from being detached by rainfall or wind.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACES. Mainly constructed surfaces, such as rooftops,
sidewalks, roads and parking lots that are covered by impenetrable materials
such as asphalt, concrete, brick and stone. These materials seal surfaces,
repel water and prevent precipitation and meltwater from infiltrating soils.
Soils compacted by urban development may also be highly impervious.
      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). In addition to
local approval, DEQ issues 1200-C NPDES permits for sites that disturb over one
acre.
      PERVIOUS SURFACE. The opposite of impervious surface; allows water to
percolate down into the ground and not sheet off to drainages. Examples of
pervious surfaces: preserve/retain existing vegetation, pervious concrete which
allows water to pass through and vegetated drainage ditches rather than
culverts-bioswales.
      SEDIMENT. Eroded material suspended in wind or water.
      SEDIMENT CONTROL. Any practice that traps the soil particles after they
have been detached and moved by wind or water. SEDIMENT CONTROL measures are
usually passive systems that rely on filtering or settling the particles out of
the water or wind that is transporting them.
      SEDIMENTATION. The deposition of eroded material.
      STATE DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY (DEQ). The state agency that
oversees water quality permits and implements federal CWA requirements.
      STORMWATER RUNOFF. Occurs when precipitation from rain or snowmelt flows
over the ground. Impervious surfaces like driveways, sidewalks and streets
prevent stormwater runoff from naturally soaking into the ground.
   (C)   Purposes of erosion prevention and sediment control. The purposes of
the erosion prevention and sediment control are:
      (1)   To preserve or enhance the health, safety, welfare and quality of
life of the inhabitants of the city by providing clean water, and by minimizing
risk to inhabitants and property through control of erosion; and
      (2)   To maintain or improve water quality within the city consistent
with the requirements of the state and the United States government. This
section seeks to accomplish these purposes by requiring measures to prevent
erosion, control sediment and properly manage runoff from sites with disturbed
soils. All development activity shall comply with the requirements for erosion
prevention and sediment control. The intent of these provisions is to minimize
the amount of sediment and pollutants that exit the site of development
activity and, thereby, minimize the amount of such material that reaches
waterways, wetlands, public improvements and the property of others. These
provisions are intended to require that temporary and permanent measures be
taken for all development activity that require or result in the disturbance of
the surface of soil and/or vegetation.
   (D)   Applicability.
      (1)   The erosion prevention and sediment control provisions are
applicable to all lands within the city at the date of an application for
approval of development activity that can result in altered or increased
runoff, erosion and sediment. Development activity includes, but is not limited
to, vegetation removal, grading, construction of improvements, landscaping and
other activities that disturb the surface of the soil. Measures must be taken
to manage site hazards such as water runoff, soil erosion and sediment
deposition. Except as otherwise provided in this division (D), this section
applies to all development activities that:
         (a)   Will result in the excavation of 800 square feet or more of soil
surface; or
         (b)   Will result in the construction of either 2,000 square feet of
impervious surface on a site or will result in the coverage of 25% or more of
the area of a site in impervious surfaces, whichever is less.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions in division (D)(1) above, this
section does not apply to the following:
         (a)   Home gardening that disturbs less than one-quarter of an acre;
         (b)   Activities undertaken to control invasive bush species for fire
control purposes or for the preservation of pre-existing clearings or meadows;
or
         (c)   Activities undertaken for the purpose of exploration such as
backhoe pits and bore holes not requiring newly constructed road access.
   (E)   Erosion prevention and sediment control plan.
      (1)   Applications for authorization to undertake development and other
activities described in division (D) above must be accompanied by an erosion
prevention and sediment control plan.
      (2)   The erosion prevention and sediment control plan shall:
         (a)   Demonstrate that the subject property will not be disturbed,
excavated, filled or developed so as to cause movement of mud, soil, rock,
vegetative material or any products of erosion or other depositional material
onto, deposited upon or transported to the property of another;
         (b)   Include specific interim and permanent measures that will
prevent erosion and control sedimentation on the subject property and meet the
requirements of division (E)(2)(a) above;
         (c)   Include a strategy to minimize the removal of vegetation cover,
particularly tree cover, necessary for access, building placement or to
establish views for proposed structures or improvements; and
         (d)   In cases of development activity that will result in the
division of land, include both interim and permanent measures and improvements
that must be taken and installed during the development of each lot or parcel
created.
      (3)   Preparation of erosion prevention and sediment control plans shall
be as follows.
         (a)   On a single lot or parcel on which the development activity will
occur on slopes of less than 15%, the plan may be prepared by the applicant
utilizing best management practices. Plans for development activities that will
result in the division of land may not be prepared pursuant to this division
(E)(3)(a).
         (b)   Development activities on properties that were created pursuant
to an application and for which an erosion prevention and sediment control plan
was approved shall comply with the provisions of that plan and may submit that
plan in compliance with the requirements of this section.
         (c)   On lands on which the development or other activity will occur
on slopes of 15% or greater, the plan must be prepared by a geologist.
         (d)   Plans prepared in geologic hazard areas must also be prepared in
consultation with, and be signed by, a geologist.
         (e)   Final recorded plats and subdivision maps shall indicate that
all lots or parcels must be developed consistent with the approved erosion
prevention and sediment control plan and that the measures and improvements
specified in the plan must be maintained by the owner of each lot or parcel.
         (f)   The applicant or owner of any lot or parcel on which an erosion
prevention and sediment control plan has been approved shall record on the
title to the subject property a notification of the existence of the plan, of
the fact that it can be reviewed in the Planning Division files and that also
specifies the obligation of subsequent land owners to refrain from interfering
with such measures or improvements and to maintain them.
   (F)   Review and approval of an erosion prevention and sediment control
plan.
      (1)   The Director shall review all applications for development activity
for conformance with the standards and criteria of this section.
      (2)   The Director may retain decision-making authority over matters
subject to administrative review or may refer such matters to the Planning
Commission consistent with the provisions of §§
153.205 through
153.210, 153.225 through 153.231, 153.245 through 153.254, 153.265 through
153.268, 153.280 through 153.283, 153.295 through 153.299 and 153.310 through
153.314.
      (3)   The Director or the Planning Commission may approve, approve with
conditions, require changes to or deny the application based upon the criteria
or standards listed in division (E) above.
      (4)   The Director shall review the proposed erosion prevention and
sedimentation control plan for consistency with the requirements and purposes
of these provisions and may approve, approve with conditions, require changes
to or deny the application based and such review.
      (5)   No activities may be conducted on the property that is the subject
of such a plan prior to the Director’s written approval thereof or prior to the
installation of the approved erosion prevention and sedimentation control
measures.
      (6)   If prior to applying for a permit or other authorization,
vegetation removal is required to allow surveying and/or site study, the
applicant shall submit a plot plan to the Director describing the amount and
location of vegetation removal. If the property has slopes greater than 15%,
vegetation can only be cut off at or above ground level. Stumps and roots shall
not be removed. The Director must approve this plan prior to any removal of
vegetation.
   (G)   Installation and certification of erosion prevention and sediment
control measures.
      (1)   The approved erosion prevention and sediment control measures shall
be installed and maintained as required by the approved plan.
      (2)   The installation of measures required in a plan prepared under
division (E)(3)(a) above may be certified by the applicant.
      (3)   The installation of measures required in a plan approved pursuant
to division (E) above except division (E)(3)(a) above shall be subject to
inspection by the city. The Director may allow the project to be inspected and
certified by the engineer or by a geologist who prepared the plan.
   (H)   Purposes of storm and surface water management. Detention of
stormwater collected from impervious surfaces on a given property, or within
public rights-of-way, is essential to the management of stormwater in the city.
This section includes standards for conveyance of surface water to streams,
creeks and channels. It also addresses pollution reduction and flow control for
stormwater generated from new and redevelopment. For the purpose of this
section, new and redevelopment refers to any human-made change to improved or
unimproved real estate including, but not limited to, the placement of
buildings or other structures, dredging, filling, grading or paving. This
section provides standards for addressing infiltration, treatment and detention
of stormwater separately as well as an option for a combined approach to
mitigating the water quality impacts of developments that fall below a certain
size threshold.
   (I)   Applicability.
      (1)   No permit for construction of new development or tenant
improvements that results in impervious cover greater than 499 square feet for
development activity on any land within the city at the date of an application
shall be issued until effects on stormwater management are evaluated. The level
of review varies according to the size of the affected area as follows.
 
                           No stormwater management measures beyond any
500 to 1,999 square feet   mitigation measures for pollution reduction or flow
                           control are required
2,000 to 4,999 square feet Conceptual plans shall be submitted for approval
5,000+ square feet         A comprehensive stormwater management plan shall be
                           submitted for approval
Areas smaller than 500 square feet may require review, and a greater level of
review for properties between 500 and 4,999 square feet may be necessary when
the site is identified as having especially sensitive conditions, including
but not limited to, wetlands, steep slopes and fish bearing streams
 
      (2)   Separate applicability thresholds for pollution reduction and flow
control standards are listed in division (M) below. Development projects shall
not be phased or segmented in such a manner to avoid the requirement of this
section.
      (3)   The Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT) may require
stormwater and water quality management plan coordination, design approval to
state standards and applicable permits for all development impacting state
transportation drainage facilities.
   (J)   Stormwater management plan submittal.
      (1)   Site plans shall include the following analyses and descriptions:
         (a)   A description of stormwater mitigation strategies to increase
infiltration, promote evapotranspiration (use of water by plants) and reduce
the amount of stormwater runoff generated from the site;
         (b)   Calculations of the amount of impervious surface before
development and the amount of impervious surface after development. Impervious
surface refers only to strictly impervious surfaces including roofs of
buildings, impervious asphalt and concrete pavements, and other specifically
impervious pavement materials such as mortared masonry and gravel;
         (c)   An analysis of vegetative and other treatment methods used to
reduce pollutants;
         (d)   An analysis of flow reduction methods including infiltration,
detention and retention techniques; and
         (e)   Statement of consistency with the city stormwater management
and, if applicable, the watershed management plan for the basin and/or
requirements of a pollutant load reduction plan for a water quality limited
stream which may be affected by ground disturbance or increased or altered flow
regime.
      (2)   Post-construction plans shall include the following information:
         (a)   As-built plans, stamped by an engineer or geologist indicating
all stormwater mitigation and management strategies are installed per approved
plans and approved changes; and
         (b)   Maintenance plans for all stormwater treatment facilities
installed to comply with this section. The maintenance program shall be subject
to a recorded agreement with the city that outlines the stormwater treatment
facility responsibilities of property owners and the city.
   (K)   General requirements.
      (1)   Intent and purpose. All development shall be planned, designed,
constructed and maintained to provide a system by which storm/surface water
within the development will be managed without causing damage or harm to the
natural environment, or to property or persons and to protect property from
flood hazards.
      (2)   Criteria. Plans shall be submitted to the Planning Department for
review. All plans and calculations for areas 5,000 square feet or larger must
be stamped and signed by a hydrologist, civil engineer or other similarly
qualified person approved by the city. Plan approval will be based on the
following criteria.
         (a)   Design, construction and maintenance of proposed stormwater
management plan will result in limiting as much as possible the increase in
post-development off-site stormwater flow over pre-development off-site
stormwater flow.
         (b)   All in-stream culvert installations must allow fish passage in
accordance with Division of State Lands (DSL) and the US Army Corps of
Engineering (COE) and any other authorized federal, state or local agency.
         (c)   Installation of culverts, spans or stormwater outfalls along
natural water features shall be designed to emphasize preservation of natural
flow conditions and pursue stream enhancement opportunities.
         (d)   Stormwater mitigation strategies, such as retention of existing
trees, and use of porous paving surfaces, as well as stormwater treatment and
flow control facilities used to meet the requirements of this code must be
included in the plans.
         (e)   Stormwater management plan shall be consistent with the city’s
most current stormwater engineering practice.
         (f)   In areas of high pollutant load, stormwater infiltration shall
incorporate, or be preceded by treatment as necessary, to prevent siltation of
the infiltration facility, protect ground water and prevent toxic accumulations
of pollutants in the soil.
         (g)   All storm conveyance pipes, vaults and stormwater infiltration,
treatment and detention facilities shall be built to specifications of the
city.
         (h)   The plan shall demonstrate compliance with the standards of
division (L) below.
         (i)   The plan shall demonstrate compliance standards of division (M)
below.
      (3)   Infiltration facilities. The city may further restrict the use of
infiltration facilities in high risk areas including those in natural hazard
areas with steep slopes, unstable soils, high water tables or sites known to be
contaminated by hazardous substances.
         (a)   Infiltration facilities. Infiltration facilities which fall
under the jurisdiction of DEQ’s Underground Injection Control (UIC) Program
must be registered with the state and meet the requirements of the UIC Program.
         (b)   Security. Applicants shall provide cash or a letter of credit
acceptable to the city to assure successful installation and initial
maintenance of surface pollution reduction and flow control facilities.
         (c)   Contingency for system failure. If the storm drainage system
fails due to lack of maintenance or breakage, and there are impacts to
downstream water quality or quantity as a result of the failure, the city may
perform the maintenance or repair and has the authority to charge the owner of
the facility.
   (L)   Surface water conveyance standards. The following measures are
designed to efficiently convey stormwater.
      (1)   Culverts in and spans of streams, creeks, gulches and other natural
drainage channels shall maintain a single channel conveyance system.
      (2)   Culverts and/or spans are to be sized for the 24-hour post-
developed tributary conditions of the ten-year storm on streams with an average
flow less than 200 cfs.
      (3)   Conveyance calculations shall use the following methods for
analysis:
         (a)   Projects smaller than 20 acres: the rational method, Santa
Barbara Urban Hydrograph, SCS TR-55, HEC-1, or SWMM; and
         (b)   Projects 20 acres or larger: any of the methods except the
rational method. Exceptions must be documented and approved by the city.
      (4)   Credit will not be given for in-stream and in-line detention.
      (5)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner that the new drainage
system shall not negatively impact any natural water conditions. The owner is
responsible for providing a drainage system for all surface water, springs and
groundwater on site and for water entering the property, as well as management
of springs and groundwater that surface during construction.
   (M)   Pollution reduction and flow control standards.
      (1)   Applicability. These standards shall apply to all subdivisions or
site plan applications creating greater than 500 square feet of impervious
surface or redevelopment footprint area, unless eligible for an exemption or
granted a waiver by the city. Additionally, these standards apply to land
development activities that are smaller than the minimum applicability criteria
if such activities are part of a larger common plan of development that meets
the applicability criteria, even though multiple separate and distinct land
development activities may take place at different times and at different
schedules.
      (2)   Waivers. The city, at its discretion, can waive in whole or in part
minimum requirements for stormwater management; provided the applicant can
prove with submitted findings that at least one of the following conditions
applies:
         (a)   It can be demonstrated that the proposed development is not
likely to impair attainment of the objectives or standards of this section, the
city’s stormwater plan or the city’s stormwater management program;
         (b)   Alternative minimum requirements for on-site management of
stormwater discharges have been established in a stormwater management plan
that has been approved by the city;
         (c)   Provisions are made to manage stormwater by an off-site
facility. The off-site facility is required to be in place, to be designed and
adequately sized to provide a level of stormwater control that is equal to or
greater than that which would be afforded by on-site practices and there is a
legally obligated entity responsible for long-term operation and maintenance of
the stormwater practice;
         (d)   The city finds that meeting the minimum on-site management
requirements is not feasible due to the nature or existing physical
characteristics of a site; or
         (e)   Non-structural practices will be used on the site that reduce:
            1.   The generation of stormwater from the site;
            2.   The size and cost of stormwater storage; and
            3.   The pollutants generated at the site. These non-structural
practices are explained in detail in the current design manual and the amount
of credit available for using such practices shall be determined by the city.
   (N)   Infiltration, treatment and detention. Proper management of stormwater
includes a combination of infiltration, treatment and detention. This section
establishes the review standards for each method.
      (1)   Infiltration.
         (a)   Infiltration systems are to infiltrate a minimum of one-half
inch of rainfall in 24 hours.
         (b)   Stormwater treatment, in accordance with division (N)(2) below
shall occur prior to or concurrent with infiltration.
         (c)   Infiltration systems shall be designed to overflow to conveyance
systems.
         (d)   Infiltration may be waived, or reduced, if it can be
demonstrated by an engineer or geologist that infiltration will destabilize the
soil, cause structural problems or provide negative impacts to the environment,
or because of site constraints such as high groundwater or soil contamination.
In such cases, findings shall demonstrate that stormwater runoff will not
adversely affect adjacent properties or substantially change the flow
characteristics of receiving water ways, or if runoff is determined to occur,
the developer shall be responsible for in-lieu-of fees for regional treatment
or off-site mitigation.
      (2)   Treatment.
         (a)   Water quality treatment facilities shall be designed to capture
and treat runoff for all flows up to the ninety-fifth percentile storm event.
For design purposes, the ninety-fifth percentile storm event is defined as two
and one-half inches of precipitation in a 24-hour period.
         (b)   The water quality system shall use vegetation for treatment.
Alternative systems may be used with approval of the Director after consulting
an engineer and shall be designed to provide equivalent treatment as is
provided with a vegetated system.
         (c)   Systems treating stormwater from over 5,000 square feet of
impervious area and all systems must be designed by a registered engineer and
be approved by the city.
      (3)   Detention. On-site storm quantity detention facilities shall be
designed to capture and detain runoff as follows:
         (a)   Two-year, 24-hour, post-developed runoff rate to a two-year, 24-
hour pre-developed discharge rate; for design purposes, a two-year, 24-hour
storm is defined as five inches in a 24-hour period; and
         (b)   Sites with infiltration systems designed to handle storms in
excess of that specified in division (N)(3)(a) above will be permitted to
reduce on-site detention requirements by a volume equal to 100% of the
infiltration capacity.
      (4)   Conveyance. Infiltration, treatment and detention facilities shall
be constructed to convey excess stormwater. Conveyance systems shall be sized
to meet the following conditions:
         (a)   Stormwater drainpipes draining less than 640 acres: 25-year, 24-
hour design storm; and
         (b)   Stormwater drain pipes draining greater than 640 acres: 50-year,
24-hour design storm.
   (O)   Plan review and approval requirements. All plans submitted pursuant to
this section must be reviewed and approved by the Director prior to completing
applicable development.
(Ord. 1263, passed 7-5-2011; Ord. 1265, passed 7-5-2011; Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-
2012)
§ 153.190 UTILITIES.
   The following standards apply to new development where extension of electric
power or communication lines is required.
   (A)   General provision. The developer of a property is responsible for
coordinating his or her development plan with the applicable utility providers
and paying for the extension/installation of utilities not otherwise available
to the subject property.
   (B)   Underground utilities.
      (1)   General requirement. The requirements of the utility service
provider shall be met. All utility lines in new subdivisions, including, but
not limited to, those required for electric, communication and lighting, and
related facilities, shall be placed underground, except where the Planning
Commission determines that placing utilities underground would adversely impact
adjacent land uses. The Planning Commission may require screening and buffering
of aboveground facilities to protect the public health, safety or welfare.
      (2)   Subdivisions. The following additional standards apply to all new
subdivisions, in order to facilitate underground placement of utilities.
         (a)   The developer shall make all necessary arrangements with the
serving utility to provide the underground services. Care shall be taken to
ensure that all aboveground equipment does not obstruct vision clearance areas
for vehicular traffic, per §
153.140 through
153.142.
         (b)   The Planning Commission reserves the right to approve the
location of all surface-mounted facilities.
         (c)   All underground utilities installed in streets must be
constructed and approved by the applicable utility provider prior to the
surfacing of the streets.
         (d)   Stubs for service connections shall be long enough to avoid
disturbing the street improvements when service connections are made.
   (C)   Exception to undergrounding requirement. The Planning Commission may
grant exceptions to the undergrounding standard where existing physical
constraints, such as geologic conditions, streams or existing development
conditions make underground placement impractical.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.191 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Provision. The developer shall make arrangements with the city and
applicable utility providers for each utility franchise for the provision and
dedication of utility easements necessary to provide full services to the
development.
   (B)   Standard. Utility easements shall conform to the requirements of the
utility service provider. All other easements shall conform to the city’s
public works standards.
   (C)   Recordation. All easements for sewers, storm drainage and water
quality facilities, water mains, electric lines or other utilities shall be
recorded and referenced on the final plat, as applicable. See §§
153.225 through
153.231 and 153.245 through 153.254.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.192 CONSTRUCTION PLAN APPROVAL.
   No development, including sanitary sewers, water, streets, parking areas,
buildings or other development, shall be undertaken without plans having been
approved by the city, permit fees paid and permits issued. Permit fees are
required to defray the cost and expenses incurred by the city for construction
and other services in connection with the improvement. Permit fees are as set
by City Council resolution.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.193 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Conformance required. Improvements installed by the developer either
as a requirement of these regulations or at the developer’s option shall
conform to the requirements of this subchapter, approved construction plans and
to improvement standards and specifications adopted by the City Council.
   (B)   Adopted installation standards. The city has adopted the Public
Infrastructure Design Standards Manual containing standards, criteria and
specifications for public improvements as well as private utility installation
within the public right-of-way.
   (C)   Commencement. Work in a public right-of-way shall not begin until all
applicable agency permits have been approved and issued.
   (D)   Resumption. If work is discontinued for more than one month, it shall
not be resumed until the Public Works Director is notified in writing and
grants approval of an extension.
   (E)   City inspection. Improvements shall be constructed under the
inspection of the Public Works Director. The Public Works Director may approve
minor changes in typical sections and details if unusual conditions arising
during construction warrant such changes in the public interest, except that
substantive changes to the approved design shall be subject to review under §§
153.295 through
153.299. Any survey monuments that are disturbed before all improvements are
completed by the subdivider shall be replaced prior to final acceptance of the
improvements.
   (F)   Engineer’s certification and as-built plans. A registered civil
engineer shall provide written certification in a form required by the city
that all improvements, workmanship and materials are in accord with current and
standard engineering and construction practices, conform to approved plans and
conditions of approval and are of high grade, prior to city’s acceptance of the
public improvements, or any portion thereof, for operation and maintenance. The
developer’s engineer shall also provide two sets of “as-built” plans for
permanent filing with the city. If required by the city, the developer or
subdivider shall provide a warranty bond pursuant to §
153.194.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.194 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE AND WARRANTY BOND.
   (A)   Performance guarantee required. The city, at its discretion, may
approve a final plat or building permit when it determines that at least 75% of
the public improvements required for the land division or phase thereof are
complete and the applicant has an acceptable assurance for the balance of said
improvements. The applicant shall provide a bond issued by a surety authorized
to do business in the state, irrevocable letter of credit from a surety or
financial institution acceptable to the city, cash or other form of security
acceptable to the city.
   (B)   Determination of sum. The assurance of performance shall be for a sum
determined by the city as required to cover the cost of the improvements and
repairs, including related engineering and incidental expenses, plus reasonable
inflationary costs (not less than 110% of estimated improvement costs, as
prepared by a qualified civil engineer).
   (C)   Itemized improvement estimate. The developer shall furnish to the city
an itemized improvement estimate, certified by a registered civil engineer, to
assist the city in calculating the amount of the performance assurance.
   (D)   Agreement. A written agreement between the city and developer shall be
recorded with the final plat. The agreement shall not be valid until it is
signed and dated by both the applicant and City Planning Official. The
agreement shall contain, at a minimum, all of the following:
      (1)   The period within which all required improvements and repairs shall
be completed;
      (2)   A provision that if work is not completed within the period
specified, the city may complete the work and recover the full cost and
expenses from the applicant;
      (3)   The improvement fees and deposits that are required; and
      (4)   Optionally, a provision for the construction of the improvements in
stages and for the extension of time under specific conditions therein stated
in the contract.
   (E)   When subdivider fails to perform. In the event the developer fails to
carry out all provisions of the agreement and the city has un-reimbursed costs
or expenses resulting from such failure, the city shall call on the bond, cash
deposit or letter of credit for reimbursement.
   (F)   Termination of performance guarantee. The developer shall not cause
termination of nor allow expiration of the guarantee without first securing
written authorization from the city.
   (G)   Warranty bond. A warranty bond good for two years is required on all
public improvements and landscaping when installed in the public right-of-way.
The warranty bond shall equal 15% of the total cost of improvements and begin
upon acceptance of said improvements by the city.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
GENERAL REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 153.205 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish standard
decision-making procedures that will enable the city, the applicant and the
public to reasonably review applications and participate in the local decision-
making process in a timely and effective way. Table 153.205 provides a key for
determining the review procedure and the decision-making body for particular
approvals.
   (B)   Applicability of review procedures. All land use and development
permit applications and approvals, except building permits, shall be decided by
using the procedures contained in this subchapter. The procedure “type”
assigned to each application governs the decision-making process for that
permit or approval. There are four types of permit/approval procedures as
described in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(4) below. Table 153.205 lists the
city’s land use and development approvals and corresponding review procedure
(s).
      (1)   Type I procedure (staff review, zoning checklist). Type I decisions
are made by the City Planning Official, or his or her designee, without public
notice and without a public hearing. A Type I procedure is used in applying
city standards and criteria that do not require the use of discretion (i.e.,
clear and objective standards).
      (2)   Type II procedure (administrative/staff review with notice). Type
II decisions are made by the City Planning Official with public notice and an
opportunity for appeal to the Planning Commission. Alternatively, the City
Planning Official may refer a Type II application to the Planning Commission
for review in a public meeting.
      (3)   Type III procedure (quasi-judicial review; public hearing). Type
III decisions are made by the Planning Commission after a public hearing, with
an opportunity for appeal to the City Council.
      (4)   Type IV procedure (legislative review).
         (a)   The Type IV procedure applies to the creation, revision or
large-scale implementation of public policy (e.g., adoption of regulations,
zone changes, annexation and comprehensive plan amendments).
         (b)   Type IV reviews are considered by the Planning Commission, who
makes a recommendation to City Council. City Council makes the final decision
on a legislative proposal through the enactment of an ordinance.
Table 153.205 Summary of Approvals by Type of Review Procedure
Approvals* Review Procedures Applicable Regulations
Table 153.205 Summary of Approvals by Type of Review Procedure
Approvals*        Review     Applicable Regulations
                  Procedures
                             §§
Access to a       Type I     153.140 through
street                       153.142 and the standards of the applicable roadway
                             authority (city/county/ODOT)
Annexation        Type IV    See ORS Chapter 222
Code              Type II or §
interpretation    III        153.005
Code text                    §§
amendment         Type IV    153.295 through
                             153.299
Comprehensive                §§
plan amendment    Type IV    153.295 through
                             153.299
Conditional use              §§
permit            Type III   153.265 through
                             153.268
                  No permit, except when required by §§
Home occupation   153.310 through
                  153.314
Legal lot         Type I     §
determination                153.003
Modification to              §§
approval or       Type I, II 153.280 through
condition of      or III     153.283
approval
Nonconforming use Type I, II §
or structure,     or III     153.004
expansion of
Partition or re-
plat of 2-3 lots
                             §§
   Final plat  Type II**  153.245 through
                             153.254
   Preliminary            §§
plat              Type III   153.245 through
                             153.254
Property line                §§
adjustments,      Type I     153.245 through
including lot                153.254
consolidations
                  Type II or §§
Site plan review  III        153.225 through
                             153.231
Subdivision or
replat of >3 lots
                             §§
   Final plat  Type II**  153.245 through
                             153.254
   Preliminary            §§
plat              Type III   153.245 through
                             153.254
Temporary use     Type I/II/ See Table 153.022
                  III
Variance
                             §§
   Major       Type III   153.310 through
                             153.314
   Minor                  §§
(adjustment)      Type II    153.310 through
                             153.314
Zoning checklist             Applicants are required to complete a zoning checklist
review            Type I     before applying for any other permit or approval (see §
                             153.206
Zoning district   Type III   §§
map change        or IV      153.295 through
                             153.299
* The applicant may be required to obtain building permits and other approvals (e.g.,
signs, public improvement plans, plumbing, electrical, structural, floodplain
development and the like) through the State Building Official and/or approvals from
other agencies, such as a road authority or natural resource regulatory agency. The
city’s failure to notify the applicant of any requirement or procedure of another
agency shall not invalidate a permit or other decision made by the city under this
chapter.
** Final plats are reviewed by the Planning Commission through the Type II procedure.
 
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.206 TYPE I PROCEDURE; STAFF REVIEW AND ZONING CHECKLIST.
   The City Planning Official, or his or her designee, without public notice
and without a public hearing, makes ministerial decisions through the Type I
procedure. Ministerial decisions are those where city standards and criteria do
not require the exercise of discretion (i.e., clear and objective standards).
The City Planning Official reviews proposals requiring a Type I review using a
zoning checklist. The zoning checklist is a preliminary review that is intended
to ensure a project proposal meets the basic requirements of this chapter’s
zoning requirements before more detailed plans are prepared and before the city
authorizes the Building Official to issue a building permit.
   (A)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Application forms. Approvals requiring Type I review, including
zoning checklists, shall be made on forms provided by the city.
      (2)   Application requirements. When a zoning checklist is required, it
shall:
         (a)   Include the information requested on the application form;
         (b)   Address the criteria in sufficient detail for review and action;
and
         (c)   Be filed with the required fee.
   (B)   Requirements. The city shall not act upon an application for land use
approval and a building permit shall not be issued until the City Planning
Official has approved a zoning checklist for the proposed project.
   (C)   Criteria and decision. The City Planning Official’s review of a zoning
checklist is intended to determine whether minimum code requirements are met
and whether any other land use permit or approval is required prior to issuance
of a building permit.
   (D)   Effective date. A zoning checklist decision is final on the date it is
signed by the City Planning Official. It is not a land use decision as defined
by ORS 197.015, and therefore is not subject to appeal to the State Land Use
Board of Appeals. See also §
153.002(I).
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.207 TYPE II PROCEDURE; ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   The City Planning Official, or his or her designee, performs administrative
staff reviews through the Type II procedure. Type II decisions are made by the
City Planning Official with public notice and an opportunity for appeal to the
Planning Commission. Alternatively, the City Planning Official may refer a Type
II application to the Planning Commission for its review and decision in a
public meeting.
   (A)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Application forms. Applications for projects requiring
administrative review shall be made on forms provided by the City Planning
Official.
      (2)   Submittal information. The City Planning Official shall advise the
applicant on application submittal requirements. At a minimum, the application
shall include all of the following information:
         (a)   The information requested on the application form;
         (b)   Plans and exhibits required for the specific approval(s) being
sought (for example, requirements for property line adjustments are in §§
153.245 through 153.254);
         (c)   A written statement or letter explaining how the application
satisfies each and all of the relevant criteria and standards in sufficient
detail;
         (d)   Information demonstrating compliance with prior decision(s) and
conditions of approval for the subject site, as applicable; and
         (e)   The required fee.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   The City Planning Official shall mail notice of a pending Type II
decision to the following individuals and agencies not less than 14 days prior
to making the Type II decision.
      (2)   The purpose of the administrative decision notice is to give nearby
property owners and other interested people and agencies the opportunity to
submit written comments on the application before the Planning Official issues
the decision. The intent is to invite people to participate early in the
decision-making process. Therefore, all of the following individuals and
agencies shall be notified:
         (a)   All owners of record of real property within a minimum of 100
feet of the subject site;
         (b)   Any person who submits a written request to receive a notice;
and
         (c)   Any governmental agency that is entitled to notice under an
intergovernmental agreement entered into with the city and any other affected
agencies. At a minimum, the City Planning Official shall notify the road
authority if different than the city. The failure of another agency to respond
with written comments on a pending application shall not invalidate an action
or permit approval made by the city under this chapter.
      (3)   The notice of pending administrative decision, at a minimum, shall
contain all of the following information:
         (a)   The deadline for submitting written comments, which must be at
least 14 days prior to the scheduled decision date or, as applicable, the
scheduled Planning Commission meeting date where an application is referred to
the Commission for review;
         (b)   A summary of the proposal and the relevant approval criteria.
The notice must have sufficient detail to help the public identify and locate
applicable code requirements;
         (c)   The address and city contact person for submitting written
comments; and the date, time and location the City Planning Official or
Planning Commission, as applicable, is scheduled to make a decision on the
application;
         (d)   The street address or other easily understandable reference to
the location of the proposed use or development;
         (e)   A disclosure statement indicating that if any person fails to
address the relevant approval criteria with enough detail, they may not be able
to appeal to the Land Use Board of Appeals or Circuit Court on that issue. Only
comments on the relevant approval criteria are considered relevant evidence;
         (f)   A statement that all evidence relied upon by the City Planning
Official or Planning Commission, as applicable, to make its decision is in the
public record and is available for public review. Copies of this evidence can
be obtained at a reasonable cost from the city; and
         (g)   A statement that after the comment period closes the city will
issue its decision and the decision shall be mailed to the applicant and to
anyone else who submitted written comments or who is otherwise legally entitled
to notice.
      (4)   At the conclusion of the comment period, the City Planning Official
shall review the comments received and prepare a decision notice approving,
approving with conditions or denying the application based on the applicable
code criteria. Alternatively, the City Planning Official may transmit all
written comments received, if any, along with a copy of the application to the
Planning Commission for review and decision at its next regularly scheduled
meeting.
      (5)   Where the City Planning Official refers an application subject to
administrative review to the Planning Commission, the Planning Commission shall
approve, approve with conditions or deny the application through the Type II
procedure based on the applicable code criteria. The Planning Commission may
continue its review to the next meeting to allow the applicant time to respond
to questions, provided the Commission must make a final decision within the
120-day period prescribed under state law (ORS 227.178) and as described in §
153.210. Alternatively, the applicant may voluntarily waive his or her right to
a final decision within the 120-day time frame, and the Commission may decide
to accept oral and written testimony in a public hearing review of the
application, pursuant to §
153.208; in which case a new public notice must be mailed to those who received
the original notice indicating the change to a quasi-judicial (public hearing)
review procedure.
      (6)   Within seven days of a Type II (administrative) decision, the City
Planning Official shall proceed to prepare a notice of decision and mail it to
the applicant, property owner (if different), the State Building Official,
those who provided written comments on the proposal and those who requested a
copy of the decision. The City Planning Official shall cause an affidavit of
mailing the notice to be prepared and made a part of the file. The affidavit
shall show the date the notice was mailed and shall demonstrate that the notice
was mailed to the parties above and was mailed within the time required by law.
      (7)   The administrative notice of decision shall contain all of the
following information:
         (a)   A description of the applicant’s proposal and the city’s
decision on the proposal. The notice may be a summary, provided it references
the specifics of the proposal and conditions of approval in the public record;
         (b)   The address or other geographic description of the property
proposed for development, including a map of the property in relation to the
surrounding area (i.e., copy of assessor’s map may be used);
         (c)   A statement of where the city’s decision can be obtained;
         (d)   The date the decision shall become final unless appealed; and
         (e)   A statement that all persons entitled to notice may appeal the
decision to City Council pursuant to division (D) below.
   (C)   Effective date of decision. Unless the conditions of approval specify
otherwise, an administrative decision becomes effective ten days after the city
mails the decision notice unless the decision is appealed pursuant to division
(D) below.
   (D)   Appeal of Type II (administrative) decision. A Type II administrative
decision made by the City Planning Official may be appealed to the City
Planning Commission; and a Type II administrative decision made by the Planning
Commission may be appealed to the City Council, as applicable, pursuant to the
following.
      (1)   Who may appeal. The following people have legal standing to appeal
a Type II administrative decision:
         (a)   The applicant or owner of the subject property;
         (b)   Any person who was entitled to written notice of the Type II
decision; and
         (c)   Any other person who participated in the proceeding by
submitting written comments on the application to the city by the specified
deadline.
      (2)   Appeal filing procedure.
         (a)   Notice of appeal. Any person with standing to appeal, as
provided in division (D)(1) above, may appeal a Type II administrative decision
by filing a notice of appeal according to the following procedures.
         (b)   Time for filing. A notice of appeal shall be filed with the City
Planning Official within the time frame specified on the notice of decision;
typically, this will be within ten days of the date the notice of decision is
mailed.
         (c)   Content of notice of appeal. The notice of appeal shall be
accompanied by the required filing fee and shall contain:
            1.   An identification of the decision being appealed, including
the date of the decision;
            2.   A statement demonstrating the person filing the notice of
appeal has standing to appeal;
            3.   A statement explaining the specific issues being raised on
appeal; and
            4.   If the appellant is not the applicant, a statement
demonstrating that the appeal issues were raised during the comment period.
      (3)   Scope of appeal. The appeal of a Type II administrative decision
shall be a hearing de novo either before the Planning Commission, where the
contested decision was made by the City Planning Official, or before the City
Council, where the Planning Commission made the contested decision. The appeal
shall not be limited to the application materials, evidence and other
documentation and specific issues raised in the review leading up to the
administrative decision but may include other relevant evidence and arguments.
The hearing appeal body may allow additional evidence, testimony or argument
concerning any relevant standard, criterion, condition or issue.
      (4)   Appeal hearing procedure. Hearings on appeals of Type II decisions
shall follow the same procedure used for public hearings on Type III reviews
under §
153.208, which contains requirements for public hearing notices, conduct of
hearings and decision-making procedures.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.208 TYPE III PROCEDURE; QUASI-JUDICIAL REVIEW, PUBLIC HEARING.
   Type III decisions are made by the Planning Commission after a public
hearing, with an opportunity for appeal to the City Council.
   (A)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Application forms. Applications requiring quasi-judicial review
shall be made on forms provided by the City Planning Official.
      (2)   Submittal information. The City Planning Official shall advise the
applicant on application submittal requirements. At a minimum, the application
shall include all of the following information:
         (a)   The information requested on the application form;
         (b)   Plans and exhibits required for the specific approval(s) being
sought;
         (c)   A written statement or letter explaining how the application
satisfies each and all of the relevant criteria and standards in sufficient
detail;
         (d)   Information demonstrating compliance with prior decision(s) and
conditions of approval for the subject site, as applicable; and
         (e)   The required fee.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Mailed and posted notice.
         (a)   The city shall mail public notice of a public hearing on a
quasi-judicial application at least 20 days before the hearing date to the
individuals and organizations listed below. The City Planning Official shall
prepare an affidavit of notice, which shall be made a part of the file. The
affidavit shall state the date that the notice was mailed. Notice shall be
mailed to:
            1.   All owners of record of real property located within a minimum
of 100 feet of the subject site;
            2.   Any person who submits a written request to receive a notice;
and
            3.   Any governmental agency that is entitled to notice under an
intergovernmental agreement entered into with the city and any other affected
agencies. At a minimum, the City Planning Official shall notify the road
authority if different than the city. The failure of another agency to respond
with written comments on a pending application shall not invalidate an action
or permit approval made by the city under this chapter.
         (b)   At least 14 days before the hearing, the applicant or
applicant’s representative shall post notice of the hearing on the project site
in clear view from a public right-of-way using a poster format prescribed by
the City Planning Official. The applicant shall submit an affidavit of notice
using a form provided by the city, which shall be made a part of the file. The
affidavit shall state the date that the notice was posted.
      (2)   Content of notice. Notice of a quasi-judicial hearing to be mailed
and published per division (B)(1) above shall contain all of the following
information:
         (a)   A summary of the proposal and the relevant approval criteria.
The notice must have sufficient detail to help the public identify and locate
applicable code requirements;
         (b)   The date, time and location of the scheduled hearing;
         (c)   The street address or other easily understandable reference to
the location of the proposed use or development;
         (d)   A disclosure statement that if any person fails to address the
relevant approval criteria with enough detail, they may not be able to appeal
to the City Council, Land Use Board of Appeals or Circuit Court, as applicable,
on that issue. Only comments on the relevant approval criteria are considered
relevant evidence;
         (e)   A statement that a copy of the application, all documents and
evidence submitted by or for the applicant, and the applicable criteria and
standards shall be available for review at the office of the City Planning
Official and that copies shall be provided at a reasonable cost;
         (f)   A statement that a copy of the city’s staff report and
recommendation to the hearing body shall be available for review at no cost at
least seven days before the hearing and that a copy shall be provided on
request at a reasonable cost;
         (g)   A general explanation of the requirements to submit testimony,
and the procedure for conducting public hearings; and
         (h)   A statement that after the public hearing closes, the City
Council will issue its decision, and the decision shall be mailed to the
applicant and to anyone else who submitted written comments or who is otherwise
legally entitled to notice.
   (C)   Conduct of the public hearing.
      (1)   At the commencement of the hearing, the Chairperson of the
Commission or the Mayor, as applicable, or his or her designee, shall state to
those in attendance all of the following information and instructions:
         (a)   The applicable approval criteria by code chapter that apply to
the application;
         (b)   Testimony and evidence shall address the approval criteria
described in the staff report, or other criteria in the comprehensive plan or
land use regulations that the person testifying believes to apply to the
decision;
         (c)   Failure to raise an issue with sufficient detail to give the
hearing body and the parties an opportunity to respond to the issue, may
preclude appeal to the State Land Use Board of Appeals on that issue;
         (d)   At the conclusion of the initial evidentiary hearing, the
hearing body shall deliberate and make a decision based on the facts and
arguments in the public record. See division (E) below; and
         (e)   Any participant may ask the hearing body for an opportunity to
present additional relevant evidence or testimony that is within the scope of
the hearing; if the hearing body grants the request, it will schedule a date to
continue the hearing as provided in division (C)(5) below or leave the record
open for additional written evidence or testimony as provided in division (C)
(6) below.
      (2)   The public is entitled to an impartial hearing body as free from
potential conflicts of interest and pre-hearing ex parte (outside the hearing)
contacts as reasonably possible. Where questions related to ex parte contact
are concerned, members of the hearing body shall follow the guidance for
disclosure of ex parte contacts contained in ORS 227.180. Where a real conflict
of interest arises, that member or members or the hearing body shall not
participate in the hearing, except where state law provides otherwise. Where
the appearance of a conflict of interest is likely, that member or members of
the hearing body shall individually disclose their relationship to the
applicant in the public hearing and state whether they are capable of rendering
a fair and impartial decision. If they are unable to render a fair and
impartial decision, they shall be excused from the proceedings.
      (3)   (a)   The hearing body may set reasonable time limits for oral
presentations and may limit or exclude cumulative, repetitious, irrelevant or
personally derogatory testimony or evidence.
         (b)   No oral testimony shall be accepted after the close of the
public hearing. Written testimony may be received after the close of the public
hearing only as provided by this section.
         (c)   Members of the hearing body may visit the property and the
surrounding area and may use information obtained during the site visit to
support their decision, if the information relied upon is disclosed at the
beginning of the hearing and an opportunity is provided to dispute the
evidence.
      (4)   The hearing body, in making its decision, shall consider only facts
and arguments in the public hearing record; except that it may take notice of
facts not in the hearing record (e.g., local, state or federal regulations;
previous city decisions; case law; or staff reports). Upon announcing its
intention to take notice of such facts in its deliberations, it must allow
persons who previously participated in the hearing to request the hearing
record be reopened, as necessary, to present evidence concerning the newly
presented facts.
      (5)   If the hearing body decides to continue the hearing, the hearing
shall be continued to a date that is at least seven days after the date of the
first evidentiary hearing (e.g., next regularly scheduled meeting). An
opportunity shall be provided at the continued hearing for persons to present
and respond to new written evidence and oral testimony. If new written evidence
is submitted at the continued hearing, any person may request, before the
conclusion of the hearing, that the record be left open for at least seven
days, so that they can submit additional written evidence or arguments in
response to the new written evidence. In the interest of time, after the close
of the hearing, the hearing body may limit additional testimony to arguments
and not accept additional evidence.
      (6)   If the hearing body leaves the record open for additional written
testimony, the record shall be left open for at least seven days after the
hearing. Any participant may ask the hearing body in writing for an opportunity
to respond to new evidence (i.e., information not disclosed during the public
hearing) submitted when the record was left open. If such a request is filed,
the hearing body shall reopen the record, as follows.
         (a)   When the record is reopened to admit new evidence or arguments
(testimony), any person may raise new issues that relate to that new evidence
or testimony.
         (b)   An extension of the hearing or record granted pursuant to this
section is subject to the limitations of §
153.210 (ORS 227.178: “120-day rule”) unless the applicant waives his or her
right to a final decision being made within 120 days of filing a complete
application.
         (c)   If requested by the applicant, the hearing body shall grant the
applicant at least seven days after the record is closed to all other persons
to submit final written arguments, but not evidence, provided the applicant may
expressly waive this right.
      (7)   The notice of quasi-judicial decision shall contain all of the
following information:
         (a)   A description of the applicant’s proposal and the city’s
decision on the proposal. The notice may be a summary, provided it references
the specifics of the proposal and conditions of approval in the public record;
         (b)   The address or other geographic description of the property
proposed for development, including a map of the property in relation to the
surrounding area (i.e., copy of assessor’s map may be used);
         (c)   A statement of where the city’s decision can be obtained;
         (d)   The date the decision shall become final, unless appealed; and
         (e)   A statement that all persons entitled to notice may appeal the
Planning Commission’s decision to City Council, pursuant to division (D) below,
or may appeal the City Council’s decision to the State Land Use Board of
Appeals, as applicable
   (C)   Effective date of decision. Unless the conditions of approval specify
otherwise, a quasi-judicial decision becomes effective ten days after the city
mails the decision notice unless the decision is appealed pursuant to division
(D) below.
   (D)   Appeal of Planning Commission decision. The Planning Commission’s
decision may be appealed to the City Council as follows:
      (1)   Who may appeal. The following people have legal standing to appeal:
         (a)   The applicant or owner of the subject property;
         (b)   Any person who was entitled to written notice; and
         (c)   Any other person who testified orally or in writing during
Planning Commission hearing before the close of the public record.
      (2)   Appeal filing procedure.
         (a)   Notice of appeal. Any person with standing to appeal, as
provided in division (D)(1) above, may appeal a Type III quasi-judicial
decision by filing a notice of appeal according to the following procedures.
         (b)   Time for filing. A notice of appeal shall be filed with the City
Planning Official within the time frame specified on the notice of decision;
typically, this will be within ten days of the date the notice of decision is
mailed.
         (c)   Content of notice of appeal. The notice of appeal shall be
accompanied by the required filing fee and shall contain:
            1.   An identification of the decision being appealed, including
the date of the decision;
            2.   A statement demonstrating the person filing the notice of
appeal has standing to appeal;
            3.   A statement explaining the specific issues being raised on
appeal; and
            4.   If the appellant is not the applicant, a statement
demonstrating that the appeal issues were raised during the comment period.
      (3)   Scope of appeal. The appeal of a Type III quasi-judicial decision
shall be a hearing de novo before the City Council. The appeal shall not be
limited to the application materials, evidence and other documentation and
specific issues raised in the review leading up to the quasi-judicial decision
but may include other relevant evidence and arguments. The hearing appeal body
may allow additional evidence, testimony or argument concerning any applicable
standard, criterion, condition or issue.
   (E)   Record of the public hearing.
      (1)   The official public hearing record shall include all of the
following information:
         (a)   All materials considered by the hearing body;
         (b)   All materials submitted by the City Planning Official to the
hearing body regarding the application;
         (c)   The minutes of the hearing;
         (d)   The final written decision; and
         (e)   Copies of all notices given as required by this subchapter and
correspondence regarding the application that the city mailed or received.
      (2)   The meeting minutes shall be filed in hard copy form with the City
Planning Official. The minutes and other evidence presented as a part of the
hearing shall be part of the record.
      (3)   All exhibits received and displayed shall be marked to provide
identification and shall be part of the record.
   (F)   Effective date and appeals to State Land Use Board of Appeals. A
quasi-judicial decision or appeal decision, as applicable, is effective the
date the city mails the decision notice. Appeals of City Council decisions
under this subchapter shall be filed with the State Land Use Board of Appeals
pursuant to ORS 197.805 through 197.860.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.209 TYPE IV PROCEDURE; LEGISLATIVE REVIEW.
   (A)   Timing of requests. The City Council may establish a schedule for when
it will accept legislative code amendment or plan amendment requests, or the
City Council may initiate its own legislative proposals at any time.
Legislative requests are not subject to the 120-day review period under ORS
227.178.
   (B)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Application forms. Legislative applications shall be made on forms
provided by the City Planning Official.
      (2)   Submittal information. The application shall contain all of the
following information:
         (a)   The information requested on the application form;
         (b)   A map and/or plan addressing the appropriate criteria and
standards in sufficient detail for review and decision (as applicable);
         (c)   The required fee, except when the city initiates request; and
         (d)   One copy of a letter or narrative statement that explains how
the application satisfies each and all of the relevant approval criteria and
standards.
   (C)   Procedure. Hearings on legislative land use requests are conducted
similar to City Council hearings on other legislative proposals except the
notification procedure for legislative land use requests must conform to state
land use laws (ORS 227.175) as follows.
      (1)   The City Planning Official shall notify in writing the State
Department of Land Conservation and Development (DLCD) of legislative
amendments (zone change, rezoning with annexation or comprehensive plan
amendment) at least 45 days before the first public hearing at which public
testimony or new evidence will be received. The notice shall include a DLCD
certificate of mailing.
      (2)   At least 20 days, but not more than 40 days, before the date of the
first hearing on an ordinance that proposes to amend the comprehensive plan or
any element thereof, or to adopt an ordinance for any zone change, a notice
shall be prepared in conformance with ORS 227.175 and mailed to:
         (a)   Each owner whose property would be directly affected by the
proposal (e.g., rezoning or a change from one comprehensive plan land use
designation to another). See also ORS 227.186 for instructions;
         (b)   Any affected governmental agency;
         (c)   Any person who requests notice in writing; and
         (d)   For a zone change affecting a manufactured home or mobile home
park, all mailing addresses within the park, in accordance with ORS 227.175.
      (3)   At least ten days before the scheduled City Council public hearing
date, public notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city.
      (4)   For each mailing and publication of notice, the City Planning
Official shall keep an affidavit of mailing/publication in the record.
   (D)   Final decision and effective date. A legislative land use decision, if
approved, shall take effect and shall become final as specified in the enacting
ordinance, or if not approved, upon mailing of the notice of decision to the
applicant. Notice of a legislative land use decision shall be mailed to the
applicant, all participants of record and the Department of Land Conservation
and Development within five business days after the City Council decision is
filed with the City Planning Official. The city shall also provide notice to
all persons as required by other applicable laws.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.210 TIME LIMIT; CONSOLIDATED REVIEW; CITY PLANNING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Time limit; 120-day rule. The city shall take final action on
administrative and quasi-judicial land use applications, pursuant to this
subchapter, including resolution of all appeals, within 120 days from the date
the City Planning Official deems the application complete for purposes of
processing, unless the applicant requests an extension in writing. Any
exceptions to this rule shall conform to the provisions of ORS 227.178. (Note:
The 120-day rule does not apply to legislative land use decisions.)
   (B)   Time periods. In computing time periods prescribed or allowed by this
subchapter, the day of the act or event from which the designated period of
time begins shall not be included. The last day of the period shall be
included, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, in which case,
the period runs until the end of the next day that is not on a weekend or legal
holiday.
   (C)   Consolidated review of applications. When an applicant applies for
more than one type of land use or development permit for the same one or more
contiguous parcels of land, the proceedings shall be consolidated for review
and decision. When proceedings are consolidated, required notices may be
consolidated; provided, that the notice shall identify each application to be
decided. When more than one application is reviewed in a hearing, separate
findings and decisions shall be made on each application.
   (D)   City Planning Official’s duties. The City Planning Official, or his or
her designee, shall perform all of the following duties with regard to
administration of this chapter:
      (1)   Prepare application forms based on in the provisions of this
chapter and applicable state law;
      (2)   Prepare required notices and process applications for review and
action by City Council;
      (3)   Assist Planning Commission and City Council in administering the
hearings process;
      (4)   Answer questions from the public regarding the city’s land use
regulations;
      (5)   Prepare staff reports summarizing pending applications, including
applicable decision criteria;
      (6)   Prepare findings consistent with City Council decisions on land use
and development applications;
      (7)   Prepare notices of final decisions, file the notices in the city’s
records and mail a copy of the notices to all parties entitled to notice under
this chapter; and
      (8)   Maintain and preserve the file and public record for each
application.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
SITE PLAN REVIEW
§ 153.225 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to advance all of the following objectives
in the public interest:
   (A)   Carry out the development pattern and plan of the city and its
comprehensive plan policies through efficient and effective review of site
development proposals;
   (B)   Promote the public health, safety and general welfare;
   (C)   Provide adequate light and air, prevent overcrowding of land and
provide for adequate transportation, water supply, sewage, fire protection,
pollution control, surface water management and protection against natural
hazards; and
   (D)   Encourage efficient use of land resources and public services and the
provision of transportation options.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.226 APPLICABILITY.
   Site plan review approval is required for new development. Site plan review
approval is also required to expand a nonconforming use or development. Except
as specified by a condition of approval on a prior city decision, or as
required for uses subject to conditional use permit approval, site plan review
is not required for the following:
   (A)   Change in occupancy from one type of land use to a different land use
resulting in no increase in vehicular traffic;
   (B)   Single-family detached dwelling (including manufactured home) on its
own lot;
   (C)   A single duplex or two single-family attached (common-wall town home)
units;
   (D)   Nonresidential building addition of up to 500 square feet;
   (E)   Home occupation, except for uses requiring a conditional use permit;
   (F)   Accessory structures and accessory parking;
   (G)   Development and land uses that are already approved as part of a site
plan review or conditional use permit application, provided modifications to
such plans may require site plan review, pursuant to §§
153.280 through
153.283;
   (H)   Public improvements required by city standards or as stipulated by a
condition of land use approval (e.g., transportation facilities and
improvements, parks, trails, utilities and similar improvements), as determined
by the City Planning Official, except where a condition of approval requires
site plan review; and
   (I)   Regular maintenance, repair and replacement of materials (e.g., roof,
siding, awnings and the like), parking resurfacing and similar maintenance and
repair shall be exempt from review.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.227 REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   Site plan review shall be conducted using the Type II procedure in §
153.207, except that proposals exceeding the thresholds below shall be reviewed
using the Type III procedure in §
153.208:
   (A)   The proposed use’s estimated vehicle trip generation exceeds 100
average daily trips, based on the latest edition of the Institute of
Transportation Engineers (ITE) Manual (the equivalent of approximately ten
dwelling units or a 1,000 square foot bank with drive-through window);
   (B)   The use exceeds 5,000 square feet of gross leasable floor area; or the
project involves more than one acre total site area;
   (C)   The proposal involves a conditional use (new or expanded);
   (D)   The proposal involves a variance under §
153.312;
   (E)   The proposal involves expansion of a nonconforming use; or
   (F)   The City Planning Official determines that, due to the nature of the
proposal, a public hearing is the most effective way to solicit public input in
reviewing the application.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.228 APPLICATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   All of the following information is required for site plan review
application submittal, except where the City Planning Official determines that
some information is not pertinent and therefore is not required.
   (A)   General submission requirements.
      (1)   Information required for Type II or Type III review. As applicable
(see §§ 153.205 through 153.210).
      (2)   Public facilities and services impact study. The impact study shall
quantify and assess the effect of the development on public facilities and
services. The city shall advise as to the scope of the study. The study shall
address, at a minimum: the transportation system, including required
improvements for vehicles and pedestrians; the drainage system; the parks
system; water system; and sewer system. For each system and type of impact, the
study shall propose improvements necessary to meet city requirements.
      (3)   Traffic impact analysis. As may be required by the city or other
roadway authority.
   (B)   Site plan review information. In addition to the general submission
requirements an applicant for site plan review shall provide the following
information, as deemed applicable by the City Planning Official. The City
Planning Official may request any information that he or she needs to review
the proposal and prepare a complete staff report and recommendation to the
approval body:
      (1)   Site analysis map. The site analysis map shall contain the
following information, as the City Planning Official deems applicable:
         (a)   The applicant’s entire property and the surrounding property to
a distance sufficient to determine the location of the development in the city
and the relationship between the proposed development site and adjacent
property and development. The property boundaries, dimensions and gross area
shall be identified;
         (b)   Topographic contour lines at two-foot intervals for slopes,
except where the Public Works Director determines that larger intervals will be
adequate for steeper slopes;
         (c)   Identification of slopes greater than 15%, with slope categories
identified in 5% increments (e.g., 0%-5%, >5%-10%, >10%-15%, >15%-20% and so
forth);
         (d)   The location and width of all public and private streets,
drives, sidewalks, pathways, rights-of-way and easements on the site and
adjoining the site;
         (e)   Potential natural hazard areas, including, as applicable, the
base flood elevation identified on FEMA flood insurance rate maps or as
otherwise determined through site specific survey, areas subject to high water
table, and areas designated by the city, county or state as having a potential
for geologic hazards;
         (f)   Areas subject to overlay zones;
         (h)   Site features, including existing structures, pavement, large
rock outcroppings, areas having unique views and drainage ways, canals and
ditches;
         (i)   The location, size and species of trees and other vegetation
(outside proposed building envelope) having a caliper (diameter) of six inches
greater at four feet above grade;
         (j)   North arrow, scale, names and addresses of all persons listed as
owners of the subject property on the most recently recorded deed; and
         (k)   Name and address of project designer, engineer, surveyor and/or
planner, if applicable.
      (2)   Proposed site plan. The site plan shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   The proposed development site, including boundaries, dimensions
and gross area;
         (b)   Features identified on the existing site analysis maps that are
proposed to remain on the site;
         (c)   Features identified on the existing site map, if any, which are
proposed to be removed or modified by the development;
         (d)   The location and dimensions of all proposed public and private
streets, drives, rights-of-way and easements;
         (e)   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed
structures, utilities, pavement and other improvements on the site. Setback
dimensions for all existing and proposed buildings shall be provided on the
site plan;
         (f)   The location and dimensions of entrances and exits to the site
for vehicular, pedestrian and bicycle access;
         (g)   The location and dimensions of all parking and vehicle
circulation areas (show striping for parking stalls and wheel stops);
         (h)   Pedestrian and bicycle circulation areas, including sidewalks,
internal pathways, pathway connections to adjacent properties and any bicycle
lanes or trails;
         (i)   Loading and service areas for waste disposal, loading and
delivery;
         (j)   Outdoor recreation spaces, common areas, plazas, outdoor
seating, street furniture and similar improvements;
         (k)   Location, type and height of outdoor lighting;
         (l)   Location of mail boxes, if known;
         (m)   Name and address of project designer, if applicable;
         (n)   Locations of bus stops and other public or private
transportation facilities; and
         (o)   Locations, sizes and types of signs.
      (3)   Architectural drawings. Architectural drawings, as applicable:
         (a)   Building elevations with dimensions;
         (b)   Building materials, colors and type; and
         (c)   Name and contact information of the architect or designer.
      (4)   Preliminary grading plan. A preliminary grading plan prepared by a
registered engineer shall be required for development sites one-half acre or
larger, or where otherwise required by the city. The preliminary grading plan
shall show the location and extent to which grading will take place, indicating
general changes to contour lines, slope ratios, slope stabilization proposals
and location and height of retaining walls, if proposed. Surface water
detention and treatment plans may also be required, in accordance with §
153.189.
      (5)   Landscape plan. Where a landscape plan is required, it shall show
the following, pursuant to §§
153.155 through
153.159:
         (a)   The location and height of existing and proposed fences,
buffering or screening materials;
         (b)   The location of existing and proposed terraces, retaining walls,
decks, patios, shelters and play areas;
         (c)   The location, size and species of the existing and proposed
plant materials (at time of planting);
         (d)   Existing and proposed building and pavement outlines;
         (e)   Specifications for soil at time of planting, irrigation if
plantings are not drought-tolerant (may be automatic or other approved method
of irrigation) and anticipated planting schedule; and
         (f)   Other landscaping information as deemed appropriate by the City
Planning Official. An arborist’s report may be required for sites with mature
trees that are to be retained and protected.
      (6)   Deed restrictions. Copies of all existing and proposed restrictions
or covenants, including those for roadway access control.
      (7)   Narrative. Letter or narrative report documenting compliance with
the applicable approval criteria contained in §
153.229.
      (8)   Traffic impact analysis. When required, shall be prepared in
accordance with the road authority’s requirements.
      (9)   Other information determined by the City Planning Official. The
city may require studies or exhibits prepared by qualified professionals to
address specific site features or project impacts (e.g., traffic, noise,
environmental features, natural hazards and the like), as necessary to
determine a proposal’s conformance with this chapter.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.229 APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   An application for site plan review shall be approved if the proposal
meets all of the following criteria.
   (B)   The city decision-making body may in approving the application impose
reasonable conditions, consistent with the following applicable criteria:
      (1)   The application is complete, as determined in accordance with §§
153.205 through
153.210 and 153.228;
      (2)   The application complies with all of the applicable provisions of
the underlying land use district, including, but not limited to, building and
yard setbacks, lot area and dimensions, density and floor area, lot coverage,
building height, building orientation, architecture and other applicable
standards;
      (3)   The proposal includes required upgrades, if any, to existing
development that does not comply with the applicable land use district
standards, as may be required under §
153.004;
      (4)   The proposal complies with all of the development and design
standards of this chapter, as applicable, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Sections 153.140 through 153.142: access and circulation;
         (b)   Sections 153.155 through 153.159: landscaping, fences and walls
and outdoor lighting;
         (c)   Sections 153.170 through 153.174: parking and loading; and
         (d)   Sections 153.185 through 153.194: public facilities.
      (5)   All adverse impacts to adjacent properties, such as light, glare,
noise, odor, vibration, smoke, dust or visual impact, are avoided; or where
impacts cannot be avoided, they are minimized; and
      (6)   The proposal meets all existing conditions of approval for the site
or use, as required by prior land use decision(s), as applicable.
   (C)   Compliance with other city codes and requirements, though not
applicable land use criteria, may be required prior to issuance of building
permits.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012 )
§ 153.230 ASSURANCES.
   Public improvement required as part of a site plan review approval shall be
subject to the performance guarantee and warranty bond provisions of §
153.194, as applicable.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.231 COMPLIANCE WITH CONDITIONS; MODIFICATIONS; PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Development shall not commence until all applicable land use and
development approvals are final and effective. Construction of public
improvements shall not commence until the city has approved all required public
improvement plans (e.g., utilities, streets, public land dedication and the
like). The city may require bonding or other assurances for improvements.
   (B)   Site plan review approvals are subject to all of the following
standards and limitations.
      (1)   Approval period. Site plan review approvals shall be effective for
a period of one year from the date of approval. The approval shall lapse if:
         (a)   A public improvement plan or building permit application for the
project has not been submitted within one year of approval; or
         (b)   Construction on the site is in violation of the approved plan.
      (2)   Extension. The City Planning Official, upon written request by the
applicant, may grant a written extension of the approval period not to exceed
one year; provided, that:
         (a)   No changes are made on the original approved plan;
         (b)   The applicant can show intent of initiating construction on the
site within the one-year extension period;
         (c)   There have been no changes to the applicable code provisions on
which the approval was based. If there have been changes to the applicable code
provisions and the subject plan does not comply with those changes, then the
extension shall not be granted; in this case, a new site plan review shall be
required; and
         (d)   The applicant demonstrates that failure to obtain building
permits and substantially begin construction within one year of site design
approval was beyond the applicant’s control.
      (3)   Modifications to approved plans and developments. Modifications to
approved plans are subject to city review and approval under §§
153.280 through
153.283.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
LAND DIVISIONS AND PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENTS
§ 153.245 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to implement the objectives in divisions
(A) through (E) below:
   (A)   Provide rules, regulations and standards governing the approval of
subdivisions, partitions and property line adjustments as follows:
      (1)   Subdivisions are the creation of four or more lots from one parent
lot, parcel or tract, within one calendar year;
      (2)   Partitions are the creation of three or fewer lots from one parent
lot, parcel or tract within one calendar year; and
      (3)   Property line adjustments are modifications to lot lines or parcel
boundaries that do not result in the creation of new lots (includes
consolidation of lots).
   (B)   Carry out the city’s development pattern, as envisioned by the city’s
comprehensive plan;
   (C)   Encourage efficient use of land resources and public services and
provide transportation options;
   (D)   Promote the public health, safety and general welfare through orderly
and efficient urbanization; and
   (E)   Provide adequate light and air, prevent overcrowding of land and
provide for adequate transportation, water supply, sewage, fire protection,
pollution control, surface water management and protection against natural
hazards.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.246 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Subdivision and partition approval through two-step process.
      (1)   Applications for subdivision or partition approval shall be
processed by means of a preliminary plat evaluation and a final plat
evaluation, according to the following two steps.
         (a)   The preliminary plat must be approved before the final plat can
be submitted for approval consideration.
         (b)   The final plat must demonstrate compliance with all conditions
of approval of the preliminary plat.
      (2)   Property line adjustments and lot consolidation requests (i.e., no
new lot is created) are subject to §
153.254; they are not subject to this section or §§
153.247 through
153.253.
   (B)   Compliance with ORS Chapter 92. All subdivision and partition
proposals shall conform to state regulations in ORS Chapter 92, subdivisions
and partitions.
   (C)   Future re-division plan. When subdividing or partitioning tracts into
large lots (i.e., greater than three times or 300% the minimum lot size allowed
by the underlying land use district), the lots shall be of such size, shape and
orientation as to facilitate future re-division and extension of streets and
utilities. The applicant shall submit a future redivision plan, or shadow plan,
indicating how re-division of oversized lots and extension of planned public
facilities to adjacent parcels can occur in the future.
   (D)   Adequate utilities. All lots created through land division shall have
adequate public utilities and facilities such as streets, water, sewer, gas and
electrical systems, pursuant to §§
153.185 through
153.194. These systems shall be located and constructed underground where
feasible.
   (E)   Adequate drainage. All subdivision and partition proposals shall have
adequate surface water drainage facilities that reduce exposure to flood damage
and improve water quality. Water quality or quantity control improvements may
be required, pursuant to §§
153.185 through
153.194.
   (F)   Adequate access. All lots created or reconfigured shall have adequate
vehicle access and parking, as may be required, pursuant to §§
153.140 through
153.142.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.247 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Review of preliminary plat. Preliminary plats shall be processed using
the Type III procedure under §
153.208. All preliminary plats, including partitions and subdivisions, are
subject to the approval criteria in §
153.249.
   (B)   Preliminary plat approval period. Preliminary plat approval shall be
effective for a period of two years from the date of approval. The preliminary
plat shall lapse if a final plat has not been submitted or other assurance
provided, pursuant to §
153.251, within the two-year period. The Planning Commission may approve phased
subdivisions, pursuant with division (D) below, with an overall time frame of
more than two years between preliminary and final plat approvals.
   (C)   Modifications and extensions. The applicant may request changes to the
approved preliminary plat or conditions of approval following the procedures
and criteria provided in §§
153.280 through
153.283. The Planning Commission may, upon written request by the applicant and
payment of the required fee, grant written extensions of the approval period
not to exceed one year per extension, provided that all of the following
criteria are met:
      (1)   Any changes to the preliminary plat follow the procedures in §§
153.280 through
153.283;
      (2)   The applicant has submitted written intent to file a final plat
within the one-year extension period;
      (3)   An extension of time will not prevent the lawful development of
abutting properties;
      (4)   There have been no changes to the applicable code provisions on
which the approval was based. If such changes have occurred, a new preliminary
plat application shall be required; and
      (5)   The extension request is made before expiration of the original
approved plan.
   (D)   Phased subdivision. The Planning Commission may approve phased
subdivisions; provided, that the applicant proposes a reasonable phasing
schedule that meets all of the following criteria.
      (1)   In no case shall the construction time period (i.e., for required
public improvements, utilities and streets) for the first subdivision phase be
more than one year.
      (2)   Public facilities shall be constructed in conjunction with or prior
to each phase.
      (3)   The phased development shall not result in requiring the city or a
third party (e.g., owners of lots) to construct public facilities that are
required as part of the approved development proposal.
      (4)   The proposed time schedule for phased development approval shall be
reviewed concurrently with the preliminary subdivision plat application.
      (5)   Planning Commission approval is required for modifications to
phasing plans.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.248 PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   Applications for preliminary plat approval shall contain all of the
following information:
   (A)   General submission requirements.
      (1)   Information required for a Type III review. See §
153.208.
      (2)   Public facilities and services impact study. The impact study shall
quantify and assess the effect of the development on public facilities and
services. The city shall advise as to the scope of the study, which shall
address, at a minimum: the transportation system, including required
improvements for vehicles and pedestrians; the drainage system; the parks
system (for subdivisions and planned unit developments of 20 or more dwelling
units); the water system; and the sewer system. For each system and type of
impact, the study shall propose improvements necessary to meet city standards
under adopted ordinances and facility master plans.
      (3)   Traffic impact analysis. As may be required by the city or other
roadway authority.
   (B)   Preliminary plat information. In addition to the general information
described in division (A) above, the preliminary plat application shall consist
of drawings and supplementary written material (i.e., on forms and/or in a
written narrative) adequate to provide the following information, in quantities
determined by City Planning Official.
      (1)   General information. The following general information is required:
         (a)   Name of subdivision (partitions are named by year and file
number). This name shall not duplicate the name of another land division in the
county (check with County Surveyor);
         (b)   Date, north arrow and scale of drawing;
         (c)   Location of the development sufficient to define its location in
the city, boundaries and a legal description of the site;
         (d)   Zoning of parcel to be divided, including any overlay zones;
         (e)   A title block including the names, addresses and telephone
numbers of the owners of the subject property and, as applicable, the name of
the engineer and surveyor and the date of the survey; and
         (f)   Identification of the drawing as a preliminary plat.
      (2)   Existing conditions. Except where the City Planning Official deems
certain information is not relevant, applications for preliminary plat approval
shall contain all of the following information on existing conditions of the
site:
         (a)   Location, name and present width of all streets, alleys and
rights-of-way on and abutting the site;
         (b)   Width, location and purpose of all existing easements of record
on and abutting the site;
         (c)   Location and identity of all utilities on and abutting the site:
If water mains and sewers are not on or abutting the site, indicate the
direction and distance to the nearest one and show how utilities will be
brought to standards;
         (d)   Ground elevations shown by contour lines at two-foot vertical
interval: Such ground elevations shall be related to some established benchmark
or other datum approved by the County Surveyor; the Planning Commission may
waive this standard for partitions when grades, on average, are less than 6%;
         (e)   The location and elevation of the closest benchmark(s) within or
adjacent to the site (i.e., for surveying purposes);
         (f)   The base flood elevation, per FEMA flood insurance rate maps, as
applicable;
         (g)   North arrow and scale; and
         (h)   Other information as deemed necessary by the City Planning
Official for review of the application. The city may require studies or
exhibits prepared by qualified professionals to address specific site features
and code requirements.
      (3)   Proposed development. Except where the City Planning Official deems
certain information is not relevant, applications for preliminary plat approval
shall contain all of the following information on the proposed development:
         (a)   Proposed lots, streets, tracts, open space and park land (if
any); location, names, right-of-way dimensions, approximate radius of street
curves; and approximate finished street centerline grades. All streets and
tracts that are being held for private use and all reservations and
restrictions relating to such private tracts shall be identified;
         (b)   Easements: location, width and purpose of all proposed
easements;
         (c)   Lots and private tracts (e.g., private open space, common area
or street): approximate dimensions, area calculation (e.g., in square feet) and
identification numbers for all proposed lots and tracts;
         (d)   Proposed uses of the property, including all areas proposed to
be dedicated as public right-of-way or reserved as open space for the purpose
of surface water management, recreation or other use;
         (e)   Proposed public street improvements, pursuant to §§
153.185 through
153.194;
         (f)   On slopes exceeding an average grade of 10%, as determined by
the City Engineer, the preliminary location of development on lots (e.g.,
building envelopes), demonstrating that future development can meet minimum
required setbacks and applicable engineering design standards;
         (g)   Preliminary design for extending city water and sewer service to
each lot, per §§
153.185 through
153.194;
         (h)   Proposed method of stormwater drainage and treatment, if
required, pursuant to §§
153.185 through
153.194;
         (i)   The approximate location and identity of other utilities,
including the locations of street lighting fixtures, as applicable;
         (j)   Evidence of compliance with applicable overlay zones, including,
but not limited to, the city’s floodplain overlay; and
         (k)   Evidence of contact with the applicable road authority for
proposed new street connections.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.249 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   Approval criteria. The Planning Commission may approve, approve with
conditions or deny a preliminary plat. The Planning Commission decision shall
be based on findings of compliance with all of the following approval criteria:
      (1)   The land division application shall conform to the requirements of
§§
153.245 through
153.254;
      (2)   All proposed lots, blocks and proposed land uses shall conform to
the applicable zoning provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Access to individual lots and public improvements necessary to
serve the development, including, but not limited to, water, sewer and streets,
shall conform to the development and design standards of this chapter);
      (4)   The proposed plat name is not already recorded for another
subdivision, and satisfies the provisions of ORS Chapter 92;
      (5)   The proposed streets, utilities and surface water drainage
facilities conform to city adopted master plans and applicable engineering
standards and allow for transitions to existing and potential future
development on adjacent lands. The preliminary plat shall identify all proposed
public improvements and dedications;
      (6)   All proposed private common areas and improvements, if any, are
identified on the preliminary plat and maintenance of such areas is assured
through appropriate legal instrument;
      (7)   Evidence that any required state and federal permits, as
applicable, have been obtained or can reasonably be obtained prior to
development; and
      (8)   Evidence that improvements or conditions required by the city, road
authority, the county, special districts, utilities and/or other service
providers, as applicable to the project, have been or can be met.
   (B)   Conditions of approval. The Planning Commission may attach such
conditions as are necessary to carry out provisions of this chapter and other
applicable ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.250 LAND DIVISION-RELATED VARIANCES.
   Variances shall be processed in accordance with §§
153.310 through
153.314. Applications for variances shall be submitted at the same time an
application for land division or lot line adjustment is submitted; when
practical, the applications shall be reviewed concurrently.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.251 FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS AND APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   Final plats require review and approval by the Planning Commission prior to
recording with the county. The final plat submission requirements, approval
criteria and procedure are as follows.
   (A)   Submission requirements. The applicant shall submit the final plat
within two years of the approval of the preliminary plat as provided by §
153.249. The format of the plat shall conform to ORS Chapter 92.
   (B)   Approval process and criteria. By means of a Type II review, the
Planning Commission shall review and approve or deny the final plat application
based on findings of compliance or noncompliance with the all of the following
criteria:
      (1)   The final plat is consistent in design (e.g., number, area,
dimensions of lots, easements, tracts and rights-of-way) with the approved
preliminary plat, and all conditions of approval have been satisfied;
      (2)   All public improvements required by the preliminary plat have been
installed and approved by the city or applicable service provider if different
than the city (e.g., road authority), or otherwise bonded in conformance with §
153.194;
      (3)   The streets and roads for public use are dedicated without
reservation or restriction other than reversionary rights upon vacation of any
such street or road and easements for public utilities;
      (4)   All required streets, access ways, roads, easements and other
dedications or reservations are shown on the plat;
      (5)   The plat and deed contain a dedication to the public of all public
improvements, including, but not limited to, streets, public pathways and
trails, access reserve strips, parks and water and sewer facilities, as
applicable;
      (6)   As applicable, the applicant has furnished acceptable copies of
covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs), easements, maintenance
agreements (e.g., for access, common areas, parking and the like) and other
recorded documents pertaining to common improvements recorded and referenced on
the plat;
      (7)   Verification by the city that water and sanitary sewer service is
available to every lot depicted on the plat; and
      (8)   The plat contains an affidavit by the surveyor who surveyed the
land, represented on the plat to the effect the land was correctly surveyed and
marked with proper monuments as provided by ORS Chapter 92, indicating the
initial point of the survey and giving the dimensions and kind of such monument
and its reference to some corner approved by the County Surveyor for purposes
of identifying its location.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.252 FILING AND RECORDING.
   A new lot is not a legal lot for purposes of ownership (title), sale, lease
or development/land use until a final plat is recorded for the subdivision or
partition containing the lot is recorded. Requests to validate an existing lot
created through means other than a final plat (“lot of record”) shall follow
the procedures set forth in ORS 92.010 through 92.190. The final plat filing
and recording requirements are as follows.
   (A)   Filing plat with county. Within 60 days of the city approval of the
final plat, the applicant shall submit the final plat to the county for
signatures of county officials as required by ORS Chapter 92.
   (B)   Proof of recording. Upon final recording with the county, the
applicant shall submit to the city a Mylar copy and three paper copies of all
sheets of the recorded final plat. This shall occur prior to the issuance of
building permits for the newly created lots.
   (C)   Prerequisites to recording the plat.
      (1)   No plat shall be recorded unless all ad valorem taxes and all
special assessments, fees or other charges required by law to be placed on the
tax roll have been paid in the manner provided by ORS Chapter 92.
      (2)   No plat shall be recorded until the County Surveyor approves it in
the manner provided by ORS Chapter 92.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.253 RE-PLATTING AND VACATION OF PLATS.
   Any plat or portion thereof may be re-platted or vacated upon receiving an
application signed by all of the owners as appearing on the deed. Except as
required for street vacations, the same procedure and standards that apply to
the creation of a plat (preliminary plat followed by final plat) shall be used
to re-plat or vacate a plat. Street vacations are subject to ORS Chapter 271. A
re-plat or vacation application may be denied if it abridges or destroys any
public right in any of its public uses, improvements, streets or alleys; or if
it fails to meet any applicable city standards.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.254 PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENTS.
   A property line adjustment is the modification of lot boundaries when no lot
is created. The City Planning Official reviews applications for property line
adjustments pursuant to the Type I procedure under §
153.206. The application submission and approval process for property line
adjustments is as follows.
   (A)   Submission requirements. All applications for property line adjustment
shall be made on forms provided by the city and shall include information
required for a Type I review, pursuant to §
153.206. The application shall include a preliminary lot line map drawn to
scale identifying all existing and proposed lot lines and dimensions;
footprints and dimensions of existing structures (including accessory
structures); location and dimensions of driveways and public and private
streets within or abutting the subject lots; location of lands subject to the
city’s floodplain overlay; existing fences and walls; and any other information
deemed necessary by the Planning Commission for ensuring compliance with city
codes. The application shall be signed by all of the owners as appearing on the
deeds of the subject lots.
   (B)   Approval criteria. The City Planning Official shall approve or deny a
request for a property line adjustment in writing based on all of the following
criteria.
      (1)   Parcel creation. No additional parcel or lot is created by the lot
line adjustment.
      (2)   Lot standards. All lots and parcels conform to the applicable lot
standards of the zoning district, including lot area, dimensions, setbacks and
coverage. As applicable, all lots and parcels shall conform to the city’s
floodplain overlay.
      (3)   Access and road authority standards. All lots and parcels conform
to the standards or requirements of §§
153.140 through
153.142, and all applicable road authority requirements are met. If a lot is
nonconforming to any city or road authority standard, it shall not be made less
conforming by the property line adjustment.
   (C)   Recording property line adjustments.
      (1)   Recording. Upon the city’s approval of the proposed property line
adjustment, the applicant shall record the property line adjustment documents
with the county within 60 days of approval (or the decision expires) and submit
a copy of the recorded survey map to the city to be filed with the approved
application.
      (2)   Time limit. The applicant shall submit a copy of the recorded
property line adjustment survey map to the city within 15 days of recording and
prior to any application being filed for a building permits on the re-
configured lots.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
§ 153.265 PURPOSE.
   There are certain uses, which, due to the nature of their impacts on
surrounding land uses and public facilities, require a case-by-case review and
analysis. Conditional uses are identified in §§
153.021 through
153.023. The purpose of this subchapter is to provide procedures and standards
for permitting conditional uses.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.266 APPROVALS PROCESS.
   The Planning Commission using a Type III procedure, per §
153.208, reviews conditional use applications. The Planning Commission may
require annual, or less frequent, renewal of conditional use permits.
Modifications to conditional use permits are subject to §§
153.280 through
153.283.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.267 APPLICATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the submission requirements for a Type III review under §
153.208, applications for conditional use permits shall include a description
of existing conditions, a site plan and information on any existing and any
proposed restrictions or covenants. (For a more detailed description of each
item, please refer to § 153.228.) An application for a conditional use permit
shall also contain a narrative report or letter responding to the applicable
approval criteria in §
153.268.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.268 CRITERIA, STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS OR APPROVAL.
   The Planning Commission shall approve, approve with conditions or deny an
application for a conditional use, including requests to enlarge or alter a
conditional use, based on findings of fact with respect to all of the criteria
and standards in divisions (A) through (C) below.
   (A)   Use criteria.
      (1)   The site size, dimensions, location, topography and access are
adequate for the needs of the proposed use, considering the proposed building
mass, parking, traffic, noise, vibration, exhaust/emissions, light, glare,
erosion, odor, dust, visibility, safety and aesthetic considerations.
      (2)   The negative impacts of the proposed use, if any, on adjacent
properties and on the public can be mitigated through application of other code
standards or other reasonable conditions of approval.
      (3)   All required public facilities, including water, sanitary sewer and
streets, have adequate capacity or are to be improved to serve the proposal,
consistent with city standards.
      (4)   A conditional use permit shall not allow a use that is prohibited
or not expressly allowed under §§
153.020 through
153.023, 153.035 through 153.046, 153.060, 153.061, 153.075 through 153.079,
153.090 through 153.096, 153.110, 153.111, 153.125 and 153.126; nor shall a
conditional use permit grant a variance without a variance application being
reviewed with the conditional use application.
   (B)   Conditions of approval. The city may impose conditions that are found
necessary to ensure that the use is compatible with other uses in the vicinity
and that the negative impact of the proposed use on the surrounding uses and
public facilities is minimized. These conditions include, but are not limited
to, one or more of the following:
      (1)   Limiting the hours, days, place and/or manner of operation;
      (2)   Requiring site or architectural design features which minimize
environmental impacts such as noise, vibration, exhaust/emissions, light,
glare, erosion, odor and/or dust;
      (3)   Requiring larger setback areas, lot area and/or lot depth or width;
      (4)   Limiting the building or structure height, size, lot coverage and/
or location on the site;
      (5)   Designating the size, number, location and/or design of vehicle
access points or parking and loading areas;
      (6)   Requiring street right-of-way to be dedicated and street
improvements made, or the installation of pathways or sidewalks, as applicable;
      (7)   Requiring landscaping, screening, drainage, water quality
facilities and/or improvement of parking and loading areas;
      (8)   Limiting the number, size, location, height and/or lighting of
signs;
      (9)   Limiting or setting standards for the location, type, design and/or
intensity of outdoor lighting;
      (10)   Requiring berms, screening or landscaping and the establishment of
standards for their installation and maintenance;
      (11)   Requiring and designating the size, height, location and/or
materials for fences;
      (12)   Requiring the protection and preservation of existing trees,
soils, vegetation, watercourses, habitat areas, drainage areas, historic
resources, cultural resources and/or sensitive lands;
      (13)   Requiring improvements to water, sanitary sewer or storm drainage
systems, in conformance with city standards; and
      (14)   The Planning Commission may require renewal of conditional use
permits annually or in accordance with another timetable as approved pursuant
to this subchapter. Where applicable, the timetable shall provide for periodic
review and renewal, or expiration, of the conditional use permit to ensure
compliance with conditions of approval; such period review may occur through an
administrative or quasi-judicial land use review process.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
MODIFICATIONS TO APPROVED PLANS AND CONDITIONS
§ 153.280 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide an efficient process for
modifying land use decisions and approved development plans, in recognition of
the cost and complexity of land development and the need to conserve city
resources.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.281 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter applies when an applicant proposes to modify an approved
application or condition of approval.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.282 MAJOR MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Major modification. The Planning Commission reviews applications for
major modifications through the quasi-judicial procedure under §
153.208. Any one of the following changes constitutes a major modification:
      (1)   A change in land use, from a less intensive use to a more intensive
use, as evidenced by parking, paved area, estimated an increase in automobile
or truck trips (peak and/or average daily trips), an increase in hours of
operation, an increased demand for parking, additional paved area or similar
factors, where the increase is 10% or more; provided, that the zoning district
standards and development design standards of this chapter are met;
      (2)   An increase in floor area to a commercial or industrial
development, or an increase in the number of dwelling units in a multi-family
development, by 10% or more; provided, that the zoning district standards and
development design standards of this chapter are met;
      (3)   A reduction in required setbacks, or an increase in lot coverage,
by 10% or more; provided, that the zoning district standards and development
design standards of this chapter are met;
      (4)   A change in the type and/or location of vehicle access points or
approaches, driveways or parking areas affecting off-site traffic when roadway
authority determines the change could cause a significant adverse impact on
traffic operations or safety (i.e., requiring mitigation);
      (5)   A reduction to screening, or a reduction to the area reserved for
common open space or landscaping by 10% or more;
      (6)   Change to a condition of approval, or a change similar to divisions
(A)(1) through (A)(5) above, that could have a detrimental impact on adjoining
properties. The City Planning Official shall have discretion in determining
detrimental impacts triggering a major modification; or
      (7)   Other changes similar to those in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(6)
above, in scale, magnitude or impact to adjacent properties, as determined by
the City Planning Official.
   (B)   Major modification applications; approval criteria. Requests for major
modifications shall conform to all of the following procedures and criteria.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit an application form, filing fee, a
letter describing the modification and a site plan using the same plan format
as in the original approval. The city may require other relevant information,
as necessary, in evaluating the request.
      (2)   The application shall be subject to the same approval criteria used
for the initial project approval; except that a modification adding a
conditional use to a project approved without a conditional use shall require
findings in conformance with §§
153.265 through
153.268.
      (3)   The scope of review shall be limited to the modification request.
For example, a request to modify a commercial development’s parking lot shall
require site plan review only for the proposed parking lot, and for any changes
to associated access, circulation and the like, notice shall be provided in
accordance with §§
153.205 through
153.210.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall approve, deny or approve with
conditions an application for major modification based on written findings on
the applicable code criteria (e.g., subdivision, site plan review, conditional
use and the like).
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.283 MINOR MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Minor modification. The City Planning Official, through a Type I or II
procedure, depending on whether the proposal involves the exercise of
discretion, shall review proposals for minor modifications. Minor modifications
include technical corrections to comply with codes and regulations and changes
that fall below the thresholds in §
153.282, as determined by the City Planning Official. Administrative land use
review shall be pursuant to §
153.207. A minor modification is a change to an approved plan or condition of
approval that does not meet any of the thresholds for a major modification
listed in §
153.282(A).
   (B)   Minor modification applications; approval criteria. An application for
minor modification shall include an application form, filing fee, a letter
describing the modification and a site plan using the same plan format as in
the original approval. The City Planning Official may require other relevant
information, as necessary, in evaluating the request.
   (C)   Minor modification approval criteria. The Planning Commission shall
approve, deny or approve with conditions an application for minor modification
based on findings of compliance or noncompliance with the applicable
requirements of this development code and the conditions of approval on the
original decision.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
AMENDMENTS TO ZONING MAP OR CODE
§ 153.295 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide standards and procedures for
legislative and quasi-judicial amendments to this chapter and zoning map.
Amendments may be necessary from time to time to reflect changing community
conditions, to correct mistakes or to address changes in the law.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.296 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except for corrections, amendments to this development code text are
legislative.
   (B)   Amendments to the zoning map that affect more than one parcel, or more
than one-half acre, whichever is greater, are legislative actions.
   (C)   Amendments to the zoning map that require an amendment to the
comprehensive plan are legislative actions.
   (D)   Amendments that do not meet the criteria under divisions (A), (B) or
(C) above may be processed as quasi-judicial amendments.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.297 CRITERIA.
   Planning Commission review and recommendation and City Council approval of
an ordinance amending the zoning map, development code or comprehensive plan
shall be based on all of the following criteria.
   (A)   If the proposal involves an amendment to the comprehensive plan, the
amendment must be consistent with the statewide planning goals and relevant
state administrative rules.
   (B)   The proposal must be consistent with the comprehensive plan. (The
comprehensive plan may be amended concurrently with proposed changes in
zoning.)
   (C)   The City Council must find the proposal to be in the public interest
with regard to community conditions; the proposal either corrects a mistake or
inconsistency in the comprehensive plan, development code or zoning map; or it
responds to changes in the community.
   (D)   The amendment must conform to the transportation planning rule
provisions under §
153.299.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.298 RECORD OF AMENDMENTS.
   The City Planning Official shall maintain a record of amendments to the text
of this chapter and the zoning map in a format convenient for public use. In
the case of a map amendment, the map shall be made part of the ordinance.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.299 TRANSPORTATION PLANNING RULE COMPLIANCE.
   Proposals to amend the comprehensive plan or zoning map shall be reviewed to
determine whether they significantly affect a transportation facility pursuant
to State Administrative Rule (OAR) 660-012-0060 (Transportation Planning Rule -
TPR). Where the City Council, in consultation with the applicable roadway
authority, finds that a proposed amendment would have a significant effect on a
transportation facility, the city shall work with the roadway authority and
applicant to modify the request or mitigate the impacts in accordance with the
TPR and applicable law.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
ADJUSTMENTS AND VARIANCES
§ 153.310 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter provides standards and procedures for adjustments and
variances, which are modifications to development standards that are not
otherwise permitted elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.311 INTENT.
   Adjustments are variances are intended to provide relief to code standards
in specific situations. Both procedures are intended to ensure that the
resulting development is compatible with adjacent properties and is consistent
with this chapter’s intent.
   (A)   Adjustments. Adjustments provide relief from specific code provisions
when a code provision has the unintended effect of preventing reasonable
development in conformance with all other code requirements. Adjustments are
allowed in limited situations pursuant to §
153.312. The permitted use standards of Table 153.022 are not subject to
modification through an adjustment.
   (B)   Variances. Variances provide greater flexibility to code standards
than adjustments where the physical characteristics of a site or its
surroundings prevent reasonable development in compliance with a code standard.
The permitted use standards of Table 153.022 are not subject to modification
through a variance.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.312 ADJUSTMENTS (MINOR VARIANCES).
   (A)   Adjustment through administrative (Type II) procedure. Upon finding
all of the approval criteria in this section are met, the City Planning
Official or Planning Commission through a Type II procedure may approve an
adjustment to one or more of the following standards, within the limits set
forth for each standard:
      (1)   Setbacks: up to a 20% change to a minimum setback;
      (2)   Lot coverage: up to 20% increase to the maximum lot coverage;
      (3)   Lot dimensions: up to a 20% decrease to a minimum lot dimension;
      (4)   Lot area: up to a 10% decrease in minimum lot area; and
      (5)   Other dimensional standards: up to a 10% increase or decrease in a
quantitative (numerical) standard not listed above. This option is limited to
zoning district standards and development design standards of this chapter
(specifically, Table 153.023 and §§ 153.035 through 153.046), but does not
include building code requirements, engineering design standards, public safety
standards or standards implementing state or federal requirements, as
determined by the City Planning Official.
   (B)   Adjustment approval criteria. The city may grant an adjustment only
upon finding that all of the following criteria are met. The burden is on the
applicant to demonstrate compliance with the criteria.
      (1)   The adjustment allows for a building plan that is more compatible
with adjacent land uses, or it does not create a conflict with adjacent uses.
The city decision-making body shall consider whether the proposed adjustment
would create incompatibilities relative land use, access, circulation, future
street connectivity, noise, light, glare, odor, emissions, vibration, building
design, streetscape appearance and functionality and similar types of impacts,
as applicable.
      (2)   Approval of the adjustment does not create a violation(s) of any
other adopted ordinance or code standard and does not create the need for a
variance.
      (3)   An application for an adjustment is limited to one lot per
application.
      (4)   Requests for more than one adjustment on the same lot shall be
consolidated on one application and reviewed concurrently by the city.
      (5)   Not more than three adjustments may be approved for one lot or
parcel in a continuous 12-month period.
      (6)   All applicable building code requirements and engineering design
standards shall be met.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.313 VARIANCES.
   The Planning Commission, through a Type III procedure, may approve a
variance upon finding all of the following criteria are met:
   (A)   The variance is necessary because the subject code provision does not
account for special or unique physical circumstances of the subject site,
existing development patterns or adjacent land uses;
   (B)   The variance is the minimum necessary to address the special or unique
physical circumstances related to the subject site;
   (C)   The need for the variance is not self-imposed by the applicant or
property owner (or example, the variance request does not arise as result of a
property line adjustment or land division approval previously granted to the
applicant);
   (D)   The variance does not conflict with other applicable city policies or
other applicable regulations;
   (E)   The variance will result in no foreseeable harm to adjacent property
owners or the public; and
   (F)   All applicable building code requirements and engineering design
standards shall be met.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.314 EXPIRATION.
   Approvals granted under this subchapter shall expire if not acted upon by
the property owner within one year of the city approving the variance. Where
the owner has applied for a building permit or final plat, has made site
improvements consistent with an approved development plan (e.g., site plan
review or preliminary subdivision plan), or provides other evidence of working
in good faith toward completing the project, the City Planning Official may
extend an approval accordingly.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Upon failure to comply with any provision of this chapter, or
with any restrictions or conditions imposed hereunder, the city may withhold
any further permits and may withhold or withdraw city utility services until
correction is made.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any such action taken by the Council, any person,
firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to civil
penalties of not more than $200 for each offense. Except where the Council
finds that the owner is making satisfactory progress toward abating the
violation, each day that a violation exists shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
153.075 through
153.079 or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not more than $500 a day and, in addition, shall pay all
costs and expenses involved in the case.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2012)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   STREET NAMING
TABLE I: STREET NAMING
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
                        Establishing the names of streets north-south as First
                        Street, Second Street and so on. Establishing the names
711      1-7-1957       of east-west streets as a common name of a tree or
                        shrub, in alphabetical order. Establishing Eighteenth
                        Street, Synder Court, Twentieth Street and East Willow
                        Street.
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oregon Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OREGON REVISED STATUTES
O.R.S. Section Code Section
O.R.S. Section            Code Section
34.010 through 34.100     34.19;
                          152.22
822.110                   74.17
87.176                    74.17
                          153.001;
                          153.246;
Chapter 92                153.249;
                          153.251;
                          153.252
92.010                    153.001
92.010 through 92.190     153.003;
                          153.252
92.010(8)                 153.001
Chapter 100               153.001
Chapter 161               153.006
Chapter 163               113.13
163.160                   90.058
163.165                   90.058
163.175                   90.058
163.185                   90.058
163.415                   90.058
163.425                   90.058
163.465                   90.058
163.575                   90.058
Chapter 164               111.04;
                          113.13
164.245                   90.058
164.345                   90.058
164.354                   90.058
164.365                   90.058
166.025                   90.058
166.065                   90.058
166.220                   90.058
179C.335(5)               33.46
Chapter 190               33.43
192.345                   52.37
192.355                   52.37
192.610 et seq.           32.04
195.300                   33.61
195.300 through 195.336   33.62;
                          33.66
195.305(5)                33.60;
                          33.61
195.308                   33.61
195.310(4)                33.66
195.310(4)(b)             33.67
195.312(3)                33.63
195.314(1)                33.65;
                          33.66
195.314(6)                33.65
195.505                   92.24
197.015                   153.001;
                          153.206
197.493                   153.022
197.660                   153.001
197.660 through 197.670   153.038
197.805 through 197.860   153.208
221.495                   113.01
Chapter 222               153.205
Chapter 223               34.13;
                          150.39
223.205 through 223.295   152.15
223.208                   34.13
223.229(2)                34.02
223.297 through 223.314   34.02;
                          34.19
223.299(2)                34.04
223.299(3)                34.02;
                          34.04
223.302(2)                34.02
223.302(3)                34.02
223.304(1)                34.04
223.304(2)                34.04
223.304(6)                34.10
223.307                   34.02;
                          34.17
223.309                   34.06
223.387                   152.01
227.010 through 227.170   32.01
227.175                   32.01; 154.209
                          153.207;
227.178                   153.208;
                          153.209;
                          153.210
227.180                   32.01;
                          153.208;
227.186                   153.209
Chapter 271               153.253
Chapter 279A              33.40;
                          33.43
279A.010                  33.46
279A.050                  33.42
279A.120(2)               33.43;
                          33.46
279A.200(2)               33.43
Chapter 279B              33.40;
                          33.43
279B.050(2)               33.43
279B.055                  33.43
279B.055(4)               33.43
279B.060                  33.43
279B.060(6)(b)            33.43
279B.065                  33.43
279B.070                  33.43
279B.080                  33.43
279B.085                  33.43
279B.400 through 279B.425 33.43
                          33.40;
Chapter 279C              33.43;
                          33.46
279C.300 et seq.          33.46
279C.330                  33.46
279C.335(5)               33.46
305.583(8)                34.03
329A.440(4)               153.001;
                          153.022
Chapter 357               92.01
357.410                   92.04
357.435                   92.04
357.460                   92.04
357.470                   92.04
357.480                   92.04
357.490                   92.04
357.510                   92.04
357.520                   92.04
357.525                   92.04
357.530                   92.04
357.540                   92.04
357.570                   92.04
357.955                   92.04
430.010                   153.001
443.400                   153.001
443.400 through 443.825   153.001
443.480 through 443.500   153.001
443.705 through 443.825   153.001
443.880                   153.001
                          153.001;
Chapter 446               153.022;
                          153.041
446.003(5)                153.001
446.003(24)               153.001
446.310                   153.001
                          34.14;
455.010 et seq.           153.040;
                          153.075;
                          153.094
Chapter 466               33.43
471.410                   90.058
471.430                   90.058
657A.250                  153.022
Chapter 697               32.05
Chapter 801               70.02;
                          113.09
801.555                   113.13
803.300                   74.01
806.010                   74.01
806.090                   74.16
806.110                   74.16
806.130                   74.16
807.010                   74.01
811.550                   74.01
814.140                   113.17
819.010                   74.17;
                          90.058
819.100                   90.058
822.110                   74.17
                          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1163     - -         32.03
343      5-19-1924   152.36
365      5-19-1926   152.35
522      12-20-1937  32.02
542      5-19-1941   30.01
565      8-4-1941    152.37
                     33.15—
627      1-26-1953   33.22;
                     33.99
676      12-19-1955  30.01
711      1-7-1957    TSO Table I
821      7-20-1964   30.01
833      11-1-1965   30.01
870      6-17-1969   32.05
882      6-1-1970    31.02
907      1-2-1973    30.01
                     92.01—
917      10-1-1973   92.05;
                     92.99
923      11-18-1974  150.01;
                     150.99
931      4-7-1975    152.01—
                     152.24
939      10-6-1975   92.01;
                     92.02
                     70.01—
                     70.04;
                     70.15—
                     70.19;
                     70.30—
                     70.35;
957      11-1-1976   70.99;
                     71.01—
                     71.06;
                     72.01—
                     72.13;
                     73.01;
                     73.02
958      11-1-1976   92.02
961      1-17-1977   33.01;
                     33.99
                     110.01—
980      11-21-1977  110.06;
                     110.99
992      11-20-1978  72.09;
                     72.10
995      1-15-1979   71.04
1011     5-5-1980    152.13;
                     152.15
1039     8-16-1982   32.01
                     110.03;
1041     10-18-1982  110.04;
                     110.06
1042     2-22-1983   30.01
1061     8-19-1985   91.01
1069     1-19-1987   33.02
                     73.03—
1081     9-21-1987   73.14;
                     73.99
1085     10-19-1987  30.01
                     70.16—
                     70.18;
                     70.32;
                     70.33;
1089     11-2-1987   70.35;
                     70.99;
                     72.03;
                     72.11;
                     72.12
                     110.20—
1090     11-2-1987   110.27;
                     110.99
1095     2-1-1988    110.40—
                     110.44
                     111.01—
1100     5-2-1988    111.10;
                     111.99
                     110.22—
1101     5-2-1988    110.25;
                     110.27
1108     6-27-1988   50.02;
                     50.99
1113     8-15-1988   31.01
1119     1-16-1989   33.20;
                     33.21
1120     3-6-1989    31.03
1123     4-17-1989   152.38
                     70.02;
                     70.15—
                     70.18;
1126     4-17-1989   70.31—
                     70.33;
                     70.35;
                     72.03
1134     1-15-1990   150.15—
                     150.18
                     52.01—
1136     2-19-1990   52.10;
                     52.99
                     71.20—
1138     4-2-1990    71.28;
                     71.99
1139     4-2-1990    72.11;
                     72.12
1161     - -1992     32.03
1160     7-6-1992    70.16
                     112.01—
1164     7-6-1993    112.04;
                     112.99
1174     7-18-1994   92.02
                     150.30—
1181     6-19-1995   150.40;
                     150.99
1182     11-6-1995   32.01
                     151.01—
1183     12-4-1995   151.07;
                     151.99
1185     2-20-1996   51.02
1195     8-3-1998    51.15—
                     51.23
1203     - -1999     74.01—
                     74.17
1206     - -1999     70.34
1210     - -1999     113.01—
                     113.19
1202     3-16-1999   32.04
1208     7-19-1999   150.39
1214     1-17-2000   52.06
1215     11-20-2000  52.99
                     51.35—
1218     4-16-2001   51.45;
                     51.99
1244     11-21-2001  111.04;
                     111.05
                     73.25—
1225     12-3-2001   73.31;
                     73.99
1233     1-6-2003    74.05
1240     2- -2005    33.40—
                     33.46
1247     3-6-2007    34.01—
                     34.21
1259     4-5-2010    50.01
1260     4-19-2010   33.60—
                     33.67
1261     3-7-2011    32.05
1263     7-5-2011    153.189
1265     7-5-2011    153.189
                     153.001—
                     153.006;
                     153.020—
                     153.023;
                     153.035—
                     153.046;
                     153.060;
                     153.061;
                     153.075—
                     153.079;
                     153.090—
                     153.096;
                     153.110;
                     153.111;
                     153.125;
                     153.126;
                     153.140—
                     153.142;
                     153.155—
1267     1-3-2012    153.159;
                     153.170—
                     153.174;
                     153.185—
                     153.194;
                     153.205—
                     153.210;
                     153.225—
                     153.231;
                     153.245—
                     153.254;
                     153.265—
                     153.268;
                     153.280—
                     153.283;
                     153.295—
                     153.299;
                     153.310—
                     153.314;
                     153.999
                     153.004;
1268     3-18-2013   153.022;
                     153.046
1270     6-3-2013    50.03
1271     2-3-2014    153.004;
                     153.039
1276     1-5-2015    72.02
1281     - -2018     153.036
                     90.001;
                     90.015—
                     90.025;
                     90.040—
1282     9-4-2018    90.043;
                     90.055—
                     90.058;
                     90.070—
                     90.077;
                     90.999
1283     12-4-2018   153.075—
                     153.079
1286     - -2020     51.01;
                     51.99
                     52.25—
1287     3-1-2021    52.46;
                     52.99
                     92.20—
1290     - -2023     92.24;
                     92.99
                    
 
