CITY CODE OF
NYSSA, OREGON
Code current through:
Ord. 674-23, passed 9-7-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Nyssa, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 674-23, passed in 9-7-2023. Ordinances of the City adopted
after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that
they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in
order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been
amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 638-14
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF NYSSA ADOPTING THE CITY OF NYSSA, OREGON CITY CODE.
WHEREAS, the city of Nyssa contracted Sterling Codifiers to review and codify
the city ordinances and city code to make sure all ordinances were included in
the city code; and
WHEREAS, city staff has reviewed and approved the modifications.
NOW THEREFORE, THE CITY OF NYSSA DOES ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the city
code of the city of Nyssa, Oregon prepared by Sterling Codifiers, containing
the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the city,
is hereby adopted and shall be accepted in all courts without question as the
official code and law of the city as enacted by the mayor and city council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official city code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the city clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
   Section 7. EMERGENCY CLAUSE: The common council of the city of Nyssa hereby
adjudges that it is necessary for the immediate preservation of the peace,
health and safety of the said city that this ordinance shall take effect
immediately upon its passage and approval, and an emergency is hereby declared
to exist and this ordinance will be in full force and effect immediately upon
its passage by the council and its approval by the mayor.
PASSED this 8th day of April, 2014.
Ayes: Mayor W. Mark Stringer, Council President Ross Ballard, Councilors: Diego
Castellanoz, Harry Flock, Dave Hixson, Pat Brewer and Pat Oliver
    /s/
   W. Mark Stringer, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/
Marla Roberts, City Recorder
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
NYSSA CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of Nyssa. This code of ordinances
shall be known and cited as the NYSSA CITY CODE and is hereby published by
authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most
recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the section itself, when
reference is made to this code by title in any legal documents. (2014 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2014 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. (Ord. 568, 10-15-
1996)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or provision may be changed or omitted. Said code, while
in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the city
recorder when directed so to do by order of the city council. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Exceptions
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
      1.   Ordinances promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the
city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of
the city's indebtedness.
      2.   Any appropriation ordinance providing for the levy of taxes or
prescribing salaries for city officers.
      3.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations 1 .
      4.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations.
      5.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants, or accepting the beneficial interest in
any trust.
      6.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places.
      7.   Improvement ordinances.
      8.   Bond ordinances.
      9.   Ordinances relating to elections.
      10.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the city.
      11.   All special ordinances.
   B.   All such ordinances shall continue in full force and effect to the same
extent as if fully set out herein. (2014 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See appendix to this code for annexation ordinances.
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2014 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2014 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code,
or any part hereof or any portion adopted by reference or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or
invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted by reference or any codes
or portions of codes adopted herein. The city council hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words; Interpretations
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; INTERPRETATIONS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the city council may be fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding shall be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the city of Nyssa".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2014 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Nyssa, county of Malheur, state of Oregon.
CODE: The city code of the city of Nyssa, Oregon.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the council of the city of Nyssa.
COUNTY: The county of Malheur, state of Oregon.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
ORS: Oregon Revised Statutes.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of such
building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Oregon.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER, WHOLESALE DEALER: These terms, unless otherwise specifically
defined, shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise,
articles or things to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2014 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2014
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Corrections Surcharge
1-4-3: Contempts Of Authority Of Court
1-4-4: Fine Or Incarceration
1-4-5: Application Of Provisions
1-4-6: Interpretations
1-4-7: Liability Of City Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code shall be fined
in a sum not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for any
one offense, and such person may be incarcerated for a period of time not to
exceed one hundred eighty (180) days. Either such fine or imprisonment may be
imposed. (1962 Code §
1-3-1)
1-4-2: CORRECTIONS SURCHARGE:
   A.   Amount Of Surcharge: From and after the effective date hereof, there
shall be a ten percent (10%) surcharge assessed to all fines levied in the
municipal court of the city.
   B.   Imposition Of Assessment: The aforesaid sum of money as court costs
shall be levied and assessed against each defendant being cited in the
municipal court of the city for any violation of a municipal ordinance or for
any violation of the city traffic code, title 5 of this code. This assessment
shall be imposed whether or not the defendant appears, fails to appear, or is
convicted after a trial in said court.
   C.   Exceptions: Municipal ordinances pertaining to motor vehicle parking
violations and municipal court warrants will not be assessed the surcharge
referenced in this section. The municipal court will not assess the surcharge
to any violation that, if assessed, would cause the total of the fine and
surcharge to exceed the maximum bail listed for the offense.
   D.   Disposition Of Monies Generated: The monies generated as court costs by
the surcharge provided in this section shall be separate and distinct from any
fine or any other penalty imposed in said court for a violation of any
municipal ordinance or violation of the Nyssa traffic title. The court costs
provided herein shall be considered statutory in nature and may not be
suspended, waived or otherwise disposed of by the court. Monies collected as
court costs as provided in this section shall be accounted for separately from
other city funds and may be budgeted and expended only in relation to police
training, public safety equipment, and crime prevention activities and
programs, as may be deemed necessary or expedient by the city.
   E.   Payment Required; Reimbursement: All defendants posting bail shall be
required, prior to release, to post the additional sum of court costs as
provided in this section. In the event of a trial on the merits of the case
resulting in an acquittal or upon dismissal of the case for any cause, then
said sum of money as court costs shall be reimbursed to the defendant. (Ord.
612-05, 10-11-2005)
   F.   Enforcement: The clerk of the municipal court of the city or his/her
agent or designee, or the clerk of the applicable justice court, is charged
with the enforcement of this section. (Ord. 612-05, 10-11-2005; amd. 2014 Code)
1-4-3: CONTEMPTS OF AUTHORITY OF COURT:
   A.   Contempts Defined: The following acts or omissions, in respect to the
municipal court or proceedings therein, are contempts of the authority of the
court:
      1.   Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior toward the judge,
while holding the court, tending to impair its authority or to interrupt the
due course of a trial or other judicial proceeding.
      2.   A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct or violent disturbance
tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial proceeding.
      3.   Misbehavior in office, or other wilful neglect or violation of duty
by an attorney, clerk, police officer or other person appointed or selected to
perform a judicial or ministerial service.
      4.   Deceit, or abuse of the process or proceedings by the court, by a
party to an action or special proceeding.
      5.   Disobedience of any lawful judgment, order or process of the court.
      6.   Rescuing any person or property which is in the custody of an
officer by virtue of an order or process of the court.
      7.   Unlawfully detaining a witness or a party to an action or
proceedings, while going to, or remaining at, or returning from the court where
the same is for trial.
      8.   Any other lawful interference with the process or proceedings of the
court.
      9.   Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be sworn or
answer as a witness.
      10.   When summoned as a juror in the court, improperly conversing with a
party to an action or proceeding to be tried at such court, or with any other
person, in relation to the merits of such action or proceeding, or receiving
any communication from a party or other person in respect to it, without
immediately disclosing the same to the court.
   B.   Proceedings In Case Of Indirect Contempts: In cases other than those
involving a direct contempt made in the immediate view and presence of the
court or officer, before any proceedings can be taken on said indirect
contempts, the facts constituting the contempt must be shown by an affidavit
presented to the court or judicial officer, thereupon such court or officer may
either make an order upon the person charged to show cause why he should not be
arrested to answer, or issue a warrant of arrest to bring such person to answer
in the first instance. The affidavit shall set forth the facts constituting the
contempt, but need not contain recitals of matters already appearing in the
record of any action or proceeding in which the person charged with contempt
has been personally served with citation or complaint.
   C.   Warrant Of Arrest; Custody Of Person Arrested: In a warrant of arrest
issued for a contempt, the court or judicial officer shall direct whether the
person charged may be released or detained in custody, and if he may be
released, the amount of security required. Upon executing the warrant of
arrest, the peace officer must keep the person in actual custody, bringing him
before the court or judicial officer, and detain him until a release decision
is made in the premises, unless the person arrested deposits security.
   D.   Security Release: The defendant shall be discharged from the arrest
upon executing and delivering to the peace officer at any time before the
return day of the warrant, a security release or release agreement to the
effect that the defendant will appear on the return day, and abide the order of
judgment of the court or officer thereupon, or pay, as may be directed, the sum
specified in the warrant. (1962 Code § 1-3-4)
1-4-4: FINE OR INCARCERATION:
Any person who shall be found guilty of a violation of any of the provisions of
this code who shall be sentenced to pay a fine as punishment therefor may, in
default of the payment of such fine and costs, be incarcerated one day for each
twenty five dollars ($25.00) of such fine and costs. (1962 Code §
1-3-2)
1-4-5: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalties provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code, the same as though they were a part
of each and every separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any
section of this code, where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or
where any act which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or declared to be
unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (1962 Code § 1-3-5)
   B.   One Recovery Only: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Specific Penalty Not Declared: Whenever the doing of any act or the
omission to do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this
code and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such
breach, the provisions of the general penalty clause shall apply, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on which a
breach or violation occurs or continues. (1962 Code § 1-1-7)
1-4-6: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the interpretation of the provisions of each section of this code, the
following rules shall be observed:
   A.   Intent To Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   B.   Agents And Employers Also Liable: When the provisions of any section of
this code prohibit the commission of an act, not only the person actually doing
the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the employer and all
other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said person shall be
guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth. (1962 Code
§ 1-1-6)
1-4-7: LIABILITY OF CITY OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any city officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1962 Code § 1-1-8)
CHAPTER 5
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: City Recorder
1-5-2: City Treasurer
1-5-3: City Attorney
1-5-1: CITY RECORDER:
   A.   Appointment: The city recorder shall be appointed by the city manager,
and shall hold office for the duration of his or her appointment unless sooner
removed by the manager. (2014 Code)
   B.   General Duties:
      1.   In addition to the duties of the city recorder as prescribed by the
city manager, it shall be the duty of the recorder to keep an accurate account
with all customers of the city water and sewer system, and to collect all
amounts due under the rates established therefor, or hereafter to be
established. On the tenth day of each month, the recorder shall deliver to the
city manager a typewritten list showing the names and amounts of all water and
sewer charges or assessments that have not been paid. (1962 Code §
1-4-1; amd. 2014 Code)
      2.   The city recorder shall make such reports and financial statements
to the council from time to time as may be required so as to disclose the true
financial condition of the city. (1962 Code §
1-4-1)
   C.   Warrants: All warrants on the treasury for disbursements of funds shall
be countersigned by the recorder and state thereon the particular fund out of
which the warrant is payable, and, upon being paid, said warrant shall be
attached to the authorization or papers pertaining to the claim upon which the
warrant was ordered issued, and as so attached shall be filed in numerical
order. No warrant shall be signed or issued by the recorder excepting warrants
for the fixed charges as established by ordinance, unless and until the claim
therefor has been duly approved by the council, and an order therefor entered
into the minutes. (1962 Code §
1-4-2)
   D.   Additional Duties: The city recorder shall exercise and perform such
other duties as may be prescribed by the city manager from time to time. (1962
Code §
1-4-3)
1-5-2: CITY TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: The city treasurer shall be appointed by the city manager.
He shall hold office for the duration of his appointment unless sooner removed
by the manager. (1962 Code §
1-5-1)
   B.   General Duties: In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to
any other department or office, the treasurer shall act to promote, secure and
preserve the financial and property interest of the city. He shall safely keep
in designated depositories all funds belonging to the city and all other
securities in safety deposit boxes of an approved institution designated by the
manager. (1962 Code §
1-5-2)
   C.   Duties Enumerated:
      1.   Accounts: The treasurer shall keep in proper books a full and
accurate account of all the monies received and disbursed by him in behalf of
the city, specifying the time of receipt and disbursement, from whom received
and to whom disbursed, and on what account received and disbursed, and how
paid. (1962 Code §
1-5-3)
      2.   Monies: The treasurer shall receive and have custody of all monies
paid to the city and shall disburse monies upon the official warrant of the
city when so ordered by the manager. (1962 Code § 1-5-4)
      3.   Collections: The treasurer shall demand and receive all monies and
fees owing to the city whenever any person is indebted to the city in any
manner, and the means of collection of such debt is not otherwise provided for
by law. When any claim shall not be collectible by other methods, the treasurer
shall report the same to the attorney for prosecution. (1962 Code § 1-5-5)
      4.   Warrants:
         a.   Warrants shall be paid by the treasurer from funds available in
the order in which the warrants are presented for payment. When a warrant is
presented for payment and no funds are available, the treasurer shall plainly
mark the warrant "Not Paid For Want Of Funds" and enter the same in a book
maintained for such purpose which shall be known as the "Warrant Register".
Such warrants shall bear interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum
from the date of presentation until paid.
         b.   Warrants shall be called for payment in the order in which they
were presented whenever sufficient funds are available to the treasurer to make
such payment. (1962 Code § 1-5-6)
      5.   Cancellation Of Warrants, Evidence Of Debt: The treasurer shall
cancel all warrants and other evidence of debt against the city whenever paid
by him, by writing or stamping across the face thereof the words "Paid By The
Treasurer" with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. These warrants
and evidences of debt, so canceled, shall be delivered immediately to the city
recorder. (1962 Code § 1-5-7)
      6.   Monthly Report: The treasurer shall make a detailed report to the
manager during the first week of each month showing the business of his office
during the month preceding, showing the balance on hand to the credit of the
different funds, the amounts received during the month, and on what account,
together with such other information as may be required by the manager. (1962
Code § 1-5-8)
   D.   Deliver Records To Successor: The treasurer shall deliver to his
successor in office all materials, records, and resources of the office. (1962
Code § 1-5-9)
1-5-3: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Appointment: The city attorney shall be appointed by the city manager.
He shall hold office for the duration of his appointment unless sooner removed
by the manager. (1962 Code §
1-6-1)
   B.   Render Advice: The attorney shall be the legal advisor of the city, and
shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the city, whenever
requested to do so by any city official. Upon request by the manager, he shall
reduce any such opinion to writing. (1962 Code § 1-6-2)
   C.   Ordinances And Documents: It shall be the duty of the attorney to draft
or supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease or other documents or
instruments to which the city may be a party; and, upon request of the manager,
to draft ordinances covering any subjects within the power of the city. (1962
Code § 1-6-3)
CHAPTER 6
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Presentment And Payment Of Bills
1-6-1: PRESENTMENT AND PAYMENT OF BILLS:
Whenever a bill shall be presented to the city council, and is approved by the
council at a regular meeting, and shall be allowed, the city recorder shall be
directed by the mayor to draw a warrant on the city treasurer for the amount
allowed, and the treasurer shall pay such order upon presentment thereof out of
the funds in the treasury; provided, however, that if there be no funds, the
treasurer shall endorse upon such warrant the time of presentment and from such
date so endorsed, such warrant shall bear interest at the rate of six percent
(6%) per annum until paid. (1962 Code §
1-11-1)
CHAPTER 6
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE A. PUBLIC CONTRACTS
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Definitions
1-6A-2: Public Contracting Rules
1-6A-3: Local Contract Review Board
1-6A-4: Contracting Agency
1-6A-5: Model Rules
1-6A-6: Formal Competitive Selection Procedures
1-6A-7: Notice Of Public Contracts
1-6A-8: Disposal Of Surplus Property
1-6A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
FORMAL COMPETITIVE SELECTION PROCEDURES: Procedures for public contracting as
required by Oregon Revised Statutes.
FORMAL COMPETITIVE SELECTION PROCESS: The process of using formal competitive
selection procedures for the procurement of goods and services or for public
improvements contracts. (Ord. 609-05, 5-10-2005; amd. 2014 Code)
1-6A-2: PUBLIC CONTRACTING RULES:
The following rules are adopted as the city's public contracting rules. As
provided by Oregon Revised Statutes 279A.065(5)(a), the model rules adopted by
the state's attorney general under Oregon Revised Statutes 279A, 279B, and 279C
(the "model rules") do not apply, unless otherwise provided for herein or as
adopted by ordinance or resolution by the local contract review board. (Ord.
609-05, 5-10-2005)
1-6A-3: LOCAL CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD:
The city council is designated as the local contract review board under the
state of Oregon public contracting code. The local contract review board may
delegate its powers and responsibilities consistent with the Oregon public
contracting code, the model rules, and this code. (Ord. 609-05, 5-10-2005)
1-6A-4: CONTRACTING AGENCY:
The city manager or his/her designee is delegated the authority to exercise all
authorities granted by the public contracting code, Oregon Revised Statutes
279A, 279B, and 279C, and all authority granted herein, and by subsequent
ordinance or resolution. The city manager is designated as the city's
"contracting agency" for purposes of contracting powers and duties assigned to
the city as a "contracting agency". For purposes of this chapter, the
"contracting agency" shall be referred to as the purchasing agent, who is the
city manager or his/her designee. (Ord. 609-05, 5-10-2005)
1-6A-5: MODEL RULES:
Unless expressly provided herein, or by subsequent ordinance or resolution, the
model rules, divisions 46, 47, 48 and 49, adopted by the state's attorney
general under Oregon Revised Statutes 279A, 279B, and 279C, as they now exist,
and as they may be amended in the future, and in this code, are hereby adopted
as the city's public contracting rules. Words and phrases used by these rules
that are defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 279A, 279B, and 279C and in the
model rules, have the same meanings as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 279A,
279B, and 279C and the model rules. In the event that rules adopted by the
local contract review board do not address a particular situation, the model
rules apply. (Ord. 609-05, 5-10-2005)
1-6A-6: FORMAL COMPETITIVE SELECTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Authority And Responsibilities: Administrative staff has contracting
authority and responsibilities as follows:
      1.   The purchasing agent is authorized to:
         a.   Enter into city contracts not to exceed fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) without additional authorization of the local contract review
board. Contracts exceeding fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for public
improvements, identified in a capital improvement plan, that have been approved
by the city council through the budgetary process, shall be deemed to be
approved by the local contract review board.
         b.   Recommend that the local contract review board approve or
disapprove contract awards in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), or
to change orders or amendments to contracts of more than fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00).
         c.   Adopt forms, computer software, procedures, and administrative
policies for all city purchases consistent with this code.
      2.   All contracting by departments shall be according to approved city
purchasing procedures adopted by the purchasing agent or the local contract
review board.
      3.   Each department shall plan purchase requirements sufficiently in
advance so that orders can be placed in economical quantities.
      4.   The purchasing agent shall process requisition forms and negotiate
purchases on the most favorable terms in accordance with adopted ordinances,
state laws (including the public contracting code), policies and procedures.
   B.   Exemptions: All public contracts shall be based upon formal competitive
selection requirements of Oregon Revised Statutes 279B.050(1) or 279C.335(1),
except as expressly provided in this subsection, or by subsequent ordinance or
resolution. Where practicable, regardless of whether a contract is exempt from
the formal competitive selection process or not, no service or work may be
performed, and no goods, supplies or equipment may be delivered, until a city
purchase order has been issued by the purchasing agent. This requirement may be
waived, however, when circumstances exist that create a substantial risk of
loss, damage, interruption of services or threat to public health or safety and
that require prompt action to protect the interests of the city. The following
classes of public contracts are hereby exempted from the formal competitive
selection requirements of Oregon Revised Statutes 279B.050(1) and 279C.335(1):
      1.   Any contract exempted by the state of Oregon public contracting code
or model rules.
      2.   Any contracts expressly exempted from competitive procurement
requirements adopted by ordinance or resolution by the local contract review
board pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes 279B.085.
      3.   Purchases through federal programs pursuant to Oregon Revised
Statutes 279A.180.
      4.   In the event of an emergency involving an immediate hazard to the
public health, safety, or welfare, the city manager may secure necessary goods
and/or services without a formal competitive selection process; provided, that
the local contract review board, at a regularly scheduled meeting within thirty
(30) days of the procurement, is furnished with a full report of the
circumstances and costs of the materials and/or services secured.
      5.   Contracts for goods or services, or a class of goods or services,
which are available from only one source. To the extent reasonably practical,
the purchasing agent shall negotiate with the sole source to obtain contract
terms advantageous to the city. The determination of a sole source must be
based on written findings that may include:
         a.   That the efficient utilization of existing goods requires the
acquisition of compatible goods or services;
         b.   That the goods or services required for the exchange of software
or data with other public or private agencies are available from only one
source;
         c.   That the goods or services are for use in a pilot or experimental
project;
         d.   Other findings that support the conclusion that the goods or
services are available from only one source; or
         e.   Sole source contracts for goods or services, or classes of goods
or services, which are available from only one source which exceed five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00), but do not exceed fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00), must be approved by the purchasing agent. Sole source contracts
for goods or services, or classes of goods or services, which are available
from only one source which exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) must be
approved by the local contract review board.
      6.   Contracts for products, services or supplies if the value of the
contract does not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
      7.   Contracts for the purchase of copyrighted materials where there is
only one supplier available within a reasonable purchase area for such goods.
      8.   Contracts for the purchase of advertising, including that intended
for the purpose of giving public or legal notice.
      9.   Contracts for the procurement of banking services.
      10.   Contracts for the purchase of services, equipment or supplies for
maintenance, repair or conversion of existing equipment if required for
efficient utilization of such equipment.
      11.   Contracts for the purpose of investment of public funds or the
borrowing of funds.
      12.   Purchases of goods or services pursuant to a requirements contract
which was established by a formal competitive selection process. Purchases may
also be made at prices established by a requirements contract or other
agreement between another public body and a contractor if the requirements
contract was established by a formal competitive selection process.
      13.   Contracts for purchase or sale of water, electricity, cemetery
lots, cable and telecommunication services, including internet bandwidth, and
the sale of telecommunication materials or products or other services,
materials or products traditionally provided by the city.
      14.   Contract amendments, including change orders, extra work, field
orders, or other changes in the original specifications which changes the
original contract price or alters the work to be performed, may be made with
the contractor subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The original contract imposes binding obligation on the parties
covering the terms and conditions regarding changes in the work; or
         b.   The amended contract does not substantially alter the scope or
nature of the project; or
         c.   If the amendment has the effect of substantially altering the
scope or nature of the project, the amount of the aggregate cost change
resulting from all amendments creating such new obligations shall not exceed
twenty five percent (25%) of the initial contract.
      15.   Contracts for the purchase of goods or services where the rate or
price for the goods or services being purchased is established by federal,
state or local regulating authority. (Ord. 609-05, 5-10-2005)
      16.   Contracts not to exceed one hundred fifty thousand dollars
($150,000.00) for the purchase of goods, materials, supplies and services. For
contracts for the purchase of goods, materials, supplies and services that are
more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), but that do not exceed one hundred
fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00), a minimum of three (3) competitive
written quotes shall be obtained. The purchasing agent shall keep a written
record of the source and amount of quotes received. If three (3) quotes are not
available, a lesser number will suffice; provided, that a written record is
made of the effort to obtain the quotes.
      17.   Contracts not to exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
for public improvements, including contracts for services of architects,
engineers, land surveyors and related services (other than contracts for a
highway, bridge or other transportation projects), if the following conditions
are met:
         a.   The contract is for a single project and is not a component of or
related to any other project.
         b.   When the amount of the public improvement contract (other than
contracts for a highway, bridge or other transportation projects) is more than
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), but does not exceed one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00), a minimum of three (3) competitive written quotes shall
be obtained. The purchasing agent shall keep a written record of the source and
amount of quotes received. If three (3) quotes are not available, a lesser
number will suffice; provided, that a written record is made of the effort to
obtain the quotes.
         c.   The purchasing agent shall award the contract to the prospective
contractor whose quote will best serve the interests of the city, taking into
account price and other applicable factors, such as experience, specific
expertise, availability, project understanding, contractor capacity and
contractor responsibility. If the contract is not awarded on basis of lowest
price, the purchasing agent shall make a written finding of the basis for the
award.
         d.   The contract review board shall have the authority to approve the
partial or complete waiver of the requirement for the delivery of a performance
or payment bond for construction of a public improvement, other than in cases
of emergencies.
      18.   Contracts for a highway or other transportation projects more than
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), but not to exceed one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00), if the following conditions are complied with:
         a.   The contract is for a single project and is not a component of or
related to any other project;
         b.   When the amount of the contract for a highway or other
transportation projects is more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), but
does not exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00), a minimum of three
(3) competitive written quotes shall be obtained. The purchasing agent shall
keep a written record of the source and amount of quotes received. If three (3)
quotes are not available, a lesser number will suffice; provided, that a
written record is made of the effort to obtain the quotes. (Ord. 609-05, 5-10-
2005; amd. 2014 Code)
         c.   The purchasing agent shall award the contract to the prospective
contractor whose quote will best serve the interests of the city, taking into
account price and other applicable factors, such as experience, specific
expertise, availability, project understanding, contractor capacity and
contractor responsibility. If the contract is not awarded on the basis of
lowest price, the purchasing agent shall make a written finding of the basis
for the award.
         d.   The contract review board shall have the authority to approve the
partial or complete waiver of the requirement for the delivery of a performance
or payment bond for construction of a highway or other transportation projects
other than in cases of emergencies. (Ord. 609-05, 5-10-2005)
1-6A-7: NOTICE OF PUBLIC CONTRACTS:
Notice of public improvement contracts or contracts for the purchase of goods
or services may be published electronically where the purchasing agent finds
that such publication is likely to be cost effective as provided in Oregon
Revised Statutes 279C.360. (Ord. 609-05, 5-10-2005)
1-6A-8: DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PROPERTY:
The purchasing agent shall have the authority to dispose of surplus property by
any means determined to be in the best interests of the city, including, but
not limited to, transfer to other departments, government agencies, nonprofit
organizations, sale, trade, auction, or destruction; provided, however, that
disposal of personal property having residual value of more than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) shall be subject to authorization by the local contract
review board. (Ord. 609-05, 5-10-2005)
ARTICLE B. PERSONAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Purpose
1-6B-2: Definitions
1-6B-3: Personal Service Contracts Listed
1-6B-4: Rules And Procedures
1-6B-5: Exemptions From Formal Competitive Selection Procedures
1-6B-6: Screening Criteria
1-6B-7: Selection Process
1-6B-1: PURPOSE:
Personal service contracts will be used to retain the services of independent
contractors (other than contracts for an architect, engineer, land surveyor or
provider of related services 1 . Nothing in this article shall apply to the
employment of regular city employees. (Ord. 609-05, 5-10-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. As defined in ORS 279C.100.
1-6B-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
FORMAL COMPETITIVE SELECTION PROCEDURES: Procedures for the selection of
personal service contracts, which shall be the same formal procedures as are
required for the selection of goods and services as required by Oregon Revised
Statutes 279B.060 (competitive sealed proposals).
FORMAL COMPETITIVE SELECTION PROCESS: The process of using formal competitive
selection procedures for the selection of personal service contracts.
PERSONAL SERVICE CONTRACTS: Includes contracts for services that require
specialized technical, artistic, creative, professional or communication skills
or talent, unique and specialized knowledge, or the exercise of discretionary
judgment skills, and for which the service depends on attributes that are
unique to the service provider, other than contracts for an architect,
engineer, land surveyor or provider of related services as defined in Oregon
Revised Statutes 279C.100.
PURCHASING AGENT: The city manager or his/her designee who has the authority to
enter into personal service contracts. (Ord. 609-05, 5-10-2005)
1-6B-3: PERSONAL SERVICE CONTRACTS LISTED:
Pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes 279A.055(2), the following contracts or
classes of contracts for personal services shall not be subject to the rules of
procedure of chapter 6B of the model rules unless provided herein: (Ord. 609-
05, 5-10-2005; amd. 2014 Code)
   A.   Accountants.
   B.   Appraisers.
   C.   Computer programmers.
   D.   Lawyers.
   E.   Psychologists.
   F.   Investment consultants.
   G.   Insurance consultants.
   H.   Advertising consultants.
   I.   Marketing consultants.
   J.   Graphics consultants.
   K.   Training consultants.
   L.   Public relations consultants.
   M.   Communications consultants.
   N.   Data processing consultants.
   O.   Management systems consultants.
   P.   Any other personal service contracts or classes of contracts that the
purchasing agent or his/her designee identifies as personal service contracts.
(Ord. 609-05, 5-10-2005)
1-6B-4: RULES AND PROCEDURES:
Personal service contracts are subject to the rules established by this
section:
   A.   Hold Harmless Agreement: Unless otherwise approved by the purchasing
agent, all personal service contracts shall require the contractor to defend,
indemnify, and hold harmless the city, its officers, agents and employees
against and from any and all claims or demands for damages of any kind arising
out of or connected in any way with the contractor's performance thereunder and
shall include a waiver of contractors' right to Oregon Revised Statutes 30.285
and 30.287 indemnification and defense.
   B.   Liability Insurance: Unless otherwise approved by the purchasing agent,
personal service contracts shall contain a provision requiring the person or
entity providing the service to obtain and maintain liability insurance
coverage in at least the amount of the city's tort liability limits, naming the
city as an additional named insured, during the life of the contract.
   C.   Provisions Mandated By State: All personal service contracts shall
contain all contract provisions mandated by state law and by this code. These
provisions may be incorporated in the personal service contract by reference
unless otherwise provided by law.
   D.   Procedures Waived In Case Of Emergency: The formal competitive
selection procedures described in this section may be waived by the purchasing
agent when an emergency exists that could not have been reasonably foreseen and
requires prompt execution of a contract to remedy the situation that there is
not sufficient time to permit utilization of the formal competitive selection
procedures.
   E.   Modification Or Withdrawal: Personal service contract proposals may be
modified or withdrawn at any time prior to the conclusion of discussions with
an offeror.
   F.   Review: The purchasing agent shall establish internal procedures for
the review, processing, and listing of all contracts, whether procured through
a formal competitive selection process, or exempt from the formal competitive
selection procedures. Such review shall include a method for determining
compliance with these rules.
   G.   Five Thousand Dollars Or Less: For personal service contracts that are
anticipated to cost five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or less per year, such
contracts must be memorialized by a formal purchase order. (Ord. 609-05, 5-10-
2005)
   H.   More Than Five Thousand Dollars: For personal service contracts that
are anticipated to exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), but not exceed one
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) per year, at least three (3)
competitive written quotes from prospective contractors who shall appear to
have at least minimum qualifications for the proposed assignment, shall be
solicited. Each solicited contractor shall be notified in reasonable detail of
the proposed assignment. Any or all interested prospective contractors may be
interviewed for the assignment by an appropriate city employee or by an
interview committee. (Ord. 609-05, 5-10-2005; amd. 2014 Code)
   I.   Excess Of Fifty Thousand Dollars:
      1.   For personal service contracts that are anticipated to cost in
excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) per year, the department head for
the department that needs the services shall make the following determinations:
         a.   That the services to be acquired are personal services;
         b.   That a reasonable inquiry has been conducted as to the
availability of city personnel to perform the services, and that the city does
not have the personnel nor resources to perform the services required under the
proposed contract; and
         c.   That the department has developed, and fully plans to implement,
a written plan for utilizing such services which will be included in the
contractual statement of work. (Ord. 609-05, 5-10-2005)
      2.   All personal service contracts exceeding one hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($150,000.00) per year shall be based upon formal competitive selection
procedures, except as expressly provided in this subsection, or by subsequent
ordinance or resolution. For personal service contracts that are anticipated to
cost in excess of one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) per year,
the city manager shall follow the formal competitive selection procedures for
formal competitive sealed proposals as found in Oregon Revised Statutes
279B.060. Where practicable, regardless of whether a personal service contract
is exempt from the formal competitive selection process or not, no service or
work may be performed until a purchase order has been issued. This requirement
may be waived, however, when circumstances exist that create a substantial risk
of loss, damage, interruption of services or threat to public health or safety
and that require prompt action to protect the interests of the city. (Ord. 609-
05, 5-10-2005; amd. 2014 Code)
1-6B-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM FORMAL COMPETITIVE SELECTION PROCEDURES:
Contracts for personal services are exempt from formal competitive selection
procedures if any of the following conditions exist: (Ord. 609-05, 5-10-2005)
   A.   The contract amount is anticipated to be one hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($150,000.00) or less per year. (Ord. 609-05, 5-10-2005; amd. 2014
Code)
   B.   Contract amendments, which change the original contract price or alter
the work to be performed, may be made with the contractor subject to the
following conditions:
      1.   The original contract imposes binding obligation on the parties
covering the terms and conditions regarding changes in the work; or
      2.   The amended contract does not substantially alter the scope or
nature of the project; or
      3.   If the amendment has the effect of substantially altering the scope
or nature of the project, the amount of the aggregate cost change resulting
from all amendments creating such new obligations shall not exceed twenty five
percent (25%) of the initial contract.
   C.   The purchasing agent finds that there is only one person or entity
within a reasonable area that can provide services of the type and quality
required.
   D.   The contract for services is subject to selection procedures
established by the state or federal government.
   E.   The contract is for nonroutine or nonrepetitive type legal services.
(Ord. 609-05, 5-10-2005)
1-6B-6: SCREENING CRITERIA:
The following criteria shall be considered in the evaluation and selection of a
personal service contractor for personal service contracts:
   A.   Specialized experience in the type of work to be performed.
   B.   Capacity and capability to perform the work, including any specialized
services within the time limitations for the work.
   C.   Educational and professional record, including past record of
performance on contracts with governmental agencies and private parties with
respect to cost control, quality of work, ability to meet schedules, and
contract administration, where applicable.
   D.   Availability to perform the assignment and familiarity with the area in
which the specific work is located, including knowledge of designing or
techniques peculiar to it, where applicable.
   E.   Cost of the services.
   F.   Any other factors relevant to the particular contract. (Ord. 609-05, 5-
10-2005)
1-6B-7: SELECTION PROCESS:
The following rules shall be followed in selecting a contractor for personal
services:
   A.   For personal service contracts that exceed five thousand dollars
($5,000.00), but do not exceed one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00)
per year, the city manager shall select the offer deemed the best qualified to
provide the required services. Such determination will be made after the city
manager evaluates all relevant criteria found in section
1-6B-6 of this article.
   B.   For personal service contracts that will cost one hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($150,000.00) or more per year, the purchasing agent shall
award the contract to the prospective consultant whose quote will best serve
the interests of the city, taking into account all relevant criteria found in
section
1-6B-6 of this article. The purchasing agent shall make written findings
justifying the basis for the award.
   C.   The city manager, in conducting the selection of a personal service
contract, shall negotiate a contract with the best qualified offer for the
required services at a compensation determined in writing to be fair and
reasonable. (Ord. 609-05, 5-10-2005; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 7
TRIAL BY JURY
SECTION:
1-7-1: Right To Trial By Jury
1-7-2: Number Of Jurors
1-7-3: Qualifications Of Jurors
1-7-4: Selection Of Jurors And Jury List
1-7-5: Jury Box And Contents
1-7-6: Selection Of Jury
1-7-7: Elimination Of Jurors
1-7-8: Alternate Jurors
1-7-9: Powers Of Judge And Challenges Of Jurors
1-7-10: Verdicts
1-7-11: Costs And Disbursements
1-7-12: Payment Of Jurors
1-7-13: Failure To Appear
1-7-1: RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY:
Every person charged with any offense defined and made punishable by the city
charter or any ordinance of the city, which provides for imprisonment, shall
have the right to trial by jury upon written demand to the municipal judge at
the time of entry of plea. (Ord. 568, 10-15-1996)
1-7-2: NUMBER OF JURORS:
The jury shall consist of six (6) persons selected as provided in this chapter
who shall be duly sworn to try the cause for which they are called. (1962 Code
§ 1-12-2)
1-7-3: QUALIFICATIONS OF JURORS:
In order to act as a juror in the municipal court of the city, a person must
have the qualifications prescribed in chapter 10 of Oregon Revised Statutes 1
and, in addition thereto, must be an inhabitant and a registered voter within
the city at the time when summoned. (1962 Code § 1-12-3)
 
Notes
1 1. ORS 54.010 et seq.
1-7-4: SELECTION OF JURORS AND JURY LIST:
   A.   Preparation Of List: On the first Monday of January in each year, the
municipal judge, together with the city attorney and the city recorder, shall
meet and make a list containing the names of not less than fifty (50) nor more
than two hundred fifty (250) persons who are the most competent of the
permanent citizens of the city, by selecting names by lot from the voter
registration list used at the last preceding city election. Said list, so
selected, shall be known as the preliminary jury list.
   B.   Rejected Prospective Jurors: The municipal judge, attorney and recorder
shall then delete from said preliminary jury list the names of those persons
known not to be qualified by law to serve as jurors and the remaining names
shall constitute the jury list. The names of those persons deleted from the
preliminary jury list shall be placed on a separate list known as rejected
prospective jurors, and opposite each name, the reason for removing the name
shall be stated.
   C.   Contents Of Jury List; Certification; Filing: The jury list shall
contain the first name and surname, the place of residence and occupation of
each person named therein and shall be certified by the recorder and placed on
file in his office within ten (10) days from the time it is prepared.
   D.   Delay In Time Of Preparation: If for any reason, the preparation of a
city jury list is omitted or neglected on the first Monday in January of any
year, it may be done on the first Monday of any succeeding month.
   E.   Length Of Time Of Service By Juror: All jurors shall serve until the
last day of the calendar year.
   F.   Challenge Disallowed: No challenge shall be made or allowed to the
panel and substantial compliance with this chapter for selecting the panel
shall be sufficient. (1962 Code § 1-12-4)
1-7-5: JURY BOX AND CONTENTS:
The city recorder shall keep in his office a sufficient box, carefully secured,
which shall be known as the jury box. After the jury list has been filed in his
office, the recorder shall destroy all ballots remaining in said jury box and
shall prepare and deposit in such box separate ballots, containing the full
name, place of residence and occupation of each person embraced in the list,
and folded as nearly alike as practicable so that each name cannot be seen
unless opened. (1962 Code § 1-12-5)
1-7-6: SELECTION OF JURY:
When a jury is demanded in the municipal court and the fee therefor is paid as
herein provided, the municipal judge must draw from the jury box, in the
presence of the defendant or his attorney and the city attorney, twelve (12)
ballots, or any greater number if necessary, until the names of twelve (12)
persons who are deemed able to attend at the time and place required, are
obtained. Such selection shall be made at a time and place designated by the
court and after notice to the defendant or his attorney and to the city
attorney. The municipal judge shall make and sign a list of the twelve (12)
names thus drawn. (1962 Code § 1-12-6)
1-7-7: ELIMINATION OF JURORS:
If it appears to the municipal judge that a person whose name is drawn is dead
or resides outside the city, the ballot must be destroyed. If it appears to the
municipal judge, or he has good reason to believe, that a person whose name is
drawn is temporarily absent from the city or is ill or so engaged as to be
unable to attend at the time and place of trial without great inconvenience,
the ballot shall be laid aside, without the name thereon being entered on the
list drawn, and returned to the jury box after the drawing is completed. A
person whose name is drawn, and entered on the list, shall be deemed able to
attend within the meaning of this section and section
1-7-6 of this chapter. (1962 Code § 1-12-7)
1-7-8: ALTERNATE JURORS:
The court, on motion of the defendant or his attorney, or on motion of the city
attorney, or on its own motion, may direct that six (6) additional names be
drawn from which alternate jurors may be selected. The city and the defendant
or their legal representatives shall thereupon select two (2) alternate jurors
by each striking from the list of alternate jurors two (2) names alternately,
commencing with the defendant. The two (2) remaining names shall be summoned as
alternate jurors in the cause and shall be excused from duty in the event the
original jury shall attend at the trial and be accepted for service without
challenge for cause. (1962 Code § 1-12-8)
1-7-9: POWERS OF JUDGE AND CHALLENGES OF JURORS:
   A.   General Powers; Conduct Of Trial: The municipal judge shall have all
inherent and statutory powers and duties of a justice of the peace within the
jurisdictional limits of the city. Trials shall be conducted as trials in
justice courts and the rules of evidence shall be the same as in state courts
and shall include applicable statutes of the state of Oregon regarding the
introduction or admission of evidence. Neither party shall be entitled to
peremptory challenge as to any of said six (6) jurors, but if any of said six
(6) jurors are found to be disqualified by challenge for cause, their places on
the jury shall be filled by alternate jurors, if any, or by drawing from the
jury box by the municipal judge in the manner hereinabove prescribed and
subject to being disqualified for cause.
   B.   Serving Subpoenas, Notices Of Jury Duty: The chief of police shall
assist the judge in serving subpoenas, notices of jury duty, and such other
orders of the court necessary for the proper conduct thereof. (1962 Code § 1-
12-9)
1-7-10: VERDICTS:
Five (5) of the six (6) jurors sworn to try the cause must concur to render a
verdict. (1962 Code § 1-12-10)
1-7-11: COSTS AND DISBURSEMENTS:
In all cases tried before a jury in the municipal court, the municipal judge
shall add the costs and disbursements to the fine, penalty or sentence imposed,
in a sum not less than five dollars ($5.00). (1962 Code § 1-12-11)
1-7-12: PAYMENT OF JURORS:
Those jurors who appear at the trial and serve as jurors shall receive
compensation for such services in the sum of five dollars ($5.00) for each day
of attendance upon the municipal court. (1962 Code § 1-12-12)
1-7-13: FAILURE TO APPEAR:
Any person duly summoned to attend the municipal court as a juror who fails to
appear as required or to give a valid excuse for such nonappearance may be
adjudged in contempt of court by the municipal judge and be fined a sum not
exceeding twenty five dollars ($25.00). (1962 Code § 1-12-13)
CHAPTER 8
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION:
1-8-1: Purpose
1-8-2: Definitions
1-8-3: Initiative
1-8-4: Referendum
1-8-5: Petition
1-8-6: Ballot Title
1-8-7: Election
1-8-8: Effect Of Measures
1-8-9: Prohibited Acts
1-8-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter provides a complete procedure for the voters to exercise their
powers of initiative and referendum. (1962 Code § 1-13-1)
1-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall be given the
meanings respectively ascribed to them:
GENERAL ELECTION: A general biennial election in November.
MEASURE: A. A legislative enactment by the city council not necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health, or safety.
   B.   A part of such an enactment; or
   C.   A proposed legislative enactment for the city.
PETITION: An initiative or referendum petition for ordering a measure to be
submitted to the voters.
REFER: To be subjected to the referendum.
STATE: State of Oregon.
VOTER: A legal voter of the city.
WRITE: To write, type, or print. (1962 Code § 1-13-1; amd. 2014 Code)
1-8-3: INITIATIVE:
   A.   Manner Of Proposing Measure: The manner of proposing a measure by the
initiative shall be to deposit at the office of the city recorder, in
compliance with state law, a duly prepared petition ordering the measure to be
submitted to the voters.
   B.   Form Of Petition: No initiative petition shall be deemed duly prepared
unless it complies with state law and is in substantially the following form:
   "WARNING"
It is an offense for a person to sign this petition unless he is a legal voter
of the City of Nyssa, or to sign it with a name not his own, or to sign his
name to it knowingly more than once.
   PETITION FOR INITIATIVE
To                                 , Recorder of the City of Nyssa:
The undersigned legal voters of the City of Nyssa petition that the attached
measure be submitted to the legal voters of the City for their approval. Each
of us for himself says: I have signed this petition, I am a legal voter of the
City, and my address is written correctly after my name.
   Name         Address
1.
                                                                                     
2.
                                                                                     
(Not less than twenty (20) numbered lines such as this shall
    be provided upon such petition.)
   C.   Presentation Of Measure To Council: At the next session of the city
council after the proposal of an initiative measure, the city recorder shall
present the measures to the council.
   D.   Submission Of Measure To Voters: The city recorder shall cause to be
submitted to the voters at the time provided by state law a charter or charter
amendment proposed by the initiative and any other initiative measure not
enacted by the council. (1962 Code § 1-13-2; amd. 2014 Code)
1-8-4: REFERENDUM:
   A.   Manner Of Referring Measure: The manner of referring a measure shall be
as follows:
      1.   For a person to deposit at the office of the city recorder a duly
prepared referendum petition for the measure; or
      2.   For the city council to order submission of the measure to the
voters. (1962 Code § 1-13-3)
   B.   Form Of Petition: No referendum petition shall be deemed duly prepared
unless it is in substantially the following form, and complies with state law:
(1962 Code § 1-13-3; amd. 2014 Code)
   "WARNING"
It is an offense for a person to sign this petition unless he is a legal voter
of the City of Nyssa, or to sign it with a name not his own, or to sign his
name to it knowingly more than once.
   PETITION FOR REFERENDUM
To                                        , Recorder of the City of Nyssa:
The undersigned legal voters of the City of Nyssa petition that the attached
             No.            of the City of Nyssa, entitled and passed the      
day of             , 20    , be referred to the legal voters of the City for
their approval. Each of us for himself says: I have signed this petition, I am
a legal voter of the City of Nyssa, and my address is written correctly after
my name.
   Name      Address
1.
                                                                              
(In preparing the petition, provide twenty (20) numbered
    lines such as this for signatures and addresses.)
   C.   Time For Referring Measure By Petition: No referendum petition for a
measure shall be deemed duly prepared unless the petition and the signatures
requisite to its being deemed duly prepared are deposited at the office of the
city recorder within thirty (30) days after the city council enacts the
measure.
   D.   Time For Council To Refer Measure: The city council may refer a measure
only at the session at which it enacts the measure.
   E.   No Veto Of Referred Measure: The mayor shall have no power to veto a
measure which the city council refers.
   F.   Submission Of Measure To Voters: The city recorder shall cause a
referred measure to be submitted to the voters at the time fixed by this
chapter. (1962 Code § 1-13-3)
1-8-5: PETITION:
   A.   Procedure Prior To Circulation Of Petition:
      1.   Presentation For Checking, Specifications And Preparation Of Titles:
No petition shall be deemed duly prepared unless:
         a.   Prior to its circulation, a copy of it is deposited at the office
of the city recorder; and
         b.   As circulated, it complies with the specification listed in
subsection A2 of this section which the recorder makes concerning it and
contains the ballot title, either that prepared initially or that approved or
prescribed on appeal, required by this chapter for the measure for which it is
being circulated.
      2.   Checking, Specifications And Preparation Of Titles: When a copy of a
petition to be circulated is deposited at the office of the recorder, he shall
immediately:
         a.   Check it for the legal sufficiency of the form in which it
appears;
         b.   Advise the person depositing it whether it is legally sufficient
in form, and if it is not so, how to make it so;
         c.   Specify the mode of writing the petition and the size and kind of
paper on which to write it; and (1962 Code § 1-13-4)
         d.   Comply with all state law requirements.
   B.   Requisite Number Of Signatures: The number of signatures on a petition
requisite to its being deemed duly prepared shall be, for an initiative
petition, fifteen percent (15%), and for a referendum petition, ten percent
(10%), of the electors registered in the city at the time the prospective
petition is filed.
   C.   Attachment Of Measure To Sheets For Signatures: No signature on a
petition sheet shall be counted unless attached to it at the time of the
signing of the signature is a copy of the measure to which the petition refers.
   D.   Verification Of Signatures: No signature on a petition sheet shall be
counted unless the person who circulates the sheet verifies it by an affidavit
which complies with state law and is in substantially the following form:
State of Oregon   )
County of Malheur    ) ss
   City of Nyssa   )
I,                              , first being duly sworn, state that each
signer of this sheet signed it in my presence, and that I believe that he
stated his name and address correctly on the sheet and is a legal voter of the
City of Nyssa.
                                               
   Address of Affiant:                  
Subscribed and sworn to before me this       day of              20     .
My commission expires                 , 20    .
   E.   Certification Of Signatures:
      1.   Certification By Recorder: Within five (5) days after a duly
prepared petition is deposited at his office, the city recorder shall:
         a.   Compare the signatures on it with the signatures on the
registration records in the office of the clerk of Malheur County, Oregon; and
         b.   Attach to the petition a certificate which complies with state
law and is in substantially the following form:
State of Oregon   )
County of Malheur   ) ss
City of Nyssa   )
I,                         , Recorder of the City of Nyssa, hereby do certify
that I have compared the signatures on the attached petition with the
signatures on the registration records in the office of the Clerk of Malheur
County, Oregon, and on the basis of these records, I certify that the
signatures of the following persons, in the number of                 , are
genuine:
                                                        
                                                                                   
and that the signatures of the following persons, in the number of            
are not genuine:
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
                             
          Recorder
      2.   Certification By Notary: Within five (5) days after the city
recorder attaches to a petition his certificate concerning the genuineness of
the signatures on the petition, a voter may attach to it a certificate, which
complies with state law and is in substantially the following form, by a notary
public resident in the city:
STATE OF OREGON   )
County of Malheur   ) ss
City of Nyssa      )
I,                     , a duly qualified and acting Notary Public resident in
the City of Nyssa, certify that I am personally acquainted with the following
named voters whose signatures are affixed to the attached petition, that I know
of my own knowledge that they are legal voters of the City of Nyssa, that their
addresses are correctly stated in the petition, and that their signatures on
the petition are genuine:
                                                           
                                                           
In testimony whereof I have set my hand and official seal this the       day of
                 , 20    .
                                       
         Notary Public for Oregon
My commission expires                     .
      3.   Effect Of Certificate: A certificate provided by this section shall
be prima facie evidence of the qualifications of the voters whose signatures it
certifies to be genuine.
   F.   Counting Signatures: In determining whether a petition contains the
number of signatures requisite to its being deemed duly prepared, the city
recorder shall count, except signatures forbidden by this chapter to be
counted, all signatures on the petition which either he or a notary public
resident in the city certifies to be genuine. (1962 Code § 1-13-4; amd. 2014
Code)
1-8-6: BALLOT TITLE:
   A.   Preparation Of Ballot Title: The ballot title for a measure ordered by
the city council, or proposed to be ordered by a petition to be submitted to
the voters, shall be prepared in accordance with state law. (1962 Code § 1-13-
5; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Requisites Of Ballot Title:
      1.   Parts: The ballot title for a measure shall consist of a short title
and a long title.
      2.   Short Title: The short title shall be the title by which the measure
commonly is spoken of or a title for common reference to the measure, and shall
not contain more than ten (10) words.
      3.   Long Title: The long title shall state the purpose of the measure
and shall not contain more than one hundred seventy five (175) words.
      4.   Accuracy And Fairness: The ballot title for a measure:
         a.   Shall state truly and impartially the purpose of the measure in a
language which is not an argument and does not tend to create prejudice
concerning the measure; and
         b.   Shall not resemble, so far as probably to create confusion, the
ballot title for another measure to be submitted to the voters at the same
election. (1962 Code § 1-13-5)
1-8-7: ELECTION:
   A.   Time To Vote On Measure: Where a special election is called either on
petition for proposed ordinance or charter amendments by the initiative, or for
submitting ordinances by referendum or charter amendments proposed by the
council, the time for voting on the measure to be submitted to the voters shall
be such date as shall be set by the city council by appropriate resolution or
ordinance.
   B.   Title And Numbers Of Measures On Ballot:
      1.   Titles: On a ballot, a measure shall appear by ballot title only.
      2.   Order: On a ballot for an election, the sequence of measures to be
voted upon shall be the sequence in which the respective measures are ordered
to be submitted to the voters.
      3.   Measures To Be Distinguished: On a ballot initiative, measures shall
be distinguished from referred measures.
      4.   Numbers: On a ballot, the spaces for votes on the first measure
shall be designated "500 yes" and "501 no", and the spaces for votes on the
succeeding measures shall be numbered consecutively "502 yes" and "503 no",
"504 yes" and "505 no", and so on.
   C.   Notice Of Special Election:
      1.   Publishing: Where a special election on a measure is called, the
city recorder shall issue a notice of the election, under the seal of the city,
and shall cause it to be published in a newspaper of general circulation
published in the city, to be designated by the council, once each week for at
least two (2) successive weeks, the first publication to be not less than
fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the election at which said proposed
measure is to be voted upon. In addition thereto, the recorder shall cause such
notice of said election to be posted in three (3) public places in the city at
least ten (10) days prior to the date of the election. (1962 Code § 1-13-6)
      2.   Form: The form of special election notice shall comply with state
law and shall be substantially as follows: (1962 Code § 1-13-6; amd. 2014 Code)
   NOTICE OF SPECIAL ELECTION
On                   , 20     , in the City of Nyssa from          A.M. until
        P.M., a special election will be held at which the following measure(s)
will be submitted to the voters for their approval:
                                                      
(Insert here the ballot title and number of each measure).
The polling places for the election will be as follows:
      Precinct         Polling Place
                                                                  
Witness my hand and the seal of the City of Nyssa, this        day of
                    , 20     .
                                        
                   Recorder
   D.   Notice Of General Election: Where a measure is to be voted upon at a
general election, the notice of the election shall state that fact and the
ballot title and number of each measure to be voted upon at the election.
   E.   Advertising Measure: In case of the submission of a measure to the
voters, the city recorder, not earlier than twenty (20) and not later than ten
(10) days prior to the election at which the measure is to be voted upon, shall
cause it to be published in two (2) consecutive issues of a newspaper of
general circulation in the city.
   F.   Election Returns: The votes on a measure shall be counted, canvassed,
and returned as follows:
      1.   In case of general elections, in the same manner as other votes cast
at general elections in the city; and
      2.   In case of special elections, in the manner provided by the charter
and the provisions of this code. (1962 Code § 1-13-6)
1-8-8: EFFECT OF MEASURES:
   A.   Proclamation Of Mayor:
      1.   Time And Content: Immediately upon the completion of the canvass of
the votes on a measure submitted to the voters pursuant to this chapter, the
mayor shall issue a proclamation:
         a.   Recapitulating the vote on the measure;
         b.   Declaring whether the vote shows a majority of those who voted on
the measure to be in favor of it; and
         c.   In case the vote shows a majority of them to be in favor of the
measure, announcing it to be effective from the date of the vote.
      2.   Publication: The city recorder shall give public notice of the
proclamation by publishing it once in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city.
      3.   Filing Of Proclamation: The proclamation shall be filed with the
measure.
   B.   Effective Date Of Measure: A measure submitted to the voters pursuant
to this chapter shall take effect only when approved by a majority of the
voters voting upon it.
   C.   Measures Subject To Referendum: A measure, so long as it is subject to
the referendum, shall have no effect.
   D.   Conflicting Measures: Of conflicting measures approved by the voters at
an election, the one receiving the greater number of affirmative votes shall be
paramount. (1962 Code § 1-13-7)
1-8-9: PROHIBITED ACTS:
The following acts are hereby prohibited:
   A.   Signing By One Not A Voter: No person other than a voter shall sign his
name to a petition.
   B.   Signing Another's Name: No person shall sign a petition with a name not
his own.
   C.   Signing Petition More Than Once: No person shall sign his name to a
petition with knowledge that he has previously signed his name to the petition.
   D.   Circulating Or Filing Petition With Unlawful Signature: No person
knowingly shall circulate or deposit at the office of the city recorder a
petition which to his knowledge contains a signature signed in violation of
this chapter.
   E.   Procuring Signature By Fraud: No person shall procure or attempt to
procure a signature to a petition by fraud.
   F.   Making False Statement: No person shall make a statement which he knows
to be false concerning a petition.
   G.   Making False Document: No person shall make a document for which this
chapter provides, which contains a false statement.
   H.   Paying Or Receiving Consideration For Signatures: No person shall pay
or receive a valuable consideration for procuring a signature to a petition.
   I.   Officer Violating Chapter: No officer of the city wilfully shall
violate a provision of this chapter. (1962 Code § 1-13-8)
CHAPTER 9
CITY RECORDS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Storing Of City Records
1-9-2: Examination, Destruction Of Records
1-9-3: Schedule Of Record Retention And Disposal
1-9-1: STORING OF CITY RECORDS:
The city manager is authorized to cause to have all papers, documents and
records received in all city departments maintained and stored to assure an
expeditious and orderly filing system. All records and documents to be stored
shall be placed in transfer files or suitable containers that will ensure the
safekeeping of all documents and records, and each file or container shall be
clearly marked as to the type of record or document contained therein, with the
date of disposal, if any, noted on each file or container. (1962 Code § 1-14-1)
1-9-2: EXAMINATION, DESTRUCTION OF RECORDS:
Upon completion of each fiscal year and completion of an independent post
audit, the city manager is authorized to cause to have examined all records
proposed for disposal or destruction by each department. Following such
examination, the person making such examination shall complete a certificate
authorizing the destruction of such records accompanied by an index of records
proposed for destruction. Records to be disposed of shall be destroyed by
burning or in such other manner that the city manager may direct. (1962 Code §
1-14-2; amd. 2014 Code)
1-9-3: SCHEDULE OF RECORD RETENTION AND DISPOSAL:
The schedule of record retention set forth in the office of the city recorder
shall be adhered to and shall govern the retention and disposal of all files,
papers, documents and records now on file in each department of the city. (1962
Code § 1-14-3; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 10
REVIEW OF DEMANDS FOR COMPENSATION
SECTION:
1-10-1: Purpose
1-10-2: Definitions
1-10-3: Prefiling Conference; Fee
1-10-4: Demand Requirements
1-10-5: Demand Review Process
1-10-6: Conditions Of Approval, Revocation Of Decision And Transfer Of Approval
Rights
1-10-7: Ex Parte Contacts, Conflict Of Interest And Bias
1-10-8: Attorney Fees On Delayed Compensation
1-10-9: Availability Of Funds To Pay Claims
1-10-10: Applicable State Law, No Independent Rights Created
1-10-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to accomplish the following regarding demands
for compensation under Oregon Revised Statutes 197, as amended by ballot
measure 37, passed November 2, 2004:
Process demands for compensation quickly, openly, thoroughly, and consistently
with the law, enable present real property owners making demands for
compensation to have an adequate and fair opportunity to present their demands
to the city's decision maker; provide the city's decision maker with the
factual and analytical information necessary to adequately and fairly consider
demands for compensation, and take appropriate action under the alternatives
provided by law, preserve and protect limited public funds; preserve and
protect the interests of the community by providing for public input into the
process of reviewing demands; and establish a record of decisions capable of
withstanding legal review.
(Ord. 606-04, 11-11-2004, eff. 12-2-2004)
1-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
APPRAISAL: A written statement prepared by an appraiser licensed by the
appraiser certification and licensure board of the state of Oregon pursuant to
Oregon Revised Statutes chapter 674. In the case of commercial or industrial
property, the term "appraisal" additionally means a written statement prepared
by an appraiser holding a Member Appraisal Institute (MAI) qualification, as
demonstrated by written certificate.
DEMAND: The "written demand for compensation" required to be made by an "owner"
of "real property" under ballot measure 37. Demands shall not be considered
"made" under ballot measure 37 until the city accepts the demand after the
requirements for making a demand under this chapter are fulfilled by the owner
of real property.
EXEMPT LAND USE REGULATION:
   A.   A regulation restricting or prohibiting activities commonly and
historically recognized as public nuisances under common law, including section
4-1-1 of this code (definition of "nuisance"), as amended from time to time,
and the criminal laws of Oregon and the city of Nyssa;
   B.   A regulation restricting or prohibiting activities for the protection
of public health and safety, such as fire and building codes, health and
sanitation regulations, solid or hazardous waste regulations, and pollution
control regulations;
   C.   A regulation required to comply with federal law;
   D.   A regulation restricting or prohibiting the use of a property for the
purpose of selling pornography or performing nude dancing; or
   E.   A regulation enacted prior to the date of acquisition of the real
property by the owner or a family member of the owner who owned the subject
property prior to acquisition or inheritance by the owner, whichever occurred
first.
FAMILY MEMBER: The wife, husband, son, daughter, mother, father, brother,
brother-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, mother-in-
law, father-in-law, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, stepparent, stepchild,
grandparent, or grandchild of the owner of the real property, an estate of any
of the foregoing family members, or a legal entity owned by any one or
combination of these family members or the owner of the real property.
LAND USE REGULATION: Any comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance, land division
ordinance, or transportation ordinance of the city of Nyssa.
OWNER: The present owner of real property that is the subject of the demand for
compensation, or any interest therein. The owner must be a person who is the
sole fee simple owner of the real property or all joint owners whose interests
add up to a fee simple interest in property including all persons who represent
all recorded interests in property, such as co- owners, holders of less than
fee simple interests, leasehold owners, and security interest holders.
PROPERTY: Any private real property or interest therein. It includes only a
single parcel or contiguous parcels in single ownership. It does not include
contiguous parcels or parcels not contiguous that are under different
ownerships.
REDUCTION IN VALUE: The difference in the fair market value of the property
before and after enactment, enforcement or application of a land use
regulation. (Ord. 606-04, 11-11-2004, eff. 12-2-2004)
1-10-3: PREFILING CONFERENCE; FEE:
   A.   Before submitting a demand for compensation, the owner must schedule
and attend a prefiling conference with the city manager to discuss the demand.
The prefiling conference shall follow the procedure set forth by the manager
and may include a filing fee, and notice to neighbors, other organizations and
agencies. The filing fee shall be set by council resolution.
   B.   To schedule a prefiling conference, the owner must contact the city
manager and pay the appropriate conference fee. The prefiling conference is for
the owner to provide a summary of the owner's demand to the manager, and for
the manager to provide information to the owner about regulations that may
affect the demand. The manager may provide the owner with a written summary of
the prefiling conference within ten (10) days after it is held.
   C.   The city manager is not authorized to settle any demand at a prefiling
conference. Any omission or failure by staff to recite to an owner all relevant
applicable regulations will not constitute a waiver or admission by the city.
   D.   A prefiling conference is valid for six (6) months from the date it is
held. If no demand is filed within six (6) months of the conference, the owner
must schedule and attend another conference before the city will accept a
demand. The city manager may waive the prefiling requirements if, in the
manager's opinion, the demand does not warrant that step. (Ord. 606-04, 11-11-
2004, eff. 12-2-2004)
1-10-4: DEMAND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Form, Completeness, Completeness Review, Extension And Tolling:
      1.   A demand shall only be submitted and accepted for review upon forms
established by the city manager. A demand shall consist of all materials
required by this chapter. A demand will not be accepted until found to be
complete by the manager after all materials required by this chapter have been
submitted.
      2.   The city manager shall conduct a completeness review within fifteen
(15) days after submittal of the demand and shall advise the owner, in writing,
of any material remaining to be submitted. The owner shall submit the material
needed for completeness within thirty (30) days of the written notice that
additional material remains to be submitted. If the owner fails to provide the
materials necessary to make the demand complete within the thirty (30) day
period, the demand shall not be accepted for filing.
      3.   The one hundred eighty (180) day period required to pass prior to
any cause of action being available to owner in circuit court specified in
Oregon Revised Statutes 197, as amended by ballot measure 37, passed November
2, 2004, shall only commence on the date the manager deems the demand complete,
and accepts it for filing. The manager shall note the date of completeness and
filing, in writing, upon the demand.
      4.   The owner may request an extension for filing a complete demand. A
request for an extension or continuance shall be deemed a waiver of the
commencement of the one hundred eighty (180) day period required to pass prior
to any cause of action being available to the owner in circuit court specified
in Oregon Revised Statutes 197, as amended by ballot measure 37, passed
November 2, 2004, and this chapter.
   B.   Information And Other Matters Required To Be Submitted As Part Of
Demand: A demand shall be for a single property and shall be submitted on forms
established by the city manager, and shall consist of all materials required by
this chapter. A demand will not be accepted for filing without all of the
following:
      1.   Fee: An application fee to be paid in advance of acceptance for
filing to cover the costs of completeness review and demand processing. This
fee shall be established by council resolution. The demand processing fee shall
be refunded if the city or an appellate body determines that just compensation
should be paid.
      2.   Form: A completed demand form.
      3.   Identification Of Owner: Identification of the name, physical
address, street address, and phone number of the owner. If the applicant is not
the owner, this information must also be provided for the owner and
authorization to act on behalf of the owner must be provided.
      4.   Property Description: A legal description of the property as well as
a common address for the property.
      5.   Proof Of Present Property Ownership: Proof, acceptable to the city
manager, that the property is in the exclusive fee simple ownership of the
owner or that the owner has the consent of all owners in the property. The name
and mailing address of all owners other than the owner making the demand must
be provided.
      6.   Nearby Property Owner Information: The names and addresses of all
owners of property within three hundred feet (300') of the property.
      7.   Listing Of Nearby Owned Property: Identification of any other
property owned by the owner within three hundred feet (300') of the boundary of
the property.
      8.   Title Report: A title report, including the title history, a
statement of the date the owner acquired ownership of the property, and the
ownership interests of all owners. The title report must also specify any
restrictions on use of the property unrelated to the land use regulation,
including, but not limited to, any restrictions established by covenants,
conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs), other private restrictions, or other
regulations, restrictions or contracts.
      9.   Copy Of Existing Regulation: A copy of the land use regulation that
the owner making the demand claims restricts the use of the property, or
interest therein, that has had the effect of reducing the fair market value of
the property, including the date the owner claims the land use regulation was
first enacted, enforced or applied to the property.
      10.   Copy Of Prior Regulations: A copy of the land use regulation in
existence, and applicable to the property, when the owner became the owner of
the property, and a copy of the land use regulation in existence immediately
before the regulation that was enacted or enforced or applied to the property,
that the owner claims restricts the use of the property and, the owner claims,
caused a reduction in fair market value due to the regulation described in
subsection B9 of this section being more restrictive.
      11.   Appraisals: A copy of a written appraisal or appraisals by an
appraiser, qualified as such in the state of Oregon, indicating the amount of
the alleged reduction in the fair market value of the property by showing the
difference in the fair market value of the property before, and after
enactment, enforcement or application of the land use regulation described in
subsection B9 of this section, and explaining the rationale and factors leading
to that conclusion. If the demand is for more than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), copies of two (2) appraisals by different appraisers must be
included. If the demand is for ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or less, one
appraisal must be provided.
      12.   Narrative: The owner shall provide a narrative describing the
history of the owner and/or family member's ownership in the property, the
history of the relevant land use regulations applicable to the demand, and how
the enactment, enforcement or application of the land use regulation restricts
the use of the property, or any interest therein, and has the effect of
reducing the fair market value of the property, or any interest therein.
      13.   Statement Regarding Exceptions: A statement by the owner making the
demand of why the following exceptions to the requirement for compensation for
restrictions or prohibitions on activities or uses found in Oregon Revised
Statutes 197, as amended by ballot measure 37, passed November 2, 2004, do not
apply:
         a.   Commonly and historically recognized public nuisances under
common law;
         b.   Protection of public health and safety;
         c.   Regulations required to comply with federal law;
         d.   Use of property for the purpose of selling pornography or
performing nude dancing; or
         e.   The subject land use regulation was enacted prior to the date of
the acquisition of the property by the owner, or prior to acquisition by a
family member of the owner who owned the subject property prior to the
acquisition or inheritance by the owner (if "family member" status is claimed,
it must also be addressed in the title report required by subsection B8 of this
section).
      14.   Statement Of Owner's Understanding Of Effect Of Any Modification,
Removal Or Nonapplication Of Land Use Regulation: A statement by the owner
explaining their understanding of what effect a modification, removal or
nonapplication of the land use regulation would have on the potential
development of the property, stating the greatest degree of development that
the owner believes would be permitted on the property if the identified land
use regulation were modified, removed or not applied.
      15.   Copies Of Prior Permit Applications And Description Of Enforcement
And/Or Application Actions By City: Copies of any land use actions, development
applications or other relevant applications for permits that have previously
been filed in connection with the property and the action taken. Any such
actions that represent the required "enforcement" and/or "application" of the
land use regulation that are prerequisites to making a demand must be described
and identified as such.
      16.   Site Plan And Drawings: A copy of the site plan and drawings
related to the expected use of the property should the land use regulation be
modified, removed or not applied in a readable/legible eight and one-half inch
by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") format.
      17.   Statement Of Relief Sought: A statement of the relief sought by the
owner. (Ord. 606-04, 11-11-2004, eff. 12-2-2004)
1-10-5: DEMAND REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Manager Report To Council: The city manager shall assess any demand for
compensation and make a recommendation to the city council on the disposition
of the demand.
   B.   Mailing Notice To Property Owners, Others: The city manager shall mail
notice of the demand to the owner and to all owners of record of property, and
to all owners of property within three hundred feet (300') of the property that
is subject of the notice, as listed on the most recent property tax assessment
roll where such property is located. Additional mailed notice shall be sent to
the Oregon department of land conservation and development, Oregon department
of justice, and such others as the city may designate by council resolution.
   C.   Contents Of Notice: The city manager's notice under subsection B of
this section shall:
      1.   State the basis of the demand, the amount of the compensation sought
and the regulation that causes the compensation to be alleged to be due;
      2.   Identify the property by the street address or other easily
understood geographical reference;
      3.   State that persons noticed may provide written comments on the
demand, and provide the date written comments are due or, if a hearing has been
requested, the date, time and location of the hearing. Include a general
explanation of the requirements for submission of written comments or, if a
hearing is to be held, the requirements for submission of testimony and
evidence and the procedure for conduct of hearings;
      4.   Identify the city representative and telephone number to contact to
obtain additional information; and
      5.   State that a copy of the demand and the supporting documents
submitted by the owner are available for inspection at no cost, and that copies
will be provided at reasonable cost.
   D.   Recommendation By Manager: Before the city manager may make a
recommendation on the demand, the manager shall provide notice of the demand in
accordance with the provisions of subsections B and C of this section.
   E.   Written Comments To Manager; Time Limit: Written comments regarding a
demand may be submitted to the city manager. Any such comments must be received
by the manager within fourteen (14) days from the date identified in subsection
C3 of this section. The owner shall have an additional seven (7) days after the
deadline set in subsection C3 of this section to respond to any written
comments received by the manager. It is the duty of the owner to determine if
comments have been received by the manager.
   F.   Persons Requesting Hearing: The city manager shall hold a public
hearing on the demand if requested by:
      1.   The applicant in the initial written demand; or
      2.   Another person entitled to notice under subsection B of this
section; provided, that person makes the request within seven (7) days from the
date provided under subsection C3 of this section.
If the owner requests a hearing, the initial notice under subsections B and C
of this section shall provide the date, time and location of the hearing. If a
hearing is requested by other persons entitled to notice, a new notice by the
manager shall be issued to the remaining persons entitled to notice giving the
date, time and location of the hearing.
   G.   Requirements For Hearing: If a hearing is conducted:
      1.   All documents or evidence relied upon by the owner shall be
submitted to the manager as a part of the demand. Persons other than the owner
may submit documents or evidence at the hearing.
      2.   Any staff report used at the hearing shall be available at least
seven (7) days prior to the hearing.
      3.   When the manager reopens a record to admit new evidence or
testimony, any person may raise new issues that relate to the new evidence,
testimony or criteria for decision making that apply to the matter at issue.
      4.   The failure of a person entitled to receive notice as provided in
this section shall not invalidate such proceedings if the city can demonstrate
by affidavit that such notice was given. The notice provisions of this section
shall not restrict the giving of notice by other means, including posting,
newspaper publication, radio and television.
   H.   Manager's Recommendation And Decision: The city manager shall make a
recommendation, applying the standards of Oregon Revised Statutes 197, as
amended by ballot measure 37, passed November 2, 2004, to the city council
based on all of the information presented. Should compensation be recommended
by the manager, the recommendation to the city council may include establishing
any relevant conditions for compensation. The manager will consider the city
council criteria for decision and may recommend the city council take any of
the actions set forth in subsection K of this section.
   I.   Retain Services Of Appraiser: The city manager may, in the manager's
discretion, retain the services of an appraiser to appraise the property and
evaluate the demand to assist in determining the validity of a demand.
   J.   Time Limit For Manager's Recommendation; Review By Council:
      1.   Within twenty one (21) days from the date of the close of the period
for written comments or the conclusion of the hearing, if one is requested, the
manager shall make a recommendation to the city council as to whether
compensation shall be paid, the amount of compensation to be paid, and/or
whether any specific land use regulation should be modified, removed or not
applied to the property.
      2.   A copy of the manager's recommendation and notice of the date, time,
and place of the city council meeting at which the recommendation will be
reviewed shall be sent by mail to the owner, and to all individuals that
provided written comments and/or participated in the manager's hearing, not
less than seven (7) days before the scheduled city council meeting, provided a
mailing address was previously provided to the manager as part of the review or
hearing process.
   K.   Review Of Manager's Recommendation And Decision On Demand By Council:
Review by the city council shall be on the record of the manager's review or
hearing, and limited to the completed demand filed with the manager, together
with any and all documents and testimony submitted in connection with any
review or hearing before the manager. Any staff report by the manager used at
the city council review shall be available at least four (4) days prior to the
city council meeting. The city council shall consider written and/or oral
arguments based on the record of the manager's review or hearing made by the
owner, and any party entitled to receive notice of the city council review. In
making its decision, the city council will consider the standards of Oregon
Revised Statutes 197, as amended by ballot measure 37, passed November 2, 2004;
the benefit(s) accruing to the public arising as a result of application of the
regulation; and the burden to the public in paying compensation to the owner
(s), taking into consideration the available financial resources of the city.
The city council may take, but is not limited to taking, any one or more of the
following actions on a demand:
      1.   Deny the demand based on, but not limited to, any one or more of the
following findings:
         a.   The land use regulation does not restrict the use of the private
real property;
         b.   The fair market value of the property is not reduced by the
enactment, enforcement or application of the land use regulation;
         c.   The demand was not timely filed;
         d.   The owner failed to comply with the requirements for making a
demand as set forth in this chapter;
         e.   The owner is not the present property owner, or the property was
not owned by a family member if that is required for compensation, or was not
the property owner at the time the land use regulation was enacted, enforced or
applied;
         f.   The land use regulation is an exempt regulation as defined in
Oregon Revised Statutes 197, as amended by ballot measure 37, passed November
2, 2004;
         g.   The land use regulation in question is not an enactment of the
city;
         h.   The city has not taken final action to enact, enforce or apply
the land use regulation to the property;
         i.   The owner is not entitled to compensation under Oregon Revised
Statutes 197, as amended by ballot measure 37, passed November 2, 2004, for a
reason other than those provided herein.
      2.   Award compensation, either in the amount requested, or in some other
amount supported by the evidence in the record, subject to the availability and
appropriation of funds for that purpose.
      3.   Modify the regulation.
      4.   Remove the regulation.
      5.   Not apply the regulation.
      6.   Take such other actions as the city council deems appropriate
consistent with Oregon Revised Statutes 197, as amended by ballot measure 37,
passed November 2, 2004.
   L.   Burden Of Proof:
      1.   The owner shall bear the burden of proof relating to the demand and
entitlement to just compensation.
      2.   The city shall bear the burden of proof to show that the regulation
is exempt under Oregon Revised Statutes 197, as amended by ballot measure 37,
passed November 2, 2004.
      3.   The standard of proof shall be by a preponderance of the evidence.
   M.   Interpretation: This chapter shall be interpreted in a manner
consistent with Oregon Revised Statutes 197, as amended by ballot measure 37,
passed November 2, 2004, and other implementing statutes or regulations and as
interpreted by Oregon appellate courts.
   N.   Final Decision By Council:
      1.   The final decision on a demand shall be made by the city council.
After review, the city council shall, under the standards of Oregon Revised
Statutes 197, as amended by ballot measure 37, passed November 2, 2004, and the
factors enumerated in subsection K of this section, determine whether
compensation is granted, the amount of compensation, if any, whether any
exceptions to the requirement for compensation apply or whether the regulation
should be modified, removed or deemed not to apply to the property.
      2.   A copy of the city council decision shall be sent by mail to the
owner and to each individual or entity that participated in the city manager or
city council review process, provided a mailing address was provided to the
city as part of the review process. (Ord. 606-04, 11-11-2004, eff. 12-2-2004)
1-10-6: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL, REVOCATION OF DECISION AND TRANSFER OF APPROVAL
RIGHTS:
   A.   Conditions Of Approval: The city council may establish any relevant
conditions of approval for compensation, should compensation be granted, or for
any other action taken under subsection
1-10-5K of this chapter.
   B.   Grounds For Revocation Or Recovery: Failure to comply with any
condition of approval is grounds for revocation of the approval of the
compensation for the demand, grounds for recovering any compensation paid and
grounds for revocation of any other action taken under subsection
1-10-5K of this chapter.
   C.   Revocation Or Modification Proceedings: In the event the owner, or the
owner's successor in interest, fails to fully comply with all conditions of
approval or otherwise does not comply fully with the conditions of approval,
the city may institute a revocation or modification proceeding before the city
council under the same process for city manager and city council review of a
demand under this title.
   D.   Transfer Of Approval Rights: Unless otherwise stated in the city's
decision, any action taken under this chapter runs with the property and is
transferred with ownership of the property. All conditions, time limits or
other restrictions imposed with approval of a demand will bind all subsequent
owners of the subject property. (Ord. 606-04, 11-11-2004, eff. 12-2-2004)
1-10-7: EX PARTE CONTACTS, CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND BIAS:
The following rules govern any challenges to the city manager's or member of
the city council's participation in the review and recommendation motion, or
hearings regarding demands:
   A.   Any factual information obtained by the manager or a member of the city
council outside the information provided by city staff, or outside of the
formal written comments process or hearing will be deemed an ex parte contact.
The manager or a member of the city council that has obtained any material
factual information through an ex parte contact must declare the content of
that contact, and allow any interested party to rebut the substance of that
contact. This rule does not apply to contacts between city staff and the
manager or member of the city council.
   B.   Whenever the manager or a member of the city council, or any member of
their immediate family or household, has a financial interest in the outcome of
a particular demand or lives within the area entitled to notice of the demand,
that manager or member of the city council shall not participate in the
deliberation or decision on that application.
   C.   All decisions on demands must be fair, impartial and based on the
applicable review standards and the evidence in the record. Any manager or
member of the city council who is unable to render a decision on this basis
must refrain from participating in the deliberation or decision on that matter.
(Ord. 606-04, 11-11-2004, eff. 12-2-2004)
1-10-8: ATTORNEY FEES ON DELAYED COMPENSATION:
If a demand under Oregon Revised Statutes 197, as amended by ballot measure 37,
passed November 2, 2004, and this chapter is denied or not fully paid within
one hundred eighty (180) days of the date of filing a completed demand, the
owner's reasonable attorney fees and expenses necessary to collect compensation
will be added as additional compensation, provided compensation is awarded to
the owner. If such demand is denied, not fully paid, or other action taken
under Oregon Revised Statutes 197, as amended by ballot measure 37, passed
November 2, 2004, within one hundred eighty (180) days of the date of filing a
completed demand, and the owner commences suit or action to collect
compensation, if the city is the prevailing party in such action, then the city
shall be entitled to any sum which a court, including any appellate court, may
adjudge reasonable as attorney fees. (Ord. 606-04, 11-11-2004, eff. 12-2-2004)
1-10-9: AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS TO PAY CLAIMS:
Compensation can only be paid based on the availability and appropriation of
funds for this purpose. (Ord. 606-04, 11-11-2004, eff. 12-2-2004)
1-10-10: APPLICABLE STATE LAW, NO INDEPENDENT RIGHTS CREATED:
For all demands filed, the applicable state law is those portions of Oregon
Revised Statutes 197 added or made a part of said chapter by ballot measure 37,
passed November 2, 2004, and/or as amended, modified or clarified by subsequent
amendments or regulations adopted by the Oregon state legislature or Oregon
state administrative agencies. Any demand that has not been processed
completely under this chapter shall be subject to any such amendments,
modifications, clarifications or other actions taken at the state level and
this chapter shall be read in a manner so as not to conflict with such
amendments, modifications, clarifications or other actions taken at the state
level. This chapter is adopted solely to address demands filed under the
authority of those provisions of Oregon Revised Statutes 197 added or made a
part of said chapter by ballot measure 37, passed November 2, 2004. No rights
independent of said provisions are created by adoption of this chapter. (Ord.
606-04, 11-11-2004, eff. 12-2-2004)
CHAPTER 11
BACKGROUND CHECKS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Procedure
1-11-2: Retention Of Criminal History Records
1-11-3: City Licensed Applicant Criminal History
1-11-4: Workers/Volunteers Serving Children
1-11-5: Procedure - Criminal History Checks To Workers/Volunteers Serving
Children
1-11-1: PROCEDURE:
All proceedings pursuant to this chapter shall be conducted in accordance with
Oregon Revised Statutes 181.555, Oregon Revised Statutes 181A.230 and OAR 257-
010-0025, which establishes procedures for access to criminal record
information possessed by the Oregon State Police (OSP) through the law
enforcement data system (LEDS), and as supplemented below.
   A.   All applicants for employment and appointed volunteers with the City
will be required to authorize the City to conduct a criminal offender
information check through the OSP LEDS system.
   B.   A member of the Police Department trained and authorized shall perform
criminal history checks through LEDS on the prospective employee or volunteer
and orally report to the City Manager that the applicant's records indicate "no
criminal record" or "criminal record". If the applicant's record indicates
"criminal record" the City may under OAR 257-010-0025, request a written
criminal history report from OSP Identification Services Section. (Ord. 657-18,
3-13-2018)
1-11-2: RETENTION OF CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORDS:
   A.   The written criminal history record on persons that are not hired or
appointed as a volunteer will be retained in accordance with the requirements
of OAR 166-200-0090 for a period of three (3) years and thereafter will be
destroyed. The criminal history record of applicants and volunteers with a
criminal history that are hired or appointed will become a part of the
confidential personnel files of that employee or volunteer. Access to
confidential personnel files is limited only to authorized persons who have an
official need to access such files that is sanctioned by law or regulation.
(Ord. 657-18, 3-13-2018)
1-11-3: CITY LICENSED APPLICANT CRIMINAL HISTORY:
   A.   The Police Department will review the criminal history of all persons
who will serve the general public through a license issued by the City of
Nyssa. The applicant will by his/her signature authorize the Police Department
to conduct a background check. The Police Department will report only that the
applicant does or does not have a criminal history. If the Council requires
additional information they may require the applicant to request a written
criminal history from the OSP Identification Services Section. The criminal
history information will be destroyed in a manner authorized by LEDS.
   B.   The individuals who are required to apply to the City for
recommendations including but not limited to OLCC licensing, travel permits,
and immigration status letters will by signature authorize the Police
Department to conduct a background check. The Police Department in the
formation of a recommendation may use information of criminal history, however
the details of a criminal history will not be released. The criminal history
information will be destroyed in a manner authorized by LEDS. (Ord. 657-18, 3-
13-2018)
1-11-4: WORKERS/VOLUNTEERS SERVING CHILDREN:
   A.   Nonprofit and government organizations serving youth in the community,
including, but not limited to youth baseball, youth basketball, youth soccer,
youth football organizations, churches, and schools may request that the Police
Department perform criminal history checks. (Ord. 657-18, 3-13-2018)
1-11-5: PROCEDURE - CRIMINAL HISTORY CHECKS TO WORKERS/VOLUNTEERS SERVING
CHILDREN:
   A.   The Police Department may perform criminal history checks on
prospective workers or volunteers that have direct contact with youth. This
service will be subject to workload priorities and staff availability.
Applicants will by signature authorize the Police Department to conduct a
criminal records check. The Police Department shall confirm only if a criminal
record exists, without any detail of such record. The youth volunteer
organization may request criminal record history directly with OSP pursuant to
State Statute and administrative rule. The criminal history information will be
destroyed in a manner authorized by LEDS. (Ord. 657-18, 3-13-2018)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Created
2-1-2: Members Of Board; Officers; Compensation
2-1-3: Terms Of Office
2-1-4: Quorum; Rules; Meetings
2-1-5: Powers And Authority
2-1-6: Plats And Plans
2-1-7: Reports And Recommendations
2-1-8: Gifts And Bequests
2-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created a planning commission for the city, to be appointed,
organized and having the powers and duties as provided by Oregon Revised
Statutes 227.010 et seq. (1962 Code § 2-2-1; amd. 2014 Code)
2-1-2: MEMBERS OF BOARD; OFFICERS; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Membership: The planning commission shall consist of the city attorney,
ex officio; the city manager, ex officio; and of seven (7) other members to be
appointed by the mayor, not more than two (2) of whom shall be nonresidents of
the city. (1962 Code § 2-2-2; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   President And Vice President: The planning commission, at its first
meeting, shall elect a president and vice president, who shall be members
appointed by the mayor and who shall hold office during the pleasure of the
commission. (1962 Code § 2-2-2)
   C.   Secretary: The commission shall elect a secretary who need not be a
member of the commission. Such secretary shall keep an accurate record of all
proceedings of said commission and the commission shall, on October 1 of each
year, make and file a report of all transactions of the commission, with the
city council.
   D.   Compensation: Members of the planning commission shall receive no
compensation. (1962 Code § 2-2-4)
2-1-3: TERMS OF OFFICE:
At the first meeting of the planning commission, the seven (7) appointed
members shall choose their term of office by lot as follows: one for one year;
two (2) for two (2) years; two (2) for three (3) years and two (2) for four (4)
years, and shall immediately thereafter notify the mayor and council in writing
of such allotment. Their successors shall hold office for four (4) years, and
any vacancy shall be filled by the mayor for the unexpired portion of the term.
(1962 Code § 2-2-3)
2-1-4: QUORUM; RULES; MEETINGS:
   A.   Quorum: Five (5) members of the planning commission shall constitute a
quorum; provided, however, that at least four (4) members appointed by the
mayor shall at all times constitute a part of such quorum.
   B.   Rules And Regulations: The commission may make and alter rules and
regulations for its government and procedure consistent with the laws of the
state of Oregon and with the charter and provisions of this code. (1962 Code §
2-2-5)
   C.   Meetings: The city council shall assign to the planning commission an
office or headquarters in the city hall, if possible, in which to hold its
meetings, transact its business and keep its records. The commission shall meet
as needed. (1962 Code § 2-2-5; amd. 2014 Code)
2-1-5: POWERS AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Certain Expenditures Allowed: The planning commission shall have the
power and authority to employ consulting advice on municipal problems, a
secretary and such clerks as may be necessary, and to pay for their services,
and for such other expenses as such commission may lawfully incur, including
the necessary disbursements incurred by its members in the performance of their
duties as members of said commission out of funds at the disposal of the
commission as authorized by the city council.
   B.   Powers And Duties: It shall be the duty of the planning commission, and
they shall have the power, except as otherwise provided by law:
      1.   To recommend and make suggestions to the city council and to all
other public authorities concerning the laying out, widening, extending,
parking and locating of streets, sidewalks and boulevards, the relief of
traffic congestion, the betterment of housing and sanitation conditions and the
establishment of zones of districts limiting the use, height, area and bulk of
buildings and structures;
      2.   To recommend to the council and all other public authorities plans
for the regulations of future growth, development and beautification of the
city in respect to its public and private buildings and works, streets, parks,
grounds and vacant lots, and plans consistent with the future growth and
development of the city in order to secure to its inhabitants, sanitation,
proper service of all public utilities, shipping and transportation facilities;
      3.   To do and perform any and all other acts and things necessary or
proper to carry out the provisions of this chapter; and, in general, to study
and to propose such measures as may be advisable for the promotion of the
public interest, health, morals, safety, comfort, convenience and welfare of
the city and of the area six (6) miles adjacent thereto.
   C.   Recommendations: The planning commission may make recommendations to
any person with reference to the location of buildings, structures or works to
be erected, constructed or altered by or for such person; and any person having
charge of the construction, placing or designing of buildings or other
structures and improvements, or objects of art, may call upon the planning
commission for a report thereon. (1962 Code § 2-2-6)
2-1-6: PLATS AND PLANS:
   A.   All plats or plans for vacating or laying out, widening, extending,
parking and locating streets or plans for public buildings shall first be
submitted to the planning commission by the engineer or other proper city
officer, and a report thereon from the commission secured in writing before
approval shall be given by the said proper city official.
   B.   All plans, plats or replats of land laid out in lots or plats,
including the streets, alleys and other portions of the same, intended to be
dedicated to public or private use and all plats or deeds dedicating land to
public use in that portion of Malheur County within six (6) miles outside of
the city limits shall first be submitted to the said planning commission, and
approved by it before they shall be recorded. It shall be unlawful to receive
or record such plan, plat or replat or deed in any public office unless the
same shall bear thereon the approval by endorsement, of the said planning
commission. (1962 Code § 2-2-7)
2-1-7: REPORTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS:
Copies of all ordinances for the establishment of the boundaries of any zone or
district regulating or limiting the use, height, area, bulk and construction of
buildings to be submitted to the city council shall, before the same are
presented to the council, be first submitted by the city recorder to the
planning commission for recommendation, and the said recorder shall immediately
so notify the council, and said commission shall make its recommendation
thereon in writing to the council; provided, that the planning commission shall
first hold a public hearing at such time and place as may be directed by the
council, and make a careful and appropriate investigation thereon; and
thereafter, before final action shall be taken by the council on the location
or design of any public building, bridge, stadium, park, parkway, boulevard,
playground or public grounds, the same shall be submitted to the planning
commission for its consideration and report. Unless the council definitely
names a longer period for the return of a report specified herein, the approval
of the planning commission to any matter referred to it in accordance with this
chapter shall be deemed to have been given at the end of thirty (30) days after
the receipt of the same in writing by its secretary, unless the planning
commission shall submit a report thereon prior to that time. (1962 Code § 2-2-
8)
2-1-8: GIFTS AND BEQUESTS:
The planning commission may receive gifts, bequests or devises of property in
trust for the use of the people of the city and to carry out the purposes of
this chapter, and shall have the control and disposition over the same. (1962
Code § 2-2-9)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
SOCIAL GAMING
SECTION:
3-1-1: Statute Authority
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: Gambling Restriction
3-1-4: License Required
3-1-5: Application For License
3-1-6: Granting Or Denial Of Application
3-1-7: Responsibility For Supervision
3-1-8: Cardroom Employee Qualifications
3-1-9: Consideration Of Application; Granting Of License
3-1-10: Restrictions On License
3-1-11: License Fee
3-1-12: Reduced Fees For Nonprofit And Fraternal Organizations
3-1-13: Expenditure Of License Fees
3-1-14: License Renewal
3-1-15: Rules And Regulations
3-1-16: Age Limit
3-1-17: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-1-18: Expiration Of Table License
3-1-19: Gambling Devices Prohibited; Seizure
3-1-20: Penalty
3-1-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY:
This chapter is created under the authority of Oregon Revised Statutes 167.121.
(Ord. 605-04, 6-8-2004)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CARDROOM: Any space, room or enclosure furnished or equipped with a table used
or intended to be used as a card table for playing a social game and the use of
which is available to the public. This definition shall not apply to a bona
fide nonprofit society, club or fraternal, religious, civic or educational
organization.
CONTEST OF CHANCE: A contest, game, gaming scheme or gaming device in which the
outcome depends in a material degree on an element of chance, notwithstanding
that skill of the contestants also may be a factor.
EMPLOYEE: An employee of the licensee.
GAMBLING: Any contest, game, gambling scheme, gaming device or machine in which
the outcome depends in a material degree upon an element of chance,
notwithstanding that the skill of the contestants may also be a factor therein.
The term "gambling" shall not include "social games", as defined in this
section.
HOUSE INCOME: The receipt of anything of value derived from, but not limited
to, any of the following:
   A.   Renting space, chips, equipment or other paraphernalia.
   B.   Raised or excessive charges for services, refreshments or any other
item sold or rented in a place where a social game is licensed to be conducted
or sold or rented to any player of a social game.
   C.   Placing a specific charge on a social game or on a player of a social
game.
   D.   Use of any technique or device that inures to the benefit of a person,
private business, private club, place of public accommodation, organization,
corporation, partnership, joint venture, or any combination of individuals
having a collective capacity.
SOCIAL GAMES: A. A game, other than a lottery, between players in a private
home, where there is no house player, no house bank or house odds and there is
no house income from the operation of the social game.
   B.   Games, other than a lottery, between players in a private business,
private club, or place of public accommodation, where no house player, house
bank, or house odds exist and there is no house income from the operation of
the social game.
   C.   Bingo or lotto operated by a charitable, fraternal or religious
organization when no person other than the organization or a player profits in
any manner from the operation of the lottery and when the organization has
complied with the provisions of Oregon Revised Statutes 167.118 and city
ordinances and regulations.
TABLE: A device or thing on which one social gambling game is conducted. One or
more social gambling games may be conducted on the same table, but not
simultaneously, in whole or in part. (Ord. 605-04, 6-8-2004)
3-1-3: GAMBLING RESTRICTION:
No person shall participate in, operate, assist in operating, or allow to be
operated on, premises under his control, any gambling game or activity,
including a lottery, unless such activity is sponsored by or affiliated with
the Oregon lottery commission. (Ord. 605-04, 6-8-2004)
3-1-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Social games are authorized in a private business, private club, or place of
public accommodation only upon issuance of a license as provided under this
chapter. Licenses thereby issued are subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 605-04, 6-8-2004)
3-1-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Cardroom License, Council Approval For Granting: No person, firm or
corporation shall engage in, carry on, maintain or conduct, or cause to be
engaged in, carried on, maintained or conducted, a cardroom in the city where
social games are played between private parties and items of value or money may
be exchanged based upon the winning or losing of the game without having
obtained a valid license from the city. Licenses shall be granted only on
approval of the city council.
   B.   Applicant, Owner Of Table: A person making application for a cardroom
license shall be the sole and exclusive owner of the table or tables used or to
be used in the cardroom.
   C.   Signing Of Application: If the cardroom to be licensed is owned by a
corporation, the license shall be issued in the name of the corporation on
written application of its president, vice president, secretary or treasurer.
If the cardroom to be licensed is owned by a partnership, all partners shall
sign the written application and the license shall be issued in the partnership
name. If the cardroom to be licensed is owned by a limited liability company,
all members of the limited liability company shall sign the written application
and the license shall be issued in the name of the limited liability company.
If the cardroom to be licensed is owned by a trust, all trustees thereof shall
sign the written application and the license shall be issued in the name of the
trustees.
   D.   Contents Of Application; Investigation Fee:
      1.   An applicant for a cardroom license shall submit an application
under oath to the city recorder.
      2.   The application shall include the true names and addresses, personal
histories and business experiences, fingerprints, photographs and past criminal
records of all persons who are financially interested in the business, the name
of the business or establishment, the number of tables the applicant seeks to
have licensed, and any other matters the city manager considers necessary. The
term "person financially interested" includes all persons who share in the
profits of the business.
      3.   The application also shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable
investigation fee as established by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 605-
04, 6-8-2004)
3-1-6: GRANTING OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION:
The city council shall either approve the application and grant the license or
deny the application and refuse to grant the license. The license shall not be
granted if a person who has an interest in the business has:
   A.   Been convicted of a felony within the last ten (10) years;
   B.   Been convicted of five (5) misdemeanors, the last of which was within
five (5) years;
   C.   Been convicted of or forfeited bail for a crime involving gambling
within the last five (5) years;
   D.   Been involved, directly or indirectly, in a forfeiture proceeding
regarding a gambling device as defined in the Oregon Revised Statutes where
such gambling device has been ordered destroyed or a bond has been forfeited in
lieu of the gambling device being destroyed within the last five (5) years;
   E.   Given false or misleading information or omitted information requested
in the application;
   F.   Had a license in the name of the person revoked or suspended three (3)
times by the Oregon liquor control commission, the last of which was in the
last five (5) years;
   G.   Had a license previously issued by the city revoked pursuant to this
chapter; or
   H.   Been convicted of violation of a law or ordinance involving moral
turpitude. (Ord. 605-04, 6-8-2004)
3-1-7: RESPONSIBILITY FOR SUPERVISION:
A licensee shall assign a person to each cardroom to supervise the games and
ensure that they are played strictly in accordance with this chapter and
provisions of the Oregon Revised Statutes. (Ord. 605-04, 6-8-2004)
3-1-8: CARDROOM EMPLOYEE QUALIFICATIONS:
No person shall be employed in a cardroom as a cardroom employee nor shall any
person supervise a cardroom as required by section
3-1-7 of this chapter, if that person would be denied a license under section
3-1-6 of this chapter. It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to ensure
that cardroom employees and supervisors are so qualified. Failure to do so is a
violation of the license. (Ord. 605-04, 6-8-2004)
3-1-9: CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATION; GRANTING OF LICENSE:
   A.   Time Limit For Consideration: Consideration of the application for a
social game license shall be made within twenty (20) days after said
application is received unless the city council decides to take the application
under advisement for a reasonable period of time for further investigation,
including, but not limited to, the holding of hearings.
   B.   Approval; License Issuance: Upon approval of an application for a
license, the city council shall issue a license to the applicant. A license
granted under this chapter shall contain:
      1.   The name of the applicant-licensee;
      2.   The address of the establishment or business conducting social games
under that license;
      3.   The duration of the license;
      4.   The number of tables licensed for social games under that license,
which shall be a maximum of three (3); and
      5.   The names of employees authorized to operate the table(s). (Ord.
605-04, 6-8-2004)
3-1-10: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE:
A license may not be transferred to another licensee or another establishment.
However, other amendments to a license may be allowed at the city council's
discretion. (Ord. 605-04, 6-8-2004)
3-1-11: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Yearly License; Payment Of Fee: Licenses pursuant to this chapter shall
be granted for no more than one year, and may be renewed each year upon
reapplication by the licensee, together with payment of a license fee. Licenses
shall be issued on a calendar year basis. Licenses applied for after the
beginning of the calendar year may be granted for a period of no more than the
remainder of that calendar year.
   B.   Fees Enumerated; Proration: Prior to any license being issued pursuant
to this chapter, each licensee shall pay to the city the sum of two hundred
dollars ($200.00) per table per year as a license fee; payable in quarterly
installments of fifty dollars ($50.00) each. In the cases of licenses granted
for less than a full calendar year, the licensee shall pay a license fee of
one-fourth (1/4) the annual fee for each quarter or portion thereof during
which the license is to be in effect. License fees may be amended or changed by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 605-04, 6-8-2004)
3-1-12: REDUCED FEES FOR NONPROFIT AND FRATERNAL ORGANIZATIONS:
A nonprofit society, club or fraternal, religious, civic or educational
organization having adopted bylaws and duly elected directors and members may
be granted a cardroom license at an annual fee of ten dollars ($10.00) when the
tables are for the exclusive use of members of the organization and no charge
is made for participation. A license, as provided by this section, may be
granted only if the organization has been in continuous existence and actively
conducting its affairs in the city for a period of two (2) years immediately
preceding application for a license and only if the conduct of the cardroom is
not the primary reason for existence of the organization. (Ord. 605-04, 6-8-
2004)
3-1-13: EXPENDITURE OF LICENSE FEES:
All fees and charges collected from the issuing of social games licenses go
into the general fund of the city. (Ord. 605-04, 6-8-2004)
3-1-14: LICENSE RENEWAL:
   A.   Cardroom licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be
renewed by city staff on or before the last working day of the year for which
the license was originally issued during which the license is effective without
the payment of a new investigative fee, if the application for renewal is the
same as the application submitted for the license which is presently effective.
   B.   Requests for renewal of licenses after the last working day of the year
during which the license is effective shall be accompanied by a new
investigative fee regardless of whether or not the application is the same as
the application submitted for the previous year, and shall be renewed only upon
action by the city council. (Ord. 605-04, 6-8-2004)
3-1-15: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Rules And Regulations Enumerated: No person shall operate a cardroom in
violation of any of the following rules and regulations:
      1.   In one hand or round:
         a.   No player shall bet more than five dollars ($5.00) in money or
other thing of value.
         b.   The amount awarded the winner, except for a poker game as
provided in subsection A1c of this section, shall not exceed ten dollars
($10.00) in money or other thing of value multiplied by the number of players
in the game.
         c.   In a poker game, there shall be no more than two (2) raises.
         d.   In a 21 game (blackjack), there shall be no more than two (2)
hands per player.
      2.   Licensees and permittees holding or obtaining licenses and permits
under the provisions of this chapter agree to be bound by and observe each of
the terms, conditions and provisions of this chapter. Cardroom licenses and
work permits shall be available for inspection during all hours of operation.
      3.   Games conducted or operated in the city pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter shall be conducted and operated in full conformity with, and
subject to, all provisions of the laws of the state and the ordinances of the
city.
      4.   Cardrooms shall be open to police inspection during all hours of
operation. Each licensee shall keep the room or enclosure where the social game
takes place open to free and immediate access by the police department of the
city, its authorized personnel or law enforcement officers. Doors leading into
the room or enclosure shall remain unlocked during all hours of operation,
except that where the charitable, religious or fraternal organization normally
restricts access by means of magnetic cards or devices, such cards or devices
shall be provided to the city police department for use by its authorized
personnel or law enforcement officers in fulfillment of access requirements of
this subsection.
      5.   No licensee or permittee shall participate in a card game or procure
players, back, farm out, assign or sublet card games lawfully permitted under
this chapter on the premises in which the licensee or permittee has any
interest or works.
      6.   Playing of all card games shall be arranged to provide free access
and visibility to interested persons. Doors leading into the cardroom must
remain unlocked during all hours of operation.
      7.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall be permitted
to participate in a card game or to enter or remain on the portion of the
premises where the cardroom is located.
      8.   No charge shall be collected from a player for the privilege of
participating in a game.
      9.   All players in a game, including the dealer, must use their own
money. Loans between licensee and players, loans between cardroom employees and
players, and loans between players are not permitted.
      10.   No game shall be conducted between the hours of two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
   B.   Posting Of Rules: The city manager may require one or more of the above
rules to be posted in a cardroom in a conspicuous place and in a readable
style. (Ord. 605-04, 6-8-2004)
3-1-16: AGE LIMIT:
It is a violation of this chapter for any licensee or his or her agent,
employee, officer, or servant, to allow any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years to participate in any activity in the licensed premises when such
activity would be gambling but for the fact it is a social game. No person
under the age of twenty one (21) years shall be permitted to enter or remain in
any room in which such game is being played. A culpable mental state is not
required for a violation of this section to occur. (Ord. 605-04, 6-8-2004)
3-1-17: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Causes For Suspension: The city manager shall temporarily suspend any
social games license issued hereunder, if:
      1.   Any owner or manager of the business premises has been convicted of
a felony within the last ten (10) years.
      2.   Any owner or manager of the business premises has been previously
convicted for any crime involving gambling, or has been involved directly or
indirectly in a forfeiture proceeding regarding a gambling device as defined in
this chapter.
      3.   Any false or misleading information is supplied in the application
or any information requested is omitted either in the original application or
at other proceedings.
      4.   Any owner of the business premises or the business premises itself
has a license revoked or suspended by the Oregon liquor control commission,
during the period of the social games license.
      5.   Any owner or manager of the business premises profits from gambling
or promotes gambling, either on the licensed premises and/or in any other
activity.
      6.   Employees not authorized under the license to operate table(s).
      7.   Any other conduct involving moral turpitude on the part of any of
the premises owner, his agents, his employees, or other representatives.
      8.   A licensee fails to pay the license fees set forth herein.
      9.   A licensee or an employee of a licensee violates any section of this
chapter.
      10.   The following activities or disturbances occur on the premises of
the licensee:
         a.   Rowdy and/or disorderly conduct;
         b.   Drunkenness and/or being under the influence of intoxicants;
         c.   The use, possession, sale, gift, barter, or exchange by any
person of any controlled substances defined by Oregon Revised Statutes 475.005
or of any drug whose possession, sale, exchange, gift, or use, is made illegal
by any law of the state of Oregon or of the United States. (Ord. 605-04, 6-8-
2004)
Action taken in this respect shall be subject to the right of appeal to the
city council meeting in a regularly scheduled session. Notice of such appeal
must be filed with the city recorder within ten (10) days from the date of
suspension or such action of the city manager shall be deemed to be final and
conclusive. A temporary suspension shall be for thirty (30) days.
   B.   Permanent Revocation: Permanent revocation may be made only by the city
council, and such revocation shall only take place at a council meeting in
regular session upon application of the city manager, and only after the
licensee has been served with notice at least fourteen (14) days prior to the
council meeting. Such notice shall include the time and date of the council
meeting and the grounds upon which the permanent revocation is sought. Notice
shall be deemed to be received by licensee if the city recorder mails such
notice to the address listed by the licensee on the application, or any
subsequent change of address provided to the city. (Ord. 605-04, 6-8-2004; amd.
2014 Code)
   C.   Suspension And Revocation Of Table License: Suspension of a cardroom
license where a licensed table is located shall automatically suspend the table
license. (Ord. 605-04, 6-8-2004)
3-1-18: EXPIRATION OF TABLE LICENSE:
All table licenses and applications for table licenses shall expire at the same
time and date as a cardroom license. (Ord. 605-04, 6-8-2004)
3-1-19: GAMBLING DEVICES PROHIBITED; SEIZURE:
No person shall have in his possession any property, instrument or device
designed or adopted for use in any gambling activity. Any such property,
instrument or device is hereby declared a public nuisance and may be summarily
seized by any peace officer. Property so seized shall remain in the custody of
the seizing agency, subject to order by a court exercising proper jurisdiction.
(Ord. 605-04, 6-8-2004)
3-1-20: PENALTY:
Violation of, or failure to comply with, any provisions of this chapter is
punishable, upon conviction thereof, by a fine not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00). The fine may be modified by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 605-04, 6-8-2004)
CHAPTER 2
ADULT BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: General Requirements
3-2-4: Business Manager
3-2-5: Live Adult Entertainment Establishments
3-2-6: Minitheaters And Motion Picture Theaters
3-2-7: Adult Panorama Theaters
3-2-8: Standards Of Operation And Conduct
3-2-9: Tips Or Gratuity
3-2-10: Dramatic Works Excepted
3-2-11: Enforcement; Remedies
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter regulates adult businesses of all types. It is the purpose of this
chapter to regulate adult businesses to promote the health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of Nyssa, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations of adult businesses within the city. The provisions of this chapter
have neither the purpose or effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on
the content of any communicative materials including sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is not the intent or effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the first amendment of the United States constitution, or by article I, section
8 of the Oregon constitution, or to deny access by the distributors and
exhibitors of sexually oriented material to their intended market. Neither is
it the intent or effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the
distribution of obscene material. (Ord. 578, 6-16-1998)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter and unless the context plainly requires
otherwise, the following definitions are adopted:
ADULT BUSINESS OR ADULT CONCESSION: Any adult bookstore, adult minitheater,
adult motion picture theater, adult panorama establishment, adult retail store,
adult hotels or motels, or live adult entertainment establishments. The
following definitions apply:
Adult Bookstore: An establishment having as a majority of its stock in trade,
books, films, photographs, devices, magazines or other periodicals which are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matters depicting,
describing or relating to "specified anatomical areas" or "specified sexual
activities".
Adult Hotel Or Motel: A hotel or motel wherein material is presented which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas",
or where rooms are routinely let for less than one day or which advertises or
holds itself out as specializing in sexual activity.
Adult Minitheater: An enclosed or drive-in theater used for presenting material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing
or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"
for observation by patrons therein.
Adult Motion Picture Theater: An enclosed or drive-in theater with a capacity
of ten (10) or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for observation
by patrons therein.
Adult Panorama Theater Or Arcade: Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited and where coin operated or slug operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors, or other image producing devices are maintained to show images to
persons in booths or viewing rooms where the images so displayed depict or
describe "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Artist - Body Painting Studio: An establishment or business which provides the
services of applying paint or other substance whether transparent or
nontransparent to or on the human body when such body is wholly or partially
nude.
EMPLOYEE: Any and all persons, including managers, entertainers and independent
contractors, who work in or at, or render any services directly related to, the
operation of an adult concession.
ENTERTAINER: Any person who provides live adult entertainment within an adult
concession, as defined in this section, whether or not a fee is charged or
accepted for entertainment.
ENTERTAINMENT: Any exhibition or dance of any type, pantomime, modeling or any
other performance.
LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINMENT: Any exhibition, performance or dance of any type
which contains:
   A.   Specified sexual activities;
   B.   Any display of specified anatomical areas; or
   C.   Any conduct intended to sexually stimulate any member of the public,
including (but not limited to) any such exhibition, performance or dance
performed for, arranged with or engaged in with fewer than all members of the
public on the premises at that time, with separate consideration paid either
directly or indirectly for such activity, and commonly referred to as table
dancing, couch dancing, taxi dancing, lap dancing, private dancing, or straddle
dancing.
LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT: Any building or portion of a building
to which any member of the public is invited or admitted and where any employee
or entertainer, on a regular basis or as a substantial part of the premises
activity, conducts live adult entertainment.
MANAGER: Any person who manages, directs, administers or is in charge of, the
affairs or conduct of any portion of any activity involving adult entertainment
occurring at any adult concession.
OPERATOR: Any person applying for or operating, conducting or maintaining any
adult concession; and "operator control person" means all partners, corporate
officers and directors and any other individuals in the operator's business
organization who hold a significant interest in the adult concession business,
based on the responsibility for management of the adult concession business.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company,
trust, incorporated or unincorporated association, marital community, joint
venture, governmental entity or other entity or group of persons however
organized.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any area generally visible to public view and includes streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots and
automobiles, whether moving or not.
SEXUAL CONDUCT: Any act of:
   A.   Sexual intercourse within its ordinary meaning, occurring upon any
penetration, however slight;
   B.   Any penetration of the vagina or anus, however slight, by an object;
   C.   Any contact between persons, involving the sex organs of one person,
whether clothed or unclothed, and the mouth or anus of another, whether clothed
or unclothed;
   D.   Masturbation, manual or instrument, of oneself or of one person by
another; or
   E.   Touching of the sex organs or anus, whether clothed or unclothed of
oneself or of one person by another.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS:
   A.   Less than completely or opaquely covered:
      1. Human genitals, pubic hair, vulva;
      2. Buttocks, anus; and
      3. Female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the areola.
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
or opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
   B.   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
   C.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breast. (Ord. 578, 6-16-1998)
3-2-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
All adult concessions must meet the following standards:
   A.   Lighting: The premises must be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures
of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than one foot-candle as
measured at the floor level.
   B.   Illumination Maintained: It shall be the duty of the owner and manager,
and any employees present to ensure that the illumination described above is
maintained at all times that any patron is present in or on the premises, with
the exceptions of an adult minitheater and adult motion picture theater.
   C.   Visibility From Outside: At no time shall any live entertainment,
merchandise or any film or movie being shown be visible from outside the
establishment.
   D.   Sexual Conduct Prohibited: No sexual conduct is permitted on the
premises.
   E.   Hours: No business, except adult motels, may remain open at any time
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
weekdays and Saturdays, and two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. Sundays. (Ord. 578, 6-16-1998)
3-2-4: BUSINESS MANAGER:
   A.   Manager On Premises: A manager shall be on the premises of any adult
concession at all times that entertainment is being offered or provided or the
business is open.
   B.   Responsibilities: It shall be the responsibility of the manager, as
well as of the owner or operator, to ensure:
      1.   That all entertainers, employees and patrons abide by and comply
with the standards of conduct set forth in this chapter.
      2.   That no patron is admitted onto the premises or is served or
entertained therein if such patron is obviously under the influence of alcohol
or drugs.
      3.   That no sexual conduct is allowed on the premises of an adult
concession at any time.
      4.   That the manager(s) on duty shall not be an entertainer.
      5.   That the manager shall maintain visual observation of each member of
the public at all times any entertainer is present in the public or performance
areas of the adult concession. When there is more than one public or
performance area, or public or performance areas are of a size or configuration
that one manager is unable to observe each entertainer and each member of the
public at all times, then additional managers must be on duty to ensure that
such visual observation is maintained at all times.
      6.   That the manager shall ensure that the actions of the entertainers,
all other employees and members of the public comply with all requirements of
this chapter. (Ord. 578, 6-16-1998)
3-2-5: LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS:
In addition to the general requirements of section
3-2-3 of this chapter, every place offering live adult entertainment shall be
physically arranged so that:
   A.   The stage on which live adult entertainment is provided and all other
areas of the premises to which the public has access, except restrooms, shall
be visible from the common areas of the premises. Visibility shall not be
blocked or obscured by doors, curtains, drapes or any other obstruction
whatsoever.
   B.   No live adult entertainment occurring on the premises shall be visible
at any time from any public place.
   C.   The stage on which live adult entertainment is provided shall be a
stage or platform at least eighteen inches (18") in elevation above the level
of the patron seating areas, and shall be separated by a distance of at least
four feet (4') from all areas of the premises to which members of the public
have access. A continuous railing at least three feet (3') in height and
located at least four feet (4') from all points of the performance area shall
separate the performance area and the patron seating areas. (Ord. 578, 6-16-
1998)
3-2-6: MINITHEATERS AND MOTION PICTURE THEATERS:
Every minitheater and motion picture theater offering adult entertainment must
meet the following standards:
   A.   Seats must be equipped with immovable armrests between the seats. No
bench seats allowing for more than one person in a seat is permitted.
   B.   A manager or other employee must walk through the theater portion of
the building at ten (10) minute intervals when a film is showing and the lights
are down. This employee and the manager or owner must ensure that no sexual
conduct occurs in the theater, either by patrons or employees.
   C.   Full house lights must comply with section
3-2-3 of this chapter, and must come on for at least ten (10) minutes at the
end of each feature. (Ord. 578, 6-16-1998)
3-2-7: ADULT PANORAMA THEATERS:
Every adult panorama theater must meet the following standards:
   A.   Every adult panorama theater must have a manager's station located in
the common area of the premises.
   B.   The interior of the premises of an adult panorama theater must be
configured so there is an unobstructed view from the manager's station of every
area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access, except restrooms.
Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment.
   C.   If the premises has two (2) or more managers' stations, then the
interior of the premises shall be configured so there is an unobstructed view
of every area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access from at
least one of the managers' stations. The view required in this subsection must
be by direct line of sight from the managers' station.
   D.   The owners, manager, and any employees present in the premises must
ensure that the view area specified in subsection B of this section remains
unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials
at all times and that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted.
   E.   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any time.
(Ord. 578, 6-16-1998)
3-2-8: STANDARDS OF OPERATION AND CONDUCT:
Every adult concession shall comply with the following standards of operation,
and the following standards of conduct must be adhered to by employees and
entertainers of all adult concessions:
   A.   No employee or entertainer may touch, fondle or caress any patron for
the purpose of arousing or exciting the patron's sexual desires.
   B.   No employee or entertainer shall allow a patron to touch an employee or
entertainer and no patron shall touch, fondle or caress an employee or
entertainer for the purpose of arousing or exciting the sexual desires of
either.
   C.   A list of any and all entertainment provided on the premises must be
posted and conspicuously displayed in the common areas of each place offering
live adult entertainment. The list must show the fee or charge for each
entertainment.
   D.   No employee or entertainer may solicit, demand or receive any payment
or gratuity from any patron for any act prohibited by this chapter.
   E.   No entertainer may be visible from any public place while engaged in
live adult entertainment.
   F.   No merchandise, films, videos, posters, books or other material that
relates to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas", as
defined in section
3-2-2 of this chapter, shall be visible from any public place at any time.
   G.   A sign, no less than twelve inches by twelve inches (12" x 12"), with
lettering no smaller than one-half inch by one-half inch (1/2" x 1/2"), shall
be conspicuously displayed in the common areas of the premises, and shall read
as follows:
THIS ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT IS REGULATED BY THE CITY OF NYSSA -
NYSSA CITY CODE TITLE 3, CHAPTER 2
ENTERTAINERS ARE:
1. Not permitted to engage in any type of sexual conduct; and
2. Not permitted to be unclothed or in such less than opaque and complete
attire, costume or clothing so as to expose to view any portion of the pubic
region, buttocks, genitals or vulva or anus unless removed at least four feet
from the nearest patron.
   H.   No manager of an adult concession may employ any person under the age
of eighteen (18) years as an entertainer or employee or allow an entertainer on
his premises who is under eighteen (18) years of age.
   I.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may be admitted onto the
premises of an adult concession for any purpose.
   J.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may be employed as a
manager or entertainer for an adult concession.
   K.   No illegal drugs may be sold, served, allowed, possessed or consumed by
employees, entertainers, managers or patrons on the premises of any adult
concession. (Ord. 578, 6-16-1998)
   L.   No patron whose appearance, demeanor, speech, actions, coordination, or
physiology is consistent with, and demonstrative of, a person under the
influence of alcohol or drugs shall be allowed entrance onto the premises of an
adult concession. No person shall be allowed to remain on the premises of an
adult concession after a point when the patron's appearance, demeanor, speech,
actions, coordination or physiology become consistent with, and demonstrative
of, a person under the influence of alcohol or drugs. (Ord. 00-594, 10-10-2000)
   M.   No sexual conduct shall be allowed on the premises of an adult
concession.
   N.   No employee not employed as an entertainer may be unclothed or in such
attire, costume or clothing so as to expose to view any portion of the female
breast below the top of the areola, or any portion of the pubic hair, anus,
buttocks, vulva or genitals.
   O.   No employee not employed as an entertainer may wear or use any device
or covering exposed to view which simulates the breast of a female below the
top of the areola, vulva, or genitals, anus or buttocks, or any portion of the
pubic hair. (Ord. 578, 6-16-1998)
   P.   No entertainer mingling with members of the public shall conduct any
dance, performance or exhibition (including, without limitation, the activity
specified in section
3-2-2, definition of "live adult entertainment", subsection C of this chapter)
in or about the nonstage area of the adult concession unless that dance,
performance or exhibition is performed at a distance of no less than ten feet
(10'), measured torso to torso from any member of the public. No employee or
entertainer may touch, fondle or caress any patron for the purpose of arousing
or exciting the patron's sexual desires, sit on a patron's lap, or separate a
patron's legs.
   Q.   No entertainer is permitted to be unclothed or in less than opaque and
complete attire, costume or clothing, so as to expose to view any portion of
the pubic region, buttocks, genitals, vulva, or anus, unless removed at least
ten feet (10') from the nearest patron. (Ord. 00-593, 5-9-2000)
3-2-9: TIPS OR GRATUITY:
No tip or gratuity offered to or accepted by an adult entertainer may be
offered or accepted prior to any performance, dance or exhibition provided by
the entertainer. No entertainer performing upon any stage area shall be
permitted to accept any form of gratuity offered directly to the entertainer by
any member of the public. Any gratuity offered to any entertainer performing
upon any stage area must be placed into a receptacle provided for receipt of
gratuities by the adult concession or provided through a manager on duty on the
premises. Any gratuity or tip offered to any adult entertainer conducting any
performance, dance or exhibition in or about the nonstage area of the adult
concession shall be placed into the hand of the adult entertainer or into a
receptacle provided by the adult entertainer, and not upon the person or into
the clothing of the adult entertainer. (Ord. 578, 6-16-1998)
3-2-10: DRAMATIC WORKS EXCEPTED:
   A.   This chapter shall not be construed to prohibit:
      1.   Plays, operas, musicals, or other dramatic works that are not
obscene;
      2.   Classes, seminars and lectures which are held for serious scientific
or educational purposes and which are not obscene; or
      3.   Exhibitions, performances, expressions or dances that are not
obscene.
   B.   These exemptions shall not apply to the actual sexual conduct described
in Oregon Revised Statutes 167.062. (Ord. 578, 6-16-1998)
3-2-11: ENFORCEMENT; REMEDIES:
   A.   Nonexclusive Remedies: The remedies found in this chapter are not
exclusive, and the city may seek any other legal or equitable relief,
including, but not limited to, enjoining any acts or practices which constitute
or will constitute a violation of this chapter or other regulations herein
adopted.
   B.   Public Nuisance: Any adult concession operated, conducted, or
maintained in violation of this chapter or any law of the city or the state
shall be, and the same is, declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. The
city attorney may, in addition to or in lieu of any other remedies set forth in
this chapter, commence an action to enjoin, remove, or abate such nuisance in
the manner provided by law and shall take such other steps and apply to such
court or courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or
remove such public nuisance, and restrain and enjoin any person from operating,
conducting, or maintaining an adult concession contrary to the provisions of
this chapter.
   C.   Moral Nuisance: Any adult concession operated, conducted, or maintained
contrary to this chapter shall be, and the same is hereby declared to be,
unlawful and a public and moral nuisance, and the city attorney may, in
addition to, or in lieu of any other remedy set forth herein, commence an
action or actions to abate, remove and enjoin such public and moral nuisance.
(Ord. 578, 6-16-1998)
CHAPTER 3
AMUSEMENT, RECREATION AND MUSIC DEVICES
SECTION:
3-3-1: License Required
3-3-2: Issuance; Refusal; Revocation
3-3-3: Penalty
3-3-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall maintain or operate an amusement,
recreation or music device within the city unless he shall first obtain a
license from the city. (1962 Code § 4-6-1)
3-3-2: ISSUANCE; REFUSAL; REVOCATION:
   A.   Issuance By Recorder: All licenses shall be issued by the city recorder
upon written application therefor showing the location of each machine.
   B.   Right Of Refusal By Council: The city council shall have the right to
refuse a license whenever it shall, in its sole discretion, deem a proposed
machine or its location as not conducive to the health, morals, welfare and
interests of the people of the city.
   C.   License Revocation: All licenses shall be subject to revocation by the
city council at any time without notice. (1962 Code § 4-6-2)
3-3-3: PENALTY:
Any owner of such device, or person, firm or corporation having possession of
premises in which any such device is located, who permits the same to be
operated without a license having been first obtained therefor, shall be deemed
guilty of a violation of this chapter and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine of not to exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), or by
imprisonment for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, or by both such fine
and imprisonment. (1962 Code § 4-6-3)
CHAPTER 4
TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND SPECIAL EVENTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Title
3-4-2: Purpose And Scope
3-4-3: Definitions
3-4-4: Permit Required; Fees
3-4-5: Application Review; Standards And Limitations
3-4-6: Process For Permit Issuance; Appeal
3-4-7: Display Of Permit
3-4-8: Removal Of Structures
3-4-9: Penalty; Hold Harmless And Indemnification
3-4-1: TITLE:
The provisions of this chapter are intended to authorize and regulate transient
vending and special events on all property within the city. This chapter shall
be known and cited as the NYSSA TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND SPECIAL EVENTS
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 631-11, 8-9-2011; amd. 2014 Code)
3-4-2: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   This chapter provides reasonable and necessary regulations for the
permitting of transient merchants and special events in order to:
      1.   Protect the public health and safety;
      2.   Maintain the free flow of pedestrian and vehicular traffic on
streets, sidewalks and areas open to the public;
      3.   Prevent interference with the peaceful enjoyment of the areas open
to the public;
      4.   Prevent interference with the peaceful enjoyment of the areas near
places where the transient vending activity or special event is occurring; and
      5.   Preserve, protect and enhance the economic, scenic, historic and
aesthetic values and objectives of the city.
   B.   The regulations of this chapter are not intended to permit any
violation of the provisions of any other law or regulation.
   C.   These regulations shall apply to activities within the city, including
city owned and leased property.
   D.   These regulations shall not apply to garage sales, yard sales, rummage
sales or swap meets conducted on private property; provided, that the sale is
not conducted over a period in excess of four (4) consecutive days.
   E.   These regulations shall not apply to sales conducted by municipal,
government, religious, charitable, educational or other similar organizations;
provided, that the sale is conducted on premises owned or leased by the
applicant for the regular conduct of its business or affairs.
   F.   These regulations shall not apply to temporary or seasonal uses within
permanent structures, except for those activities within permanent structures
subject to regulations as a special event.
   G.   Regulation of special events shall apply to private parties or to
events having a current on premises license from the Oregon liquor control
commission, excluding bars, taverns and social clubs.
   H.   Exemption of a use from the provisions of this chapter shall not exempt
the use from other applicable provisions of this code. (Ord. 631-11, 8-9-2011)
3-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to this chapter:
DANCE: Includes a dance which is open to the public, or for which admission is
charged directly or indirectly.
PERSON: Includes the singular and plural and any individual, firm, corporation,
association, club, copartnership or society or any other organization.
SOCIAL CLUBS: Includes civic organizations containing a permanent bar such as
Eagle's Lodge, Elks, Senior Center, etc.
SPECIAL EVENT: Includes any activity which is likely to attract at any one time
an assembly of persons, conducted for a specified period at one or more
locations within the city under the auspices of, and subject to the supervision
and direction of, a single person, including, but not limited to, festivals,
fairs, shows, exhibitions, auctions, city or regional celebrations, athletic
events, rodeos, concerts and public dances.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Includes any person who offers food, beverages, produce,
merchandise, a service, or other thing of value for sale within the city on a
temporary or seasonal basis. The following classes of transient merchants are
hereby established:
   A.   Class 1: A transient merchant requiring direct connection to city
operated utilities for preparation or storage of that which is being offered
for sale. "Utilities" includes water, storm sewer or sanitary sewer. A permit
to a class 1 transient merchant is issued for a single period per calendar
year, not to exceed one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days, with no renewals
or extensions.
   B.   Class 2: A transient merchant not requiring direct connection to city
operated utilities for the preparation or storage of that which is being
offered for sale. A permit to a class 2 transient merchant is issued for a
period of thirty (30) consecutive days, with a maximum of five (5) renewals per
calendar year (maximum 180 days). (Ord. 631-11, 8-9-2011)
3-4-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall engage in business as a transient
merchant or conduct a special event within the city without first obtaining a
permit as provided in this chapter. No person shall be deemed to be exempt from
the application of this chapter by reason of that person having conducted
business within the city prior to the effective date hereof.
   B.   Fees: The permit fees shall be set by resolution of the city council.
The fees shall be payable in full at the time of submission of an application
and shall be nonrefundable.
   C.   Permit Nontransferable: No permit shall be assignable or transferable
or shall authorize the applicant to conduct any other type of business or
special event.
   D.   Compliance With Regulations: The granting of a special event permit
shall not relieve any person of the responsibility to satisfy all code
requirements respecting the manner in which the special event is conducted.
(Ord. 631-11, 8-9-2011)
3-4-5: APPLICATION REVIEW; STANDARDS AND LIMITATIONS:
An applicant for a permit under this chapter must file an application in
writing. The city recorder shall provide the application form and establish
written procedures and submittal requirements necessary to process the
application in accordance with this chapter. The application will be reviewed
to determine compliance with the following standards and limitations:
   A.   Transient Merchant Permit:
      1.   Transient merchants shall not be permitted in R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 or
R-5 zones, except for the rodeo grounds. Written permission of the property
owner for the proposed use shall be required. No encroachment upon city rights
of way shall be permitted.
      2.   Each permit shall be issued for a single fixed location, and no
transient merchant shall change location, except upon a permit renewal.
      3.   No transient merchant who is a food vendor shall be permitted to
provide tables or seating for the use of patrons. A table for condiments will
be allowed.
   B.   Special Event Permit:
      1.   Special events shall not be permitted in the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 or
R-5 zones, except for the rodeo grounds. Written permission of the property
owner for the proposed use shall be required.
      2.   A special event permit is issued to the sponsor of the special
event.
      3.   A permit shall be limited to the duration of the special event, not
to exceed eleven (11) days.
      4.   The application must be submitted thirty (30) days prior to the
first day of the special event. An application submitted after the deadline
will be considered if accompanied by a late fee and submitted no later than
fourteen (14) business days prior to the first day of the special event. If the
thirtieth day falls on a day when the city administrative offices are closed,
the application will be considered if it is received by the city on the next
business day.
      5.   The chief of police shall have the authority and discretion to set
general policy for sounds levels, security, and safety for special events and
to determine the specific sounds levels, security, and safety requirements for
an individual special event.
      6.   All Oregon liquor control commission (OLCC) license applications for
special events must be approved by the city council.
   C.   Permit Compliance: All permits shall also comply with the following:
      1.   All permits must comply with all applicable state and local laws,
including, but not limited to, regulations and standards imposed or enforced by
this code.
      2.   All waste shall be disposed of in compliance with all city, county
and state standards, and may not be poured into sewer or storm drains or onto
the ground. Adequate trash receptacles must be provided in accordance with the
terms of the permit.
      3.   No use will be permitted:
         a.   Within the required landscape or setback area of the property;
         b.   That blocks vision at street intersections;
         c.   That blocks a crosswalk or otherwise impedes the flow of
pedestrian traffic;
         d.   That blocks entrances or exits from buildings;
         e.   That blocks a driveway or otherwise impedes the flow of vehicular
traffic;
         f.   Within eleven feet (11') of any disabled parking space or access
ramp;
         g.   Within fifty feet (50') of any entrance or driveway to a
healthcare facility with an emergency or urgent care facility, school, or
police or fire;
         h.   Within any service drive of a parking lot; or
         i.   In a location that conflicts with any fire or safety code
regulation.
      4.   The city manager may impose conditions of approval of the permit
that are necessary to comply with the requirements of the permit and this
chapter. In determining whether to grant or deny a permit, or in setting any
conditions of approval, the city manager shall consider:
         a.   The need to maintain the free flow of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic on streets, sidewalks and areas open to the public;
         b.   Criminal history of the applicant or event sponsor;
         c.   Any documented history of problems with an applicant or event
previously held;
         d.   Suitability of the premises for the type of activity applied for;
and
         e.   Compliance with all applicable local and state laws, ordinances
and regulations, and the standards set forth in this section.
      5.   The conditions applicable to a permit may include the right of the
city to inspect the premises. If the permittee fails, within the specified
time, or if no time is specified, a reasonable time to remedy any noncomplying
practice or defective condition identified as a result of any inspection, the
permit shall be revoked, without refund.
      6.   The fire chief shall have the authority and discretion to set
general policy for fire safety, including inspections, and to determine the
specific fire safety requirements and require a fire safety inspection for any
individual transient merchant or special event. Whenever, in the opinion of the
fire marshal, it is necessary for public safety at a special event, the fire
marshal may require the special event permittee to contract with the city for
standby fire watch through the city fire department.
      7.   The permittee shall be responsible for paying the city fee for such
coverage and the permittee shall execute a contract for the services as a
condition to receiving the special event permit.
      8.   The building inspector (Inspections, Inc.) shall have the authority
and discretion to require structural inspections for any temporary structure.
      9.   All permits for use of city owned property, including rights of way,
shall be required to furnish evidence of liability insurance providing primary
coverage in an amount that is not less than the city's tort liability limits
established by the Oregon legislature naming the city as an additional insured.
The liability insurance shall apply to, and provide coverage for, any and all
claims for, bodily injury and property damage arising from or caused by the use
for which the permit is granted and shall be primary coverage. In lieu of
meeting the insurance requirements of this section, any governmental entity may
enter into an agreement with the city to indemnify and hold the city harmless
in the event of any damage or injury resulting from the use.
      10.   All permits shall include a condition of approval requiring the
permittee to reimburse the city the costs incurred by the police department and
fire department in responding to the special event or transient merchant's
operation. Payment must be made to the city within thirty (30) days of the date
of the city's invoice. In any action to collect unpaid balances, the city is
entitled to collect its cost and attorney fees. (Ord. 631-11, 8-9-2011)
3-4-6: PROCESS FOR PERMIT ISSUANCE; APPEAL:
   A.   Application Process: Upon receipt of a completed application and fee,
the city manager shall refer the application to the appropriate city
departments for review.
   B.   Issuance: The city manager shall issue a permit if the application
meets approval through appropriate conditions.
   C.   Appeal: Any person whose application for a permit has been denied,
whose permit has been issued subject to conditions, who disagrees with the
transient merchant class assigned to the application, or whose permit has been
subsequently revoked, may appeal the decision to the city manager. The city
manager's decision will be final. (Ord. 631-11, 8-9-2011)
3-4-7: DISPLAY OF PERMIT:
The permittee shall display the permit, together with any conditions, at all
times on the business premises, in a location visible to customers. (Ord. 631-
11, 8-9-2011)
3-4-8: REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES:
Any structures, carts, vending units, tents, tables or other appurtenances used
by the permittee may not be located or relocated on the property until
commencement of the permit term, and shall be removed from the property
promptly upon expiration of the permit term. (Ord. 631-11, 8-9-2011)
3-4-9: PENALTY; HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   Any person who violates or causes a violation of any provision of this
chapter commits a class B civil violation. Upon any violation, the city
manager, or a designee of the city manager, may order the permittee's activity
to cease, and upon receipt of written notice, the activity shall immediately
cease.
   B.   Any such persons and permittee shall indemnify and hold the city and
its officers, agents and employees harmless from and against all claims for
injury, loss or damage arising out of or in any way related to the operation of
permittee's business. This agreement to indemnify or defend shall survive
termination or revocation of permittee's permit. (Ord. 631-11, 8-9-2011)
CHAPTER 5
JUNKYARDS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Premises Enclosed
3-5-2: Display Of Secondhand Objects
3-5-1: PREMISES ENCLOSED:
Any person conducting, within the city, the business of storing, wrecking,
dismantling or selling any used article shall confine said business within a
building or within a fenced enclosure, such fence to be substantially
constructed on all open sides or ends of the premises, to a height of at least
eight feet (8') above the ground, and without openings or apertures, excepting
necessary gateways or doors for ingress or egress, and which gates and doors in
said fence shall be kept closed when not in use for ingress or egress. (1962
Code § 4-7-1; amd. 2014 Code)
3-5-2: DISPLAY OF SECONDHAND OBJECTS:
No secondhand object belonging to or under the control of the person conducting
such business shall be placed in public view outside of the building or fenced
enclosure where such business is conducted. (1962 Code § 4-7-2)
CHAPTER 6
MARIJUANA RETAILERS, PRODUCERS, PROCESSORS, AND WHOLESALERS PROHIBITED
SECTION:
3-6-1: Prohibited Activities
3-6-2: Criminal Penalties
3-6-3: Civil Penalty
3-6-4: Civil Action
3-6-1: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
The establishment of any of the following is prohibited in the city of Nyssa
and the area subject to the jurisdiction of the city of Nyssa:
   A.   Marijuana processing sites required to be registered under section 85
of house bill 3400 (2015);
   B.   Medical marijuana dispensaries required to be registered under Oregon
Revised Statutes 475.314;
   C.   Marijuana producers required to be licensed under section 19, chapter
1, Oregon laws 2015;
   D.   Marijuana processors required to be licensed under section 20, chapter
1, Oregon laws 2015;
   E.   Marijuana wholesalers required to be licensed under section 21, chapter
1, Oregon laws 2015;
   F.   Marijuana retailers required to be licensed under section 22, chapter
1, Oregon laws 2015. (Ord. 644-15, 7-28-2015)
3-6-2: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
The operation or establishment of any of the activities or entities described
in section
3-6-1 of this chapter is a violation of this chapter and any person or entity
violating this chapter commits a class A violation which shall be punishable by
fine not to exceed the limitations established by Oregon Revised Statutes in
existence at the time of the violation. Each day such violation continues shall
be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 644-15, 7-28-2015)
3-6-3: CIVIL PENALTY:
In addition to, or in lieu of, criminal action under section
3-6-2 of this chapter, the city manager is authorized to impose a civil penalty
of up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation of this chapter.
Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate violation.
(Ord. 644-15, 7-28-2015)
3-6-4: CIVIL ACTION:
In addition to, or in lieu of criminal action under section
3-6-2 of this chapter and imposition of a civil penalty under section
3-6-3 of this chapter, the city of Nyssa may initiate a civil action against
any person or entity violating this chapter for any remedy available under
Oregon law, including, but not limited to, obtaining mandatory and prohibitory
injunctions and orders of abatement. If the city of Nyssa prevails in such
civil action, the city of Nyssa shall be entitled to its reasonable attorney
fees and court costs. (Ord. 644-15, 7-28-2015)
CHAPTER 7
PSILOCYBIN SERVICE CENTERS PROHIBITED
SECTION:
3-7-1: City Prohibition of Service Centers
3-7-1: CITY PROHIBITION OF SERVICE CENTERS:
   A.   In November 2020, Oregon voters approved Ballot Measure 109, known as
the Oregon Psilocybin Service Act (codified at ORS 475A), which allows for the
manufacture, delivery, and administration of psilocybin at licensed facilities;
   B.   Whereas ORS 475A.235 provides that the Oregon Health Authority will
regulate the manufacturing, transportation, delivery, sale, and purchase of
psilocybin products and the provision of psilocybin services in the state;
   C.   The Oregon Health Authority has initiated a rulemaking process to
implement the state's psilocybin regulatory program and intends to begin
accepting applications for psilocybin- related licenses on January 2, 2023;
   D.   Whereas ORS 475A.718 provides that a city council may adopt an
ordinance to be referred to the electors of the city prohibiting the
establishment of state licensed psilocybin product manufacturers and/or
psilocybin service centers in the area subject to the jurisdiction of the city;
   E.   The Nyssa City Council believes that prohibiting psilocybin product
manufacturers and psilocybin service centers within the City's jurisdictional
boundaries is in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the
people of Nyssa; and
   F.   The City Council seeks to refer to the voters of Nyssa the question of
whether to establish a ban on state-licensed psilocybin product manufacturers
and psilocybin service centers within the City's jurisdictional boundaries.
   G.   Prohibition. The establishment of psilocybin product manufacturers
licensed under ORS 475A.290 and psilocybin service centers licensed under ORS
475A.305 is prohibited in the City of Nyssa. (Ord. 671-22, 8-9-2022)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Nuisances Affecting Public Health
4-1-3: Nuisances Affecting Morals And Decency
4-1-4: Nuisances Affecting Public Safety
4-1-5: Nuisances Affecting Public Peace
4-1-6: Other Nuisances Affecting Peace And Safety
4-1-7: Unenumerated Nuisances
4-1-8: Abatement Procedure
4-1-9: Penalty; Remedial Action
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CHIEF OF POLICE: The chief of police of the city of Nyssa.
JUNK: Includes either old or dilapidated motors, motor parts, abandoned
automobiles, machinery and parts, appliances and parts, iron or other metal,
glass, paper, lumber, wood or other waste or discarded material.
NUISANCE: A thing, act, occupation, or use of property which:
   A.   Shall annoy, injure, or endanger the safety, health, comfort, or repose
of the public.
   B.   Shall unlawfully interfere with, obstruct or tend to obstruct, or
render dangerous for passage a public park, square, street, alley, or highway.
   C.   Shall offend public decency.
   D.   Shall in any way render the public insecure in life or in use of
property.
PERSON: A natural person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation.
PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY: An agent, occupant, lessee, contract purchaser,
or other person having possession or control of property or supervision of a
construction project.
PERSON RESPONSIBLE: The person responsible for abating a nuisance includes:
   A.   The owner.
   B.   The "person in charge of property", as defined in this section.
   C.   The person who caused a "nuisance", as defined in this chapter or
another ordinance of the city, to come into or continue in existence.
PUBLIC PLACE: A building, way, place, or accommodation, publicly or privately
owned, open and available to the general public. (Ord. 616-06, 11-14-2006)
4-1-2: NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC HEALTH:
No person shall cause or permit a nuisance affecting public health on property
owned or controlled by the person. The following are nuisances affecting public
health which may be abated as provided in this chapter:
   A.   Open vaults or privies constructed or maintained within the city,
except those constructed or maintained in connection with construction
projects.
   B.   Accumulations of debris, rubbish, manure, and other refuse that are not
removed within a reasonable time and that affect the health of the city.
   C.   Stagnant water in an artificial container that affords a breeding place
for mosquitoes and other insect pests.
   D.   Pollution of the air or a body of water, well, spring, stream or
drainage ditch by sewage, industrial wastes, or other substances placed in the
air or near the water in a manner that will cause harmful material to pollute
the air or water.
   E.   Decayed or unwholesome food offered for human consumption.
   F.   Premises that are in such a state or condition as to cause an offensive
odor or that are in an unsanitary condition.
   G.   Drainage of liquid wastes from private premises.
   H.   Mastics, oil, grease, or petroleum products allowed to be introduced
into the sewer system by a user connected to the sewer system.
   I.   Public exposure of persons having a contagious disease.
   J.   The use of a common public drinking cup or roller towel.
   K.   The distribution of samples of medicine or drugs unless such samples
are placed in the hands of an adult person.
   L.   Allowing an animal carcass owned or controlled by such person to remain
upon public property, or to be exposed on private property, for a period of
time longer than is reasonably necessary to remove or dispose of the carcass.
   M.   Permitting a diseased animal to run at large. (Ord. 616-06, 11-14-2006)
4-1-3: NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY:
No person shall cause or permit a nuisance affecting public morals and decency
on property owned or controlled by the person. The following are hereby
declared to be nuisances affecting public morals and decency which may be
abated as provided in this chapter:
   A.   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdyhouses.
   B.   All domestic animals in the act of copulation exposed to public view.
   C.   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured, sold, bartered,
or given away in violation of law.
   D.   All indecent or obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, and
newspapers.
   E.   Betting, bookmaking, prizefighting, and all apparatus used in such
occupations in violation of law. (Ord. 616-06, 11-14-2006)
4-1-4: NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC SAFETY:
The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public safety which
may be abated as provided in this chapter:
   A.   Hazard: No person shall create a hazard by:
      1.   Maintaining or leaving, in a place accessible to children, a
container with a compartment of more than one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet
capacity and a door or lid that locks or fastens automatically when closed and
that cannot be easily opened from the inside.
      2.   Being the owner or otherwise having possession of property on which
there is a well, cistern, cesspool, excavation, or other hole of a depth of
four feet (4') or more and a top width of twelve inches (12") or more and
failing to cover or fence it with a suitable protective construction.
      3.   This subsection does not apply to authorized construction projects
with reasonable safeguards to prevent injury or death to playing children.
   B.   Attractive Nuisances: No owner or person in charge of property shall
permit on the property:
      1.   Unguarded machinery, equipment, or other devices that are
attractive, dangerous, and accessible to children.
      2.   Lumber, logs, or piling placed or stored in a manner so as to be
attractive, dangerous, and accessible to children.
      3.   This section does not apply to authorized construction projects with
reasonable safeguards to prevent injury or death to playing children.
   C.   Noxious Vegetation:
      1.   The term "noxious vegetation" includes:
         a.   Weeds more than ten inches (10") high.
         b.   Grass more than ten inches (10") high, other than ornamental
grasses.
         c.   Poison oak.
         d.   Poison ivy.
         e.   Koshia weeds.
         f.   Vegetation that is:
            (1)   A health hazard.
            (2)   A fire hazard because it is near other combustibles.
            (3)   A traffic hazard because it impairs the view of the public
thoroughfare or otherwise makes use of the thoroughfare hazardous.
      2.   No owner or person in charge of property shall allow noxious
vegetation to be on the property or in the right of way of a public
thoroughfare abutting on the property. An owner or person in charge of property
shall cut down or destroy grass, shrubbery, brush, bushes, weeds or other
noxious vegetation as often as needed to prevent them from becoming unsightly,
from becoming a fire hazard, or, in the case of weeds or other noxious
vegetation, from maturing or from going to seed.
      3.   Upon the city manager's determination that a noxious vegetation
nuisance exists, the city manager may provide a notice to abate by registered
or certified mail to the person responsible at the person's last known address.
The notice to abate shall contain:
         a.   A description of the real property, by street address or
otherwise, on which the noxious vegetation nuisance exists.
         b.   A direction to abate the nuisance within ten (10) days from the
date of the notice.
         c.   A description of the nuisance.
         d.   A statement that, unless the nuisance is removed, the city may
abate the nuisance, and the cost of the abatement will be charged to the person
responsible.
         e.   A statement that failure to abate a nuisance may warrant
imposition of a fine.
         f.   A statement that the person responsible may protest the order to
abate by giving notice to the city manager within ten (10) days from the date
of the notice.
         g.   If the person responsible is not the owner, an additional notice
shall be sent to the owner, stating the cost of abatement not paid by the
person responsible may be assessed to and become a lien on the property.
         h.   An error in the name or address of the person responsible shall
not make the notice void.
      4.   If the notice provided for in subsection C3 of this section is used,
it shall be in lieu of the notice required by subsection
4-1-8A of this chapter.
   D.   Scattering Rubbish: No person shall deposit on public or private
property rubbish, trash, leaves, debris, refuse, or any substance that would
mar the appearance, create a stench or fire hazard, detract from the
cleanliness or safety of the property, or would be likely to injure a person,
animal, or vehicle traveling on a public way.
   E.   Trees:
      1.   No owner or person in charge of property that abuts an alley,
street, or public sidewalk shall permit trees or bushes on the property to
interfere with alley, street or sidewalk traffic. An owner or person in charge
of property that abuts an alley, street, or public sidewalk shall keep all
trees and bushes on the premises, including the adjoining parking strip,
trimmed so that any overhanging portions are at least eight feet (8') above the
sidewalk and at least twelve feet (12') above the roadway or alley.
      2.   No owner or person in charge of property shall allow a dead or
decaying tree to stand if it is a hazard to the public or to persons or
property on or near the property.
   F.   Unreasonable Noise: No person shall allow, cause, create, or permit the
continuance of unreasonable noise or annoying vibrations. The following
enumerated noises are not exclusive but illustrative of unreasonable noises:
      1.   The use of an engine, machine or device which is so loaded, out of
repair or operated in such a manner as to create a loud or unreasonable
grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise.
      2.   The use of a mechanical device operated by compressed air, steam or
otherwise, unless the noise created is muffled.
      3.   The construction, including excavation, demolition, alteration, or
repair of a building, vehicle, or equipment between the hours of six o'clock
(6:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. A resident is bound by the provisions
of this subsection, except that: a resident may conduct the aforementioned
activities on property at which the resident resides until ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M.
      4.   The use or operation of an automatic or electric piano, phonograph,
loudspeaker, stereo, or sound amplifying device so loudly as to disturb persons
at least five feet (5') beyond the property on which the sound originates.
Sounds produced in conjunction with officially organized sporting events,
parades, festivals, fairs, and other events issued a permit from the city
council are exempt from the noise limitations.
      5.   The operation of a refrigerated trailer within an R-1, R-2, R-3, or
R-4 zone during the hours from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. through seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M.
   G.   Surface Waters, Drainage:
      1.   No owner or person in charge of a building or structure shall permit
rainwater, ice, or snow to fall from the building or structure onto an alley,
street, or public sidewalk or to flow across the sidewalk.
      2.   The owner or person in charge of property shall install, and
maintain in a proper state of repair, adequate drainpipes or a drainage system,
so that overflow water accumulating on the roof or about the building is not
carried across or onto the sidewalk.
      3.   The owner or person in charge of property shall install and maintain
in a proper state of repair such facilities and improvements as are necessary
to prevent soil from eroding and flowing onto or across public streets, alleys
and sidewalks or into public storm drain systems. (Ord. 616-06, 11-14-2006)
4-1-5: NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC PEACE:
The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting the public peace
which may be abated as provided in this chapter:
   A.   Radio And Television Interference:
      1.   No person shall operate or use an electrical, mechanical, or other
device, apparatus, instrument, or machine that causes reasonably preventable
interference with radio or television reception by a radio or television
receiver of good engineering design.
      2.   This subsection A does not apply to devices licensed, approved and
operated under the rules and regulations of the federal communications
commission.
   B.   Notices And Advertisements:
      1.   No person shall affix, or cause to be distributed, any placard, bill
advertisement, or poster upon any real or personal property, public or private,
without first securing permission from the owner or person in charge of
property. This subsection B shall not be construed as an amendment to or a
repeal of any regulation now or hereafter adopted by the city regulating the
use of, or location of, signs and advertising.
      2.   This subsection B shall not be construed to prohibit the
distribution of material during any parade or public gathering.
   C.   Junk: No person shall keep junk, rubbish, trash, or debris outdoors on
an alley, street, lot, or premises visible from public view.
   D.   Fireworks: The following sections of the Oregon fireworks law are
adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter: Oregon Revised Statutes
480.110, 480.120, 480.130, 480.140(1), 480.150, and 480.165. (Ord. 616-06, 11-
14-2006)
4-1-6: OTHER NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY:
No person shall allow or permit nuisances affecting public peace and safety on
property owned or controlled by the person. The following are nuisances
affecting public peace and safety which may be abated as provided in this
chapter:
   A.   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
persons from having a clear view of traffic approaching an intersection from
cross streets in sufficient time to bring a motor vehicle driven at a
reasonable speed to a full stop before the intersection is reached.
   B.   All wires which are strung less than fifteen feet (15') above the
surface of the ground, except clotheslines.
   C.   All explosives, inflammable liquids, and other dangerous substances
stored in any manner or in any amount in violation of any law.
   D.   All buildings and alterations to buildings made or erected within the
fire limits as established in this code in violation of the regulations
concerning manner and materials of construction.
   E.   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary use by the public
of streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds, except under such conditions
as are provided by law.
   F.   Radio aerials strung in any manner in violation of any law.
   G.   Any use of property abutting upon a public street or sidewalk or any
use of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to
gather, obstructing traffic and the free use of the streets and sidewalks.
   H.   All hanging signs, awnings, and other similar structures over the
streets or sidewalks, or situated as to endanger public safety, or constructed
and maintained in violation of the provisions of this chapter pertaining
thereto.
   I.   All irrigation water permitted to run in the streets or alleys of the
city, except such as is confined in irrigation ditches or flumes.
   J.   All other conditions or things which are liable to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone. (Ord. 616-06, 11-14-2006)
4-1-7: UNENUMERATED NUISANCES:
   A.   The acts, conditions or objects specifically enumerated and defined in
sections
4-1-1 through
4-1-6 of this chapter are declared nuisances and may be abated by the procedure
set forth in section
4-1-8 of this chapter.
   B.   In addition to the nuisances specifically enumerated in this chapter,
every other thing, substance or act that is determined by the city council to
be injurious or detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare of the
city is declared a nuisance and may be abated as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 616-06, 11-14-2006)
4-1-8: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Notice:
      1.   On determination by the chief of police that a nuisance exists, the
chief of police shall cause a notice to be posted on the premises or at the
site of the nuisance, directing the person responsible to abate the nuisance.
      2.   At the time of posting, the chief of police shall cause a copy of
the notice to be forwarded by registered or certified mail to the person
responsible at the person's last known address.
      3.   The notice to abate shall contain:
         a.   A description of the real property, by street address or
otherwise, on which the nuisance exists.
         b.   A direction to abate the nuisance within ten (10) days from the
date of the notice.
         c.   A description of the nuisance.
         d.   A statement that, unless the nuisance is removed, the city may
abate the nuisance, and the cost of the abatement will be charged to the person
responsible.
         e.   A statement that failure to abate a nuisance may warrant
imposition of a fine.
         f.   A statement that the person responsible may protest the order to
abate by giving notice to the chief of police within ten (10) days from the
date of notice.
         g.   If the person responsible is not the owner, an additional notice
shall be sent to the owner, stating that the cost of abatement not paid by the
person responsible may be assessed to and become a lien on the property.
         h.   Upon completion of the posting and mailing, the persons posting
and mailing shall execute and file certificates stating the date and place of
the mailing and posting.
         i.   An error in the name or address of the person responsible shall
not make the notice void; and, in such case, the posted notice shall be
sufficient.
   B.   Abatement By Person Responsible:
      1.   Within ten (10) days after the posting and mailing of notice as
provided in subsection A of this section, the person responsible shall remove
the nuisance or show that no nuisance exists.
      2.   A person responsible, protesting that no nuisance exists, shall file
a written statement that specifies the basis for the protest with the chief of
police.
      3.   The statement shall be referred to the city council as a part of its
regular agenda at its next succeeding meeting. At the time set for
consideration of the abatement, the person protesting may appear and be heard
by the council. The council may determine whether a nuisance in fact exists,
and the determination shall be entered in the official minutes of the council.
Council determination shall be required only in cases where a written statement
has been filed as provided.
      4.   If the council determines that a nuisance in fact exists, the person
responsible shall abate the nuisance within ten (10) days after the council
determination.
   C.   Joint Responsibility: If more than one person is a person responsible,
they shall be jointly and severally liable for abating the nuisance or for the
costs incurred by the city in abating the nuisance.
   D.   Abatement By City:
      1.   If the nuisance has not been abated by the person responsible within
the time allowed, the chief of police may cause the nuisance to be abated.
      2.   The officer charged with abatement of the nuisance shall have the
right to enter into or upon property at reasonable times to investigate or
cause the removal of a nuisance.
      3.   The chief of police shall keep an accurate record of the expense
incurred by the city in physically abating the nuisance and shall include a
charge of ten dollars ($10.00) or ten percent (10%) of those expenses,
whichever is greater, for administrative costs.
   E.   Assessment Of Costs:
      1.   The chief of police shall forward to the owner and the person
responsible, by registered or certified mail, a notice stating:
         a.   The total cost of abatement, including the administrative costs.
         b.   That the costs as indicated will be assessed to, and will become
a lien against, the property unless paid within thirty (30) days from the date
of the notice.
         c.   That if the owner or person responsible objects to the cost of
the abatement as indicated, a notice of objection may be filed with the chief
of police not more than ten (10) days from the date of the notice.
      2.   No sooner than thirty (30) days after the date of the notice, the
council, in the regular course of business, shall hear and make a decision on
the objections to the costs assessed.
      3.   If the costs of the abatement are not paid within thirty (30) days
from the date of the notice, an assessment of the costs, as stated or as
decided by the council, shall be made by resolution and shall be entered in the
docket of city liens and/or shall be filed in the Malheur County deed records.
When an entry is made, it shall constitute a lien on the property from which
the nuisance was removed or abated.
      4.   The lien shall be enforced in the same manner as liens for street
improvements are enforced and shall bear interest at the rate of twelve percent
(12%) per annum. The interest shall begin to run from the date of entry of the
lien in the lien docket.
      5.   An error in the name of the owner or the person responsible or a
failure to receive the notice of the proposed assessment will not void the
assessment, and it shall remain a valid lien against the property.
   F.   Summary Abatement: The procedure provided by this chapter is not
exclusive, but is in addition to procedures provided by other ordinances. Any
city official may proceed summarily to abate a health or other nuisance which
immediately exists and which imminently endangers human life or property. (Ord.
616-06, 11-14-2006)
4-1-9: PENALTY; REMEDIAL ACTION:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: A violation of a provision of this chapter, or of an
order issued under authority of this chapter, is punishable by a fine not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day's violation of a provision of
this chapter constitutes a separate offense.
   B.   Duty To Abate: The abatement of a nuisance is not a penalty for
violating this chapter, but is an additional remedy. The imposition of a
penalty does not relieve a person of the duty to abate the nuisance. However,
abatement of a nuisance within ten (10) days of the date of notice to abate, or
if a written protest has been filed, then abatement within ten (10) days of the
chief of police's determination that a nuisance exists, will relieve the person
responsible from the imposition of a fine under subsection A of this section.
(Ord. 616-06, 11-14-2006)
ARTICLE A. GRAFFITI NUISANCE
SECTION:
4-1A-1: Definitions
4-1A-2: Graffiti Prohibited
4-1A-3: Possession Of Graffiti Implement Prohibited
4-1A-4: Graffiti Removal
4-1A-5: City Abatement Option; Procedure
4-1A-6: Violations Of Article
4-1A-7: Parental Responsibility; Civil Liability
4-1A-8: Graffiti Implement Seizure And Impoundment
4-1A-9: Penalty; Community Service
4-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ABATE: To remove the graffiti by such means, in such manner and to such an
extent as the Nyssa chief of police reasonably determines is necessary to
remove the graffiti from public view.
GRAFFITI: Any inscription, word, figure, design, painting, writing, drawing, or
carving that is marked, etched, scratched, drawn, painted, or otherwise applied
to property without the prior authorization of the owner of the property
regardless of the graffiti content, or nature of the material used in the
commission of the act, or the material of the property.
GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT: Any aerosol paint container, brush, felt tip marker,
etching device, carving tool, or graffiti stick.
GRAFFITI NUISANCE PROPERTY: Property to which graffiti has been applied, if the
graffiti is visible from any public right of way, from any other public or
private property or from any premises open to the public, and if the graffiti
has not been abated within the time frame provided by this article.
OWNER: The legal owner of the property and includes the person or persons in
control of the premises.
PREMISES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC: All public spaces, including, but not limited to,
streets, alleys, sidewalks, parks, and public open space, as well as private
property onto which the public is regularly invited or permitted to enter for
any purpose.
PROPERTY: Any real or personal property and that which is affixed, incident or
appurtenant to real property, including, but not limited to, any premises,
house, building, tree, rock, fence, structure or separate part thereof, whether
permanent or not.
RESPONSIBLE PARTY: An owner or an entity or person acting as an agent for owner
by agreement, who has authority over the property or is responsible for the
property's maintenance or management, irrespective of any arrangement contrary
with any other party. Each owner shall always be a responsible party for the
purposes of this article. There may be more than one responsible party for a
particular property. (Ord. 620-07, 7-10-2007)
4-1A-2: GRAFFITI PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and to be unlawful for any
person to place or put, by any means, any drawing, inscription, figure, symbol,
or mark of any type commonly known as graffiti on any public or private
property without the permission of the owner of the premises on which the
surface is located, or upon any natural surfaces such as rocks or trees, or any
other surface whatsoever.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit or command another
person to apply graffiti.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to aid or abet or agree to aid or
abet another person to plan to apply or apply graffiti. (Ord. 620-07, 7-10-
2007)
4-1A-3: POSSESSION OF GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT PROHIBITED:
No person may possess, with the intent to unlawfully apply graffiti on any real
or personal property of another, any graffiti implement. Unlawfully possessing
a graffiti implement is a violation of this article. (Ord. 620-07, 7-10-2007)
4-1A-4: GRAFFITI REMOVAL:
   A.   Required: Any person found to be in violation of section
4-1A-2 of this article shall be required to remove or cause to be removed the
graffiti from the surface on which it was placed. Inasmuch as it is often not
possible to determine the identity of the person who applied the graffiti, it
shall be the duty of the owner or person in control of the premises on which
the graffiti has been applied to promptly remove the graffiti after notice as
hereinafter set forth. If, after notice as hereinafter provided, the graffiti
nuisance is not abated, the city may proceed to abate the graffiti nuisance and
the costs of same may be assessable against the property.
   B.   Notice To Remove:
      1.   Whenever the chief of police or his designated representative
discovers graffiti on any public or private property or on any surfaces visible
to persons utilizing public rights of way within the city, he shall, whenever
seasonal temperatures permit the painting of exterior surfaces, cause a notice
to be issued to the owner or person in control of the premises to abate the
nuisance and remove the graffiti or cover it with paint or other suitable
substance.
      2.   Said notice shall be served upon the owner(s) of the affected
premises, as shown on the last property tax assessment rolls of Malheur County,
with a copy to the occupant of the premises. If there is no known address for
the owner, the notice shall be served at the property address. Service of the
notice may be accomplished through personal service on the owner, occupant, or
person in charge or control of the property or by certified mail.
      3.   Notice shall be in writing and shall clearly state that the owner or
person in charge or control of the property is required by this article to
remove from public view or paint over the graffiti within thirty (30) days of
receipt of the notice; that failure to so abate may cause the city to abate the
nuisance and to assess the costs to the owner; that if the costs of the
abatement are not paid within sixty (60) days of the date the billing is sent,
an assessment of the costs as stated or as determined by the city council may
be made by resolution and shall thereupon be entered in the docket of city
liens; and upon such entry being made, shall constitute a lien upon the
property from which the nuisance was removed or abated. The owner or person
may, within thirty (30) days of receipt of the notice, deliver in writing to
the city manager his or her objections to the removal requirement and request a
hearing before the city council. (Ord. 620-07, 7-10-2007)
4-1A-5: CITY ABATEMENT OPTION; PROCEDURE:
Nuisances which remain unabated after notice may, at the option of the city, be
removed, abated or destroyed by the city or its agents, after the following
steps have been taken:
   A.   Second Notice; Contents: If after thirty (30) calendar days from the
date a written notice is personally delivered to the property owner, or mailed
to the property owner's address as shown in current official Malheur County
assessor records, no abatement of the nuisance has occurred, the chief of
police shall provide a second ten (10) day notice to be delivered to the
property owner by certified mail or personal service, which indicates the
following:
      1.   That if the property owner fails to abate the nuisance, the city may
take steps to abate the same.
      2.   That the property owner may contract with the city to abate the
nuisance and pay costs of the same.
      3.   That if the city abates the nuisance, all costs and expenses of
abatement may be billed and assessed against the property owner, and, if
unpaid, shall become collectible as a special assessment with the annual
property tax bill.
      4.   That the property owner has a right to appear before the city
council to show cause as to why he or she should not be required to abate or
pay for abatement of the nuisance; furthermore, that if the property owner
desires such a hearing, a request for hearing, in writing, shall be filed with
the office of the city manager prior to expiration of the ten (10) day notice,
and that abatement by the city shall proceed if the property owner has not
exercised this option to request a hearing.
      5.   If said certified notice is returned as undeliverable, or is
unclaimed by the property owner, nothing shall preclude the city from
exercising its abatement option as specified herein.
   B.   Removal At City's Discretion: When the ten (10) day notice has expired
without a request for hearing, the chief of police is authorized to remove,
abate or destroy the nuisance. The chief of police may use city personnel to
abate the nuisance or may contract with an outside party to abate the nuisance,
at the chief of police's discretion.
   C.   Statement Of Charges: If the city abates any nuisance under the
provisions of this article, a statement of charges billed to the property owner
shall be mailed or personally delivered to the property owner.
   D.   Assessment Of Lien For Nonpayment: If payment is not received from the
property owner within sixty (60) days of the date the billing is sent, an
assessment of the costs as stated or as determined by the city council may be
made by resolution and shall thereupon be entered in the docket of city liens;
and, upon such entry being made, shall constitute a lien upon the property from
which the nuisance was removed or abated; and the lien shall be enforced in the
manner as provided in Oregon Revised Statutes 223.605 through 223.650.
   E.   Request For Hearing By Property Owner: If the property owner requests a
hearing to show cause before the city council, the hearing shall, if feasible,
be placed on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled city council meeting.
The decision of the city council shall be final. A ten (10) day period shall be
given the property owner after the council decision so that the property owner
shall have additional opportunity to abate the nuisance or to pursue any legal
remedies or defenses at the district court level. (Ord. 620-07, 7-10-2007)
4-1A-6: VIOLATIONS OF ARTICLE:
   A.   Any property located in the city that becomes a graffiti nuisance
property is in violation of this article and is subject to its remedies.
   B.   Every responsible party who permits a property to become a graffiti
nuisance property is in violation of this article and subject to its remedies.
   C.   Any person who applies graffiti or who aids, abets, or agrees to aid or
abet another person to apply graffiti is in violation of this article and
subject to its remedies. (Ord. 620-07, 7-10-2007)
4-1A-7: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY; CIVIL LIABILITY:
   A.   No parent, guardian, or other person having the legal custody of a
minor person under the age of eighteen (18) years may allow or permit the minor
to be in violation of section
4-1A-2 or
4-1A-3 of this article.
   B.   Upon a subsequent violation by a minor, the parent, guardian, or person
having legal custody shall be served with a subpoena to appear before the court
with the minor and show cause why section
4-1A-2 or
4-1A-3 of this article has been violated a second time.
   C.   Violating parental responsibility under this section is a violation of
this article and shall be charged as an infraction, and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
   D.   In addition to any other remedy provided by law, the parent or parents
of an unemancipated minor child shall be liable for actual damages to person or
property in connection with the removal of graffiti caused by said child in
accordance with provision of Oregon Revised Statutes 30.765. (Ord. 620-07, 7-
10-2007)
4-1A-8: GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
In addition to any citation issued, a graffiti implement possessed in violation
of this article may be immediately seized and impounded by the police
department. The court, upon disposition of the issued citation, shall determine
whether the instrument shall be returned to the defendant or be deemed
contraband and disposed of according to state law. (Ord. 620-07, 7-10-2007)
4-1A-9: PENALTY; COMMUNITY SERVICE:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: It shall be a criminal act and unlawful to violate
sections
4-1A-2 and
4-1A-3 of this article. The crimes shall be charged as an infraction and, upon
conviction thereof, the court shall impose a mandatory minimum fine of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for each charged criminal act.
   B.   Community Service: In addition to any fine that may be imposed for
violation of section
4-1A-2 or
4-1A-3 of this article, the court may order community service as follows:
      1.   Upon conviction of a violation of section
4-1A-2 or
4-1A-3 of this article, the offender shall perform at least twenty (20) hours
of community service for each charged criminal act;
      2.   The entire period of community service shall be performed under the
supervision of a community service provider approved by the court; and
      3.   Reasonable effort shall be made to assign the subject person to a
type of community service that is reasonably expected to have the most
rehabilitative effect on the offender. To the extent that the offense giving
rise to the offer of community service constitutes a violation of this article,
reasonable effort shall be made by the court to assign the offender to
community service which constitutes in significant part the removal of
graffiti. (Ord. 620-07, 7-10-2007)
CHAPTER 2
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-2-1: Burning Prohibited; Exceptions
4-2-2: Penalties
4-2-1: BURNING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Burning; Exceptions; Special Fire Permit: No person shall
kindle, maintain or allow to be maintained an outdoor fire, bonfire, rubbish
fire or garbage fire; nor shall any person kindle, maintain or allow to be
maintained a fire for the purpose of burning grass, hay or straw, tree limbs
and trimmings; nor shall any person maintain or allow to be maintained a fire
for land clearing operations, or commercial burning; nor shall any person
kindle, maintain or allow to be maintained any other type of open burning, with
the following exceptions:
      1.   Outdoor recreation fire used for cooking with the fire in a
fireplace or barbecue set.
      2.   Fires set and maintained for firefighting training or training fire
protection personnel.
      3.   In the case of a fire hazard that cannot, in the judgment of the
fire chief, be removed or disposed of in any other practical manner, a fire may
be allowed upon obtaining a special fire permit to be issued by the fire chief.
(Ord. 542, 1-7-1992, eff. 3-1-1992)
      4.   The burning of residential yard debris by other than a commercial
entity shall be permitted for a two (2) week period each spring and fall. The
city manager shall have the authority to designate the dates burning will be
allowed under this exception. Notice of the dates will be given to the public
in the manner deemed by the city manager as the most reasonable under the
circumstances. As used in this subsection, the term "residential yard debris"
shall include leaves, limbs, grass clippings, plant debris, weeds, and other
byproducts from spring and fall yard and garden cleaning. (Ord. 550, 8-10-1993)
   B.   Burning Causing Nuisance, Other Burning Prohibited: Notwithstanding the
foregoing, open burning of any material which emits dense smoke, noxious odors
or causes a public nuisance, or is otherwise prohibited by county, state or
federal law, is prohibited at all times. (Ord. 542, 1-7-1992, eff. 3-1-1992)
4-2-2: PENALTIES:
A violation of this chapter shall be a class B violation. The minimum fine for
a first offense shall be two hundred sixty dollars ($260.00); for a second
offense within one year, five hundred twenty dollars ($520.00); and for third
and subsequent offenses, seven hundred eighty dollars ($780.00). (Ord. 542, 1-
7-1992, eff. 3-1-1992; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 3
IMPOUNDING AND DISPOSITION OF DISCARDED VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Declaration Of Public Nuisance
4-3-3: Storage Of Discarded Vehicle Upon Private Property
4-3-4: Police Duty
4-3-5: Entry Upon Private Property
4-3-6: Hearing By City Council
4-3-7: Abatement By City
4-3-8: Low Vehicle Value
4-3-9: Public Sale Notice
4-3-10: Conduct Of Public Sale
4-3-11: Redemption Before Sale
4-3-12: Assessment Of Costs
4-3-13: Surplus Proceeds After Sale
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CHIEF OF POLICE: Includes any authorized law enforcement officer of the city.
COSTS: The expense of removing, storing, or selling a junked vehicle.
DISCARDED: Any vehicle which is found in one or more of the following
conditions:
   A.   Inoperative.
   B.   Wrecked.
   C.   Dismantled.
   D.   Partially dismantled.
   E.   Abandoned, including, but not limited to, failure to redeem a vehicle
impounded by the city pursuant to state statute or local ordinance.
   F.   Junked.
PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY: Any agent, occupant, lessee, contract purchaser,
owner, or person having possession, control, or title of property where a
vehicle is located.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
VEHICLE OWNER: Any individual, firm, corporation, or unincorporated association
with a claim, either individually or jointly, of ownership or any interest,
legal or equitable, in a vehicle. (1962 Code § 4-8-1; amd. Ord. 544, 9-8-1992)
4-3-2: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE:
The open accumulation and storage of a discarded vehicle is hereby found to
create a condition tending to reduce the value of private property; to promote
blight, deterioration, and unsightliness; to invite plundering; to create fire
hazards; to constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health
and safety of minors; to create a harborage for rodents and insects; and to be
injurious to the health, safety, and general welfare. Therefore, the presence
of a discarded vehicle on private or public property is hereby declared to
constitute a public nuisance which may be abated in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (1962 Code § 4-8-2)
4-3-3: STORAGE OF DISCARDED VEHICLE UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful to store or permit the storing of a discarded vehicle upon
any private property within the city, unless the vehicle is completely enclosed
within a building or unless it is in connection with a business enterprise
dealing in junked vehicles lawfully conducted within the city. (1962 Code § 4-
8-3)
4-3-4: POLICE DUTY:
   A.   Investigation; Notice Of Violation: It shall be the duty of the chief
of police, whenever a discarded vehicle is found upon private property, to:
      1.   Make an investigation to discover the owner of the vehicle and the
person in charge of the property upon which such vehicle is located, and give
written notice to them by personal service or by registered or certified mail,
that the vehicle is in violation of this chapter; and
      2.   If the owner of the vehicle is not found, to place a notice upon the
windshield, or some other part of the vehicle where it can be easily seen.
   B.   Remedial Action: The notice shall state that a certain discarded
vehicle is in violation of this chapter and that within ten (10) days of the
day of the sending or posting of the notice:
      1.   The vehicle must be removed from the city, or to the storage yard of
a business enterprise dealing in junked vehicles lawfully conducted within the
city; or
      2.   The vehicle must be completely enclosed within a building.
   C.   Request For Appearance Before Council: The notice shall also state that
the alternative to compliance with subsection B of this section is to petition
the city recorder and request in writing appearance before the city council
within ten (10) days of sending or posting of the notice and show cause why
such vehicle should not be immediately abated as provided in this chapter.
   D.   Failure To Comply; City Removal: The notice shall also state that
failure to comply with this chapter authorizes the city to remove the vehicle
and charge the cost. (1962 Code § 4-8-4)
4-3-5: ENTRY UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Permission Or Warrant: The chief of police is authorized at all
reasonable times to enter upon private property and examine any vehicle for the
purpose of determining whether or not it is in a discarded condition. However,
before entering upon private property, the chief shall obtain the consent of an
occupant thereof or a warrant of the municipal court authorizing his entry for
the purpose of inspection, except when an emergency exists.
   B.   Warrant Issuance; Probable Cause For Inspection: No search warrant
shall be issued under the terms of this chapter until an affidavit has been
filed with the municipal court, showing probable cause for such inspection by
stating the purpose and extent of the proposed inspection instituted by
complaint or other specific or general information concerning the vehicle in
question or the property on which it is situated.
   C.   Interference With Inspection: It is unlawful for any person to
interfere with or attempt to prevent the chief of police from entering upon
private premises and inspecting any vehicle, when an emergency exists or the
chief exhibits a warrant authorizing entry. (1962 Code § 4-8-5)
4-3-6: HEARING BY CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Holding Of Hearing: Pursuant to a request in writing as provided
herein, the city council shall fix a time for a hearing to show cause why a
vehicle should not be immediately abated. It shall receive the evidence and
testimony of the chief of police and other interested persons concerning the
existence, location, and condition of the vehicle.
   B.   Council Action; Resolution: After the hearing, the council may
authorize and order the vehicle removed by the city in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The council shall make its order in the form of a
resolution which declares the vehicle to be a public nuisance. The resolution
may order the removal of more than one vehicle and may consolidate the hearings
and orders relating to more than one vehicle. The persons receiving the notice
specified in section
4-3-4 of this chapter shall be sent copies of the resolution of the council. In
addition, the council may impose conditions and take such other action as it
deems appropriate under the circumstances in order to carry out the purposes of
this chapter. It may delay the time for removal of said vehicle where, in its
opinion, the circumstances justify it. It shall refuse to order the removal of
the vehicle where the vehicle, in the opinion of the council, is not subject to
the provisions of this chapter. The council shall not be bound by the technical
rules of evidence in the conduct of the hearing. (1962 Code § 4-8-6)
4-3-7: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
   A.   City Jurisdiction: Ten (10) days after the giving of notice required in
section
4-3-4 of this chapter or two (2) days after adoption of a resolution declaring
a vehicle to be a public nuisance as set forth in section
4-3-6 of this chapter, the city shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction
to abate the nuisance and may remove the vehicle by use of city employees or
duly authorized independent contractors.
   B.   Interference Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
interfere with, hinder, or refuse to allow such persons to enter upon private
property for the purpose of removing a vehicle under the provisions of this
chapter. (1962 Code § 4-8-7)
4-3-8: LOW VEHICLE VALUE:
   A.   Authority Of Chief: A discarded vehicle in possession of the city shall
be appraised by a person licensed by the Oregon motor vehicle division to
appraise vehicles. If the vehicle is appraised at five hundred dollars
($500.00) or less, the chief of police may dispose of the vehicle without
notice and public auction if any of the following occur: (Ord. 544, 9-8-1992;
amd. 2014 Code)
      1.   The owner of the vehicle and any lessor or security interest holder
shown in the records of the motor vehicle division sign a release, under oath,
disclaiming any future interest in the vehicle; or
      2.   The owner and any lessor or security interest holder shown in the
records of the motor vehicle division have been sent notification of the
location of the vehicle and, within fifteen (15) days after the date the
notification is mailed, the persons notified have not signed releases or the
vehicle has not been reclaimed. Failure to sign a release or to claim the
vehicle shall constitute a waiver of interest in the vehicle.
   B.   Requirements For Disposal: If the chief of police intends to dispose of
a vehicle under this section, the chief of police shall do all of the
following:
      1.   File with the Oregon motor vehicle division an affidavit describing
the vehicle, and stating the location and appraised value of the vehicle and
that the vehicle will be junked or dismantled.
      2.   Surrender the registration plates of the vehicle, if any, to the
motor vehicle division.
      3.   Include in the affidavit a statement that any notice required under
this section has been provided.
      4.   Forward any release of interest completed under this section to the
motor vehicle division. (Ord. 544, 9-8-1992)
   C.   Sale Of Vehicle: Upon completion of the requirements under this
section, the chief of police may sell the vehicle without notice and public
auction to any of the persons described in this subsection. The chief of police
shall issue to the person purchasing the vehicle a certificate of sale in the
manner described under Oregon Revised Statutes as now enacted or hereinafter
amended, and shall notify the person that the person might be required by the
provisions of Oregon Revised Statutes to apply for a salvage title. The chief
of police may sell a vehicle under this subsection to any of the following:
      1.   A wrecker with a certificate issued under Oregon Revised Statutes
822.110.
      2.   Any other person who complies with the requirements of and executes
the forms required by Oregon Revised Statutes. (Ord. 544, 9-8-1992; amd. 2014
Code)
4-3-9: PUBLIC SALE NOTICE:
   A.   Contents Of Notice: If the vehicle is appraised at over five hundred
dollars ($500.00), the chief of police shall cause to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city a notice of sale. The notice
of sale shall state: (1962 Code § 4-8-9; amd. Ord. 544, 9-8-1992; 2014 Code)
      1.   The sale is of discarded property in the possession of the city;
      2.   A description of the vehicle, including the type, make, license
number, ID number, and any other information which will aid in accurately
identifying the vehicle;
      3.   The terms of the sale; and
      4.   The date, time, and place of the sale.
   B.   Publication Of Notice: The notice of sale shall be published two (2)
times. The first publication shall be made not less than ten (10) days prior to
the date of the proposed sale, and the second shall be made not less than three
(3) days prior to the date of the proposed sale. (1962 Code § 4-8-9)
4-3-10: CONDUCT OF PUBLIC SALE:
   A.   Sale Authorized: If a vehicle is appraised at over five hundred dollars
($500.00), the chief of police shall hold a sale at the time and place
appointed within the view of the vehicle to be sold. (Ord. 544, 9-8-1992; amd.
2014 Code)
   B.   Bidding: The vehicle shall be sold to the highest and best bidder;
provided, that if no bids are entered, or those bids which are entered are less
than the costs incurred by the city, the chief of police may enter a bid on
behalf of the city in an amount equal to such costs.
   C.   Certificate Of Sale: At the time of payment of the purchase price, the
chief of police shall execute a certificate of sale, in duplicate, the original
of which shall be delivered to the purchaser, and the copy thereof filed with
the city recorder.
   D.   Form Of Certificate: The certificate of sale shall be substantially as
follows: (1962 Code 4-8-10)
   CERTIFICATE OF SALE
This is to certify that under the provisions of title 4, chapter 3, "Impounding
And Disposition Of Discarded Vehicles", of the Nyssa city code and pursuant to
due notice of the time and place of sale, I did on the       day of
           , 20     , sell at public auction to                         for the
sum of $              cash, he being the highest and best bidder, and that
being the highest and best sum bid therefor, the following described personal
property, to-wit:
(brief description of the property)
And in consideration of the payment of the said sum of $          , receipt
whereof is hereby acknowledged, I have this day delivered to said purchaser the
foregoing property. Dated this         day of             , 20     .
Note: The city assumes no responsibility as to the condition of title of the
above described property. In case this sale shall for any reason be invalid,
the liability of the city is limited to the return of the purchase price.
(1962 Code § 4-8-10; amd. 2014 Code)
4-3-11: REDEMPTION BEFORE SALE:
   A.   Application For Redemption: A vehicle impounded under the provisions of
this chapter may be redeemed by its owner or by the person in charge of the
property from which the vehicle was removed, before a sale or disposition has
taken place, by applying to the police department, whereupon he shall:
      1.   Submit evidence of his ownership or interest in the vehicle,
satisfactory to the chief of police, that such claim is rightful; and
      2.   Pay the costs due and owing at the time the application to redeem is
made; and
      3.   Give evidence that the nuisance character of the vehicle will not be
allowed to be resumed. (1962 Code § 4-8-11)
      4.   Provide proof that the vehicle is insured in compliance with the
Oregon motor vehicle code. (Ord. 544, 9-8-1992)
   B.   Issue Receipt; Return Of Vehicle: Upon compliance with subsection A of
this section, the chief of police shall execute a receipt and cause the vehicle
to be returned. (1962 Code § 4-8-11)
4-3-12: ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
   A.   Notice Of Costs: After disposing of the discarded vehicle and deducting
the money, if any, received from any sale of the vehicle from the costs, the
city recorder shall give notice as specified in section
4-3-4 of this chapter to the person in charge of the property from which the
vehicle was removed:
      1.   Of the unpaid costs of abatement.
      2.   That the cost as indicated will be assessed to and become a lien
against the real property unless paid within thirty (30) days from the date of
the notice.
      3.   That if the person in charge of the property objects to the cost of
the abatement indicated, he may file a written notice of objection with the
city recorder within twenty (20) days from the date of the notice.
   B.   Objections To Proposed Assessment: Within forty (40) days after the
date of the notice, objections to the proposed assessment shall be heard and
determined by the council.
   C.   Lien For Unpaid Costs: If the costs of the abatement are not paid
within thirty (30) days from the date of the notice, an assessment of the costs
shall be made by resolution of the city council and shall be entered in the
docket of city liens, and upon such entry being made, shall constitute a lien
upon the real property from which the nuisance was removed or abated.
   D.   Enforcement Of Lien; Interest: The lien shall be enforced in the same
manner as liens for street improvements are enforced, and shall bear interest
at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum. Such interest shall accrue from date
of the entry of the lien in the lien docket.
   E.   Errors Not To Invalidate Lien: An error in the name of the person in
charge of the property shall not void the assessment nor will a failure to
receive the notice of the proposed assessment render the assessment void. The
assessment shall remain a valid lien against the property. (1962 Code § 4-8-12)
4-3-13: SURPLUS PROCEEDS AFTER SALE:
   A.   Surplus Paid To Titled Owner: After disposing of the discarded vehicle
and deducting the sums owed to the city, if the proceeds of the sale exceed the
sums owed to the city, then such surplus funds shall be paid to the titled
owner of the vehicle and any lessor or security interest holder who can furnish
proof of interest in the vehicle.
   B.   Owner Unfound; Funds Property Of City: If the owner, lessor, or
security interest holder cannot be found at the last address contained in the
records of the applicable motor vehicle division, or such other address as has
been furnished to the city in connection with the discarded vehicle proceeding,
and such surplus proceeds are not claimed within three (3) years after the date
of the sale, then such proceeds shall become the property of the city and shall
be deposited to the general fund of the city. No interest shall accrue on said
proceeds during the time held by the city. (Ord. 546, 12-8-1992)
CHAPTER 4
FORECLOSED PROPERTIES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Registration
4-4-2: Maintenance Requirements
4-4-3: Security Requirements
4-4-4: Authority
4-4-5: Remedies; Lien
4-4-6: Violation; Penalty
4-4-7: Appeals
4-4-1: REGISTRATION:
A registration system for foreclosed properties within the city of Nyssa is
hereby created. The following registration process and maintenance requirements
are imposed on all lenders who hold vacant foreclosed property:
   A.   The registration shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name of the lender;
      2.   The direct mailing address of the lender. Post office boxes are not
acceptable;
      3.   The direct contact name and phone number for the lender;
      4.   The physical address for the lender's agent authorized to receive
service of process, if applicable; and
      5.   The direct contact information for the local property management
company responsible for security, maintenance and marketing of the property, if
applicable.
   B.   No registration fee shall be imposed. A lender that has registered a
property under this chapter shall report any change of information contained in
the registration within ten (10) days of the change. Properties subject to this
chapter shall remain under the registration requirement as long as the property
remains vacant.
   C.   Registration forms shall be available at the city of Nyssa City Hall.
(Ord. 640-14, 7-8-2014)
4-4-2: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A lender shall maintain properties subject to this chapter. Maintenance
includes all of the following:
      1.   Ensuring that the condition of the subject property does not
constitute a public nuisance or a chronic public nuisance as described in the
city of Nyssa's nuisance ordinance.
      2.   Regular cutting, pruning and mowing of the subject property and the
removal of all trimmings, as applicable to the property;
      3.   Pools, ponds, and spas shall be kept in working order, so that water
remains clear and free of pollutants and debris; or drained and kept covered.
   B.   If the property is owned by an out of area lender, a local property
management company shall be contracted to perform weekly inspections to verify
the requirements of this section, and to ensure any other applicable laws, are
being met. The property management company shall post a direct contact name and
twenty four (24) hour contact phone number for persons to report problems or
concerns, and the posting shall be placed on the interior of a window facing
the street to the front of the property so it is visible from the street. If no
such area exists, then the posting shall be placed on the exterior of the
property in a location visible from the street to the front of the property. An
exterior posting shall be constructed of and printed with weather resistant
materials.
   C.   Adherence to this section does not relieve a person or entity subject
to this chapter of any obligations set forth in any covenants, conditions and
restrictions which may apply to the subject property. (Ord. 640-14, 7-8-2014)
4-4-3: SECURITY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The lender shall maintain a subject property in a secure manner so as
not to be accessible to unauthorized persons, and includes the securing of
windows, doors, gates and any other opening of such size that may allow a child
to access the interior of the property. Broken windows shall be boarded or
repaired.
   B.   If the property is owned by an out of area lender, a local property
management company shall be contracted to perform weekly inspections to verify
the requirements of this section and to ensure any other applicable laws are
being met. (Ord. 640-14, 7-8-2014)
4-4-4: AUTHORITY:
The code enforcement officer or designee shall have the authority to require
the lender to implement any additional maintenance or security measures
including, but not limited to:
   A.   Installation of additional security lighting;
   B.   Increasing on site inspection frequency;
   C.   Employment of an on site security guard; and
   D.   Any other measures as may be reasonably required to prevent the decline
of the property. (Ord. 640-14, 7-8-2014)
4-4-5: REMEDIES; LIEN:
In addition to other penalties or enforcement specified in this chapter, if a
lender fails to maintain or secure the property as required, the code
enforcement officer or designee may give notice of such failure by first class
mail for a possible abatement of the property.
   A.   The notice:
      1.   Shall be directed to the lender and all persons shown on the
assessor's records or otherwise known to the city to be owners;
      2.   Shall refer to the premises involved with convenient certainty, the
street address, if any, being sufficient;
      3.   Shall notify the addressees to comply with the maintenance and
security requirements within fifteen (15) days from date of mailing; and
      4.   Shall further inform the lender and owners that if the condition is
not corrected within the fifteen (15) days, the city may cause the property to
be maintained and secured and will charge the costs to the lender and owners
and make the same a lien against the property.
   B.   A lender or any owner may, within fifteen (15) days after mailing of
the notice, appeal to the city council for relief by filing a petition with the
city recorder seeking a hearing before the council. The petition shall include
the facts upon which the petitioner relies upon for relief from the obligations
of this chapter in relation to the property. If the council finds that it would
be a real and unnecessary hardship upon the petitioner to comply with the terms
of this chapter, then it may relieve the petitioner of the obligations in
relation to the particular property, but nothing therein shall be construed as
obligating the city to remove or abate the nuisance without charging the cost
as a lien against the said property.
   C.   If the condition is not corrected within the time limit and no relief
has been granted; such agent of the city as may be designated by the city
manager may provide the maintenance and security necessary to bring the
property into compliance. The city manager shall maintain an accurate record of
the expenses incurred by the city in providing such maintenance and security
and shall include an overhead charge for the cost of administration. The total
cost, including overhead, shall thereafter be assessed as a lien against the
property. (Ord. 640-14, 7-8-2014)
4-4-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   A lender that violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to a general penalty. Every day in which the violation is caused or permitted
to exist constitutes a separate infraction.
   B.   Citations for violation of any provision of this chapter may be mailed
by first class mail to the lender or lender's registered agent. (Ord. 640-14,
7-8-2014)
4-4-7: APPEALS:
A lender that is required to implement additional maintenance or security
measures as provided in this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the city
council. The appeal shall be filed in writing within ten (10) business days of
being notified of the requirement to implement additional maintenance or
security measures. (Ord. 640-14, 7-8-2014)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Adoption Of State Traffic Laws
5-1-2: Definitions
5-1-3: Council Powers
5-1-4: Police Department Duties
5-1-5: Authority Of Police And Fire Officers
5-1-6: Emergency Vehicles Excepted From Regulations
5-1-7: Traffic Citations
5-1-8: Penalties
5-1-1: ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC LAWS:
   A.   The definitions and enforcement procedures as contained in Oregon
Revised Statutes 801, 803, 805, 807, 809, 810, 811, 813, 814, 816 and 818, as
now or hereafter constituted, are hereby adopted by the city. (1962 Code § 9-1-
1)
   B.   Violation of provisions contained in said Oregon Revised Statutes 801,
803, 805, 807, 809, 810, 811, 813, 814, 816 and 818, as now or hereafter
constituted, shall be an offense against the city. (1962 Code § 9-1-1; amd.
2014 Code)
5-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to those definitions contained in the adopted sections of the motor
vehicle laws of Oregon, the following words or phrases, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning, shall mean:
ALLEY: A narrow street through the middle of a block.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels either of which is over twenty inches (20") in
diameter.
BUS STAND: A fixed area in the roadway adjacent to the curb to be occupied
exclusively by buses for layover in operating schedules or waiting for
passengers.
CURB: The extreme edge of the roadway.
HOLIDAYS: Sundays, New Year's Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving
Day and Christmas Day.
LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers, materials or freight.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
when a vehicle is temporarily standing for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, loading or unloading.
PARKWAY: That portion of a street not used as a roadway or as a sidewalk.
PASSENGER LOADING ZONE: A loading zone reserved only for the loading or
unloading of passengers and their luggage.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PLAY STREET: A street temporarily set aside for use as a playground on which
usual or general vehicular traffic is prohibited.
STOP: Complete cessation of movement.
TAXICAB STAND: A fixed area in the roadway used adjacent to the curb set aside
for taxicabs to stand or wait for passengers.
TRAFFIC LANE: That portion of the roadway used for the movement of a single
line of vehicles. (1962 Code § 9-1-2)
5-1-3: COUNCIL POWERS:
The city council, provided, where required by the motor vehicle laws of Oregon,
approval of the state highway commission has first been obtained, may by
resolution establish traffic controls which shall become effective upon the
installation of appropriate signs, signals or other markings. Such traffic
controls may designate and regulate:
   A.   The parking and standing of vehicles by:
      1.   Classifying portions of streets upon which either parking or
standing, or both, shall be prohibited, or prohibited during certain hours.
      2.   Establishing the time limit for legal parking in limited parking
areas.
      3.   Designating the angle of parking, if other than parallel to the
curb.
      4.   Designating areas within which, or streets or portions of streets
along which, parking meters will be installed, and the denomination of coins to
be used or deposited in parking meters.
      5.   Designating city owned or leased property on which public parking
will be permitted.
   B.   Through streets and one-way streets.
   C.   For trucks exceeding specified weights, streets to which they shall be
restricted and streets on which they are prohibited.
   D.   Traffic control signals and the time of their operation.
   E.   Bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other passenger
common carrier vehicles.
   F.   Loading zones.
   G.   Turn regulations at intersections.
   H.   Marked pedestrian crosswalks and safety zones.
   I.   Play streets and the hours during which they may be so used.
   J.   Special speed regulations in city parks. (1962 Code § 9-1-3)
5-1-4: POLICE DEPARTMENT DUTIES:
The police department, through its officers:
   A.   Shall cause all signs, signals, parking meters and markings necessary
to traffic controls provided for by enactments of the city council to be
installed, marked and maintained in accordance with standards established by
the state highway commission and nationally recognized traffic control
standards (such as the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" published by
the U.S. bureau of public roads), and may cause to be placed and maintained
additional and incidental traffic control devices necessary to regulate traffic
under the provisions of this title or under state law, or to guide or warn
traffic.
   B.   May trim or remove, or cause to be trimmed or removed, any tree, shrub
or hedge which is within or extends over the street and interferes with the use
of the sidewalk or roadway, or obstructs a driver's view of an intersection or
traffic upon streets approaching an intersection, or otherwise constitutes a
traffic hazard. Trees, shrubs and hedges shall be maintained at an unobstructed
height of not less than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk and not less than
thirteen and one-half feet (131/2') above the roadway. (1962 Code § 9-1-4)
5-1-5: AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE OFFICERS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the police department, through its officers, to
enforce the provisions of this title.
   B.   In the event of a fire or other emergency, or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the police department may direct traffic as
conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of this title.
   C.   Members of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire, may direct
or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate vicinity.
(1962 Code § 9-1-5)
5-1-6: EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this title regulating the operation, parking and standing of
vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, except as provided by
the motor vehicle laws of Oregon, and as follows:
   A.   A driver, when operating such vehicle in an emergency, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer or other authorized person, may park or
stand notwithstanding the provisions of this title.
   B.   A driver of a police or fire department vehicle, when operating such
vehicle in an emergency, may disregard regulations governing turning in
specified directions as long as he does not endanger life or property.
   C.   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of any
such vehicle from the consequences of his reckless disregard of the safety of
others. (1962 Code § 9-9-1)
5-1-7: TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
   A.   Issuance Of Citation:
      1.   For the violation of any provisions of this title, the police
department may issue a citation which shall be in the nature of a notice to
appear at a time and place certain.
      2.   If any person fails to comply with the terms of a citation within a
period of seven (7) days from the date of issuance, the city recorder may send
to such person or the owner of the motor vehicle, a letter informing such
person or owner of the violation with a warning that in the event such person
or owner does not appear within ten (10) days at a time and place certain, a
warrant of arrest will be issued. (1962 Code § 9-10-2)
   B.   Issuance Of Warrant: If any person fails to comply with the terms of a
traffic citation, the city recorder shall secure and have served a warrant for
the arrest of such person. (1962 Code § 9-10-3)
   C.   Illegal Cancellation Of Traffic Citation: It shall be unlawful for any
person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any traffic citation in any
manner, except where approved by the municipal judge. (1962 Code § 9-10-1)
5-1-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   In addition to any other provisions and penalties provided in this
title, any person violating any of the provisions of this title shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by imprisonment in the county jail for not to
exceed sixty (60) days or by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00), or both. (1962 Code § 9-9-2; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   In addition, bicycles may be impounded for a period not to exceed
thirty (30) days. (1962 Code § 9-9-2)
ARTICLE A. VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Definitions
5-1A-2: Arrest Of Driver; Impounding; Redemption; Sale
5-1A-3: Towing With Or Without Notice
5-1A-4: Impound Procedures
5-1A-5: Hearing
5-1A-6: Release Of Vehicle
5-1A-7: Towing And Storage Liens
5-1A-8: Rotating List Of On Call Towing Companies
5-1A-9: Qualifications For Towing List; Appeal
5-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, unless the context requires otherwise, the following
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ABANDONED: Left unoccupied and unclaimed or in a damaged or dismantled
condition upon the streets or alleys of the city for a period in excess of
twenty four (24) hours without authorization by statute or ordinance.
CHIEF OF POLICE: Includes any authorized law enforcement officer of the city.
CITY: The city of Nyssa.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 608-05, 4-12-2005)
5-1A-2: ARREST OF DRIVER; IMPOUNDING; REDEMPTION; SALE:
   A.   Impoundment: Whenever a traffic citation is issued, or a physical
arrest made for a violation of the vehicle code of the state of Oregon, or
local traffic regulations, and the driver of such motor vehicle does not
possess a valid operator's license, is driving on a suspended or revoked
license, is without proof of liability insurance as required by the Oregon
vehicle code, or is arrested for driving under the influence, the vehicle shall
be towed by a licensed towing company to the city impound lot, garage, or other
suitable storage place. (Ord. 626-08, 9-9-2008)
   B.   Redemption: The owner of the impounded vehicle, or the owner's
authorized agent, may redeem such vehicle upon payment of the towing bill, an
impound fee, and storage fees in the amount set by resolution by the city
council. If redemption is not made within thirty (30) days after the vehicle is
impounded, then such vehicle shall be disposed of in accordance with the
procedure provided by ordinance for the disposal of discarded vehicles. (Ord.
626-08, 9-9-2008; amd. 2014 Code)
5-1A-3: TOWING WITH OR WITHOUT NOTICE:
   A.   Towing Without Prior Notice: A vehicle may be towed without prior
notice when:
      1.   The chief of police reasonably believes that the vehicle is stolen.
      2.   The chief of police reasonably believes that the vehicle or its
contents constitute contraband, evidence of any criminal offense, or property
that has been used or is possessed for the purpose of being used to commit or
conceal the commission of an offense, if such towing is reasonably necessary to
obtain or preserve such evidence or property.
      3.   The vehicle was in possession of a person taken into custody by a
law enforcement officer.
      4.   The vehicle is illegally parked on a public or private street in a
conspicuously restricted space, zone or traffic lane where parking is limited
or prohibited to designated classes of vehicles or periods of time, or at any
time when the vehicle interferes with the intended use of such space, zone or
traffic lane.
      5.   The vehicle obstructs the entrance of any post office or postal
station, or is within ten feet (10') of a private mailbox during the hours of
delivery.
      6.   The chief of police reasonably believes the vehicle operator:
         a.   Is driving without possession of a valid operator's license; or
         b.   Is driving on a suspended or revoked license; or
         c.   Is the holder of an instruction driver permit and does not have
the permit in his or her possession, or is not accompanied by a licensed person
twenty one (21) years of age or older; or
         d.   Is driving without proof of such liability insurance as is
required by the Oregon vehicle code; or
         e.   Has failed to transfer title of the vehicle, register the
vehicle, or carry a valid registration card.
   B.   Towing After Notice: A vehicle may be towed after notice, as provided
by this section, when:
      1.   The chief of police reasonably believes that the vehicle is
abandoned; or
      2.   The vehicle is parked in violation of a temporary or permanent
parking restriction where there is no reasonable need to immediately remove the
vehicle; or
      3.   The vehicle is parked on city owned or operated property without
city permission.
   C.   Notice Of Intent To Impound: A vehicle may be towed under subsection B
of this section five (5) days after notice by certified mail of the intent to
impound has been sent to the registered owner. The notice may, in the
discretion of the chief of police, be served by personal service in lieu of
mailing. If notice by certified mail is not reasonably possible, the vehicle
may be towed five (5) days after it is posted with the notice of intent to
impound.
   D.   Vehicle Impoundment: A vehicle impounded pursuant to this section shall
be taken into custody by the chief of police and shall be held at the expense
of the owner or person entitled to possession of the vehicle. The city manager
may direct that the personnel, equipment and facilities of the city be used for
the removal and storage of such vehicles, or may contract with a private towing
company for that purpose. (Ord. 608-05, 4-12-2005)
5-1A-4: IMPOUND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Preimpound Investigation: When a vehicle is subject to being towed
pursuant to subsection
5-1A-3B of this article, the chief of police shall:
      1.   Make a routine investigation to discover the driver or registered
owner, when the vehicle is required by law to be registered with the motor
vehicles division of this or any other state, and request immediate removal of
the vehicle; or
      2.   If the registered owner or driver cannot be located, make a
reasonable inquiry as to the name and address of the owner;
      3.   If the registered owner is identified, mail a notice to the
registered owner at the address listed with the motor vehicles division; and
place a notice of intent to impound upon the windshield or some other
conspicuous part of the vehicle which is easily seen by the passing public.
   B.   Notice Generally:
      1.   Notice is deemed given when a certified letter addressed to the
registered owner of the vehicle and the legal owner, if any, return receipt
requested and postage prepaid, is mailed within forty eight (48) hours after
the vehicle is taken into possession by, or at the direction of, the chief of
police.
      2.   If the vehicle is registered with the motor vehicles division of the
state of Oregon, notice may be addressed to the registered owner, and the legal
owner, if any, at the last respective addresses of each as shown by the records
of the motor vehicles division. If the vehicle is not so registered, reasonable
efforts shall be made to ascertain the name and address of the legal owner or
person entitled to possession of the vehicle so that notice may be mailed, if
reasonably possible, within forty eight (48) hours of impound.
      3.   Any notice may be given by personal service in lieu of mailing.
   C.   Preimpound Notice: The notice required by subsection A of this section
shall state the following:
      1.   The name and badge number of the officer or identification of other
city employee issuing the notice;
      2.   That if the vehicle is not removed within the prescribed time limit,
the vehicle will be impounded;
      3.   The number of the ordinance violated and under which the vehicle
will be removed;
      4.   The place where the vehicle will be held in custody or the telephone
number and name of the person who will provide that information;
      5.   That the city, or any person who, at the request of the chief of
police, impounds a vehicle, shall have a lien on the vehicle and its contents
for the just and reasonable towing and storage charges, plus an impound fee of
one hundred dollars ($100.00), may retain possession of the vehicle until the
charges and fee are paid, and may have the vehicle sold at public auction to
satisfy the lien; and
      6.   That a hearing on the validity of the proposed impound, or on the
reasonableness of any towing and storage charges, may be held, if timely
requested within five (5) calendar days of receipt of notice by the owner.
   D.   Postimpound Notice: After a vehicle has been impounded pursuant to
either subsection
5-1A-3A or B of this article, notice must be provided to the registered owner,
if known, indicating:
      1.   The location of the vehicle;
      2.   That a lien has arisen on the vehicle and its contents in favor of
the person who towed and is storing the vehicle;
      3.   That the vehicle may be sold at public auction to satisfy the lien;
and
      4.   That a hearing on the validity of the tow may be held, if requested
within five (5) calendar days of receipt of notice by the owner. (Ord. 608-05,
4-12-2005)
5-1A-5: HEARING:
   A.   Request For Hearing:
      1.   The owner must request a hearing within five (5) calendar days after
receipt of the notice. The request may be made in person or in writing to the
city manager. Failure to make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a
waiver of the right to a hearing.
      2.   If the owner of the vehicle timely requests a hearing before the
vehicle is taken into custody, the vehicle shall not be impounded until a
hearing is set and held in accordance with this section.
   B.   Hearing Procedures:
      1.   When timely request for a hearing is made, a hearing shall be held
before the city manager.
      2.   The hearing shall be set and conducted within seventy two (72) hours
of receipt of the request, excluding holidays, Saturdays and Sundays. The
hearing can be set for a later date if the owner or person entitled to
possession so requests.
      3.   At the hearing, the owner may contest the validity of the impound.
      4.   The city shall have the burden of proving the validity of the
impound by a preponderance of the evidence.
   C.   Decision Of City Manager: If the city manager finds that:
      1.   Impound of the vehicle was proper, the city manager shall:
         a.   Enter an order supporting the removal; and
         b.   Find that the owner or person entitled to possession is liable
for the city impound fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus any towing and
storage charges resulting from the impound.
      2.   Impound of the vehicle was improper, the city manager shall:
         a.   Order the vehicle released to the owner or person entitled to
possession;
         b.   Find that the owner or person entitled to possession is not
liable for the impound fee or any towing or storage charges resulting from the
impound; and
         c.   Order the city to satisfy the towing and storage lien.
      3.   The decision of the city manager is final.
   D.   Failure To Appear At Hearing: If the person requesting the hearing does
not appear at the scheduled hearing, the city manager may enter an order
supporting the impound and assessment of a one hundred dollar ($100.00) impound
fee and towing and storage costs. (Ord. 608-05, 4-12-2005)
5-1A-6: RELEASE OF VEHICLE:
A vehicle which has been impounded under this article may be released to the
registered owner or legal owner, if different, or to the person operating the
vehicle at the time of impound if:
   A.   The owner or driver of the vehicle has paid to the city an impound fee
of one hundred dollars ($100.00), and has paid all of the accrued towing and
storage costs, unless otherwise ordered by the hearings officer; and
   B.   The Nyssa police department has released its hold, if any, on the
vehicle. (Ord. 608-05, 4-12-2005)
5-1A-7: TOWING AND STORAGE LIENS:
A person who, at the request of the chief of police, takes a vehicle into
custody under the provisions of this article shall have a lien on the vehicle
and its contents for the just and reasonable towing and storage charges, may
retain possession of the vehicle and its contents until the charges are paid,
and may have the vehicle and its contents sold at public auction to satisfy the
lien. The lien that attaches to the vehicle and its contents shall be a
possessory chattel lien in accordance with Oregon Revised Statutes 87.142 and
shall be foreclosed in the manner provided in Oregon Revised Statutes 87.152 to
87.212. If the appraised value of the vehicle is one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or less, the vehicle shall be disposed of in the manner provided in
Oregon Revised Statutes. (Ord. 608-05, 4-12-2005; amd. 2014 Code)
5-1A-8: ROTATING LIST OF ON CALL TOWING COMPANIES:
The city manager shall establish a list of towing companies authorized to tow
vehicles pursuant to this article. The chief of police shall request towing
services pursuant to this article, on a rotating basis, from the businesses
listed. In the event that a towing company is unavailable or unable to respond
to a request for services within thirty (30) minutes, the chief of police may
request services from the next business on the rotating list. In the event that
no businesses on the list are available, or if no listed business has equipment
sufficient for a particular towing request, the chief of police may request
services from a towing business not on the list. (Ord. 608-05, 4-12-2005)
5-1A-9: QUALIFICATIONS FOR TOWING LIST; APPEAL:
   A.   Qualifications Listed: The city manager shall add the name of an
applicant business to the rotating list established in section
5-1A-8 of this article; provided, that the applicant demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the city manager that the applicant meets all of the following
qualifications:
      1.   The applicant possesses a valid towing business certificate pursuant
to Oregon Revised Statutes 822.205, and meets the insurance and vehicle safety
requirements of that statute;
      2.   The applicant has the ability to respond to towing requests within
thirty (30) minutes on a twenty four (24) hour per day basis;
      3.   The applicant has facilities for secure storage of towed vehicles
through means such as fencing or enclosed structures.
   B.   Evidence Of Continued Compliance: The city manager may from time to
time require that listed towing businesses provide evidence of continued
compliance with the requirements of subsection A of this section, and shall
remove any business from the rotating list which fails to meet such
requirements.
   C.   Appeal Council's Decision: A decision denying an application or
removing a business from the rotating list may be appealed to the city council
by giving a written notice of appeal to the city manager within ten (10) days
of the date of the decision. The city council shall hear the appeal at the next
regularly scheduled council meeting. (Ord. 608-05, 4-12-2005)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Drunk Or Reckless Driving
5-2-2: Parades And Processions
5-2-3: Vehicles In Motion; Right Of Way
5-2-4: Limitations On Backing
5-2-5: Driving On Divided Streets
5-2-6: Emerging From Vehicle
5-2-7: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicle
5-2-8: Riding On Motorcycles
5-2-9: Unlawful Riding
5-2-10: Clinging To Vehicles
5-2-11: Play Streets
5-2-12: Trucks And Oversize Vehicles
5-2-13: Trains Blocking Streets
5-2-14: Removing Glass And Debris From Streets
5-2-15: U-Turns
5-2-16: Quiet Zones
5-2-17: Stop Or Yield Streets And Speed Limits
5-2-18: Pedestrians
5-2-1: DRUNK OR RECKLESS DRIVING:
   A.   Driving Under The Influence: Any person who, while being a habitual
user of narcotic drugs or while intoxicated or under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs, drives any vehicle upon any street
shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a class A misdemeanor
punishable by imprisonment for not more than one hundred eighty (180) days or
by a fine of not more than six thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($6,250.00),
or both. (1962 Code § 9-5-1; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Drinking In Vehicle: It shall be unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor while an occupant of a motor vehicle on any street in the
city. (1962 Code § 9-5-2)
   C.   Reckless Driving: Any person who drives any vehicle upon a street
carelessly and heedlessly in wilful or wanton disregard of the rights or safety
of others, or without due caution and circumspection and at a speed or in a
manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, is
guilty of reckless driving and, upon conviction thereof, shall be deemed guilty
of a class A misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than sixty
(60) days or by a fine of not more than six thousand two hundred fifty dollars
($6,250.00), or both. (1962 Code § 9-5-3; amd. 2014 Code)
5-2-2: PARADES AND PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Parade Permit Required:
      1.   No procession or parade, except a funeral procession, the United
States armed forces and the military forces of the state, shall occupy, march
or proceed along any street, except in accordance with a permit issued by the
chief of police.
      2.   Such permit may be granted where it is found that such parade is not
to be held for any unlawful purpose and will not in any manner tend to be a
breach of the peace, cause damage or unreasonably interfere with the public use
of the streets, or the peace and quiet of the inhabitants of the city. (1962
Code § 9-4-1)
   B.   Funeral Procession: Vehicles in a funeral procession shall be escorted
by at least one person authorized by the chief of police to direct traffic for
such purposes, and shall follow routes established by the chief of police.
(1962 Code § 9-4-2)
   C.   Drivers In Procession: Except when approaching a left turn, each driver
in a funeral or other procession shall drive along the right hand traffic lane
and shall follow the vehicle ahead as closely as is practical and safe. (1962
Code § 9-4-3)
   D.   Driving Through Procession: No driver of a vehicle shall cross through
a procession, except where traffic is controlled by traffic control signals or
when so directed by a police officer. This provision shall not apply to
authorized emergency vehicles. (1962 Code § 9-4-4)
5-2-3: VEHICLES IN MOTION; RIGHT OF WAY:
A vehicle which has stopped or parked at the curb shall yield to moving
traffic. (1962 Code § 9-6-1)
5-2-4: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic, and
shall in every case yield the right of way to moving traffic and pedestrians.
(1962 Code § 9-6-2)
5-2-5: DRIVING ON DIVIDED STREETS:
Whenever any street has been divided into two (2) roadways by a marked
intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any such dividing space, barrier or section, except through
an opening in such physical barrier or dividing section or space provided for
vehicle movement or at an intersection. (1962 Code § 9-6-3)
5-2-6: EMERGING FROM VEHICLE:
No person shall open the door of, or enter or emerge from, any vehicle into the
path of any approaching vehicle. (1962 Code § 9-6-4)
5-2-7: BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE:
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion. (1962 Code § 9-6-5)
5-2-8: RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES:
A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and regular
seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not carry any other person nor
shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless such motorcycle is equipped
to carry more than one person. (1962 Code § 9-6-6)
5-2-9: UNLAWFUL RIDING:
No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise. (1962 Code § 9-6-7)
5-2-10: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
No person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or
any toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any moving vehicle upon the
streets. (1962 Code § 9-6-8)
5-2-11: PLAY STREETS:
No person shall drive a vehicle upon a street during the hours when it has been
designated and is being used as a play street, except drivers having business
on such street or whose residences are along such street, and then such driver
shall exercise the greatest care in driving on such street. (1962 Code § 9-6-9)
5-2-12: TRUCKS AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES:
   A.   Streets Where Trucks Prohibited: When the use of certain streets is
prohibited to trucks exceeding a specified weight, no person shall operate a
truck on such streets contrary to such prohibition, except for the purpose of
delivering or picking up materials or merchandise, but then only by entering
such streets at the intersection nearest the destination of the vehicle and
leaving by the shortest route. (1962 Code § 9-6-10)
   B.   Oversize Vehicles, Permit:
      1.   When written application is made therefor, the chief of police, in
accordance with applicable provisions of the motor vehicle laws of Oregon, may
grant permits for the use of the streets by vehicles, combination of vehicles
or other property which are prohibited by state law from using the streets
because of excessive weight, length or width; and he may set out in such permit
such conditions, regulations and restrictions as the public interest may
require and which shall be sufficient to prevent injury or damage to streets,
sidewalks and all other improvements or private property and to protect the
public.
      2.   Such permit may be canceled at any time by the chief of police upon
satisfactory proof that the permittee has violated any of the terms of the
permit, or when, in the judgment of the chief of police, the public interest
requires cancellation. (1962 Code § 9-6-11)
5-2-13: TRAINS BLOCKING STREETS:
No person shall operate any train or train of cars, or permit the same to
remain standing, so as to block the movement of traffic upon any street for a
period of time longer than ten (10) minutes. (1962 Code § 9-6-12)
5-2-14: REMOVING GLASS AND DEBRIS FROM STREETS:
Any party to a collision or other vehicle accident or any other person causing
glass or other material or substance likely to injure any person, animal or
vehicle to be upon any street in the city shall, as soon as possible, remove or
cause to be removed from such street all such glass or other material or
substance. (1962 Code § 9-6-13)
5-2-15: U-TURNS:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to make a U-turn within the
city. (1962 Code § 9-6-14)
5-2-16: QUIET ZONES:
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a motor vehicle within such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency. (1962 Code § 9-6-15)
5-2-17: STOP OR YIELD STREETS AND SPEED LIMITS:
Stop or yield streets and speed limits shall be as determined by the city
council, and as signposted throughout the city. Drivers of motor vehicles shall
comply with the posted signs. (2014 Code)
5-2-18: PEDESTRIANS:
   A.   Use Of Sidewalks: Pedestrians shall not use any roadway for travel when
abutting sidewalks are available. (1962 Code § 9-3-1)
   B.   Use Of Crosswalks Required: No pedestrian shall cross a street other
than within a crosswalk. (1962 Code § 9-3-2)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING, STOPPING OR STANDING
SECTION:
5-3-1: Duty To Obey Traffic Signs And Signals
5-3-2: Stopping At Stop Signs
5-3-3: Obstructing Traffic
5-3-4: Unlawful Marking
5-3-5: Method Of Parking
5-3-6: Parking Oversize Vehicles
5-3-7: Prohibited Parking
5-3-8: Lights On Parked Vehicles
5-3-9: Loading Zones
5-3-10: Buses And Taxicabs
5-3-11: Certain Vehicles Exempt
5-3-1: DUTY TO OBEY TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS:
   A.   Compliance Required: All drivers of motor vehicles and all pedestrians
shall obey the instructions of every traffic sign, signal, marker, barrier or
parking meter placed in accordance with the motor vehicle laws of Oregon or
this title, including those erected by any authorized public utility and
department of the city or other authorized person, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   B.   Tampering With Signs Or Signals: No unauthorized person shall move,
remove or alter the position of, or deface or tamper with any such sign,
signal, marker, barrier or parking meter. (1962 Code § 9-2-1)
5-3-2: STOPPING AT STOP SIGNS:
When stop signs are erected at or near the entrance to any intersection or
railroad crossing, every driver of a vehicle approaching such sign shall come
to a full stop before entering any crosswalk, intersection or railroad
crossing, except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic
control signal. (1962 Code § 9-2-2)
5-3-3: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the opposite side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed. (1962 Code § 9-2-3)
5-3-4: UNLAWFUL MARKING:
Except as provided by this title, it shall be unlawful for any person to
letter, mark, or paint in any manner any letters, marks, or signs on any
sidewalk, curb or other portion of any street, or to post anything designed or
intended to prohibit or restrict parking on any street. (1962 Code § 9-2-4)
5-3-5: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   Parallel Parking: No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a street
other than parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of
lawful traffic movement, and with the curbside wheels of the vehicle within
twelve inches (12") of the edge of the curb, except where the street is marked
or signed for angle parking.
   B.   Parking Within Marked Space: Where parking space markings are placed on
a street, no person shall stand or park a vehicle other than at the indicated
direction and within a single marked space.
   C.   Parking Near Building To Which Fire Department Summoned: Whenever the
owner or driver of a vehicle discovers that such vehicle is parked immediately
in front of or close to a building to which the fire department has been
summoned, he shall immediately remove such vehicle from the area unless
otherwise directed by police or fire officers. (1962 Code § 9-2-5)
5-3-6: PARKING OVERSIZE VEHICLES:
Any vehicle which, because of its size or shape, cannot be parked as provided
by section
5-3-5 of this chapter may be parked outside the restricted or limited parking
area of the city in a manner which will not impede or interfere with vehicular
traffic. (1962 Code § 9-2-6)
5-3-7: PROHIBITED PARKING:
   A.   General Prohibitions: In addition to provisions of the motor vehicle
laws of Oregon prohibiting parking, no person shall park a vehicle:
      1.   Upon any bridge, viaduct or other elevated structure used as a
street, unless otherwise indicated by lawfully installed signs.
      2.   In any alley, except to load or unload persons or materials, not to
exceed thirty (30) minutes.
      3.   Upon any street for the principal purpose of:
         a.   Displaying such vehicle for sale.
         b.   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
         c.   Displaying advertising from such vehicle.
         d.   Selling merchandise from such vehicle, except in a duly
established marketplace or when so authorized or licensed under the provisions
of this code.
         e.   Storage, or as junkage or dead storage for more than seventy two
(72) consecutive hours.
      4.   Upon any parkway, except where specifically authorized.
      5.   Within any area marked off by traffic markers or by official stripes
painted upon the street curb and pavement or upon the street curb only,
indicating a loading zone, safety zone, crosswalk or pedestrian lane, fire
hydrant, theater entrance or exit, police station, fire station, or when "no
parking" signs are posted for any other purpose designated by such official
markings.
      6.   For the purpose of double parking or to load or unload anything or
passengers, with the front or rear of such vehicle, as the case may be, within
less than fifteen feet (15') from the intersection or the property line at any
intersection, or to stop any vehicle for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or anything within any part of a street intersection, crosswalk, or
pedestrian lane.
   B.   Snow Removal: In the event there is an accumulation of snow in excess
of two inches (2"), the city manager or designee is hereby authorized to
prohibit any person from parking a vehicle upon certain designated streets,
until the snow is removed. Those streets are hereby designated as follows:
Bower Avenue between its intersection with Thunderegg Boulevard and its
intersection with North First Street.
Good Avenue between its intersection with Adrian Boulevard and its intersection
with South First Street.
King Avenue between its intersection with Adrian Boulevard and its intersection
with South First Street.
Locust Avenue between its intersection with Highway 201 and its intersection
with North First Street.
Main Street between its intersection with Sixth Street and the Union Pacific
Railway underpass.
Park Avenue between its intersection with Eleventh Street and its intersection
with North First Street.
North First Street between its intersection with Main Street and its
intersection with Locust Avenue.
North Second Street between its intersection with Main Street and its
intersection with Bower Avenue.
North Third Street between its intersection with Main Street and its
intersection with Chestnut Avenue.
North Fourth Street between its intersection with Main Street and its
intersection with Bower Avenue.
North Fifth Street between its intersection with Main Street and its
intersection with Locust Avenue.
North Sixth Street between its intersection with Main Street and its
intersection with Bower Avenue.
South First Street between its intersection with Main Street and its
intersection with King Avenue.
South Second Street between its intersection with Main Street and its
intersection with Good Avenue.
South Third Street between its intersection with Main Street and its
intersection with Good Avenue.
South Fourth Street between its intersection with Main Street and its
intersection with Good Avenue.
South Fifth Street between its intersection with Main Street and its
intersection with Commercial Avenue.
South Sixth Street between its intersection with Main Street and its
intersection with Good Avenue.
South Seventh Street between its intersection with Adrian Boulevard and its
intersection with King Avenue.
The city manager or designee shall publish notice of said prohibition as soon
as it can be reasonably determined that said prohibition shall be necessary.
For the purpose of this subsection, public notice shall only require
dissemination of the prohibition to the news media and the posting of temporary
"No Parking" signs in various locations on said streets. The city manager or
designee is also hereby authorized to remove any vehicles parked in violation
of this section immediately, without any further notice to the registered owner
or operator thereof. The city council specifically finds that said vehicles
constitute a hazard and an obstruction to motor vehicle traffic using the road
or highway as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 819.120. Any vehicle removed
under the provisions of this subsection shall be subject to the provisions of
Oregon Revised Statutes 819.120, as now constituted or hereinafter amended.
(1962 Code § 9-2-7)
5-3-8: LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES:
No lights need be displayed upon any vehicle parked in accordance with this
chapter and upon a street where there is sufficient light to reveal any person
or object upon such street within a distance of five hundred feet (500'). (1962
Code § 9-2-12)
5-3-9: LOADING ZONES:
   A.   Use Of Loading Zone:
      1.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up
and loading of materials, freight or passengers in any place designated as a
loading zone during the hours when the provisions applicable to loading zones
are in effect.
      2.   In no case shall the stop in an unmetered loading zone for loading
and unloading of passengers and personal baggage exceed thirty (30) minutes nor
the loading or unloading of materials exceed thirty (30) minutes. (1962 Code §
9-2-8)
   B.   Use Of Passenger Loading Zone: No person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers in any place designated as a passenger
loading zone during the hours when the provisions applicable to passenger
loading zones are in effect. (1962 Code § 9-2-9)
5-3-10: BUSES AND TAXICABS:
   A.   Parking Of Buses And Taxicabs: The driver of a bus or taxicab shall not
stand or park such vehicle upon any street in any business district at any
place other than at a bus stand or taxicab stand, respectively, except that
this provision shall not prevent the driver of any taxicab from temporarily
stopping for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, the loading or
unloading of passengers. (1962 Code § 9-2-10)
   B.   Restricted Use Of Bus And Taxicab Stands: No person shall stop, stand,
or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stand or other than a taxicab in a
taxicab stand, except that the driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily
stop therein for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or
unloading passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any bus or
taxicab using or about to enter such zone. (1962 Code § 9-2-11)
5-3-11: CERTAIN VEHICLES EXEMPT:
The provisions of this chapter regulating the parking or standing of vehicles
shall not apply to any vehicle of a city department or public utility while
necessarily in use for construction or repair work on the street or any vehicle
owned by the United States while in use for the collection, transportation or
delivery of United States mail. (1962 Code § 9-2-13)
CHAPTER 4
BICYCLES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Effect Of Regulations
5-4-2: Rental Agencies
5-4-3: Brakes
5-4-4: Riding On Bicycles
5-4-5: Speed
5-4-6: Racing
5-4-7: Carrying Articles
5-4-8: Riding Bicycles On Streets And Bicycle Paths
5-4-9: Riding Bicycles, Skateboards Or In-Line Skates On Sidewalks
5-4-10: Parking
5-4-1: EFFECT OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Parental Responsibility: No parent of any minor child and no guardian
of any minor ward shall authorize or knowingly permit any such minor child or
ward to violate any of the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Compliance With Traffic Regulations: Except as otherwise provided
herein, every person riding or operating a bicycle upon any street or other
public place in the city shall be subject to all the provisions of this title
and the laws of the state applicable to the drivers of vehicles, except those
provisions which by their nature can have no application. (1962 Code § 9-7-1)
5-4-2: RENTAL AGENCIES:
A rental agency shall not rent or offer any bicycle for rent unless the bicycle
is equipped with all equipment required by the motor vehicle laws of Oregon and
this title. (1962 Code § 9-7-3)
5-4-3: BRAKES:
Every bicycle operated upon the streets in the city shall be equipped with
brakes adequate to control the movement of, and to stop and to hold, such
vehicle. (1962 Code § 9-7-2)
5-4-4: RIDING ON BICYCLES:
   A.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than with his feet
on the pedals and facing the front of the bicycle.
   B.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped. (1962 Code § 9-7-4)
5-4-5: SPEED:
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing. (1962 Code § 9-7-6)
5-4-6: RACING:
No person shall engage in, or cause others to be engaged in, any bicycle racing
upon the streets or other public places in the city. (1962 Code § 9-7-7)
5-4-7: CARRYING ARTICLES:
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article which
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars and in
full control of such bicycle. (1962 Code § 9-7-8)
5-4-8: RIDING BICYCLES ON STREETS AND BICYCLE PATHS:
   A.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a street shall ride as near to
the right hand side of the street as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   B.   Persons riding bicycles upon a street shall not ride more than two (2)
abreast. (1962 Code § 9-7-5)
5-4-9: RIDING BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS OR IN-LINE SKATES ON SIDEWALKS:
No person shall ride or operate any bicycle or skateboard, or wear in-line
skates, upon any sidewalk in a business district. Outside of a business
district, any person riding a bicycle, a skateboard, or wearing in-line skates
upon a sidewalk shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall give
audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian. (Ord. 568, 10-15-
1996)
5-4-10: PARKING:
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street or upon a sidewalk, except in a
rack to support the bicycle or against a building or at the curb, in such
manner as to afford the least obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (1962 Code §
9-7-10)
TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE A. POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1A-1: Chief Of Police
6-1A-2: Police Powers Outside City Limits
6-1A-1: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Appointment; Term: The chief of police shall be appointed by the city
manager, and shall hold office for the duration of his appointment, unless
sooner removed by the manager. (1962 Code §
1-7-1)
   B.   Rank; Appointment Of Special Police: The chief of police shall be the
head of the department and have supervision over all the officers and members
thereof. The chief of police may, with the approval of the city manager,
appoint such special police as may be required from time to time; however, such
appointments may not be for a period of longer than ten (10) days, and special
police shall not be reappointed following the specified ten (10) days without
the consent of the city manager. (1962 Code §
1-7-2)
   C.   Duties Of Chief: The chief of police shall:
      1.   Keep such records and make such reports concerning the activities of
his department as may be required by statute or by the city manager.
      2.   Be responsible for the performance of the police department and of
its functions, and all persons who are members of the police department shall
serve subject to his orders.
      3.   See to the enforcement of all provisions of this code or all
applicable statutes, and preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and
arrest violators thereof.
      4.   Have authority to call upon any citizen or bystander to assist him
in the execution of his duty.
      5.   Serve all processes issued to him and enforce all orders and
judgments of the court. (1962 Code §
1-7-3)
   D.   Custody Of Stolen Property: The chief of police shall have the custody
of all lost, abandoned or stolen property recovered within the city. (1962 Code
§
1-7-4)
6-1A-2: POLICE POWERS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   Jurisdiction In Certain Areas: Pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes
226.010, the city does hereby extend its police powers and jurisdiction to
include those certain lands and premises owned by the city, and more
particularly described as:
      1.   River Park And Cemetery/Dump:
      Land in Malheur County, Oregon:
      In Twp. 19 S., R. 47 E., W.M.:
      Sec. 33: Commencing at the northwest corner of the SW1/4NW1/4 of said
Sec. 33;
      Thence south along the west boundary of said SW1/4NW1/4 a distance of
42.20 feet to the southerly right of way line of Oregon Central Highway 7;
      Thence east along said right of way line a distance of 291.10 feet to the
True Point Of Beginning;
      Thence east along said right of way line a distance of 71.65 feet;
      Thence south 7°45' east a distance of 316.30 feet;
      Thence west a distance of 114.30 feet;
      Thence north a distance of 313.40 feet to the True Point Of Beginning;
known as the "River Park"; and
      Land in Malheur County, Oregon:
      In Twp. 19 S., R. 46 E., W.M.:
      Sec. 26: SE1/4SE1/4; known as the Nyssa Cemetery.
(1962 Code § 5-6-1)
      2.   Wastewater Use Area:
      SE 1/4 SE 1/4
      Section 20
      SW 1/4 SW 1/4; Gov. Lot 4 (SE 1/4 SW 1/4)
      Section 21
      NW 1/4 NW 1/4; Gov. Lot 2 (SE 1/4 NW 1/4); Gov. Lot 3 (SW 1/4 NW 1/4);
Gov. Lot 4 (NW 1/4 SW 1/4); Gov. Lot 5 (SW 1/4 SW 1/4)
      Section 28
      NE 1/4 - Inclusive; SE 1/4 - Inclusive; SW 1/4 - Inclusive; SW 1/4 NW 1/
4; SE 1/4 NW 1/4
      Section 29
      SE 1/4 NE 1/4; SE 1/4 - Inclusive
      Section 30
      NE 1/4 - Inclusive; SE 1/4 - Inclusive
Section 31
All of Section 32
Gov. Lot 1 (NW 1/4 NW 1/4); Gov. Lot 2 (SW 1/4 NW 1/4); Gov. Lot 3 (NW 1/4 SW
1/4); Gov. Lot 4 (SW 1/4 SW 1/4)
Section 33
Township 19 South, Range 47 East, W.M.
Gov. Lot 1; Gov. Lot 2
Section 4
Gov. Lot 2
Section 5
Township 20 South, Range 47 East, W.M.
      3.   Stringer Property:
Land in Malheur County, Oregon:
In Township 19 South, Range 47 East of the Willamette Meridian:
Secs. 28 and 29: A parcel of land in Govt. Lots 2, 3 and 4 of Sec. 28 and in
the SE 1/4 NE 1/4 and NE 1/4 SE 1/4 of Sec. 29 and being described as follows:
In Partition Plat No. 98-7, recorded April 6, 1998, as Instrument no. 98-2445,
Official Records of Malheur County, Oregon, as follows: Unsurveyed Parcel 2.
      4.   Bruce Corn Property Columbia:
Land in Malheur County, Oregon:
In Twp. 19 S., R. 47 E., W.M.:
Sec. 28: NW 1/4 NW 1/4,
Excepting Therefrom the following described parcel, to-wit:
Beginning at the Northeast corner of said NW 1/4 NW 1/4;
Thence West along the North line of said Section 28, 412 feet;
Thence South 650 feet;
Thence East 412 feet to the East line of said Section 28;
Thence North along the East line of said NW 1/4 NW 1/4 of Section 28, 650 feet
to the Point of Beginning.
Sec. 29: All that part of the NE 1/4 NE 1/4 lying and being East of the right
of way of the Oregon Short Line Railroad.
In Twp. 19 S.,R.47 E., W.M.:
Sec. 21: Beginning at the Southwest corner of said Section 21;
Thence East 2380 feet to the West bank of the Snake River;
Thence N. 06 degrees 19' W., 749.54 feet;
Thence West 2297.58 feet to the West line of said Section 21;
Thence South 745 feet to the Point of Beginning.
Excepting Therefrom a strip of land 10 feet in width off the South side
thereof,
Dedicated as a part of a 20 foot roadway, said Dedication dated January 20,
1918,
Recorded September 4, 1918, in Book 5, Page 381, Leases and Agreements.
And Further Excepting Therefrom a parcel of land described as follows, to-wit:
Beginning at the Southwest corner of said Section 21;
Thence North 167 feet;
Thence East 223 feet;
Thence South 167 feet;
Thence West 223 feet to the Point of Beginning.
      5.   Well Property In Idaho:
A parcel of riparian land lying westerly of Lot 1, Section 7, Township 6N.,
Range 5 W, Boise-Meridian, in Canyon County, Idaho, described as follows:
Beginning at the meander corner which is the northwest corner of partial
Section 7, T 6N, R 5W, B.M.; thence west 32 feet to a point on the east bank of
the Snake River; thence southerly along said east bank of the Snake River as
follows: S 7o34'W, 223 feet; S 1o16' E 400 feet; S 0o10'W, 250 feet; and S
8o58' E, 218.10 feet, more or less, to a point on the northerly right-of-way
line of U.S. Highway 20 and 26, (Project No. S-3746(1), Highway Survey on file
in the office of the Department of Highways at Boise, Idaho); thence N 84o53' E
along said northerly right-of-way line 81.0 feet; thence N 3o151/2' W 1080.92
feet, more or less, to the point of beginning, containing approximately 2.0
acres.
AND ALSO a parcel of land adjacent and contiguous to the above described tract
of land described as follows: A strip of land 20 feet in width, lying northerly
of and contiguous to the northerly right- of-way line of said U.S. Highway 20
and 26, (Project No. S-3746(1)) as recorded in Book 250 of Deeds of Canyon
County at page 284 and extending 556 feet easterly from the easterly line of
the above- described tract.
(2014 Code)
   B.   Enforcement Authority: The city shall have authority to enforce all
ordinances of the city for the protection of persons and property within the
boundaries of the lands described in subsection A of this section in like
manner and with like effect as the same might be enforced within the corporate
limits of the city.
   C.   Make Arrests And Serve Processes: The city, through its duly
constituted officers, is empowered to enforce all ordinances of the city within
the boundaries of the lands described in subsection A of this section and to
that end to make arrests and serve process of courts therein or upon persons
therein or thereon in like manner and with like effect as the same might do
within the corporate limits of the city.
   D.   Violations; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any
ordinance of the city within the boundaries of the lands described in
subsection A of this section and, upon conviction thereof, the same penalty may
be imposed as if the act or omission complained of had been committed within
the corporate limits of the city.
   E.   Rules And Regulations: The chief of police and the city manager may,
from time to time, promulgate rules and regulations regulating the use of the
lands described in subsection A of this section and the public and private
property situated thereon, and a violation of such rules and regulations shall
be punishable in the same manner and with like effect as if the violation had
occurred within the corporate limits of the city. (1962 Code § 5-6-1)
ARTICLE B. FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1B-1: Chief Of Fire Department
6-1B-2: Officers
6-1B-3: Membership
6-1B-4: Equipment
6-1B-5: Regulations
6-1B-6: Social Officers
6-1B-1: CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Appointment; Term; Qualifications:
      1.   The chief of the fire department shall be appointed by the city
manager, and shall hold office for the duration of his appointment, unless
sooner removed by the manager. His tenure of office shall depend upon his good
conduct and efficiency.
      2.   The chief shall be technically qualified by training and experience
and shall have ability to command people and hold their respect and confidence.
      3.   The chief shall be held accountable to the manager only, and shall
make written and verbal reports thereto as may be required. All other
department and company officers shall be accountable to the chief only. (1962
Code §§
1-8-1, 2-3-1; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Rank; Appoint Other Officers: The chief of the fire department,
commonly referred to as the fire chief, shall be the head of the department and
have supervision over all officers and members thereof. The fire chief may,
with the approval of the city manager, appoint such other fire department
officers as may be deemed necessary, including a first assistant chief and a
second assistant chief. (1962 Code §
1-8-2)
   C.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Duties, Generally: The fire chief shall keep such records and make
such reports concerning the activities of his department as may be required by
statute or by the city manager. He shall be responsible for the performance of
the fire department and of its functions, and all persons who are members of
the fire department shall serve subject to his orders. He shall be responsible
for the control and custody of all fire department property and equipment. He
shall have the authority of a police officer while actively engaged in fighting
a fire, or going to or from a fire. (1962 Code §
1-8-3)
      2.   Specific Duties:
         a.   The chief shall formulate a set of rules and regulations to
govern the department and shall be responsible to the city for the personnel,
morale and general efficiency of the department.
         b.   The chief shall determine the number and kind of companies of
which the department is to be composed and shall determine the response of such
companies to alarms.
         c.   The chief shall, at least once a month, conduct suitable drills
or instruction in the operation and handling of equipment, first aid and rescue
work, salvage, a study of buildings in the city, fire prevention, water
supplies, and all other matters generally considered essential to good
firemanship and safety of life and property from fire.
         d.   The chief is hereby required to suppress the crime of arson and
investigate or cause to be investigated the cause, origin, and circumstances of
all fires.
         e.   The chief is hereby empowered to enter any and all buildings and
premises at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to
serve written notice upon the owner or occupant to abate, within a specified
time, any and all fire hazards that may be found.
         f.   Any person so served with a notice to abate any fire hazard shall
comply therewith and promptly notify the chief.
         g.   The chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and minor equipment, personnel and other information
about the work of the department.
      3.   Reports:
         a.   The chief shall report monthly to the city manager the condition
of the apparatus and equipment; the number of fires during the month, their
location and cause, and date of same and loss occasioned thereby; the number
and purpose of all runs made; and the number of members responding to each fire
or other run, and any changes in membership.
         b.   The chief shall make a complete annual report to the city council
within one month after the close of the fiscal year, such report to include the
information specified in subsections C2g and C3a of this section, together with
comparative data for previous years and recommendations for improving the
effectiveness of the department. (1962 Code § 2-3-2)
6-1B-2: OFFICERS:
   A.   Composition: The department shall consist of a chief, an assistant
chief and such other officers as the department may deem necessary for
effective operation.
   B.   Assistant Chief And Other Officers: The assistant chief and all other
department and company officers shall be appointed by the chief. Such officers
shall be accountable only to the chief, and subject to removal by him. (1962
Code § 2-3-1)
6-1B-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment; Qualifications:
      1.   The membership of the department shall consist of such persons as
may be appointed by the chief, and shall be able bodied citizens residing
within the city or the boundaries of the Nyssa rural fire protection district.
      2.   Determination of whether candidates for appointment are able bodied
shall be made by the chief after a medical and physical examination has been
made in a manner prescribed by the chief and approved by the department.
   B.   Suspension Or Discharge; Hearing: Any member of the department may be
suspended or discharged from the department by the chief at any time the chief
may deem such action necessary for the good of the department. On written
request of such member, the member shall be given a hearing on the charges
before the city council on the charges brought by the chief. (Ord. 568, 10-15-
1996)
6-1B-4: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Department Apparatus And Equipment: The department shall be equipped,
within the budget established by the city, with such apparatus and other
equipment as may be required from time to time to maintain its efficiency and
properly protect life and property from fire.
   B.   Recommendations And Approval For Purchases; Use Restricted:
      1.   Recommendations of apparatus and equipment needed shall be made by
the fire chief, and after approval by the city manager, shall be purchased in
such manner as may be designated by the city council.
      2.   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person wilfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the department.
   C.   Permission Required For Use: No person shall enter any place where fire
apparatus is housed or handle the apparatus or equipment belonging to the
department unless accompanied by or having the special permission of an officer
or authorized member of the department.
   D.   Agreements With Other Communities For Mutual Aid: The city council is
hereby authorized to enter into agreements or contracts with nearby
incorporated communities or governing bodies of other organizations to provide
the members of such communities or organizations with fire protection or to
establish a mutual aid system.
   E.   Hiring Out Of Apparatus: No apparatus shall be hired out or permitted
to leave the city except in response to a call for aid at a fire in a
neighboring community without the consent of the city council. The officer in
charge of the department shall have the power to assign equipment for response
to calls for outside aid in accordance with subsection D of this section, and
in other cases only when the absence of such equipment will not jeopardize
protection in the city. (Ord. 568, 10-15-1996)
6-1B-5: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Badge: Each member of the department shall be issued a badge
designating his rank. (1962 Code § 2-3-5)
   B.   Right Of Way Of Members: All motor equipment and all personal vehicles
of department members shall have right of way over all other traffic when
responding to an alarm.
   C.   Insignia For Vehicle: Each member of the department driving a vehicle
shall be issued a suitable insignia to be attached to the vehicle. (1962 Code §
2-3-5; amd. 2014 Code)
   D.   Driving Over Fire Hose: No person shall drive any vehicle over a fire
hose, except upon specific orders from the chief or other officer in charge
where the hose is used.
   E.   Parking Near Fire Station Or Fire Hydrant: No person shall park any
vehicle or otherwise cause any obstruction to be placed within twenty feet
(20') of the entrance to any fire station or other place where fire apparatus
is stored, or within ten feet (10') of any fire hydrant or cistern.
   F.   Following Fire Apparatus: No unauthorized person with any vehicle shall
follow within six hundred feet (600') of any apparatus belonging to the
department, nor park any vehicle within three hundred feet (300') of a fire.
   G.   False Fire Alarm: No person shall maliciously turn in or cause to be
turned in a false alarm. (1962 Code § 2-3-5)
6-1B-6: SOCIAL OFFICERS:
The department may elect a president, vice president, secretary, and treasurer,
to be known as social officers. Such officers may be elected in any manner and
for any term the membership may decide upon, and their duties shall be to
arrange for and manage any or all social functions sponsored by the department.
(1962 Code § 2-3-6)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Animal Control Officer
6-2-3: Dog License Required; Exceptions; Tag And Collar
6-2-4: Dog License Fees; Penalty For Noncompliance
6-2-5: Dogs Running At Large Prohibited; Exceptions
6-2-6: Impoundment Regulations And Fees
6-2-7: Sale Or Destruction Of Dogs
6-2-8: Public Nuisance
6-2-9: Responsibilities Of Owners Of Domesticated Cats
6-2-10: Interfering With Trapping Program
6-2-11: Dog Waste Matter
6-2-12: Unlawful Acts Of Releasing
6-2-13: Rabies Vaccinations
6-2-14: Confinement For Biting
6-2-15: Chasing Or Harassing Wildlife
6-2-16: Removal Of Animal
6-2-17: Prohibited Acts; Exceptions
6-2-18: Parking Or Tethering Horses On Street
6-2-19: Cruelty To Animals
6-2-20: Dangerous Or Vicious Animals
6-2-20-1: Dangerous Animals
6-2-20-2: Designation Of Dangerous Or Vicious Dog
6-2-20-3: Exceptions To Dangerous Or Vicious Dog
6-2-20-4: Notification Procedure; Hearing
6-2-20-5: Requirements Of Owners
6-2-20-6: Allowable Acts Of City
6-2-20-7: Penalty For Dangerous Or Vicious Dogs
6-2-21: Nonliability
6-2-22: Entry Onto Private Land Or Premises
6-2-23: Interference With Animal Control Officer
6-2-24: Penalty
6-2-25: Keeping Chickens
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ABANDONED: An owner or caregiver has forsaken an animal entirely, or has
neglected or refused to provide care and support of the animal.
ADEQUATE LEASH: No more than six feet (6') in length and a tensile strength
adequate to restrain the animal.
ADULT: A person who has reached the age of eighteen (18) years.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any person employed or appointed by the City, including
a Nyssa City police officer and/or a Nyssa City ordinance control officer who
is authorized to investigate violations of laws and regulations concerning
animals, and to issue citations in accordance with Oregon law and this chapter.
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner or person having control, custody or
possession of the dog while the dog is not under the complete control of the
owner or person by adequate leash. However, a dog in obedience or field
training exercise under the direct supervision of a handler shall not be
considered to be "at large".
CAREGIVER: Any person who provides food, water or shelter to, or otherwise
cares for, an animal.
CAT: A member of the species Felis catus.
DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS DOG: A. Any dog that has bitten or attacked any person or
has attempted to bite or attack any person. A dog shall be deemed to be
attempting to attack if it is restrained by a leash, fence or other means, and
it is clear from the dog's excited actions that only the presence of the leash,
fence, or other means of restraint is preventing the dog from making an
immediate attack; or
   B.   Any dog with a propensity, tendency or disposition to attack, to cause
injury to, or to otherwise threaten the safety of, domestic animals; or any dog
which attacks a domestic animal without provocation and without justification;
or
   C.   Any dog, whether leashed or not, which, in a vicious or terrorizing
manner, approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack upon the
streets, sidewalks, or any public or private grounds or places; or
   D.   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
dogfighting or any dog trained for dogfighting; or
   E.   Any dog owned or harbored on property known for drug trafficking or
gang activity and shows an aggressive temperament; or
   F.   Any dog which is kept with the intention of using its size, manner,
disposition or breeding to instill fear in others; or any dog, which is bred
for the purpose of fighting.
DOMESTICATED CAT: A cat that is socialized to humans and is appropriate as a
companion for humans.
DOMESTICATED FOWL: All birds commonly raised for meat or eggs.
EAR TIPPING: Straight line cutting of the tip of the left ear of an animal
while the animal anesthetized.
EXOTIC ANIMAL: Any lion, tiger, leopard, cheetah, ocelot or any other cat not
indigenous to Oregon, except the species Felis catus (domestic cat); any
monkey, ape, gorilla or other nonhuman primate; any wolf or any canine not
indigenous to Oregon, except the species Canis familiaris (domestic dog); and
any bear.
FIERCE ANIMAL OR VICIOUS ANIMAL: A. Any other animal, including dogs, that,
without intentional provocation, bites or attacks humans or other animals; or
in a vicious or terrorizing manner, approaches any person in an apparent
attitude of attack, whether or not the attack is consummated or capable of
being consummated. This behavior may include, but not be limited to, baring of
the teeth, growling, barking, charging, stomping and bristling of the fur.
   B.   A vicious animal is "unconfined" if such animal is not securely
confined indoors or confined in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure
upon the premises of the person.
   C.   Such pen or structure must have secure sides and a secure top. If the
pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded
in the ground no less than two feet (2'). Said pen or structure shall be
sufficiently secure to keep other persons from releasing the enclosed animal.
KENNEL: An establishment or business for the boarding, breeding, or exhibition
of dogs.
LIVESTOCK: Ratites, psittacines, horses, mules, jackasses, cattle, llamas,
sheep, goats, swine, domesticated fowl and any furbearing animal bred and
maintained commercially or otherwise.
MUNICIPAL JUDGE: Malheur County justice of the peace and/or Nyssa city
municipal judge.
NUISANCE: Disturbing the peace by: a) habitually or continually howling, crying
or screaming; or b) the habitual and significant destruction, desecration or
soiling of property against the wishes of the owner of the property.
OWNER: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, trust, estate,
or any other legal entity.
RESCUE GROUP: A for profit or not for profit entity, or a collaboration of
individuals with at least one of its purposes being the adoption or placement
of animals in homes with humans to serve as companion animals.
STRAY CAT: A cat that is regularly off the property of the owner, is not under
the physical control and restraint of the owner and is not regularly provided
with food by its owner.
SUITABLE SHELTER: Shelter that provides protection from rain, sun, and other
elements that is adequate to protect the health of the animal.
TNR: Trap, neuter and return.
ZOONOTIC DISEASE: Those diseases transmittable to humans from animals,
including parasitic, bacterial, fungal and viral diseases. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-
2011; amd. 2014 Code)
6-2-2: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
In addition to the powers and duties set forth in the Oregon Revised Statutes,
the ordinance control officer shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To have power in the enforcement of all the provisions of this chapter
relating to the licensing and impounding of dogs as provided in this chapter.
   B.   To maintain and keep or contract with a private provider of a small
animal shelter or other place where all dogs subject to impoundment may be kept
and held safely and provided with proper and sufficient food, water, and
shelter.
   C.   To impound and keep safely any dog apparently abandoned that is found
doing any of the activities set forth in this chapter.
   D.   To issue citations and complaints within appropriate jurisdictions,
appear as witness, and to perform all other acts necessary for the enforcement
of this chapter.
   E.   To receive any costs and charges hereinafter provided in this chapter.
   F.   To investigate reports of biting dogs as hereinafter set forth in this
chapter.
   G.   To investigate livestock claims. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-3: DOG LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS; TAG AND COLLAR:
   A.   License Required; Issuance:
      1.   License Required; Proof Of Rabies Vaccination: A license shall be
required for all dogs that have a set of permanent canine teeth. Persons
owning, possessing, or keeping a dog which has a set of permanent canine teeth
shall immediately, within thirty (30) days after such person becomes the owner,
possessor, or keeper of such a dog, or within thirty (30) days after such dog
acquires a set of permanent canine teeth, procure from the ordinance control
officer, or his/her agent, a license for the dog. A license will only be issued
upon proof that the dog has current rabies vaccination.
      2.   Agent Fees: An agent, as set forth in this section, who is
authorized by the city to provide Nyssa dog licenses to the public on behalf of
the city, shall be compensated at a rate determined by city council resolution.
   B.   Special License For More Than Three Dogs:
      1.   Application; Consent Of Adjacent Property Owners; Conditions:
         a.   It is unlawful to keep, maintain, harbor or possess upon any one
premises more than three (3) dogs unless the owner makes special application to
do so. This does not, however, permit the operation of a kennel or other
commercial operation.
         b.   Application to house more than three (3) dogs on a noncommercial
basis must be made to the city and must be accompanied by the written consent
of at least seventy five percent (75%) of all persons in possession of premises
within one hundred feet (100') of the premises upon which application is being
made.
         c.   A fee to be determined by city council resolution shall accompany
the application.
         d.   All dogs covered by the provisions of this section shall be
confined upon the property or under leash at all times; provided, however, that
this shall not apply to dogs under three (3) months of age.
      2.   License Term; Review; Complaints:
         a.   The permit will allow the keeping of over three (3) dogs for a
three (3) year period. The permit will be reviewed by the police department at
the conclusion of three (3) years.
         b.   If during that period there have been no dog nuisance complaints
associated with the premises, the permit will be extended for another three (3)
year period, indefinitely.
         c.   If there has been a dog nuisance complaint, the applicant will be
required to obtain the written consent of at least seventy five percent (75%)
of all persons in possession of premises within one hundred feet (100') of the
premises upon which application is being made.
   C.   Handicapped Persons; Exception To License Fee: No license fee shall be
required to be paid for a dog owned by a blind person or handicapped person who
uses it as a guide or trained helper. A license shall be issued for such dog
upon the filing with the ordinance control officer or agent an affidavit by the
handicapped person showing the dog to come within this exemption.
   D.   Collar And Tag: Every individually licensed dog must wear a collar with
the license tag attached at all times. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-4: DOG LICENSE FEES; PENALTY FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A.   Council Determination: The fees for the license required by section
6-2-3 of this chapter shall be determined by city council resolution.
   B.   Persons Subject To Licensing Requirements; Noncompliance: Any person
subject to the licensing requirements in section
6-2-3 of this chapter who fails to obtain an appropriate license shall be
subject to the penalties contained in this chapter. The following persons are
subject to the aforementioned licensing requirements:
      1.   A person who becomes the owner, possessor, or keeper of a dog
required to be licensed under this chapter who fails to apply for a license
within thirty (30) days after he becomes the owner or keeper of the dog;
      2.   The owner, possessor, or keeper of a dog that has gained permanent
canine teeth during any calendar year who shall neglect to procure a license
for the dog at the time it gains permanent canine teeth; and
      3.   A person who becomes a resident of the city who is the owner,
possessor or keeper of a dog required to be licensed under this chapter who
fails to apply for a license within thirty (30) days after he/she becomes a
resident. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-5: DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Prohibition, Except When On Leash: It shall be unlawful for a dog to
run at large. It shall also be unlawful for a dog to be on elementary or
secondary school properties, city parks, golf courses or other municipally
owned property, except on an adequate leash.
   B.   Exceptions: It is unlawful for any owner, possessor, or person who
keeps any dog, to permit the same to be, remain, or run at large off or away
from the premises of the owner, possessor or keeper thereof, unless:
      1.   Upon the private premises of another with the prior consent of the
person in possession of such premises; or
      2.   Such dog be controlled by a leash, not to exceed six feet (6') in
length, which shall be securely fastened to a collar or harness worn by the
dog; provided, that such dog is not allowed in any case to enter without prior
permission upon the private property of another; and provided, such dog is not
permitted to cause damage to any public or private property; or
      3.   Such dog is confined in a motor vehicle.
   C.   Class B Violation: Any owner, possessor or person, who keeps any dog,
violating the provisions of this section, commits a class B violation which
shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed the limitations established by
Oregon Revised Statutes in existence at the time of the violation. (Ord. 630-
10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-6: IMPOUNDMENT REGULATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Impounding Authorized: A dog which is running at large, or is a
"nuisance" as herein defined, or is unlicensed is in violation of this chapter,
and may be impounded by the city ordinance control officer, or his/her agent,
or by a police officer or representative of Malheur County, or a representative
of a city approved animal shelter.
   B.   Regulations And Fees:
      1.   Licensed Dogs:
         a.   Whenever a dog, licensed according to section
6-2-3 of this chapter, is impounded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
the city ordinance control officer, his/her agent, a police officer, or a
representative of a city approved animal shelter shall forthwith make every
reasonable attempt to locate the owner of the dog.
         b.   If after seven (7) days the owner of the dog is not located, the
dog may be humanely killed or disposed of to a person agreeing to provide it a
suitable home.
         c.   The owner, possessor or keeper of an impounded dog shall be
required to pay all fines and boarding fees regardless of whether or not the
dog is claimed.
      2.   Unlicensed Dogs:
         a.   If the owner, possessor or keeper of the dog is not known to the
impounding officer, his/her agent, a police officer, or a representative of a
city approved animal shelter, the dog shall be impounded for five (5) days.
         b.   If, after five (5) days, the dog has not been claimed by the
owner, possessor or keeper of the dog, the dog may be humanely killed or
disposed of to a person agreeing to provide it a suitable home, except that
destruction may be made in less time when the dog is sick or injured and should
be disposed of for humanitarian reasons.
      3.   Impounding Fee: The city is hereby authorized to charge and collect
for impounding dogs a fee established by city council resolution. The fee is
required to be paid to the ordinance officer or agent prior to the release of
the dog from the city approved animal shelter.
      4.   Proof Of Licensing And Vaccination: The owner, possessor or keeper
of the dog is to show proof of compliance with the city dog license and rabies
vaccination requirements before the dog may be released.
   C.   Right Of Appeal:
      1.   A dog owner whose dog is impounded and who has been notified of the
impoundment, within the days of required impoundment, believing to be aggrieved
by the seizure and impounding of his dog, may apply to the municipal judge for
the release of the dog.
      2.   The municipal judge shall thereupon set a time and place for hearing
the application and notify the impounding officer, and upon a summary hearing
at such time and place, the municipal judge shall have full power to determine
whether the dog has been wrongfully impounded and whether it shall be returned
to its owner, and upon what term.
      3.   Payment of the impoundment fee shall not prejudice an owner's right
of appeal of an alleged wrongful impoundment. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-7: SALE OR DESTRUCTION OF DOGS:
   A.   Purchaser Obtain License: Upon the sale of an unlicensed dog, the
purchaser shall be required to obtain a license for the current year. (Ord.
630-10, 1-11-2011)
   B.   Authority To Kill By Lethal Injection: If after the expiration of the
applicable time as set forth in subsection
6-2-6B1 or B2 of this chapter, a period of five (5) or seven (7) days has
elapsed during which an impounded dog cannot be sold, the city or its agent is
hereby authorized and empowered to kill the dog by lethal injection of sodium
phenobarbital or other substance approved by the Oregon state veterinary
medical examining board. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011; amd. 2014 Code)
   C.   Dog Posing Imminent Threat; Alternate Method Of Killing: If a
particular dog to be destroyed poses an imminent threat to human or animal
life, making use of lethal injection of sodium phenobarbital inappropriate, a
reasonable and appropriate alternative may be used. The alternative method may
be subject to review by the Oregon state veterinary medical examining board.
(Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-8: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   A.   Nuisances:
      1.   Enumerated: It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain within the city
any dog that is a nuisance. A dog is a nuisance as described if it:
         a.   Bites a person.
         b.   Chases vehicles or persons.
         c.   Damages or destroys property of persons other than the owner or
custodian of the dog.
         d.   Scatters garbage.
         e.   Trespasses on private property of persons other than the owner or
custodian of the animal.
         f.   Causes repeated or prolonged disturbances by excessive barking or
noisemaking, plainly audible from inside any neighboring building, vehicle or
residence for five (5) or more total minutes in any fifteen (15) consecutive
minutes and thereby disturbs one or more persons not then residing in the
residence of the owner, possessor of keeper of the dog; provided, however, an
initial occurrence shall result in the issuance of a warning only with any
subsequent occurrence within a seven (7) calendar's day period of the initial
occurrence being subject to all penalties provided for herein.
         g.   Makes an unprovoked attack, molests or interferes with persons or
other domestic animals on property other than the owner's property.
         h.   Makes an unprovoked attack, molests, or interferes with a public
utility worker, mail carrier, delivery person or other public servant who,
while in the performance of their duties, is on the owner's property.
      2.   Class C Violation: A person who permits or allows a dog which they
own or over which they have control to be a public nuisance violates this
section commits a class C violation which shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed the limitations established by Oregon Revised Statutes in existence at
the time of the violation.
   B.   Exception To Dog As Public Nuisance: Except as provided for in
subsection A1h of this section, a dog shall not be considered a public nuisance
if the dog bites:
      1.   A person assaulting the dog's owner or the owner's spouse or
children, or persons legally residing with the owner; or
      2.   A person wrongfully assaulting the dog; or
      3.   A person trespassing upon premises owned, leased, or rented by the
dog's owner or the owner's spouse or children, or persons legally residing with
the owner; or
      4.   A person entering a fully fenced area, regardless of where located,
if that area is conspicuously posted with sign warning of the presence of the
dog within the fenced area. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-9: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS OF DOMESTICATED CATS:
   A.   Owners of domesticated cats shall provide appropriate and adequate
food, water and shelter for their cats.
   B.   The owner of a domesticated cat shall exercise reasonable care to guard
against the cat creating a nuisance.
   C.   The owner of a sexually intact (not spayed or neutered) domesticated
cat shall not permit his/her cat to roam unsupervised.
   D.   An owner shall not abandon a domesticated cat within the city limits.
(Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-10: INTERFERING WITH TRAPPING PROGRAM:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person, except for those authorized
by the city, to interfere, harass, relocate a trap, release an animal captured
in a humane trap, or in any other way attempt to disrupt a trapping program
authorized by the city.
   B.   Class A Violation: A person who violates this section commits a class A
violation which shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed the limitations
established by Oregon Revised Statutes in existence at the time of the
violation. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-11: DOG WASTE MATTER:
It shall be unlawful for a person owning or keeping a dog to allow the dog to
deposit solid waste matter on any property other than that of the person owning
or keeping the dog, but it shall be a defense to this action if the owner or
keeper removes the solid waste. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-12: UNLAWFUL ACTS OF RELEASING:
It is unlawful for any person, except those responsible for the enforcement of
this chapter, to release any dog without the consent of the owner, or to
release his own or any other dog from the pound or from any place where a dog
may be held for observation as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-
2011)
6-2-13: RABIES VACCINATIONS:
   A.   Vaccination Required: Every person who is the owner of any dog shall
have such dog vaccinated against rabies with a vaccine approved by the United
States department of agriculture by three (3) months of age, but no later than
six (6) months of age. The duration of the vaccination shall be according to
the approved label accompanying the vaccine as it applies to the particular age
of the dog.
   B.   Compliance By Visitors: Every person who visits the city with any dog
for a period of thirty (30) calendar days or less shall be deemed in compliance
with this section by furnishing a current, valid certificate of rabies
vaccination issued in accordance with the laws of the jurisdiction in which
they permanently reside. Dogs without a current certificate of rabies
vaccination must receive a rabies inoculation and be issued a vaccination
certificate.
   C.   Dogs Relocated To City: Every dog that is relocated to the city for a
period of more than thirty (30) calendar days must have current valid
certificate of rabies vaccination.
   D.   Evidence Of Vaccination: Evidence of a rabies vaccination shall consist
of a fully completed rabies vaccination certificate signed by the veterinarian
administering the vaccine. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-14: CONFINEMENT FOR BITING:
   A.   Manner Of Confinement: In order to permit observation of dogs, skunks
and other animals for rabies, the owner or keeper of the animal which is known
to have bitten a human being must confine the animal immediately after such
biting for a period of ten (10) days in one of the following ways:
      1.   Confine indoors or if outdoors upon a leash.
      2.   Confine in a veterinary hospital or kennel.
      3.   Confine at the city's designated animal shelter.
   B.   Avoid Neglect Or Injury: Care shall be exercised to avoid neglect of,
or injury to, such animals during confinement pursuant to this section. (Ord.
630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-15: CHASING OR HARASSING WILDLIFE:
   A.   Except as the Oregon wildlife commission by rule may provide otherwise,
no person shall chase, harass, molest, worry, keep, or disturb any wildlife in
the city limits, except in lawfully angling for, hunting or trapping such
wildlife. Ducks, geese and other waterfowl in the city limits are considered
wildlife unless registered through the city by business license or conditional
use permit by a person or organization as owned property.
   B.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer, or representative of
the city, from humanely removing wildlife, for the protection of the public or
the protection of the wildlife. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-16: REMOVAL OF ANIMAL:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause the removal of
any animal from the city for which the owner has been cited for violation of
dangerous animal, aggressive animal, animal abuse, animal neglect, animal
abandonment, or animal fighting, until a final ruling has been made on the case
by the court.
   B.   The court may grant exception to this section if the owner of the
animal can show just cause for such a request.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the removal from the city of any
animal by the animal control officer when it is in the best interest of the
health and safety of the animal or the public. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-17: PROHIBITED ACTS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Prohibitions: The following are prohibited within the city limits:
      1.   Beekeeping: No person shall possess, maintain or keep bees in the
city limits.
      2.   Dogs: No single-family residence shall contain more than three (3)
adult dogs and one litter of puppies under three (3) months of age.
      3.   Exotic Animals: No person shall possess, maintain or keep any exotic
animal in the city limits.
      4.   Wildlife: No person shall possess, maintain or keep any wildlife.
      5.   Wolves And Hybrids: No person shall possess, maintain or keep wolves
and hybrid wolves. Pure breed wolves are considered wildlife or exotic animals
by definition. Hybrid wolves that contain twenty percent (20%) or more wolf
breed are considered exotic animals. Neither qualifies as a dog by definition
and may not be licensed as such, and any inoculations for rabies are not
recognized as valid.
   B.   Permit To Keep Dogs: An owner of dogs listed under subsection A2 of
this section may apply for a permit for the keeping of such dogs in the manner
as set forth in section
6-2-3 of this chapter.
   C.   Exception; Medical Treatment: Nothing in this section shall prohibit
any animal listed under subsection A of this section from being in the city
while in the care and custody of a licensed veterinarian or animal care
provider for medical treatment and on the premises of the animal care facility.
(Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-18: PARKING OR TETHERING HORSES ON STREET:
No person who is the owner or keeper of a horse shall park it or tether it on a
public way or allow it on a public way or in a park, except under the direct
control of a qualified person. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-19: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
No person shall beat, misuse, torture, kill, deprive of food or water or
otherwise treat an animal in a cruel manner. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-20: DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS:
6-2-20-1: DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibited In Public: No owner or person in charge of an animal which
is dangerous to the public health or safety shall allow the animal to be
exposed in public.
   B.   Seize And Impound: A dangerous animal exposed in public may be taken
into custody by the police and disposed of in accordance with the procedures
provided for the impoundment and disposition of dogs, except that before the
animal is released by the city, the municipal judge must find that proper
precautions will be taken to ensure the public health and safety.
   C.   Destruction: A dangerous animal running at large, which because of
fierceness of disposition or diseased condition is too hazardous to apprehend,
may be destroyed by a peace officer or by a person acting in defense of the
person, the person's family, or another person. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-20-2: DESIGNATION OF DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS DOG:
Any police officer or the city ordinance officer will investigate complaints of
dangerous and vicious dogs within the city. Complaints can be initiated in the
following manner:
   A.   Citizen Complaint: A citizen may initiate a complaint of a dangerous or
vicious dog with the police department. The citizen shall provide the
department with adequate information concerning the description of dog, type of
behavior, any owner information available, and the time, date and location of
the incident.
   B.   City Complaint; Investigation: A police officer or the city ordinance
officer may self-initiate a complaint of a dangerous or vicious dog and will
assure that an investigation be completed recording the details of the
incident.
   C.   Determination: After the examination of all investigatory material, the
chief of police or his designee shall make a determination as to whether in the
view of the chief of police the dog is dangerous or vicious as defined by this
section
6-2-20. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-20-3: EXCEPTIONS TO DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS DOG:
A dog will not be deemed to be a dangerous or vicious dog based upon an act of
aggression in any of the following circumstances:
   A.   An injury caused to a human being who, at the time the injury was
sustained, was committing criminal trespass or other tort upon premises
occupied by the owner of the dog, or tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog,
or was committing or attempting to commit a crime. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
   B.   An injury caused to a domestic animal or human being, which, at the
time the injury was sustained, the animal or human being was tormenting,
abusing or assaulting the dog. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011; amd. 2014 Code)
   C.   An injury caused to a domestic animal while the dog was working as a
hunting dog, herding dog, or predator control dog on the property of, or under
the control of, its owner, and the injury was to a species or type of domestic
animal appropriate to the work of the dog.
   D.   The dog was protecting or defending a person within the immediate
vicinity of the dog from an attack or assault.
   E.   The actions of the dog under consideration occurred under official
duties as a military, correctional, or law enforcement dog.
   F.   In the discretion of the chief of police, or his designee, or animal
control officer, the dog acted in reaction to pain or injury; or was protecting
itself, its kennel or its offspring. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-20-4: NOTIFICATION PROCEDURE; HEARING:
   A.   Service Of Notice: Within three (3) business days of the determination
by the chief of police that a dog is dangerous or vicious, the chief of police
will cause a notice to be served on the owner of the designated dog. The notice
may either be served in person to the owner or by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the owner of the dog.
   B.   Contents Of Notice: The notice will contain a statement to the owner
concerning their right to appeal the proposed designation. The statement will
inform them of the procedure to request an appeal. The notice will also include
the owner's name and address, a description of the subject dog, the time, date,
and location of the incident, and a description of the behavior that initiated
the dangerous or vicious dog complaint. The notice will also include all
requirements that may be placed upon the owner should the designation go
forward.
   C.   Request For Hearing: The owner of the dog will have seven (7) business
days from the date of service of the notice to request a hearing to challenge
the city's proposed dangerous or vicious designation. The request for a hearing
will be delivered to the chief of police either by written request or in
person. Failure to make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a
waiver of the right to a hearing.
   D.   Schedule Of Hearing, Time Limit: The chief of police will schedule a
hearing within seven (7) business days of receiving a request for a hearing.
   E.   Conduct Of Hearing: A hearings officer appointed by the city manager
will conduct the hearing. Both the city and the owner will have the opportunity
to provide physical and testimonial evidence in the proceeding. The hearing
will be open to the public and the standard for affirmation of the proposed
designation will be by a preponderance of the evidence. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-
2011)
6-2-20-5: REQUIREMENTS OF OWNERS:
Either upon affirmation of the hearings officer or after the time allowed for
appeal has passed, the city will require the owner of the dangerous or vicious
dog to comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Secure Confinement; Inspection:
      1.   While on the owner's property, a dangerous or vicious dog must be
securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or
structure, suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and designed to
prevent the dog from escaping. Such pen or structure must be at least ten feet
(10') from the property line, and must have secure sides and a secure top. If
it has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be imbedded into the
ground no less than two feet (2'). The enclosure must also provide protection
from the elements for the dog.
      2.   The ordinance officer shall verify compliance with this section by
an on site inspection and, if necessary, shall require the owner to further
secure the structure.
   B.   Warning Sign: The owner or keeper shall display signs on his/her
premises facing out from all sides of the premises warning that there is a
dangerous or vicious dog on the property. This sign should be visible and
capable of being read from a public highway or thoroughfare, or within twenty
feet (20') of its placement.
   C.   Muzzle And Restraint: A dangerous dog may be off the owner's premises
if it is muzzled and restrained by a leash not exceeding six feet (6') in
length and is under the control of an adult capable of controlling the dog. The
muzzle must be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision, but must prevent it from biting any person or
animal.
   D.   Transporting For Medical Care: An owner may transport a dangerous or
vicious dog within the city limits for medical or veterinary care, provided
said dog is properly restrained by being both muzzled and leashed, with the
leash not to exceed a length of six feet (6').
   E.   Keeping Within House Or Structure: No dangerous or vicious dog may be
kept on a porch, patio, or in any part of a house or structure that would allow
the dog to exit such building on its own volition. In addition, no such dog may
be kept in a house or structure when the windows are open or when screen
windows or screen doors are the only obstacles preventing the dog from exiting
the structure.
   F.   Annual Fee And Surcharge: Dangerous or vicious dogs shall be licensed
annually. In addition to the regular license fees, a surcharge to be determined
by council resolution will be required for all dangerous and vicious dogs.
   G.   Spay Or Neuter Required: Within thirty (30) days of the case
disposition, all dangerous and vicious dogs will be spayed or neutered, if the
dog is not already altered. The dog will be exempt from such an order if a
veterinarian certifies in a written statement that the dog is unfit for
alterations because of medical condition(s). The owner of the dangerous and
vicious dog will be required to provide a certificate to the city from a
veterinarian as proof of the alteration.
   H.   Microchip Identification Implant: Within thirty (30) days of the case
disposition, all dangerous and vicious dogs will have a microchip
identification implanted, if the dog is not already microchipped. The owner of
the dangerous and vicious dog will be required to provide a certificate to the
city from a veterinarian as proof that the dog has been microchipped.
   I.   Behavior Training: Within thirty (30) days of the case disposition, all
dangerous and vicious dogs will be required to attend and successfully complete
behavior training from a trainer approved by the city. The cost of said
training shall be borne by the owner. The owner of the dangerous and vicious
dog will be required to provide a certificate to the city from the trainer as
proof of attendance and completion of the class.
   J.   Class A Violation: A person who violates this section commits a class A
violation which shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed the limitations
established by Oregon Revised Statutes in existence at the time of the
violation.
   K.   Exception; Law Enforcement Dogs: This section shall not apply to dogs
kept by law enforcement agencies. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-20-6: ALLOWABLE ACTS OF CITY:
   A.   List Of Dangerous Or Vicious Dogs: The police chief or his designee may
maintain a current listing of all dangerous and vicious dogs that have been
designated within the city. The city may post the list of dangerous and vicious
dogs on the city website.
   B.   Notice To Residents Adjacent To Dangerous Or Vicious Dogs: The police
chief or his designee may provide notice to the residents of all properties
that abut the property containing a dangerous and vicious dog. The notice may
be posted on the property or delivered by regular mall.
   C.   Destruction Of Dog: A dangerous or vicious dog running at large which,
because of fierceness of disposition or diseased condition, is too hazardous to
apprehend may be destroyed by a peace officer or by a person acting in defense
of himself, his family, or another person. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-20-7: PENALTY FOR DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   Issuance Of Citation:
      1.   If a dog that has been designated by the city as dangerous or
vicious, bites or attacks a person, or domestic animal, and the bite or attack
is not allowed by the exception section of this chapter, the owner may be
issued a citation to appear in the municipal court. Furthermore, the dangerous
or vicious dog may be impounded pending the disposition of the court hearing.
      2.   A person who allows a dangerous or vicious dog to bite or attack a
person or domestic animal commits a class A violation which shall be punishable
by a fine not to exceed the limitations established by Oregon Revised Statutes
in existence at the time of the violation.
   B.   Restrictions For Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person who is not
an adult to own or possess in public a dangerous or vicious dog. It shall also
be unlawful for an adult to allow a person who has not reached the age of
eighteen (18) years to have sole control of a dangerous or vicious dog.
   C.   Allowing To Bite Or Attack: Allowing a dangerous or vicious dog to bite
or attack is a class A violation which shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed the limitations established by Oregon Revised Statutes in existence at
the time of the violation.
   D.   Allowing To Run At Large: Allowing a dangerous or vicious dog to run at
large is a class A violation which shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed
the limitations established by Oregon Revised Statutes in existence at the time
of the violation.
   E.   Request Order Of Disposal: The chief of police or the city ordinance
officer may request an order from the municipal court judge to humanely destroy
a dangerous or vicious dog, based on the severity of an attack or a pattern of
noncompliance with this chapter. Compliance with the requirements of this
section shall not be a defense to an order of disposal of a vicious dog by the
municipal court.
   F.   Each Day A Separate Offense: Each day a violation exists with any of
the provisions of this chapter the same shall constitute and be punishable as a
separate offense. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-21: NONLIABILITY:
No officer, euthanasia technician employee or contractor of the city, acting
within the course and scope of his or her employment, shall be held criminally
or civilly liable for impounding, releasing, handling, destroying or
euthanizing an animal pursuant to this chapter, provided the officer, employee,
technician or contractor acts in good faith and without malice. (Ord. 630-10,
1-11-2011)
6-2-22: ENTRY ONTO PRIVATE LAND OR PREMISES:
An animal control officer, in the course of his/her duties in enforcing this
chapter, shall have the privilege of entering onto private land without
permission, but shall not enter into any dwelling or building without
permission, authorization or search warrant. If there is probable cause to
believe that any animal is being subjected to treatment in violation of section
6-2-19, "Cruelty To Animals", of this chapter and is inside a dwelling or
enclosure where entry is not allowable or permissible, an officer, after
obtaining a search warrant in the manner authorized by law, may enter the
premises where the animal is being held, provide food and water and impound
such animal. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to allow an animal
control officer to violate any person's constitutional rights. (Ord. 630-10, 1-
11-2011)
6-2-23: INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   A.   No person shall interfere with, hinder, resist or obstruct the animal
control officer in the lawful performance of his/her duties.
   B.   No person shall, without proper authority, release, remove or attempt
to release or remove any animal from the custody of the animal control officer
or from a live trap or impounding enclosure owned or contracted by the city.
   C.   No person shall tear down, burn, deface, destroy, disturb or otherwise
injure an impounding facility, enclosure or live trap owned or contracted by
the city for the purpose of catching or impounding dangerous, stray or nuisance
animals. (Ord. 630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-24: PENALTY:
Except where penalty provisions have been provided otherwise in this chapter,
any person violating any provision of this chapter commits a class B violation
which shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed the limitations established
by Oregon Revised Statutes in existence at the time of the violation. (Ord.
630-10, 1-11-2011)
6-2-25: KEEPING CHICKENS:
Notwithstanding section
6-3-12 of this title, which prohibits the keeping of chickens in the City of
Nyssa, the keeping of chickens shall be permitted within the City, subject to
the following conditions and limitations:
   A.   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
    CHICKEN: The common domestic fowl or its young.
   CHICKEN RUN: A fenced area connected to a coop.
   COOP: An enclosed structure providing roofed shelter for chickens.
   B.   The raising and keeping of chickens shall be allowed in the rear and
side yards of single family dwellings located within the City of Nyssa in the
following zones: Single-Family Residential (R-1), Medium Density (R-2), and
Multi-Family Residential (R-3), Multi-Family Manufactured Home Residential (R-
4), Rural Residential (R-5) and Industrial (I), excluding Commercial (C) Zone
within the City; subject to the following conditions and limitations:
      1.   No more than five (5) hens per residence are allowed. Roosters and
capons are prohibited.
      2.   Chickens may be kept on a single-family parcel.
      3.   Except when under the personal control of the owner or person
responsible for the chickens, chickens shall be confined at all times within a
chicken coop or a chicken run.
      4.   No chicken coop, chicken run or any other structure or enclosure
that houses chickens shall be located closer than five feet (5') from a rear-
lot line or side-lot line, nor closer than fifteen feet (15') from any dwelling
or other structure capable of being used for human habitation, not including
the owner's dwelling.
      5.   Except as otherwise expressly provided in this section, chicken
coops shall comply with accessory structure requirements in the Nyssa
Development Code.
      6.   Chicken coops shall be kept clean, dry, and free of noticeable odors
and in good repair.
      7.   All chickens shall be shut into a chicken coop at night, from sunset
to sunrise.
      8.   The back yard within which chickens, a chicken coop and chicken run
are kept, shall be fully enclosed by a fence that complies with the
requirements of the Nyssa Development Code. A four foot (4') fence is allowed
if the chicken has clipped wings; otherwise the fence must be a minimum of six
feet (6'). The owner of the chickens shall be responsible for keeping the
chickens from running at large.
      9.   No chicken manure shall be put into household trash. All waste must
be composted.
      10.   Stored feed must be kept in a rodent- and predator-proof container.
      11.   Chickens may be kept and used only for personal, family and
household use. No person raising chickens shall sell chicken eggs; engage in
chicken breeding or fertilizer production for commercial purposes.
      12.   The slaughtering of chickens is prohibited.
      13.   The keeping of chickens in violation of any of the restrictions in
this section shall constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under this Code.
   C.   A yearly permit will be required annually on January 1. The fee will be
adopted by resolution of the Common Council of the City of Nyssa. (Ord. 650-16,
11-8-2016; amd. Ord. 666-19, 12-10-2019)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Alcoholic Beverages And Illegal Drugs
6-3-2: Unlawful Intoxicating Chemical Compounds
6-3-3: Firearms And Weapons
6-3-4: Petit Theft
6-3-5: Bad Check Negotiating
6-3-6: Assault
6-3-7: Menacing
6-3-8: Harassment
6-3-9: Obscenity And Indecency
6-3-10: Children Left Unattended In Vehicles
6-3-11: Trespassing
6-3-12: Animal Related Offenses; Exceptions
6-3-13: Begging
6-3-14: Disorderly Conduct
6-3-15: Disorderly Houses
6-3-16: Disturbing Religious Assemblies
6-3-17: Conduct At Fires; Fire Apparatus
6-3-18: Reckless Burning
6-3-19: Occult Arts
6-3-20: Offenses Against Police Officers
6-3-21: Delivering Substances To Prisoners
6-3-22: Advertisements, Posters
6-3-23: Malicious Destruction Of Property
6-3-24: Public Books And Records
6-3-25: Streets And Sidewalks
6-3-26: Vending Goods By Public Outcry
6-3-27: Occupancy Of Recreational Vehicles, Tents, Boats, Buses, And Travel
Trailers Prohibited
6-3-1: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND ILLEGAL DRUGS:
   A.   Possession, Storage And Consumption In Certain Places:
      1.   Open Containers: Except as provided in subsection A2 of this
section, no person shall possess any open containers of alcoholic beverage or
shall drink or consume any alcoholic beverage in or upon public places,
including, but not limited to, the city parks, streets, alleys, sidewalks,
doorways or alcoves, or any public or private parking lots or vacant lots
within the city.
      2.   Permit For Possession And Consumption In Public Parks: The city
council may, by resolution, establish a process and criteria for issuance of
permits to possess, drink and/or consume alcoholic beverages in or upon public
parks, but not city buildings or vehicles described in subsection A3 of this
section.
      3.   Prohibited In City Owned Buildings, Vehicles: It shall be unlawful
for any city employee or other person to possess, store, use or consume any
alcoholic beverages and/or illegal drugs in buildings owned or occupied by the
city, as well as all vehicles owned or operated by city employees or
volunteers.
      4.   Law Enforcement Processing And Storage: The city police, the Malheur
County sheriff, the Oregon state police, and all federal law enforcement
officers may possess and store alcoholic beverages and illegal drugs while
transporting the same and while holding the same in a designated evidence
locker or storage area on or in city property; and provided, that such
possession and storage is within the official duties of the law enforcement
officer charged with the responsibility for possession and storage. (Ord. 602-
04, 3-9-2004)
   B.   Marijuana Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person to have in
his possession, marijuana in an amount consisting of less than one avoirdupois
ounce. For purposes of this section, "marijuana" shall be defined as including
the leaves, stems, flowers and seeds of the plant cannabis family Moraceae. The
penalty for a conviction of possession of less than one ounce of marijuana
shall be punishable by a fine of not more than two hundred sixty dollars
($260.00). (1962 Code § 5-1-19; amd. 2014 Code)
   C.   Minor In Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years to have alcoholic liquor in his possession. For the
purpose of this subsection, "possession" shall include consumption. (1962 Code
§ 5-1-20)
6-3-2: UNLAWFUL INTOXICATING CHEMICAL COMPOUNDS:
   A.   Prohibited Chemical Substances Listed: It shall be unlawful for any
person, including a corporation or other entity, to do or attempt to do any of
the following acts: manufacture, distribute, dispense, ingest, use, possess,
purchase, publicly display for sale, sell, give, trade or barter, any one or
more of the following chemical compounds and/or substances, including their
salts, isomers, homologues and salts of their isomers and homologues:
      1.   Salvia divinorum or Salvinorum A; all parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as Salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or extracts;
      2.   1-Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-018);
      3.   2-(3-hydroxycyclohexyl)-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenol (also known as
CP-47/497), and the dimethylhexyl, dimethyloctyl and dimethylnonyl homologues
of CP-47/497;
      4.   1-Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-073);
      5.   1-2-(4-(morpholinyl) ethyl))-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole (also known as
JWH-200);
      6.   1-Pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl) indole (also known as JWH-250);
      7.   1-Hexyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-019);
      8.   1-Pentyl-3-(4-chloro-1-naphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-398);
      9.   1 (3-trifluoromethylphenyl) piperazine (also known as TFMPP);
      10.   Any similar structural analogs of the above chemical compounds;
      11.   Any other synthetic cannabinoids; and
      12.   Any commercial products sold as aromatics or incense under the
brand names spice, black mamba, K2, puff, smoke, skunk, pandora potpourri and
sugar sticks or other brand names, that have been determined by chemical
testing laboratories, law enforcement or other governmental agencies to contain
any of the foregoing compounds.
   B.   Authority To Amend List: The city council may by resolution add to or
amend the list of unlawful intoxicating compounds identified in subsection A of
this section.
   C.   Enforcement: It is not a violation of subsection A of this section if
the person was acting at the direction of an authorized agent of the city to
enforce or ensure compliance with subsection A of this section.
   D.   Confiscate And Destroy: Law enforcement officials may confiscate and
destroy as contraband, the unlawful chemical compounds described in subsection
A of this section, upon seizure of the same from any person or entity in
violation of subsection A of this section.
   E.   Lawful Use Of Substances: This section shall not prohibit a person from
possessing or using a substance lawfully prescribed by a practitioner or
substances which have been approved by the federal food and drug administration
or which are specifically permitted by Oregon law.
   F.   Penalty: A violation of subsection A of this section is a violation
punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day
on which a violation occurs shall be punishable as a separate violation and
each transaction shall be punishable as a separate violation.
   G.   Civil Action: The city shall have the authority to bring a civil action
to enforce this section against any person or business violating subsection A
of this section. In any civil action, the city shall be entitled to seek an
injunction, collect its enforcement expenses, including reasonable attorney
fees and costs and disbursements incurred at trial and on appeal. (Ord. 628-10,
10-12-2010)
6-3-3: FIREARMS AND WEAPONS:
   A.   Discharging Firearms:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally discharge any
type of firearm within the city; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall prevent the discharge of firearms by police officers in the
performance of their duties or to any person lawfully using a firearm in
defense of his property or person.
      2.   Any firearm in possession of the person that was used in committing
a violation of this section may be confiscated and forfeited to the city. (1962
Code § 5-1-10)
   B.   Concealed Weapons: It shall be unlawful for any person without a
sheriff's permit to carry concealed about his person in any manner whatsoever a
revolver, pistol or other firearm, or any knife (other than an ordinary
pocketknife) or any dirk or dagger, slingshot or metal knuckles, or any
instrument by the use of which injury could be inflicted upon the person or
property of another. (1962 Code § 5-1-38)
   C.   Air Guns, Bows And Arrows And Other Weapons:
      1.   Discharge Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge
an air gun, bow and arrow or to use any bean shooter, slingshot or other
similar weapon or device.
      2.   Parental Responsibility: No parent, guardian or other adult person
having custody of a child shall knowingly permit such child to violate this
subsection C.
      3.   Seizure Of Property Upon Arrest; Forfeiture Proceedings: Any air
gun, bow and arrow, bean shooter, slingshot or other weapon or device that was
used in committing a violation of this subsection C may be confiscated. If the
person arrested is convicted and the court finds that the property seized was
in fact used in violation of this subsection C, the court may order the
property forfeited to the city. (1962 Code §
5-1-1)
6-3-4: PETIT THEFT:
   A.   Committing Theft: A person commits theft when, with intent to deprive
another of property or to appropriate property to himself or to a third person,
he takes, appropriates, obtains or withholds such property from an owner
thereof and the total value of the property in a single or aggregate
transaction is as follows:
      1.   For theft in the third degree, less than one hundred dollars
($100.00);
      2.   For theft in the second degree, one hundred dollars ($100.00) or
more and less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00); or
      3.   For theft in the first degree, one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or
more. (1962 Code § 5-1-17; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Evidence Of Intent: It shall be prima facie evidence of an intent to
deprive another of property or to appropriate property to his own use or to the
use of a third person if such property is taken from the premises of a retail
or wholesale store or other mercantile establishment without having paid for
the same and without having made arrangements for payment with the owner,
manager or agent thereof.
   C.   Probable Cause To Detain: Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a
peace officer, merchant or merchant's employee who has probable cause for
believing that a person has committed theft of property of a store or other
mercantile establishment may detain and interrogate the person in regard
thereto in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable time.
   D.   Action Against Accuser: If a peace officer, merchant or merchant's
employee, with probable cause for believing that a person has committed theft
of property of a store or other mercantile establishment, detains and
interrogates the person in regard thereto, and the person thereafter brings
against the peace officer, merchant or merchant's employee any civil or
criminal action based upon the detention and interrogation, such probable cause
shall be a defense to the action, if the detention and interrogation were done
in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable time. (1962 Code § 5-1-17)
6-3-5: BAD CHECK NEGOTIATING:
   A.   Committing Crime: A person commits the crime of negotiating a bad check
if he makes, draws or utters a check or similar sight order for the payment of
money, knowing that it will not be honored by the drawee.
   B.   Evidence Of Knowledge: For purposes of this section, unless the check
or order is postdated, it is prima facie evidence of knowledge that the check
or order would not be honored if:
      1.   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time the check or
order is drawn or uttered; or
      2.   Payment is refused by the drawee for lack of funds upon presentation
within thirty (30) days after the date of utterance, and the drawer fails to
make good within ten (10) days after receiving notice of refusal.
      3.   To "utter" means to issue, deliver, publish, circulate, disseminate,
transfer or tender a written instrument or other object to another. (1962 Code
§ 5-1-40)
6-3-6: ASSAULT:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    CRIMINAL NEGLIGENCE: Means that a person fails to be aware of a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that the result will occur or that the circumstance
exists. The risk must be of such nature and degree that the failure to be aware
of it constitutes a gross deviation from the standard of care that a reasonable
person would observe in the situation.
   DEADLY WEAPON: Any instrument, article or substance specifically designed
for, and presently capable of, causing death or serious physical injury.
   PHYSICAL INJURY: Impairment of physical condition or substantial pain.
   B.   Committing Assault: A person commits the crime of assault if he:
      1.   Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly causes physical injury to
another; or
      2.   With criminal negligence, causes physical injury to another by means
of a deadly weapon. (1962 Code § 5-1-39)
6-3-7: MENACING:
   A.   Definition: "Physical injury" means impairment of physical condition or
substantial pain.
   B.   Committing Crime: A person commits the crime of menacing if by word or
conduct he intentionally attempts to place another person in fear of imminent
physical injury. (1962 Code § 5-1-41)
6-3-8: HARASSMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to harass, annoy or alarm another person. A
person commits the offense of harassment if, with intent to harass, annoy or
alarm another person, he:
   A.   Subjects another to offensive physical contact; or
   B.   Publicly insults another by abusive or obscene words or gestures in a
manner likely to provoke a violent or disorderly response; or
   C.   Communicates with a person, anonymously or otherwise, by telephone,
mail or other form of written communication, in a manner likely to cause
annoyance or alarm; or
   D.   Engages in a course of conduct that alarms or seriously annoys another
person and which serves no legitimate purpose. (1962 Code § 5-1-12)
6-3-9: OBSCENITY AND INDECENCY:
   A.   Disseminating Obscene Material:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to disseminate obscene material.
A person disseminates obscene material if he knowingly makes, exhibits, sells,
delivers or provides for, offers or agrees to make, exhibit, sell, deliver or
provide or has in his possession with intent to exhibit, sell, deliver or
provide any obscene writing, picture, motion picture, films, slides, drawings
or other visual reproductions.
      2.   As used in this subsection A, matter is obscene if:
         a.   It depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner
sadomasochistic abuse or sexual conduct;
         b.   The average person applying contemporary local standards would
find the work, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest in sex; and
         c.   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political
or scientific value.
      3.   In any prosecution for a violation of this subsection A, it shall be
relevant on the issue of knowledge to prove the advertising, publicity,
promotion, method of handling or labeling of the matter, including any
statement on the cover or back of any book or magazine. (1962 Code § 5-1-13)
   B.   Public Indecency: It shall be unlawful for any person, while in, or in
view of, a public place, to perform:
      1.   An act of "sexual conduct" as that term is defined at section
3-2-2 of this code; or
      2.   An act of exposing his/her genitals with the intent of arousing the
sexual desire of himself/herself or another person; or
      3.   An act of urination or defecation except in toilets provided for
that purpose. (Ord. 99-586, 2-9-1999)
6-3-10: CHILDREN LEFT UNATTENDED IN VEHICLES:
   A.   Time Limit For Leaving: No person having the care, custody, control or
guidance of a child under the age of eight (8) years shall leave or permit such
child to be left unattended in any motor vehicle for a period of more than ten
(10) minutes.
   B.   Older Person Present: For the purpose of this section, a child under
eight (8) years of age shall be considered "unattended" unless there is another
person over the age of twelve (12) years physically present in the motor
vehicle with said child at all times.
   C.   Child Left Unattended By Third Person: The fact that a child was left
unattended by a third person without the knowledge or consent of the defendant
shall not be a defense to a charge brought against a parent, guardian or other
custodian under this section; however, if such fact is established to the
satisfaction of the court, the same may be considered in mitigation at the time
of sentencing.
   D.   Removal By Peace Officer:
      1.   Whenever a peace officer has probable cause for believing that a
child has been left unattended in a motor vehicle in violation of this section,
such peace officer may enter said vehicle and remove said child to a place of
safety. A peace officer may use such force as may be reasonably necessary to
effect an entry in order to remove such child.
      2.   If a peace officer with probable cause for believing that a child
has been left unattended in a motor vehicle enters and removes a child
therefrom and the parent, guardian, or other custodian responsible for such
child thereafter brings against the police officer any civil or criminal action
in any court based upon the entry and removal of such child, such probable
cause shall be a defense to the action if the entry and removal of the child
was done in a reasonable manner. (1962 Code § 5-1-36)
6-3-11: TRESPASSING:
   A.   Criminal Trespass:
      1.   Definitions: For the purpose of this subsection, the following terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them herein:
    ENTER OR REMAIN UNLAWFULLY: a. To enter or remain in or upon premises when
the premises, at the time of such entry or remaining, are not open to the
public or when the entrant is not otherwise licensed or privileged to do so; or
         b.   To fail to leave premises that are open to the public after being
lawfully directed to do so by the person in charge.
   OPEN TO THE PUBLIC: Premises which by their physical nature, function,
custom, usage, notice or lack thereof, or other circumstances at the time,
would cause a reasonable person to believe that no permission to remain or
enter is required.
   PERSON IN CHARGE: A person, his representative or his employee who has
lawful control of premises by ownership, tenancy, official position or other
legal relationship. It includes, but is not limited to, the person, or holder
of a position, designated as the person or position holder in charge by the
mayor, board, commission or governing body of any committee of the city.
   PREMISES: Includes any building and any real property, whether privately or
publicly owned.
      2.   Committing Criminal Trespass: A person commits the crime of criminal
trespass if he enters or remains unlawfully in or upon premises. (1962 Code §
5-1-42)
   B.   Trespass On School Premises:
      1.   A person commits the crime of trespass on school premises if, with
no legitimate purpose, he enters or remains in or near a school building during
regular school hours, without first obtaining permission from the main office
of the school.
      2.   "Regular school hours" are those hours between which the school is
open for classes, or extracurricular activities which are limited to school
personnel, regularly enrolled students, or registered guests. (1962 Code § 5-1-
44)
6-3-12: ANIMAL RELATED OFFENSES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Keeping Certain Animals; Conditions And Restrictions:
      1.   Livestock; Permit For Keeping Rabbits: Except within the R-5 rural
residential zone, it shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any
cattle, sheep, goats, horses, swine, or any chickens, geese, ducks or other
fowl, or livestock not commonly known as a household pet, within the limits of
the city; provided, however, that the chief of police may issue permits to
students permitting the keeping of not more than two (2) rabbits as an
educational project. Such permits shall be issued for a period of not more than
six (6) months and no student shall be issued more than one permit within any
calendar year.
      2.   Vietnamese, Chinese Or Oriental Potbellied Pigs: Notwithstanding
subsection A1 of this section, the having or keeping of swine commonly referred
to as miniature Vietnamese, Chinese, or oriental potbellied pigs (Sus scrofa
vittatus) is not prohibited, subject to the following:
         a.   A pig or swine shall be considered to fall within this exception
if its maximum height is no greater than twenty two inches (22") at the
shoulder and it weighs no more than one hundred fifty (150) pounds.
         b.   No more than two (2) such pigs shall be kept at any one address
in a residential zone for any period in excess of seventy two (72) hours.
         c.   The animals are regularly housed indoors and, when outdoors, are
restrained by leash or within a durable fenced enclosure area.
         d.   All owners of such pigs must have a onetime test for pseudo
rabies and brucellosis, and shall maintain proof of such tests being performed
by a licensed veterinarian. In addition, all such pigs must be neutered or
spayed before the pig reaches four (4) months of age, and the tusks shall be
regularly trimmed so as not to exceed one inch (1") in length outside the outer
lip.
         e.   All such pigs must be vaccinated no less than annually by a
licensed veterinarian.
         f.   It shall be illegal for anyone to breed such pigs within the
city.
         g.   All such pigs shall be subject to the restrictions regarding
running at large in section
6-2-5 of this title.
         h.   All such pigs shall be excluded from apartment buildings and
multi-family residences.
         i.   From and after the effective date hereof, all such pigs shall be
subject to such fees and licensing requirements as may be set by resolution of
the city council. (Ord. 610-05, 6-14-2005)
   B.   Protection Of Songbirds: It shall be unlawful for any person to trap,
snare, kill, injure or harass any songbird in the city. (1962 Code §
5-1-5)
6-3-13: BEGGING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to get or solicit contributions in money or
any other thing of value within the city; provided, however, that this section
shall not apply to solicitation by bona fide schools, churches, charitable or
eleemosynary associations or institutions. (1962 Code §
5-1-4)
6-3-14: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
A person commits the crime of disorderly conduct if, with intent to cause
public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, or recklessly creating a risk
thereof, he:
   A.   Engages in fighting or in violent, tumultuous or threatening behavior;
or
   B.   Makes unreasonable noise; or
   C.   Uses abusive or obscene language, or makes an obscene gesture, in a
public place; or
   D.   Disturbs any lawful assembly of persons without lawful authority; or
   E.   Obstructs vehicular or pedestrian traffic on a public way; or
   F.   Congregates with other persons in a public place and refuses to comply
with the lawful order of the police to disperse; or
   G.   Initiates or circulates a report, knowing it to be false, concerning an
alleged or impending fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe or other emergency; or
   H.   Creates a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act which
he is not licensed or privileged to do. (1962 Code §
5-1-6)
6-3-15: DISORDERLY HOUSES:
   A.   Operating Disorderly House: It shall be unlawful for any person to set
up, operate or maintain, or aid, abet or assist, in the setting up, operating
or maintaining of any disorderly house. The term "disorderly house", as used in
this section, shall be held to include any house or place kept for the purpose
of prostitution or soliciting prostitution, any gambling house, or any house or
room maintained as a place for use of narcotic or dangerous drugs. A "gambling
house" does not include any business, club, or place of public accommodation
which holds a valid social gaming license. (1962 Code §
5-1-7; amd. Ord. 545, 11-10-1992)
   B.   Leasing Property For Disorderly House: It shall be unlawful for any
person to lease or let a house or building for the purpose of keeping therein,
any disorderly house, or knowingly permit his house or building to be used for
such purposes. Upon conviction of a person for operating a disorderly house, it
shall be a landlord's duty to oust the occupants of a building used as a
disorderly house immediately.
   C.   Solicitation: It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit another to
visit or to enter any disorderly house.
   D.   Visiting: It shall be unlawful for any person to be an inmate or
resident of any disorderly house or for any person to visit or frequent any
such house. (1962 Code §
5-1-7)
6-3-16: DISTURBING RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb or disquiet any congregation or
assembly made for religious worship or for any other lawful purpose by making
loud and unnecessary noises or by rude and indecent behavior or profane
language within any place of assembly, or so near to the same as to disturb the
order and solemnity of the meeting. (1962 Code § 5-1-32)
6-3-17: CONDUCT AT FIRES; FIRE APPARATUS:
   A.   Disorderly Conduct At Fires: It shall be unlawful for any person at or
near a fire to conduct himself in a disorderly manner, or to refuse to obey
promptly any order of any member of the fire department; or to resist,
obstruct, or hinder any member of the fire department. For the purpose of this
section, all members of the fire department shall be empowered with the same
powers of arrest as are conferred upon peace officers for violation of the laws
of the city. (1962 Code § 5-1-11)
   B.   Damaging Fire Apparatus: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
any vehicle over or upon any fire hose, or to disturb or damage in any manner
any hose, engine or appliance or apparatus belonging to or used by the fire
department. (1962 Code § 5-1-9)
6-3-18: RECKLESS BURNING:
   A.   A person commits the crime of reckless burning if he recklessly damages
property of another by fire or explosion.
   B.   "Property of another" means property in which anyone other than the
actor has a legal or equitable interest that the actor has no right to defeat
or impair even though the actor may also have an interest in the property.
(1962 Code § 5-1-43)
6-3-19: OCCULT ARTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the practice of fortune
telling, astrology, phrenology, palmistry, clairvoyance, mesmerism or
spiritualism, or to conduct any spiritualistic readings or exhibitions of any
such character for hire or profit. (1962 Code § 5-1-25)
6-3-20: OFFENSES AGAINST POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Impersonating: It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate,
falsely assume or pretend to be an official peace officer of the city. (1962
Code § 5-1-26)
   B.   Resisting Or Refusing To Aid: It shall be unlawful for any person to
knowingly resist an arresting peace officer or to interfere with or obstruct
the discharge of his duties or refuse to assist him in the discharge of his
duties. (1962 Code § 5-1-27)
6-3-21: DELIVERING SUBSTANCES TO PRISONERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver, or attempt to deliver, by any
method whatsoever, to any prisoner confined in the city jail, any article,
substance or thing without the permission and consent of the officer in charge.
(1962 Code § 5-1-18)
6-3-22: ADVERTISEMENTS, POSTERS:
   A.   Defacing: It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully deface or
remove any official notice or bulletin posted in conformity with law. (1962
Code § 5-1-28)
   B.   Unauthorized: It shall be unlawful for any person to affix a placard,
bill or poster upon any personal or real property, private or public, without
first obtaining permission from the owner or proper public authority. (1962
Code § 5-1-29)
6-3-23: MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person, with intent to cause substantial
inconvenience to the owner or to another person, and having no right to do so,
nor reasonable grounds to believe that he has such right, to tamper or
interfere with the property of another. (1962 Code § 5-1-30)
6-3-24: PUBLIC BOOKS AND RECORDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to take or remove any paper, document, book
or other personal property owned by the city unless the permission of the legal
custodian thereof is first obtained, and no person shall keep or retain any
such paper, document, book or other personal property after demand for the
return thereof has been made by the legal custodian. (1962 Code § 5-1-31)
6-3-25: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Injurious Substances On Streets:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or recklessly to place
or cause to be placed any dead animal carcass, or part thereof, excrement,
putrid, nauseous, noisome, decaying, deleterious or injurious substance onto
any road, street, alley, lane, lot or field within the city.
      2.   It is unlawful for any owner thereof to knowingly permit any of the
substances listed in this subsection A to remain in any of the places described
in this section. (1962 Code § 5-1-16)
   B.   Obstructing Streets: It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit upon any street, alley or sidewalk, or allow to accumulate any article
which tends to prevent, interrupt or obstruct the travel or free passage of
pedestrians and vehicular traffic without first having received a permit from
the city manager or chief of police. (1962 Code § 5-1-34)
   C.   Obstructing Sidewalks: It shall be unlawful for any crowd or collection
of persons to gather or to stand upon any sidewalk or street crossing so as to
prevent, interrupt or obstruct the travel or free passage over the same by the
public, or for any person to fail or refuse to disperse or move on when
directed to do so by any peace officer. (1962 Code § 5-1-33)
6-3-26: VENDING GOODS BY PUBLIC OUTCRY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use or occupy any portion of a street,
alley or sidewalk for the purpose of vending goods, wares or merchandise by
public outcry or otherwise; provided, however, that this section shall not
apply to the vending of merchandise by persons having a permit to do so under
any other provision of this code. (1962 Code § 5-1-37)
6-3-27: OCCUPANCY OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, TENTS, BOATS, BUSES, AND TRAVEL
TRAILERS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Occupation Prohibited: Outside of an established recreational vehicle
park, no recreational vehicle, tent, boat, bus, or travel trailer shall be used
as a dwelling or place of habitation within the City of Nyssa, nor within the
City of Nyssa's urban growth boundary, except that a recreational vehicle or
travel trailer may be used temporarily as a place of habitation for up to
fourteen (14) days within a three hundred sixty five (365) day period so long
as express permission of the owner or person in control of the property upon
which such recreational vehicle or travel trailer is situated has been granted,
and so long as no compensation is received by the owner or person in control of
such property.
   B.   Penalty: Violation of this section is an infraction and each day of
violation shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 665-19, 10-15-2019)
ARTICLE A. CIVIL FORFEITURE PROCEEDINGS
SECTION:
6-3A-1: Definitions
6-3A-2: Forfeiture Of Property
6-3A-3: Seizure Of Property
6-3A-4: Institution Of Legal Proceedings
6-3A-5: Disposition Of Property
6-3A-6: Affirmative Defense
6-3A-7: Forfeiture In Other Cases
6-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CONSPIRACY: The term as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 161.450.
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES: The term defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 475.005(6),
except that this shall not include less than one avoirdupois ounce of
marijuana.
DELIVER OR DELIVERY: The terms defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 475.005(8).
FACILITATE: The property must have some substantial connection to, or be
instrumental in, the commission of the underlying illegal activity which this
article seeks to prevent.
GAMBLING: The term defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 167.117(7).
MANUFACTURE: The term defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 475.005(15).
MARIJUANA: The term defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 475.005(16).
POSSESSION OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES WITH THE INTENT TO DISTRIBUTE: The phrase
defined in 21 USC section 841(a)(1).
PRODUCTION: The term defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 475.005(20).
PROHIBITED ACTIVITY:
   A.   Gambling or the promotion of gambling; or
   B.   The manufacture or delivery of controlled substances; or
   C.   The possession of controlled substances with the intent to deliver.
PROMOTES UNLAWFUL GAMBLING: The term defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 167.117
(18). (1962 Code § 5-1-21; amd. 2014 Code)
6-3A-2: FORFEITURE OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Property Enumerated: Any person who engages in or enters into a
conspiracy to engage in a "prohibited activity" as defined in section
6-3A-1 of this article within the city shall forfeit to the city the following
property:
      1.   All controlled substances which are intended for or have been
manufactured or delivered.
      2.   All raw materials, products, containers, equipment, books, records,
research materials (including formulas, microfilms, tapes, and data) or any
such property which is used, or is intended for use, to manufacture, compound,
store, process, deliver or facilitate the sale or transfer of any controlled
substance.
      3.   All conveyances, including aircraft, vehicles, boats or vessels
which are used to manufacture or deliver, or in any manner to facilitate the
manufacture or delivery of, any controlled substance or any such conveyance
which is used to transport or conceal any controlled substance.
      4.   All monies, negotiable instruments, securities, or other things of
value, furnished or exchanged or intended to be furnished or exchanged by or to
any person to facilitate any prohibited activity, and all proceeds and profits
traceable to such furnishing, exchange, or prohibited activity.
      5.   All proceeds, profits, and things of value traceable to any
prohibited activity.
      6.   All equipment, materials, or records of any sort that are used, or
intended for use, to facilitate any prohibited gambling activity.
      7.   All real property including any right, title or interest in the
whole or any part of any lot or tract of land and any appurtenances or
improvements thereon, which is used to commit or facilitate the commission of a
prohibited activity as defined by this article.
   B.   Exceptions: This article shall not apply to those unlawful acts as
defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 166.720(1) and (2). (1962 Code § 5-1-21)
6-3A-3: SEIZURE OF PROPERTY:
Any property subject to forfeiture to the city under this article may be seized
by any police officer on behalf of the city without issuance of court process
when:
   A.   The seizure is incident to an arrest or search under a search warrant
or an inspection authorized by administrative rule or authorized agency; or
   B.   The property subject to seizure has been the subject of a prior
judgment in favor of the city in a forfeiture proceeding under this article; or
   C.   A police officer lawfully seizes the property under Oregon Revised
Statutes 133.525 to 133.703 and has probable cause to believe that the property
has been used or is intended for use in or to facilitate "prohibited activity"
as defined in section
6-3A-1 of this article. (1962 Code § 5-1-21)
6-3A-4: INSTITUTION OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   In the event of a seizure under this article, the city attorney, acting
in the name of the city, shall institute a civil forfeiture proceeding in the
appropriate court to obtain a judgment of forfeiture against the seized
property.
   B.   The proceeding shall be instituted in accordance with the Oregon rules
of civil procedure and the Oregon rules of evidence relating to civil actions.
   C.   A proceeding under this section against an owner of property seized who
is not charged with the underlying prohibited activity shall be commenced by
the city within thirty (30) days from the date that the property is seized on
behalf of the city. A proceeding under this article against an owner of
property seized who is also charged with the underlying prohibited activity
shall be commenced by the city within thirty (30) days from the date that a
judgment of conviction is entered against such owner for the underlying
prohibited activity or thirty (30) days from the date that such judgment of
conviction is affirmed on any appeal taken from such conviction, whichever date
is later.
   D.   The defendant or the owner of the property may demand a trial by jury
in any civil action brought pursuant to this article.
   E.   The city attorney shall be entitled to deduct from the proceeds any
attorney fees, costs, and expenses incurred in the litigation and investigation
of the action. (1962 Code § 5-1-21)
6-3A-5: DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Money Held By City Manager: Prior to obtaining any forfeiture judgment,
any money, securities, and negotiable instruments that are not retained for
evidentiary purposes shall be deposited with the city manager pending the
outcome of the forfeiture proceedings.
   B.   Property Held By Chief Of Police: The property seized shall be kept in
the custody of the city. Except as provided in subsection A of this section,
the chief of police shall hold the property for the city for safekeeping until
a forfeiture judgment is obtained.
   C.   Manner Of Disposition: When a judgment of forfeiture is obtained under
this article, the property forfeited shall be disposed of as follows:
      1.   At the discretion of the chief of police, the forfeited property may
be retained for official use in law enforcement activities. When the chief of
police determines that the property will not be used for law enforcement
purposes, it shall be sold in accordance with subsections C2 and C3 of this
section.
      2.   Property (except money, securities, and negotiable instruments)
which is not required by law to be destroyed and which is not harmful to the
public shall be sold by the city manager.
      3.   The proceeds of any sale, and any money, securities, or negotiable
instruments shall be deposited with the city manager in a separate designated
fund to be used for law enforcement purposes only. (1962 Code § 5-1-21)
6-3A-6: AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE:
It shall be an affirmative defense to a proceeding brought under this article
that the owner of the property seized or a co-owner thereof had no knowledge of
the use or intended use of the property to facilitate illegal activity. Nothing
in this section shall limit the right of the city to cause forfeiture of the
interest in property of a co-owner who had the requisite knowledge of the use
of the property in illegal activity. (1962 Code § 5-1-21)
6-3A-7: FORFEITURE IN OTHER CASES:
In any proceeding brought under this code or ordinances wherein or whereby
property is declared by the court to be forfeited to the city, or where
evidence is seized and cannot be returned to its owner because of the nature of
the evidence seized or the nature of the case, or the age or status of the
defendant, then the same may be disposed of in any lawful manner by the chief
of police. When evidence seized is otherwise returnable to its rightful owner
but not claimed within one year from the date of final determination of the
case then, after reasonable notice to the owner, the same may be disposed of in
any lawful manner by the chief of police. (1962 Code § 5-1-21)
CHAPTER 4
CURFEW FOR MINORS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Nighttime Curfew
6-4-3: Truancy Reduction Curfew
6-4-4: Parental Responsibility
6-4-5: Separate Violations
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall mean:
EMANCIPATED: A minor who is recognized as an adult through a decree of
emancipation obtained from a court of competent jurisdiction.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life or property.
GUARDIAN: A. A person who, pursuant to court order, is the guardian of the
person of a minor; or
   B.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a court
of competent jurisdiction and stands in loco parentis with respect to the
child.
MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of
another person.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or to which a substantial group of
the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, alleys,
sidewalks, highways, parking lots, and the common areas of schools, churches,
apartment houses, office buildings, transportation facilities, packing sheds
and retail or service based commercial establishments.
REGULAR SCHOOL HOURS: Those hours for the public school which the child would
attend in the school district in which the child resides, on any day for which
school is in session, unless such day is a scheduled vacation or holiday
observed by the school.
RESPONSIBLE ADULT: A person at least eighteen (18) years of age, authorized by
a parent or guardian to have the temporary care or custody of a minor. (Ord.
01-597, 12-11-2001)
6-4-2: NIGHTTIME CURFEW:
   A.   Hours: No minor shall be in or upon any public place between the hours
of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following
morning.
   B.   Exceptions: A minor shall not be considered in violation of curfew if
such minor is:
      1.   Accompanied by a parent, guardian or responsible adult.
      2.   Engaged in a lawful pursuit or activity that requires the minor's
presence in such public place and is authorized by the parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop.
      3.   Emancipated pursuant to law.
      4.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel.
      5.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any stop or detour.
      6.   Involved in an emergency.
      7.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence.
      8.   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by responsible adults and sponsored by the city, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, recreational, or other activity supervised by
responsible adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization, or another
similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor.
      9.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution. (Ord. 01-597, 12-11-2001)
6-4-3: TRUANCY REDUCTION CURFEW:
   A.   School Hours: No minor between the ages of seven (7) and eighteen (18)
years who has not completed the twelfth grade may be in or upon any public
place during regular school hours, except while actually attending school as
required by Oregon Revised Statutes 339.010 to 339.065.
   B.   Exceptions: A minor shall not be considered in violation of the truancy
reduction curfew if such minor is:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent, guardian or responsible adult.
      2.   Engaged in a lawful pursuit or activity that requires the minor's
presence in such public place and is authorized by the parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop.
      3.   Traveling directly from school to home or to another location
designated by a parent or guardian after being authorized and approved to be
away from school as provided in Oregon Revised Statutes 339.065, but is not
suspended or expelled.
      4.   Emancipated or exempt from compulsory school attendance pursuant to
Oregon Revised Statutes 339.030.
      5.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel.
      6.   Engaged in a lawful employment activity authorized by the parent or
legal guardian, or going to or returning home from an employment activity,
without any stop or detour.
      7.   Involved in an emergency.
      8.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by responsible adults and sponsored by the city, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, recreational, or other activity supervised by
responsible adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization, or another
similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor.
      9.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution. (Ord. 01-597, 12-11-2001)
6-4-4: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
No parent having the care and custody of a minor shall knowingly allow or
permit the minor to be in violation of section
6-4-2 or
6-4-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 01-597, 12-11-2001)
6-4-5: SEPARATE VIOLATIONS:
Each violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 01-
597, 12-11-2001)
CHAPTER 5
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Fireworks
6-5-2: Explosives
6-5-1: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Unlawful Sale; Exception: It shall be unlawful for any person within
the city to sell or distribute to the public for money or anything of value,
any firecrackers, rockets, torpedoes, roman candles or any other articles
containing explosives commonly known as fireworks, except that such fireworks
may be sold and distributed between the days of June 22 and July 6, both dates
inclusive.
   B.   Restrictions On Discharging: It shall be unlawful for any person to
shoot, discharge or cause to explode within the city, any article commonly
known as fireworks, which term shall be taken to include: crackers, rockets,
roman candles and torpedoes; provided, however, that between June 22 and July
6, both dates inclusive, it shall be lawful to shoot and discharge fireworks
within the city at places other than on Main Street between First Street East
and Fourth Street West. (1962 Code §
6-2-1; amd. 2014 Code)
6-5-2: EXPLOSIVES:
   A.   Explosives Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to make,
keep or transport any gunpowder, nitroglycerin or other highly explosive
substance within the limits of the city. (1962 Code §
6-4-1)
   B.   Exception; Vehicle Permit: A vehicle carrying explosives may be
permitted on the streets of the city only if a special written permit has first
been obtained from the chief of police. Such permit shall specify the exact
route to be used by said vehicle and may permit the vehicle to be parked at a
certain specified place for a certain specified amount of time. Each such
permit shall be valid only for the one specified use. (1962 Code §
6-4-2)
CHAPTER 6
ASSEMBLIES AND ROCK FESTIVALS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Permission Required
6-6-2: Contents Of Application
6-6-3: Insurance And Bond
6-6-4: Inspection And Approval
6-6-5: Conditions And Restrictions
6-6-6: Permit Denial Or Revocation; Hearing
6-6-1: PERMISSION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect or cause to
be erected, any temporary structure composed wholly or partly of canvas or
similar material to be used as a place of amusement or for any religious,
educational or recreational purposes, or for any other public assemblages
whatsoever; or to stage or conduct any open air concert, festival, revival
meeting, circus or any other type of amusement or religious, educational or
recreational assemblage of more than two hundred fifty (250) persons at which
sound amplification equipment, temporary stages, platforms or seating will be
used within the limits of the city without first having made application to,
and received permission to, do so in accordance with the conditions and
limitations as set out in this chapter. (1962 Code § 5-1-35)
6-6-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
The applicant for such permission shall file an application in writing with the
city manager, which shall clearly indicate:
   A.   The name of the person, firm or corporation which will use the
structure or sponsor the event.
   B.   The location of the principal place of business of such person, firm or
corporation.
   C.   The names and addresses of the officers of such firm or corporation.
   D.   The length of time the structure is intended to be used for the purpose
for which applied.
   E.   The hours of the day or night during which such structures are intended
to be used as a place of assembly or during which the event is to be conducted.
   F.   Such other relevant information as the city manager may require. (1962
Code § 5-1-35)
6-6-3: INSURANCE AND BOND:
   A.   Insurance: The applicant shall furnish evidence that a public liability
insurance policy in amounts of not less than fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) for one person and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for
any one accident, shall be in force and effect at the time such structure is to
be occupied or at the time the event is to be conducted.
   B.   Bond:
      1.   The applicant shall deposit with the city treasurer a cash bond in
the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), conditioned upon saving harmless
the city from any and all liabilities or causes of action which might arise by
virtue of the granting of a permit to the applicant and conditioned further
that no damage will be done to the streets, sewers, trees or adjoining property
and that no dirt, paper, litter or other debris will be permitted to remain
upon the streets or upon any private property by the applicant.
      2.   Such cash bond shall be returned to the applicant upon certification
by the chief of police that the applicant is in compliance with all conditions
of this chapter. (1962 Code § 5-1-35)
6-6-4: INSPECTION AND APPROVAL:
   A.   Upon completion of such structure or prior to commencement of an open
air assemblage, the place shall not be used as a place of assembly until the
applicant shall furnish evidence to the city manager that the applicant has
caused the entire premises to be inspected and approved by the state fire
marshal, the county sanitarian and the chief of police.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cause or
permit the occupancy of such structure or to conduct an open air assembly as
aforesaid without first obtaining the inspections and approvals as aforesaid.
(1962 Code § 5-1-35)
6-6-5: CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Noise: In no event shall a performance be conducted that would
constitute a nuisance due to noise. Public address or sound amplification
systems will be so tuned so that words are not audible a distance of two
hundred fifty feet (250') from the place of assembly.
   B.   Closing Hour: All performances, meetings or shows shall be concluded by
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. (1962 Code § 5-1-35)
6-6-6: PERMIT DENIAL OR REVOCATION; HEARING:
Any person, firm or corporation whose application for a permit has been denied
or whose permit has been revoked for noncompliance with this chapter may,
within ten (10) days after receipt of a notice thereof, appeal to the city
council for a hearing thereon, and the decision of the council in this regard
shall be final. (1962 Code § 5-1-35)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY, CITY JURISDICTION
SECTION:
7-1-1: Definitions
7-1-2: Jurisdiction
7-1-3: Scope Of Regulatory Control
7-1-4: City Permission Requirement
7-1-5: Obligations Of City
7-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following shall mean:
PERSON: Individual, corporation, association, firm, partnership, joint stock
company, and similar entities.
PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY: Include, but are not limited to, streets, roads,
highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, trails, paths, public easements and all
other public ways or areas, including subsurface and air space over these
areas.
WITHIN THE CITY: Territory over which the city now has or acquires jurisdiction
for the exercise of its powers. (Ord. 570, 3-18-1997)
7-1-2: JURISDICTION:
The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory control over all public
rights of way within the city under the authority of the city charter and state
law. (Ord. 570, 3-18-1997)
7-1-3: SCOPE OF REGULATORY CONTROL:
The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory control over each public
right of way, whether the city has a fee, easement, or other legal interest in
the right of way and, regardless of whether the legal interest in the right of
way was obtained by grant, dedication, prescription, reservation, condemnation,
annexation, foreclosure or other means. (Ord. 570, 3-18-1997)
7-1-4: CITY PERMISSION REQUIREMENT:
No person may occupy or encroach on a public right of way without the
permission of the city. The city grants permission to use rights of way by
franchises, licenses and permits. (Ord. 570, 3-18-1997)
7-1-5: OBLIGATIONS OF CITY:
The exercise of jurisdiction and regulatory control over a public right of way
by the city is not official acceptance of the right of way, and does not
obligate the city to maintain or repair any part of the right of way. (Ord.
570, 3-18-1997)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-2-1: Construction Required
7-2-2: Exceptions
7-2-3: Duty Of Owner
7-2-4: Permit Required
7-2-5: Grade And Width
7-2-6: Conformity
7-2-7: Construction
7-2-8: Curb Cuts And Driveway Openings Reinforced
7-2-9: Minimum Widths
7-2-10: Liability And Remedy Available To Injured Persons
7-2-11: Repairing Sidewalks
7-2-12: Lien For Costs
7-2-1: CONSTRUCTION REQUIRED:
   A.   Improvement Defined: For purposes of this chapter, an "improvement"
shall be deemed to mean any addition, alteration, remodel or betterment to
existing structures, including landscaping, on a single tax lot, the cost of
which shall exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the tax lot so
improved, as determined by comparing the cost of the improvement reported on
the application for a building permit with the market value of the tax lot as
determined by the Malheur County assessor immediately prior to commencement of
construction of the improvement.
   B.   Sidewalk, Curb And Gutter:
      1.   Each property owner within the city shall be required to construct
and maintain a sidewalk, and if none are existing, to construct and maintain
curb, gutter and storm drainage along all portions of the lot or tract which
abuts on a city street at the time of construction of an improvement thereon.
      2.   Corner lots shall have a sidewalk and gutter constructed along both
streets.
      3.   Interior lots shall have a sidewalk and curb extending the entire
length of the frontage of the lot or tract abutting the street.
   C.   Storm Drainage:
      1.   Storm drainage, if deemed necessary by the city, shall be provided
by the property owner. The city shall provide catch basins and infiltrators.
Installation shall be to city specifications.
      2.   The property owner is also responsible for replacing existing
asphalt to the new gutter line. (Ord. 01-598, 12-11-2001)
7-2-2: EXCEPTIONS:
Section
7-2-1 of this chapter notwithstanding, no sidewalk, curb and gutter shall be
required to be constructed upon a vacant lot, block or tract within the city
until such time as there is constructed thereon a dwelling or other structure.
No owner of property which was improved prior to the effective date hereof
shall be required to construct a sidewalk, curb and gutter as provided in
section
7-2-1 of this chapter unless an improvement is placed on the lot, block or
tract meeting the requirements of that section. However, no sidewalk, curb or
gutter shall be constructed or repaired after the effective date hereof unless
the same shall conform to the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 01-598, 12-
11-2001)
7-2-3: DUTY OF OWNER:
It shall be the duty of all owners of land adjoining any street in the city to
construct, reconstruct, repair and maintain in a good condition the sidewalks
in front of, along or abutting said lands. (1962 Code §
8-2-3)
7-2-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Before construction or repairs on a sidewalk within the city are commenced, a
permit shall be obtained from the city for the construction or repair thereto,
and said permit shall prescribe the materials and specifications to be used in
the construction or repair of said sidewalk as prescribed in this chapter.
(1962 Code §
8-2-13)
7-2-5: GRADE AND WIDTH:
The city shall have the power and authority to determine the grade and width of
all sidewalks within the city and the specifications and materials to be used
in the construction thereof. (1962 Code §
8-2-4)
7-2-6: CONFORMITY:
Whenever a sidewalk already exists in a block, future sidewalks constructed in
that block shall be of the same width and shall be located an equal distance
from the curb line as the existing sidewalk, except in those instances where
the result would impair property rights and would not otherwise be detrimental
to the safety and convenience of the public. (1962 Code §
8-2-5)
7-2-7: CONSTRUCTION:
The materials used in sidewalk construction shall consist of a minimum of five
(5) sack per cubic yard concrete with aggregate conforming to the building
code, maximum size of one and one-half inches (11/2"). Sidewalk surfaces shall
be broom finished or similar roughened surface to prevent sliding. Expansion
joints shall be in accordance with the building code requirements. (1962 Code §
8-2-6; amd. 2014 Code)
7-2-8: CURB CUTS AND DRIVEWAY OPENINGS REINFORCED:
Where curb cuts or driveway openings cross a sidewalk, the concrete used in the
construction thereof shall be reinforced with no. 8 wire across the entire
width of said curb cut or driveway. (1962 Code §
8-2-7)
7-2-9: MINIMUM WIDTHS:
The minimum sidewalk widths shall be in accordance with the following schedule
and in accordance with planning zones authorized: (1962 Code §
8-2-8)
 
All residential zones 48 inches wide
C zone - commercial   120 inches wide
I zone - industrial   48 inches wide
 
(1962 Code §
8-2-8; amd. 2014 Code)
7-2-10: LIABILITY AND REMEDY AVAILABLE TO INJURED PERSONS:
It shall be the duty of all persons owning lands which have sidewalks abutting
the same to maintain, keep and repair such sidewalks free from defects and not
to permit the same to become or remain in dangerous or unsafe condition. Any
landowner who fails or neglects to comply with the provisions of this section
shall be liable for any injury to any person caused by the neglect of the
landowner. (1962 Code §
8-2-9)
7-2-11: REPAIRING SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Repair By Owner: When any sidewalk or portion thereof needs repair, the
city manager shall issue a notice and prepare a certified copy. The certified
copy shall be served by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested
and returned, to the last known address, or served personally upon the owner or
occupant of the lot or premises abutting on that portion of said street or
sidewalk. The notice shall require such person to commence proper construction
or repair of the sidewalk within thirty (30) days after the service of such
notice and diligently prosecute such work; provided, that if such lot or
premises is not occupied by any person and the owner thereof is unknown to the
city manager or does not reside in the city, then a certified copy of such
notice hereinbefore provided shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises, and such posting shall have the same effect as service of notice by
registered or certified mail or personally upon the owner. The city manager
shall, immediately upon making service or posting the notice as hereinbefore
provided, make a written return or certificate of service of the time, place
and manner of service; the original notice and the return or certification of
said officer shall constitute a permanent record of the city and shall be kept
on file in the office of the city manager. (1962 Code §
8-2-10)
   B.   Failure To Repair By Owner; Repair By City: If the repair or
construction of the sidewalk or any portion is not commenced within thirty (30)
days after service of notice has been made or if the construction or repair is
not prosecuted with diligence after having been commenced, then the city
manager may have the same repaired or constructed in a proper manner and at a
reasonable cost. Upon ascertaining the amount of such reasonable cost for
construction or repair, he shall immediately notify the city recorder in
writing, which notice shall set forth the time and manner in making repairs or
construction and the cost. The notice shall be attached to the original notice
and constitute a part of the record of lien for improvements; and upon receipt
of such notification, the city recorder shall forthwith enter the same,
together with all expenses in the "lien docket" of the city against the lot and
premises abutting on that portion of the sidewalk so constructed or repaired.
(1962 Code §
8-2-11)
7-2-12: LIEN FOR COSTS:
Upon the entry being made by the city recorder, as provided in subsection
7-2-11B of this chapter, in the "lien docket", the city shall have a lien on
the lot and premises abutting on that portion of the sidewalk so repaired, for
the full amount of the costs and expenses hereinabove mentioned with interest
thereon at the legal rate and may proceed to foreclose the same, in the manner
prescribed by law. (1962 Code §
8-2-12)
CHAPTER 3
CURB CUTS AND DRIVEWAY APPROACHES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Permit Requirements And Restrictions
7-3-3: Supervision; Permit Revocation
7-3-4: Construction
7-3-5: Classification Of Driveway Curb Cuts And Aprons
7-3-6: Cooperation With Building Inspector
7-3-7: Maintenance And Removal
7-3-8: Responsibility For Resurfacing
7-3-9: Failure To Reconstruct
7-3-10: Option Of City To Replace Work
7-3-11: Unusual Conditions
7-3-12: Penalty
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply to these terms:
BUSINESS DRIVEWAY CURB CUT AND APRON: A driveway opening providing ingress and
egress to commercial property.
CORNER: The point of intersection of the lines of two (2) street curb faces
extended into the street intersection.
CURB CUT AND APRON: A portion of the roadway curb which is removed and a
depressed curb with end slopes installed in accordance with plans to be
obtained from the city engineer, the construction of which shall include a
three foot (3') concrete apron, with the height of the property side of the
apron not to exceed the height of the curb.
CURB CUT END SLOPE: That portion of the curb which slopes from the gutter line
to the top of the curb and includes the slope between the apron and the curb.
CURB PARKING SPACE: A length of curb equal to eighteen feet (18') where an
automobile or other vehicle can park.
CURB RETURN: That portion of a curb next to a street or alley which connects
the street approach or alley with another.
DRIVEWAY: A place on private property for the operation of automobiles and
other vehicles.
DRIVEWAY APPROACH: An area, construction or facility between the curb cut apron
of a public street and private property intended to provide access for vehicles
from a roadway of a public street to private property. A driveway approach must
provide access to something definite on private property such as a parking
area, a driveway, or a door at least seven feet (7') wide intended and used for
the entrance of vehicles.
OUTSIDE SIDEWALK LINE: A line parallel to the property line lying along the
edge of the sidewalk nearest the street roadway or curb; or where no sidewalk
exists, a line in the street right of way parallel to and four feet (4') from
the line of the private property.
PARCEL OF LAND: A lot or lots, or a tract officially registered under one
ownership.
PERSON: Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAY CURB CUT AND APRON: A driveway opening providing ingress
and egress to residential property. (1962 Code §
8-4-1)
7-3-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, break out
or remove any curb along a street or alley without first obtaining a permit for
a driveway approach, as hereinafter provided. (1962 Code §
8-4-2)
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   Any person desiring to construct a curb cut and apron shall first
make application to the city engineer for a permit therefor. Such application
shall be in writing upon a form provided by the city and available at the
office of the city engineer. Each application shall provide information showing
the type of construction, the width of the proposed driveway approach, the
location of said driveway approach by lot and block number, as well as by
street and house number, and such other information as may be required by the
city engineer. The application shall be filed by the property owner desiring to
construct said curb cut and apron, or by his duly authorized agent.
      2.   This subsection B shall not apply to the construction of an unpaved
driveway approach which will not involve the cutting of a curb. (1962 Code §
8-4-3)
   C.   Issuance Of Permit: Such permit shall be issued by the city engineer
upon compliance by the applicant with the terms of this chapter and the payment
of the permit fee hereinafter specified. (1962 Code §
8-4-4)
   D.   Permit Fees: The fees for permits for the construction of driveway curb
cuts and aprons provided for herein shall be as follows: (1962 Code §
8-4-5)
      1.   For residential curb cuts and apron, twenty five dollars ($25.00).
(1962 Code §
8-4-5; amd. 2014 Code)
      2.   For business curb cuts and apron, twenty five dollars ($25.00).
(1962 Code §
8-4-5)
   E.   Use Of Driveway Approach As Parking Approach: It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct, alter or extend, or permit or cause to be constructed,
altered or extended any driveway approach which can be used only as a parking
space or area between the curb and private property. (1962 Code §
8-4-2; amd. 2014 Code)
7-3-3: SUPERVISION; PERMIT REVOCATION:
   A.   City Engineer: All work performed under a permit issued under this
chapter shall be under the direction and supervision of the city engineer, who
is hereby authorized to make the necessary rules, regulations and
specifications with respect to materials for and method of construction of such
driveway approaches.
   B.   Permit Revocation: A permit issued under the provisions of this chapter
may be revoked by the city engineer at any time the work is not being performed
according to the provisions hereof. (1962 Code §
8-4-6)
7-3-4: CONSTRUCTION:
In addition to the rules, regulations and specifications promulgated by the
city engineer with respect to driveway approaches, the following requirements
shall be complied with in the work done under the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   The entire curb, or curb and gutter, and end slopes, if applicable,
shall first be removed for the width of the proposed driveway.
   B.   No portion of a curb cut shall be constructed within fifteen feet (15')
of the intersection of the extension of the property lines of a corner lot.
   C.   No curb cuts shall be constructed beyond any property line as
projected.
   D.   The top of the depressed curb cut shall be one and five- eighths inches
(15/8") above the flow line of the gutter. The top of the concrete apron shall
start at one and five-eighths inches (15/8") at the depressed curb height and
slope back three feet (3') to a height equal to the curb face.
   E.   The owner and contractor shall protect the public from injury or damage
during the construction of driveway approaches, and the city shall not be
liable for damage which may arise from the prosecution of work. (1962 Code §
8-4-7)
7-3-5: CLASSIFICATION OF DRIVEWAY CURB CUTS AND APRONS:
Driveway curb cuts and aprons shall be of the following classes: residential
and business, and shall have the following maximum widths:
   A.   Residential:
      1.   Curb cuts shall have a depressed section of not more than twenty
feet (20') in width plus two (2) 3-foot end slopes.
      2.   Each building site may have at least one curb cut for a vehicular
entrance to the property. Two (2) curb cuts are permitted, provided there are
twenty feet (20') of full curb height between driveways.
   B.   Business:
      1.   Curb cuts shall have a depressed section of not more than thirty
feet (30') in width, plus two (2) 3-foot end slopes.
      2.   Each building site may have multiple curb cuts for vehicular
entrance to the property; provided, that multiple curb cuts must have twenty
feet (20') of full curb height between driveways. (1962 Code §
8-4-8)
7-3-6: COOPERATION WITH BUILDING INSPECTOR:
Plans submitted to the building inspector for approval which include or involve
unusual driveway approaches or problems shall be referred to the city engineer
for his approval before a building permit shall be issued. (1962 Code §
8-4-9)
7-3-7: MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL:
Every driveway approach or entrance to abutting property shall be maintained
and kept in a safe condition by the owner of the abutting property, and any
such driveway approach which shall not be so maintained and kept or which shall
interfere with or obstruct the drainage carried by such street, or the use of
said street for the purpose of travel, shall be repaired to conform with the
specifications of this chapter and the city engineer, or shall be removed. Upon
the removal of any such driveway approach, that portion of the street occupied
by the same shall be restored as nearly as practicable to its former condition,
and all curbing shall be replaced by, and at the expense of, the owner of the
abutting property. (1962 Code §
8-4-10)
7-3-8: RESPONSIBILITY FOR RESURFACING:
Upon completion of the work, it shall be the responsibility of the permittee or
the owner of the property involved in the permit to restore the paved street
curb and sidewalk where cuts were made. All necessary steps shall be taken to
ensure that the street curb and sidewalk remain in good condition, without
settlement, at the location of said work. (1962 Code §
8-4-11)
7-3-9: FAILURE TO RECONSTRUCT:
Should the person who cuts a street curb or sidewalk under the authority
granted by this chapter fail to reconstruct such street curb or sidewalk in the
manner required hereunder, the city shall notify the permittee and the owner of
the property involved of the violation, and if said violation has not been
corrected within ten (10) days after delivery or mailing of such notice, the
city may take any steps deemed necessary to place the street in proper
condition, and may take all legal means of recovering the cost thereof from the
owner of said property. (1962 Code §
8-4-12)
7-3-10: OPTION OF CITY TO REPLACE WORK:
Whenever, in the opinion of the city council, it would be to the best interests
of the city for the city itself to replace or repair the street curb or
sidewalk, which is not restored under the provisions of this chapter, such work
shall be done by the city under the direction of the city engineer and the cost
of said work shall be paid by the owner of the property for which the curb cut
permit was granted within thirty (30) days after the mailing of a statement of
charges to such owner, and if not paid within said time, such charges shall
become a lien against the real property to be benefited by the curb cut. (1962
Code §
8-4-13)
7-3-11: UNUSUAL CONDITIONS:
The city engineer is hereby authorized to grant, in writing, variances from the
strict application of the provisions of this chapter, provided he first
determines that all of the following conditions exist:
   A.   That the exception or variance desired arises from peculiar physical
conditions not ordinarily existing in similar districts in the city or is due
to the nature of the business or operation on the abutting property.
   B.   That the exception or variance desired is not against the public
interest, particularly safety, convenience and general welfare.
   C.   That the granting of the exception or variance will not adversely
affect the rights of adjacent property owners or tenants.
   D.   That the strict application of the terms of this chapter will work
unnecessary hardship on the applicant for the variance. (1962 Code §
8-4-14)
7-3-12: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or causing,
permitting, or suffering the same to be done, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00). Each such person shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued or
permitted.
   B.   The issuance or granting of a permit shall not be deemed or construed
as authority for, or approval of, any violation of this chapter. (1962 Code §
8-4-16)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Declaration Of Intention; Recommendations
7-4-2: Consideration Of Engineer's Report
7-4-3: Notice Of Hearing
7-4-4: Hearing
7-4-5: Contracts; Bids; Bonds
7-4-6: Special Hearing When Low Bid Exceeds Estimate
7-4-7: Assessment
7-4-8: Method Of Assessment
7-4-9: Appeal
7-4-10: Lien Recording; Interest; Foreclosure
7-4-11: Notice Of Assessment; Bonding
7-4-12: Errors In Assessment Calculations
7-4-13: Deficit Assessment
7-4-14: Rebate
7-4-15: Abandonment Of Proceedings
7-4-16: Curative Provisions
7-4-17: Reassessment
7-4-18: Compliance With Idaho Standards
7-4-1: DECLARATION OF INTENTION; RECOMMENDATIONS:
Whenever the city council shall decide to make street, sewer, sidewalk or other
public improvements to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessments
according to benefits, the council shall by motion declare its intention to
initiate such improvement and direct the engineer to make a survey and written
report of such project and file the same with the city recorder within the time
set forth by the council in the motion. Such report shall contain:
   A.   A plat or map showing the general nature, location, and extent of the
proposed improvements and the lands to be assessed to pay all or any part of
the costs thereof.
   B.   Plans, specifications and estimates of the work to be done.
   C.   An estimate of the probable cost of the improvement including legal,
administrative and engineering costs attributable thereof.
   D.   A recommendation as to the method of assessment to be used to arrive at
a fair apportionment of the whole or any portion of the cost of the improvement
to the property specially benefited, which recommendation shall be in accord
with the provisions of section
7-4-9 of this chapter.
   E.   An estimate of the unit cost of the improvement to the specially
benefited properties derived from applying the recommended assessment method to
the estimated cost of the improvement.
   F.   A description of the location and assessed value of each lot, tract or
parcel of land, or portion thereof, to be specially benefited by the
improvement, with the names of the record owners thereof, and, when readily
available, the names of other owners thereof as herein defined.
   G.   A statement showing outstanding assessments against property to be
assessed.
   H.   Any other information required by the city council. (1962 Code § 8-5-1)
7-4-2: CONSIDERATION OF ENGINEER'S REPORT:
After the city engineer's report has been filed with the city recorder, the
city council shall consider the report. The council may approve the report as
submitted or may amend and approve the report as amended. The council may
direct the engineer to furnish the council with a further report or information
or, on the basis of the engineer's report, the council may by motion record its
intention to abandon the improvement. (1962 Code § 8-5-2)
7-4-3: NOTICE OF HEARING:
After the city council has approved the engineer's report as submitted or as
amended by the council:
   A.   It shall direct the city recorder to cause to be published forthwith
once each week for two (2) successive weeks in a newspaper of general
circulation, printed and published in the city, a notice stating:
      1.   That the report, or amended report, of the engineer, as approved by
the council, is on file in the recorder's office subject to examination, giving
the date, no earlier than ten (10) days immediately following the first
publication of notice when any objections thereto will be considered by the
council at a public hearing;
      2.   That written remonstrances may be filed against the proposed
improvement at the office of the recorder not later than the scheduled time for
the council hearing of objections to the proposed improvement;
      3.   That the improvement will be abandoned for at least six (6) months
if there is presented a valid remonstrance of the owners of the property
affected by such improvement which will bear sixty percent (60%) of the total
cost of the improvement according to the method of assessment set forth in the
council approved engineer's report and which method or basis shall be specified
in said notice;
      4.   A description of the boundaries of the district to be specially
benefited by the improvement, giving the names of the record owners thereof
and, when readily available, the names of the other owners thereof as defined
herein;
      5.   The estimated total cost of the improvement which is to be paid for
by special assessment of benefited property;
      6.   The engineer's estimated unit cost of the improvement to the
specially benefited property clearly indicating that this is an estimate and
not an assessment.
   B.   It shall also direct the city recorder to send forthwith by registered
mail the same notice, at his last known address, to each record owner and, when
readily known, to each owner as defined herein, of property to be specially
benefited by the proposed improvement.
   C.   It may, in its discretion, direct the city recorder, upon the basis of
the council approved engineer's report, to advertise for bids and designate the
time at which such bids shall be opened, which time may be the time of the
aforesaid hearing; provided, that no such contract shall be let until after any
objections to the council approved engineer's report are heard by the council;
and provided, that in the letting of any such contract the provisions of
section
7-4-6 of this chapter shall be followed by the council. (1962 Code § 8-5-3)
7-4-4: HEARING:
At the aforesaid hearing, the city council shall hear oral objections to the
proposed improvement and shall consider any written remonstrances thereto.
Written remonstrances of the owners of the property specially affected by such
improvement which will bear sixty six and two-thirds percent (662/3%) of the
total cost of the improvement according to the method of assessment which shall
have been specified by the council for the improvement, shall defeat the
proposed improvement, in which event no further action to effect the
improvement shall be taken for six (6) months. If the council, after hearing
objections and considering any remonstrances, finds that there is not a
sufficient remonstrance, it may proceed with the improvement. (1962 Code § 8-5-
4)
7-4-5: CONTRACTS; BIDS; BONDS:
The city council shall provide by resolution the time and manner of doing the
work of such improvement, and may provide for the city to do the work, or it
may award the work on contract. In the event that the work is done under
contract, bids shall be received after advertisement for such time as the
council may determine on all such work the estimated cost of which is more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). The contract shall be let to the lowest
responsible bidder; provided, that the council shall have the right to reject
all bids when they are deemed unreasonable or unsatisfactory. The council shall
provide for taking security by bond for the faithful performance of any
contract let under its authority, and the provisions thereof, in case of
default, shall be enforced by action in the name of the city. (1962 Code § 8-5-
5)
7-4-6: SPECIAL HEARING WHEN LOW BID EXCEEDS ESTIMATE:
If the city council finds upon opening bids for the work of such improvement
that the lowest responsible bid substantially exceeds the engineer's estimate,
it may, in its discretion, hold a special hearing of objections to proceeding
with the improvement on the basis of such bid and may direct the city recorder
to publish reasonable notice thereof in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city. (1962 Code § 8-5-6; amd. 2014 Code)
7-4-7: ASSESSMENT:
When the city council, after the aforesaid hearing, shall determine to proceed
with the improvement, it shall pass an ordinance assessing the various lots,
parcels and tracts of property especially benefited thereby with their
apportioned share of the cost of the improvement; but the passage of such an
assessment ordinance may be delayed until the contract for the work is let or
the improvement completed and the total cost thereof determined if the council
shall desire to avoid deficit assessments or rebates or for any other reason
deemed sufficient by the council. (1962 Code § 8-5-7)
7-4-8: METHOD OF ASSESSMENT:
   A.   The city council, in adopting a method of assessment of the costs of
the improvement, may:
      1.   Use any just and reasonable method of determining the extent of any
improvement district consistent with the benefits derived.
      2.   Use any method of apportioning the sum to be assessed as is just and
reasonable between the properties determined to be specially benefited.
      3.   Authorize payment by the city of all or any part of the cost of any
such improvement when, in the opinion of the council, on account of
topographical or physical conditions, unusual or excessive public travel, or
other character of the work involved, or when the council otherwise believes
the situation warrants it; provided, the method selected creates a reasonable
relation between the benefits derived by the property specially assessed and
the benefits derived by the city as a whole.
   B.   Nothing herein contained shall preclude the council from using other
available means of financing improvements, including federal or state grants in
aid, sewer service or other types of service charges, revenue bonds, general
obligation bonds or other legal means of finance. In the event any of such
other means of finance are used, the council may, in its discretion, levy
special assessments hereunder according to benefits to cover any parts of the
costs of the improvement not covered by such means. (1962 Code § 8-5-8)
7-4-9: APPEAL:
Any person feeling aggrieved by assessments made as herein provided may, within
twenty (20) days from the passage of the ordinance levying the assessment by
the city council, appeal therefrom to the circuit court of the state for
Malheur County. Such appeal and the requirements and formalities thereof shall
be heard, governed and determined and the judgment thereon rendered and
enforced so far as is practical in the manner provided for appeals from
reassessments contained in Oregon Revised Statutes. The result of such appeal
shall be a final and conclusive determination of the matter of such assessment,
except with respect to the city's right of reassessment as provided herein.
(1962 Code § 8-5-9; amd. 2014 Code)
7-4-10: LIEN RECORDING; INTEREST; FORECLOSURE:
   A.   Recording: After the ordinance levying assessments has been passed, the
city recorder shall enter in the docket of city liens, a statement of the
respective amounts assessed upon each particular lot, tract or parcel of land,
with the names of the record owners thereof and, so far as is readily known,
the names of the owners thereof as defined herein. Upon such entry in the lien
docket, the amount so entered shall be a lien and charge upon the respective
lots, tracts, and parcels of land against which the same are placed. Such liens
shall be first and prior to all other liens or encumbrances thereon whatsoever
insofar as the laws of the state allow.
   B.   Interest: Interest shall be charged at the rate of ten percent (10%)
per annum or such other rate of interest as the city council may provide in the
ordinance levying assessments from the date of levy of assessment until paid on
all amounts not paid within thirty (30) days from the date of such entry, or
entry corrected pursuant to section
7-4-12 of this chapter.
   C.   Foreclose Or Enforce Lien: The city may proceed to foreclose or enforce
any lien to which it shall be entitled pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, at any time after thirty (30) days from the date on which the
assessment or assessment corrected pursuant to section
7-4-12 of this chapter, was entered in the lien docket, in the manner provided
for the foreclosure or enforcement of liens by the general laws of the state.
(1962 Code § 8-5-10)
7-4-11: NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT; BONDING:
Within ten (10) days after the ordinance levying assessments has been passed,
the city recorder shall send by registered mail, to his last known address, a
notice of assessment to the record owner and, so far as is readily known, to
the owner as herein defined, of each lot, tract or parcel of land assessed.
This notice shall state the time within which such assessments must be paid or
bonded and that assessments which are not paid or bonded within the time stated
in the notice shall bear interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum or
such other rate of interest as the city council may have fixed in the ordinance
levying assessments and that the property so assessed is subject to foreclosure
if such assessments are not paid or bonded within the time stated in the
notice. Such record owner may make application to bond such assessment pursuant
to the provisions of Oregon Revised Statutes 223.205 and 223.210 to 223.295,
which is known as the Bancroft bonding act, together with amendments or future
amendments thereof. (1962 Code § 8-5-11)
7-4-12: ERRORS IN ASSESSMENT CALCULATIONS:
Claimed errors in the calculation of assessments shall be called to the
attention of the city recorder prior to any payment on account thereof. The
recorder shall determine whether there is an error in fact. If he shall find
that there is an error in fact, he shall recommend to the city council an
amendment to the assessment ordinance to correct the error. Upon the enactment
of such an amendment by the council, the recorder shall make the necessary
correction in the docket of city liens and send by registered mail to the last
known address of the owner a corrected notice of the assessment. (1962 Code §
8-5-12)
7-4-13: DEFICIT ASSESSMENT:
If assessment is made before the total costs of the improvement are known and
it be found that the amount assessed is insufficient to defray the expenses of
the improvement, the city council may by motion declare such deficit and
prepare a proposed deficit assessment. The council shall set a time for a
hearing of objections to such deficit assessment and shall direct the city
recorder to publish reasonable notice thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city. The council, upon such hearing, shall make a just and
equitable deficit assessment by ordinance. Such deficit assessment shall be
consolidated with the assessment in the lien docket in accordance with the
provisions of section
7-4-10 of this chapter. Thereafter, the provisions of sections
7-4-11 and
7-4-12 of this chapter shall be applicable with regard to such deficit
assessment. (1962 Code § 8-5-13; amd. 2014 Code)
7-4-14: REBATE:
If upon the completion of the project it is found that any sum theretofore
assessed therefor upon any property is more than sufficient to pay the cost
thereof, the city council must ascertain and declare the same by ordinance, and
when so declared, it must be entered in the docket of city liens as a credit
upon the appropriate assessment. If any such assessment has been paid, the
person who paid the same, or his legal representative, shall be entitled to the
payment of any portion of the rebate credit which exceeds the assessment, by a
warrant on the treasury. (1962 Code § 8-5-14)
7-4-15: ABANDONMENT OF PROCEEDINGS:
The city council shall have full power and authority to abandon and rescind
proceedings for improvements hereunder at any time prior to the final
consummation of such proceedings, and if liens have been assessed upon any
property under this procedure, they shall be canceled, and any payments made
thereon shall be refunded to the payor, his assigns or legal representatives.
(1962 Code § 8-5-15)
7-4-16: CURATIVE PROVISIONS:
No improvement assessment shall be invalid by reasons of a failure to give, in
any report, in the proposed assessment, in the assessment ordinance, in the
lien docket or elsewhere in the proceedings, the name of the owner of any lot,
tract or parcel of land, or part thereof, or the name of any person having a
lien upon or interest in such property, or by reason of any error, mistake,
delay, omission, irregularity, or other act, jurisdictional or otherwise, in
any of the proceedings or steps hereinbefore specified, unless it appears that
the assessment as made, insofar as it affects the person complaining, if unfair
and unjust, and the council shall have the power and authority to remedy and
correct all such matters by suitable action and proceedings. (1962 Code § 8-5-
16)
7-4-17: REASSESSMENT:
Whenever an assessment, deficit assessment or reassessment for any improvement
which has been or may be hereafter made by the city has been or shall be
hereafter set aside, annulled, declared or rendered void or its enforcement
refuted by any court of this state and/or federal court having jurisdiction
thereof, whether directly or by virtue of any decision of such court, or when
the city council shall be in doubt as to the validity of such assessment,
deficit assessment or reassessment or any part thereof, the council may make a
new assessment or reassessment. Such reassessment shall be made in the manner
provided by Oregon Revised Statutes 223.405 through 223.485, as now or
hereafter amended. (1962 Code § 8-5-17)
7-4-18: COMPLIANCE WITH IDAHO STANDARDS:
Except as otherwise set out in title 9 of this code, improvements shall be
constructed in compliance with the "Idaho Standards For Public Works
Construction" in effect in the state of Idaho at the time such construction is
started and any amendments or supplemental standards of the city of Nyssa.
(Ord. 623-08, 3-11-2008)
ARTICLE A. ADVANCE FINANCING OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
7-4A-1: Definitions
7-4A-2: Receipt Of Application
7-4A-3: City Analysis
7-4A-4: Public Hearing
7-4A-5: Advance Financing District Ordinances And Agreements
7-4A-6: Advance Financed Reimbursement
7-4A-7: Calculation Of Reimbursement; Intervening Properties
7-4A-8: Interest Applied To Reimbursements
7-4A-9: Collection Of Advance Financed Reimbursement
7-4A-10: Voluntary Imposition Of Lien
7-4A-11: Disposition Of Advance Financed Reimbursement
7-4A-12: Recording
7-4A-13: Public Improvements
7-4A-14: Severability
7-4A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, for the purpose of this article and for the
purposes of any advance financing agreement entered into pursuant hereto, and
for any actions taken as authorized pursuant to this article or otherwise,
shall have the meanings set out below:
ADVANCE FINANCING: A method of recapturing costs by a developer, where such
developer installs public improvements, and where such public improvements may
be utilized by intervening properties.
ADVANCE FINANCING AGREEMENT: An agreement between a developer and the city, as
authorized by the installation of, and payment for, advance financed public
improvements and which agreement contains improvement guarantees, provisions
for reimbursement by the intervening properties that may utilize such
improvement, inspection guarantees, and the like as determined in the best
interest of the public by the city council.
ADVANCE FINANCING DISTRICT ORDINANCE: An ordinance adopted by the city council
and executed by the mayor designating a public improvement to be an advance
financed public improvement and creating an advance financing district and
containing provisions for financial reimbursement by intervening properties
that may utilize the improvement(s) and such other provisions as determined in
the best interest of the public by the council.
CITY: The city of Nyssa, Oregon.
COUNCIL: The duly elected governing body of the city of Nyssa, Oregon.
DEVELOPER: The city, an individual, a partnership, a joint venture, a
corporation, a subdivider, a partitioner of land or any other entity, without
limitation, who will bear, under the terms of this article, the expense of
design, construction, purchase, installation, or other expenses associated with
the creation of a public improvement. The rights of a developer, created under
this article, also apply to his heirs, successors or assigns.
DEVELOPMENT: That real property being developed by the developer and for which
property the advance financing district ordinance or advance financing
agreement is adopted.
INTERVENING PROPERTY: That real property abutting an advance financed public
improvement, but does not include the development.
OWNER: The fee holder of record or the legal title to the real property in
question. Where such real property is being purchased under a recorded land
sales contract, then such purchasers shall also be deemed owners.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT:
   A.   The grading, graveling, paving or other surfacing of any street, or
opening, laying out, widening, extending, altering, changing the grade of or
constructing any street.
   B.   The construction of sidewalks.
   C.   The construction or upgrading of any sanitary or storm sewer or water
main.
   D.   The construction or upgrading of any flood control or irrigation dike,
dam, structure, or facility.
   E.   Those "local improvements" as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes
310.140(9) as now written or hereafter amended.
   F.   Any other public improvement authorized and so designated by the
council. (Ord. 579, 6-25-1998)
7-4A-2: RECEIPT OF APPLICATION:
The city council will receive applications for advance financing from a
developer, which applications shall be submitted to the city and shall be
accompanied by a fee set by resolution. The fee will be applied for the cost of
administrative analysis of the proposed advance financing district or advance
financing agreement, the cost of notifying the property owners, recording
costs, and such other costs reasonably associated with processing the
application. When the city is the developer, the council may direct the city
manager to submit the application without fee. (Ord. 579, 6-25-1998)
7-4A-3: CITY ANALYSIS:
Upon receipt of a complete advance financing application, the city engineer
shall make an analysis of the advance financing proposal and shall prepare a
report to be submitted to the city council for discussion at a public hearing.
Such report shall include a map showing the location and front footage of the
development and intervening properties. The report shall also include an
estimate of the total cost of the advance financed public improvement. (Ord.
579, 6-25-1998)
7-4A-4: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Notification: Not less than ten (10) nor more than thirty (30) days
prior to any public hearing being held pursuant to this article, the developer
and all intervening property owners shall be notified of such hearing and the
purpose thereof. Such notification shall be accomplished by regular mail, or by
personal service. If notification is accomplished by mail, notice shall be
deemed made on the date that said letter of notification is posted. Failure of
any owner to be so notified shall not invalidate or otherwise affect any
advance financing district ordinance or advance financing agreement or the
council's action to approve or not to approve the same.
   B.   Informational Hearing: After the city engineer analysis has been
completed, an informational public hearing shall be held in which all parties
and the general public shall be given the opportunity to express their views
and ask questions pertaining to the proposed advance financed public
improvement. Since advance financed public improvements do not give rise to
assessment, the public hearing is for informational purposes only, and is not
subject to remonstrances. The council has the sole discretion after the public
hearing to decide whether or not an advance financing district ordinance or
advance financing agreement shall be adopted. (Ord. 579, 6-25-1998)
7-4A-5: ADVANCE FINANCING DISTRICT ORDINANCES AND AGREEMENTS:
After the public hearing, held pursuant to subsection
7-4A-4B of this article, if the city council desires to proceed with the
advance financed public improvement, it shall adopt an advance financing
district ordinance. The ordinance shall designate the improvement as an advance
financed improvement and provide for advance financed reimbursement by
intervening property owners pursuant to this article. Except when the developer
is the city, the advance financing district ordinance may instruct the city to
enter into an agreement between the developer and the city pertaining to the
advance financed improvement, and may, in such agreement, require such
guarantee or guarantees as the city deems best to protect the public and
intervening properties, and may make such other provisions as the council
determines necessary and proper. All agreements entered into must contain and
have distributed costs to all future and intervening properties. A copy of the
agreement must be filed with the city manager. (Ord. 579, 6-25-1998; amd. 2014
Code)
7-4A-6: ADVANCE FINANCED REIMBURSEMENT:
An advance financed reimbursement is imposed on all intervening properties for
projects that utilize an advance financed public improvement district. Such
reimbursement is made at the time of utilization of the advance financed public
improvement. (Ord. 579, 6-25-1998)
7-4A-7: CALCULATION OF REIMBURSEMENT; INTERVENING PROPERTIES:
   A.   The advance financed reimbursements, imposed on intervening properties
shall be calculated by dividing the total actual cost of the advance financed
public improvement by the front footage of all intervening properties and the
development which determines unit cost. The unit cost (cost per frontage foot)
is then multiplied by the front footage of each intervening property. In
addition, the city may use any other method of apportioning costs on those
properties specially benefited that are just and reasonable. Interest is then
applied and calculated as set out by ordinance adopted by the council.
   B.   Advance financing reimbursements imposed on odd shaped lots shall be
individually established and consistent with the benefit received by the lot
and the reimbursement required of other lots in the area. If inequities are
created through the strict implementation of the above formulas, the council
will modify its impact on a case by case basis. (Ord. 579, 6-25-1998)
7-4A-8: INTEREST APPLIED TO REIMBURSEMENTS:
Reimbursements will be increased by an annual interest rate as set forth by the
city council in the advance financing district ordinance or advance financing
agreement. The interest will be calculated from the date the council adopts the
advance financing district ordinance or advance financing agreement to the date
of collection of the reimbursement. (Ord. 579, 6-25-1998)
7-4A-9: COLLECTION OF ADVANCE FINANCED REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   Due Date: The advance financed reimbursement is immediately due and
payable to the city by intervening property owners upon their utilizing any
advance financed public improvement. If connection is made or construction
commenced without the proper permits, then the advance financed reimbursement
is immediately due and payable upon the earliest date that any such permit was
required.
   B.   Report Of Uncollected Reimbursements: No permit for connection or
construction shall be issued until the advance financed reimbursement is paid
in full or otherwise processed under the terms of section
7-4A-10 of this article. Whenever the full and correct advance financed
reimbursement has not been paid and collected for any reason, the city manager
shall report to the council the amount of the uncollected reimbursement, the
description of the real property to which the reimbursement is attributable,
the date upon which the reimbursement was due and the name or names of the
intervening property owner(s).
   C.   Hearing; Lien: The city council, by motion action, shall then set a
public hearing and shall direct the city engineer to give notice of the hearing
to each of those intervening property owners, together with a copy of the city
engineer's report concerning the unpaid reimbursement, either in person or by
regular mail. Upon public hearing, the council may accept, reject or modify the
city engineer's report; and if it finds that any reimbursement is unpaid and
uncollected, the council, by motion action, may direct the city manager to
docket the unpaid and uncollected reimbursement in the record of liens; and
upon completion of the docketing, the city shall have a lien against the
described land for the full amount of the unpaid advance financed
reimbursement, interest, and the city's actual cost of serving notice upon the
intervening property owners. The lien shall be enforced in the manner as
provided by law. (Ord. 579, 6-25-1998)
7-4A-10: VOLUNTARY IMPOSITION OF LIEN:
   A.   Financing; Application For Lien: The city council may allow financing
for an advance financed reimbursement. If such option is allowed, it shall be
so stated in the ordinance creating the district or advance financing
agreement. If so allowed, when an advance financed reimbursement is due and
collectible, the intervening or future property owner within the city limits
may apply upon forms provided by the city for the voluntary imposition of a
lien upon the parcel for the full amount of the advance financed reimbursement
and the payment of that lien in twenty (20) equal semiannual installments,
including interest. The applicant must provide a certificate from a licensed
title insurance company showing the identity and amount of all other liens
already of record against the property and a certificate from the county tax
assessor showing the assessed valuation of the property. The city shall not
permit a lien greater than that allowed by law. Such property that lies outside
the city limits must be annexed to have the benefit of this article. (Ord. 579,
6-25-1998)
   B.   Docketing Of Lien: Upon receipt of such certificates and application,
the city shall compute the amount of the advance financed reimbursement and
shall report the amount of the advance financed reimbursement, the date upon
which the reimbursement is due, the name or names of the applicant/owners and
the description of the property; and upon receiving the report, the city
recorder shall docket the lien in the docket of liens. From the time that
docketing is completed, the city shall have a lien upon that land. That lien
shall be enforced in the manner as provided by law. (Ord. 579, 6-25-1998; amd.
2014 Code)
7-4A-11: DISPOSITION OF ADVANCE FINANCED REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   Payments To Developers: Developers shall receive the advance financed
reimbursement collected by the city for their advance financed public
improvements. Such reimbursements shall be delivered to developer for a period
of twenty (20) years after execution of the advance financing agreement unless
extended by section
7-4A-10 of this article. The time limitation does not apply to the city as
developer, except for public improvements that have been advance financed prior
to the effective date hereof.
   B.   Time For Making Payments: Payments will be made to the developer by the
city within ninety (90) days of receipt of the advance financed reimbursements,
and any advance financed reimbursements not paid the developer under the terms
of this article shall be retained by the city to be used for related system
improvements as authorized from time to time by the council.
   C.   Administrative Services Fee: The city shall collect an amount for
administrative services performed in collecting and distributing the
reimbursements. Such administrative fee shall reasonably reflect the service
performed, and shall be set by resolution. (Ord. 579, 6-25-1998)
7-4A-12: RECORDING:
All advance financing district ordinances and agreements shall be recorded by
the city in the deed records of the county. The ordinance and agreement shall
contain full legal descriptions of the development, intervening properties and
future properties. Failure to make such recording shall not affect the legality
of an advance financing ordinance or agreement. (Ord. 579, 6-25-1998)
7-4A-13: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Public improvements installed pursuant to advance financing agreement shall
become and remain the sole property of the city pursuant to the advance
financing agreement. Advance financed reimbursements, plus interest, not paid
to the developers as set forth in section
7-4A-11 of this article shall be paid to the city to be used for related system
improvement as authorized from time to time by the council. (Ord. 579, 6-25-
1998)
7-4A-14: SEVERABILITY:
If any part of this article is held invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this article shall remain in effect. This
article does not affect any advance financing agreement theretofore entered
into by the city, and such agreement shall remain in full force and effect
pursuant to the terms thereof. (Ord. 579, 6-25-1998)
CHAPTER 5
STREET EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Permit Requirements; Bond
7-5-3: Traffic Conditions
7-5-4: Utilities To Remain Undisturbed
7-5-5: Limitations On Cutting
7-5-6: Removal Of Monuments
7-5-7: Prompt Completion
7-5-8: Right Of Inspection
7-5-9: Work Performance
7-5-10: Barricades; Safety Measures
7-5-11: Cleaning Streets
7-5-12: Resurfacing
7-5-13: Release Of Claims
7-5-14: Failure To Reconstruct
7-5-15: Limitation On Permits
7-5-16: Liability On City
7-5-17: Option To Replace Pavement
7-5-18: City Employees
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms and words shall have the
meanings given herein:
CITY ENGINEER: The city manager or his authorized representative.
EXCAVATION WORK: The excavation and other work permitted under an excavation
permit and required to be performed under the provisions of this chapter.
PERMITTEE: Any person who has been granted and has in full force and effect an
excavation permit.
STREET: Any street, highway, sidewalk, alley, avenue, or other public way or
public grounds. (1962 Code § 8-7-1)
7-5-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; BOND:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to dig up, break,
excavate, tunnel, undermine or in any manner break up any street or to make or
cause to be made any excavation in or under the surface of any street for any
purpose or to place, deposit or leave upon any street any earth or other
excavated material obstructing or tending to interfere with the free use of the
street, unless such person shall first have obtained a permit therefor from the
engineer. (1962 Code § 8-7-2)
   B.   Application For Permit: No excavation permit shall be issued unless a
written application is submitted to the city engineer. The written application
shall state the name and address of the applicant, the nature, location and
purpose of the excavation, the date of commencement and date of completion of
the excavation, and such other data as may reasonably be required by the
engineer. (1962 Code § 8-7-3)
   C.   Permit Fee: A permit fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be paid
upon filing of each application. An estimated charge equal to the cost of any
surface restoration work to be done by city forces shall be deposited with the
city manager at the time of the issuance of the permit. (1962 Code § 8-7-5;
amd. 2014 Code)
   D.   Performance Bond: Before an excavation permit is issued, the applicant
shall deposit with the city manager a corporate surety bond written in the
amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) if the application is for one
particular cut or break in a street, and in the amount of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) if an annual permit is requested. Said corporate surety bond shall
be in the form of a performance bond insuring the applicant's performance of
all the terms and conditions of the excavation permit and the provisions of
this chapter, and specifically including the provisions of section
7-5-12 of this chapter. Provided, however, that public utilities holding a
franchise from city departments and other governmental agencies are hereby
relieved of the obligation of submitting a bond. (1962 Code § 8-7-4)
7-5-3: TRAFFIC CONDITIONS:
The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that, during the
performance of the excavation work, traffic conditions shall be maintained at
all times as near normal as practicable so as to cause as little inconvenience
as possible to the occupants of the abutting property and to the general
public. No opening or excavation in any street shall extend beyond the
centerline of the street before being backfilled and the surface of the street
temporarily restored. (1962 Code § 8-7-6)
7-5-4: UTILITIES TO REMAIN UNDISTURBED:
The permittee shall inform himself as to the existence and location of all
underground utilities and protect the same against damage. The permittee shall
not interfere with any existing utility without the written consent of the city
and the owner of the utility. If it becomes necessary to relocate an existing
utility, this shall be done by its owner. No utility owned by the city shall be
moved to accommodate the permittee unless the cost of such work be borne by the
permittee. The cost of moving privately owned utilities shall be similarly
borne by the permittee unless it makes other arrangements with the person
owning the utility. The permittee shall support and protect by timbers or
otherwise all pipes, conduits, poles, wires and other facilities which may be
in any way affected by the excavation work, and do everything necessary to
support, sustain and protect them under, over, along or across said work. In
case any of said pipes, conduits, poles, wires or apparatus or other facilities
should be damaged, and for this purpose pipe coating or other encasement or
devices are to be considered as part of a substructure, they shall be repaired
by the agency or person owning them and the expense of such repairs shall be
charged to the permittee, and his bond shall be liable therefor. The permittee
shall be responsible for any damages done to any public or private property by
reason of the breaking of any water, sewer, or gas pipes and electric conduit
or other utility and his bond shall be liable therefor. (1962 Code § 8-7-7)
7-5-5: LIMITATIONS ON CUTTING:
Approved cutting of bituminous pavement surface ahead of excavations may be
required by the city engineer to confine pavement damage to the limits of the
trench. The engineer shall designate the maximum length of open trench
permissible at any time and no greater length shall be open for any operations
without written permission of the engineer. No permittee shall make any cut in
any street until the engineer or his duly authorized representative shall first
mark the cut and no street cutting shall exceed such marking. (1962 Code § 8-7-
8)
7-5-6: REMOVAL OF MONUMENTS:
Any monuments set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any
street or property subdivision, or a precise survey reference point, or a
permanent survey bench mark shall not be removed or disturbed or caused to be
removed or disturbed without first obtaining permission in writing from the
engineer. Permission to remove or disturb such monuments, reference points or
bench marks shall only be granted upon condition that the person applying for
such permission shall pay all expenses incident to the proper replacement of
this monument. (1962 Code § 8-7-9)
7-5-7: PROMPT COMPLETION:
After an excavation is commenced, the permittee shall prosecute with diligence
and expedition all excavation work covered by the excavation permit and shall
promptly complete such work and restore the street to its original condition,
or as near as may be, so as not to obstruct the street or travel thereon more
than is reasonably necessary. (1962 Code § 8-7-10)
7-5-8: RIGHT OF INSPECTION:
Upon issuance of the permit, the city engineer, or someone acting under his
direction, shall take such steps as are required to see that the work is
properly planned and completed. The engineer shall have the authority to
inspect and reject the materials and workmanship used and to designate the
depth, grade or elevation of the facility. (1962 Code § 8-7-11)
7-5-9: WORK PERFORMANCE:
All work done under permit issued by the authority contained in this chapter
shall be done in conformity with the requirements of this chapter and the terms
of the permit granted as set forth in this chapter. (1962 Code § 8-7-12)
7-5-10: BARRICADES; SAFETY MEASURES:
Whenever a person places obstructions in a street or alley or makes any
excavation therein for any purpose, it shall be the duty of such person to keep
the obstruction or excavation properly safeguarded by substantial barricades
and display lighted red lanterns or other lights or flares from dusk until
daylight, in conformity with such regulations as may be specified by the city
engineer. Whenever, in the opinion of the engineer, the public safety is so
seriously endangered by such cuts or excavations as to require constant
supervision from dusk to daylight to ensure that all barricades are in proper
condition and location, all warning lights are burning, and all traffic is
properly routed around such barricades, the person to whom the permit for work
is granted shall be responsible for furnishing a night watchman for that
purpose. (1962 Code § 8-7-13)
7-5-11: CLEANING STREETS:
As excavation work progresses, all streets shall be thoroughly cleaned of all
rubbish, excess earth, rock and other debris resulting from such work. All
cleanup operations at the location of such excavation shall be accomplished at
the expense of the permittee and shall be completed to the satisfaction of the
city. From time to time, as may be ordered by the city engineer and in any
event immediately after completion of said work, the permittee shall, at his
own expense, clean up and remove all refuse and unused materials of any kind
resulting from said work; and upon failure to do so within twenty four (24)
hours after having been notified so to do by the engineer, said work may be
done by the city and the cost thereof charged to the permittee, and the
permittee shall also be liable for the cost thereof under the surety bond
provided hereunder. (1962 Code § 8-7-14)
7-5-12: RESURFACING:
For a period of twenty four (24) months following the completion of the work
and the restoration of a paved street, the person who opened the street shall
be responsible for the condition of the resurfacing. All necessary steps shall
be taken to ensure that the street remains in good condition, without
settlement, at the location of said work. Should the trench settle during this
period, it shall be the responsibility of the permittee to bring the street
back to proper grade. (1962 Code § 8-7-15)
7-5-13: RELEASE OF CLAIMS:
Acceptance or approval of any excavation work by the city shall not prevent the
city from asserting a claim against the permittee and his surety under the
surety bond required hereunder for incomplete or defective work if discovered
within twenty four (24) months from the completion of the work. The presence of
the city engineer during the performance of any excavation work shall not
relieve the permittee of his responsibilities according to the provisions of
this chapter. (1962 Code § 8-7-16)
7-5-14: FAILURE TO RECONSTRUCT:
Should the person who opens a street under the authority granted by this
chapter fail to reconstruct the street in the manner required hereunder, the
city shall notify the permittee of the violation and if said violation has not
been corrected within ten (10) days after such notice, the city may take any
steps deemed reasonably necessary to place the street in proper condition and
may take all legal means of recovering the cost thereof from the permittee.
(1962 Code § 8-7-17)
7-5-15: LIMITATION ON PERMITS:
No new excavation permits will be issued to any person whose work has
necessitated city action under the provisions of this chapter. (1962 Code § 8-
7-18)
7-5-16: LIABILITY ON CITY:
This chapter shall not be construed as imposing upon the city or any official
or employee, any liability or responsibility for damages to any person injured
by the performance of any excavation work for which an excavation permit is
issued hereunder, nor shall the city or any official or employee thereof be
deemed to have assumed any such liability or responsibility by reason of
inspections authorized hereunder, the issuance of any permit or the approval of
any excavation work. (1962 Code § 8-7-19)
7-5-17: OPTION TO REPLACE PAVEMENT:
Whenever, in the opinion of the city council, it would be in the best interest
of the city for the city itself to replace or repair the street surface or
pavement cut, which may be damaged, tunneled under, or undermined under the
provisions of this chapter, such work shall be done by the city under the
direction of the city engineer and the cost of said work shall be charged to
the person to whom the permit for said cut or excavation has been granted.
(1962 Code § 8-7-20)
7-5-18: CITY EMPLOYEES:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to employees of the city acting
on behalf of the city or to persons operating under contract with the city.
(1962 Code § 8-7-21)
CHAPTER 6
STREET LIGHTING
SECTION:
7-6-1: Purpose
7-6-2: Imposition Of Lighting Service Charge
7-6-3: Lighting Service Charge Rate
7-6-4: Payment Of Service Charges, Responsible Party
7-6-5: Service Charge Account
7-6-1: PURPOSE:
The city council finds and determines that it is a routine obligation of
ownership and occupancy of residential, commercial, and industrial property to
provide sufficient lighting of streets, alleys, and public places adjoining
said properties in such a manner as to promote traffic safety, increase
visibility that will enhance personal security and deter crimes against persons
and property, and generally promote the safety of persons using said streets,
alleys and public places. (Ord. 541, 7-9-1991)
7-6-2: IMPOSITION OF LIGHTING SERVICE CHARGE:
   A.   There is hereby levied and imposed upon each occupied lot, tract and
parcel of land within the city a service charge in an amount to be set and
determined as provided in section
7-6-3 of this chapter; such service charge to be effective July 1, 1991;
provided, however, that no service charge shall be levied upon any lot, tract
or parcel of land which is vacant, and such vacancy is reported by the owner of
the property to the appropriate city official. (Ord. 541, 7-9-1991)
   B.   As used in subsection A of this section, "vacant" shall mean a level,
unoccupied lot, tract or parcel of land having no structures or open excavation
situated thereon and having no personal property or animals stored or kept
thereon, which property does not constitute a nuisance under any applicable
code or ordinance of the city. (2014 Code)
7-6-3: LIGHTING SERVICE CHARGE RATE:
   A.   Amount Set By Resolution: On or before July 1, 1991, and annually
thereafter, the city council shall, by resolution, set the amount of the
monthly street lighting service charge to be levied on all occupied
residential, commercial, and industrial properties within the city for the
succeeding fiscal year. Such monthly service charges shall as nearly as
practicable reflect the ratable portion or share that each property must bear
to the actual cost to the city of providing lighting for the streets, alleys,
and other public places. In setting such monthly service charge, the city shall
consider, in the case of each occupied property, such factors as the size of
the parcel, the intensity of the lighting provided, the use made of the
property and any other relevant factors or information with respect to each
property. The monthly service charge shall not be disproportionate between
occupied properties of the same class of property within the city; that is,
residential, commercial and industrial, unless there is a clearly identified
basis for making a distinction between one occupied property and other occupied
properties of the same class.
   B.   Actual Cost Considered: The actual cost to the city of providing
lighting for the streets, alleys and other public places in the city shall
include the actual cost for power poles, lights, materials or services billed
to the city, as well as all other actual costs including, but not limited to,
the costs of labor, materials, supplies, equipment rental, property
acquisition, permits, engineering, financing reasonable program delinquencies,
return on investment, required fees, insurance, administration, accounting,
depreciation, amortization, operation, maintenance, repair or replacement and
debt service, including debt service payments or payments into reserve account
for debt service and payment of amounts necessary to meet debt service coverage
requirements. (Ord. 541, 7-9-1991)
7-6-4: PAYMENT OF SERVICE CHARGES, RESPONSIBLE PARTY:
   A.   Billing To Occupant: The monthly service charge herein shall be billed
to the record occupant of each lot, tract or parcel of land within the city as
shown by the records of the city water and sewer billings. (Ord. 541, 7-9-1991)
   B.   Past Due Accounts: Accounts more than fifteen (15) days past due shall
be considered delinquent. Failure to pay such charge may result in termination
of water service to the affected property. (Ord. 541, 7-9-1991; amd. 2014 Code)
7-6-5: SERVICE CHARGE ACCOUNT:
There is hereby created a lighting service charge account into which there
shall be paid all revenues received or resulting from said lighting service
charges billed to the record occupants of property within the city; said
revenues and receipts shall be kept separate and distinct from all other
revenues received by the city. (Ord. 541, 7-9-1991)
CHAPTER 7
TREES AND SHRUBBERY
SECTION:
7-7-1: Injury Unlawful
7-7-1: INJURY UNLAWFUL:
   A.   Shrubbery: It is hereby made unlawful for any person, not the owner
thereof, to wilfully cut, injure, disfigure, or destroy any shade trees,
flowers, shrubbery, or other ornamental plants growing on either private
ground, or in or upon any sidewalk, street, public park or place in the city;
or to cut, mark, mar, or injure any building, sidewalk, or, other public
property in the city. (1962 Code §
8-3-1)
   B.   Trees: It is hereby made unlawful for any person, not the owner
thereof, or not duly authorized by the owner or by proper authorities of the
city, to break, cut, injure, disfigure, or damage the limbs or branches of any
shade trees, flowers, or other ornamental plants projecting from private ground
into or upon or over any street, sidewalk, park or public place in the city.
(1962 Code §
8-3-2)
CHAPTER 8
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE
SECTION:
7-8-1: Purpose And Intent
7-8-2: Definitions
7-8-3: Jurisdiction And Management Of Public Rights Of Way
7-8-4: Regulatory Fees And Compensation Not A Tax
7-8-5: Registration Of Telecommunications Carriers
7-8-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to:
   A.   Comply with the provisions of the 1996 telecommunications act as they
apply to local governments, telecommunications carriers and the services those
carriers offer;
   B.   Promote competition on a competitively neutral basis in the provision
of telecommunications services;
   C.   Encourage the provision of advanced and competitive telecommunications
services on the widest possible basis to businesses, institutions and residents
of the city;
   D.   Permit and manage reasonable access to the public rights of way of the
city for telecommunications purposes on a competitively neutral basis and
conserve the limited physical capacity of those public rights of way held in
trust by the city;
   E.   Assure that the city's current and ongoing costs of granting and
regulating private access to, and the use of, the public rights of way are
fully compensated by the persons seeking such access and causing such costs;
   F.   Secure fair and reasonable compensation to the city and its residents
for permitting private use of the public right of way;
   G.   Assure that all telecommunications carriers providing facilities and/or
services within the city, or passing through the city, register and comply with
the ordinances, rules and regulations of the city;
   H.   Assure that the city can continue to fairly and responsibly protect the
public health, safety and welfare of its citizens;
   I.   Enable the city to discharge its public trust consistent with the
rapidly evolving federal and state regulatory policies, industry competition
and technological development. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future; words in the
plural number include the singular number; and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory, and
"may" is permissive. Words not defined herein shall be given the meanings set
forth in the communications policy act of 1934, as amended, the cable
communications policy act of 1984, the cable television consumer protection and
competition act of 1992, and the telecommunications act of 1996. If not defined
therein, the words shall be given their common and ordinary meanings.
ABOVEGROUND FACILITIES: See definition of Overhead Or Aboveground Facilities.
AFFILIATED INTEREST: Shall have the same meaning as in Oregon Revised Statutes.
CABLE ACT: The cable communications policy act of 1984, 47 USC section 521 et
seq., as now and hereafter amended.
CABLE SERVICE: To be defined consistent with federal laws and means the one-way
transmission to subscribers of video programming, or other programming service;
and subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection or use
of such video programming or other programming service.
CITY: The city of Nyssa, Malheur County, an Oregon municipal corporation, and
individuals authorized to act on the city's behalf.
CITY COUNCIL: The governing body of the city of Nyssa, Oregon.
CITY PROPERTY: Means and includes all real property owned by the city, other
than "public rights of way" and utility easements as those are defined herein,
and all property held in a proprietary capacity by the city, which are not
subject to right of way franchising as provided in this chapter.
CONDUIT: Any structure, or portion thereof, containing one or more ducts,
conduits, manholes, handholes, bolts, or other facilities used for any
telegraph, telephone, cable television, electrical, or communications
conductors, or cable right of way, owned or controlled, in whole or in part, by
one or more public utilities.
CONSTRUCTION: Any activity in the public rights of way resulting in physical
change thereto, including excavation or placement of structures, but excluding
routine maintenance or repair of existing facilities.
CONTROL OR CONTROLLING INTEREST: Actual working control in whatever manner
exercised.
DAYS: Calendar days unless otherwise specified.
DUCT: A single enclosed raceway for conductors or cable.
EMERGENCY: Has the meaning provided for in Oregon Revised Statutes 401.025.
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION OR FCC: The federal administrative agency, or
its lawful successor, authorized to regulate and oversee telecommunications
carriers, services and providers on a national level.
FRANCHISE: An agreement between the city and a grantee which grants a privilege
to use public right of way and utility easements within the city for a
dedicated purpose and for specific compensation.
GRANTEE: The person to which a franchise is granted by the city.
OREGON PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OR OPUC: The statutorily created state
agency in the state of Oregon responsible for licensing, regulation and
administration of certain telecommunications carriers as set forth in Oregon
law, or its lawful successor.
OVERHEAD OR ABOVEGROUND FACILITIES: Utility poles, utility facilities and
telecommunications facilities above the surface of the ground, including the
underground supports and foundations for such facilities.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, company, association, joint stock company
or association, firm, partnership, or limited liability company.
PRIVATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK: A system, including the construction,
maintenance or operation of the system, for the provision of a service or any
portion of a service which is owned or operated exclusively by a person for
their use and not for resale, directly or indirectly. "Private
telecommunications network" includes services provided by the state of Oregon
pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes 190.240 and 283.140.
PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY: Include, but are not limited to, streets, roads,
highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, trails, paths, public easements, and all
other public ways or areas, including the subsurface under, and air space over,
these areas. This definition applies only to the extent of the city's right,
title, interest or authority to grant a franchise to occupy and use such areas
for telecommunications facilities. "Public rights of way" shall also include
utility easements as defined in this section.
STATE: The state of Oregon.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: The transmission between and among points specified by the
user, of information of the user's choosing, without change in the form or
content of the information as sent and received.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT: The communications policy act of 1934, as amended by
subsequent enactments including the telecommunications act of 1996 (47 USC
section 151 et seq.) and as hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER: Any provider of telecommunications services and
includes every person that directly or indirectly owns, controls, operates or
manages telecommunications facilities within the city.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES: The plant and equipment, other than customer
premises equipment, used by a telecommunications carrier to provide
telecommunications services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Two-way switched access and transport of voice
communications but does not include: a) services provided by radio common
carrier; b) one-way transmission of television signals; c) surveying; d)
private telecommunications networks; or e) communications of the customer which
take place on the customer side of on premises equipment.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM: See definition of Telecommunications Facilities.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS UTILITY: Has the same meaning as in Oregon Revised Statutes
759.005(9).
UNDERGROUND FACILITIES: Utility and telecommunications facilities located under
the surface of the ground, excluding the underground foundations or supports
for "overhead facilities".
USABLE SPACE: All the space on a pole, except the portion below ground level,
the twenty feet (20') of safety clearance space above ground level, and the
safety clearance space between communications and power circuits. There is a
rebuttable presumption that six feet (6') of a pole is buried below ground
level.
UTILITY EASEMENT: Any easement granted to or owned by the city and acquired,
established, dedicated or devoted for public utility purposes.
UTILITY FACILITIES: The plant, equipment and property, including, but not
limited to, the poles, pipes, mains, conduits, ducts, cable, wires, plant and
equipment located under, on, or above the surface of the ground within the
public right of way of the city and used or to be used for the purpose of
providing utility or telecommunications services. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000; amd.
2014 Code)
7-8-3: JURISDICTION AND MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory management over all
public rights of way within the city under authority of the city charter and
state law.
   B.   Public rights of way include, but are not limited to, streets, roads,
highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, trails, paths, public easements and all
other public ways or areas, including the subsurface under, and air space over,
these areas.
   C.   The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory management over each
public right of way whether the city has a fee, easement, or other legal
interest in the right of way. The city has jurisdiction and regulatory
management of each right of way whether the legal interest in the right of way
was obtained by grant, dedication, prescription, reservation, condemnation,
annexation, foreclosure or other means.
   D.   No person may occupy or encroach on a public right of way without the
permission of the city. The city grants permission to use rights of way by
franchises and permits.
   E.   The exercise of jurisdiction and regulatory management of a public
right of way by the city is not official acceptance of the right of way, and
does not obligate the city to maintain or repair any part of the right of way.
   F.   The city retains the right and privilege to cut or move any
telecommunications facilities located within the public rights of way of the
city, as the city may determine to be necessary, appropriate or useful in
response to a public health or safety emergency. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8-4: REGULATORY FEES AND COMPENSATION NOT A TAX:
   A.   The fees and costs provided for in this chapter, and any compensation
charged and paid for use of the public rights of way provided for in this
chapter, are separate from, and in addition to, any and all federal, state,
local, and city charges as may be levied, imposed, or due from a
telecommunications carrier, its customers or subscribers, or on account of the
lease, sale, delivery, or transmission of telecommunications services.
   B.   The city has determined that any fee provided for by this chapter is
not subject to the property tax limitations of article XI, sections 11 and 11b
of the Oregon constitution. These fees are not imposed on property or property
owners, and these fees are not new or increased fees.
   C.   The fees and costs provided for in this chapter are subject to
applicable federal and state laws. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8-5: REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of registration is:
      1.   To assure that all telecommunications carriers who have facilities
and/or provide services within the city comply with the ordinances, rules and
regulations of the city.
      2.   To provide the city with accurate and current information concerning
the telecommunications carriers who offer to provide telecommunications
services within the city, or that own or operate telecommunications facilities
within the city.
      3.   To assist the city in the enforcement of this chapter and the
collection of any city franchise fees or charges that may be due the city.
   B.   Registration Required: Except as provided in subsection D of this
section, all telecommunications carriers having telecommunications facilities
within the corporate limits of the city, and all telecommunications carriers
that offer or provide telecommunications service to customer premises within
the city, shall register. The appropriate application and license from: 1) the
Oregon public utility commission (OPUC); or 2) the federal communications
commission (FCC) qualify as necessary registration information. Applicants also
have the option of providing the following information:
      1.   The identity and legal status of the registrant, including the name,
address, and telephone number of the duly authorized officer, agent, or
employee responsible for the accuracy of the registration information.
      2.   The name, address, and telephone number for the duly authorized
officer, agent, or employee to be contacted in case of an emergency.
      3.   A description of the registrant's existing or proposed
telecommunications facilities within the city, a description of the
telecommunications facilities that the registrant intends to construct, and a
description of the telecommunications service that the registrant intends to
offer or provide to persons, firms, businesses, or institutions within the
city.
   C.   Registration Fee: Each application for registration as a
telecommunications carrier shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable registration
fee in an amount to be determined by resolution of the city council.
   D.   Exceptions To Registration: The following telecommunications carriers
are excepted from registration:
      1.   Telecommunications carriers that are owned and operated exclusively
for its own use by the state or a political subdivision of the state.
      2.   A private telecommunications network; provided, that such network
does not occupy any public rights of way of the city. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
CHAPTER 9
USE OF CITY PROPERTY FOR CAMPING
SECTION:
7-9-1: Purpose and Scope
7-9-2: Definitions
7-9-3: Camping Prohibited On City Property And Public Rights-Of-Way
7-9-4: Time, Place And Manner Regulations
7-9-5: Vehicles, Automobiles Or Recreational Vehicles
7-9-6: Violations And Enforcement
7-9-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to adequately protect the
health, safety, and public welfare of the City by addressing time, place, and
manner of camping regulations that identify when, where, and how camping is
allowed on City property, as well as define enforcement and compliance. This
chapter addresses camping in tents and other portable shelters.
   B.   Scope: This chapter is meant to regulate the use of City property and
is not intended to regulate activities on private property or property owned by
other public entities unless the property is required to be maintained by the
City. This chapter does not allow violation of other ordinances, rules, or laws
of the City. (Ord. 673-23, 6-20-2023)
7-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
Definitions: For purposes of this chapter, the following terms and phrases have
the meanings assigned to them below:
                        Pitch, erect, create, use, or occupy camp facilities
CAMP or CAMPING:        for the purposes of habitation, as evidenced by the use
                        of camp paraphernalia.
                        Include, but are not limited to, tents, huts, temporary
CAMP FACILITIES1:       shelters, lean-tos, or any other temporary and removal
                        structures or parts thereof.
                        Includes, but is not limited to, tarpaulins, cots,
CAMP PARAPHERNALIA1:    beds, sleeping bags, blankets, mattresses, hammocks, or
                        outdoor cooking devices and similar equipment.
                        Any location where one or more persons have temporary
CAMPSITE:               sleeping or living accommodations by use of camp
                        facilities and/or camp paraphernalia.
CITY PROPERTY:          All real property, land, and right-of-way owned, leased
                        controlled, or managed by the City.
ESTABLISHED CAMPSITE:   A campsite in place for over 24 consecutive hours in
                        one location.
                        Having no means to acquire one's shelter and not
INVOLUNTARILY HOMELESS: otherwise having access to shelter or other alternative
                        options for housing.
                        Any item that can reasonably be identified as belonging
PERSONAL PROPERTY:      to an individual and that has apparent value or
                        utility. Personal property includes camp facilities and
                        camp paraphernalia.
RECREATIONAL FIRE:      A fire for the cooking of food, warmth, fellowship, or
                        ceremonial purposes.
                        Roads, and other public right-of-way dedicated and
                        accepted by the City, either in fee title or as holder
                        of a public easement for right-of-way or public access
                        purposes. Public right-of-way includes but is not
RIGHT-OF-WAY:           limited to any City road, street, lane, alley, bike
                        path, sidewalk, or other property that is subject to a
                        public access easement dedicated or granted to the City
                        for vehicular, pedestrian, or other means. This
                        includes roads and sidewalks required to be maintained
                        by the City.
                        Public or private elementary, middle or high school, or
SCHOOL:                 other school attended primarily by children under
                        eighteen (18) years of age.
Note:
1.   Camp facilities and camp paraphernalia do not include vehicles,
automobiles, or recreation vehicles used for camping.
 
(Ord. 673-23, 6-20-2023)
7-9-3: CAMPING PROHIBITED ON CITY PROPERTY AND PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
It is unlawful for any person to camp in or upon any City property or public
right-of-way, unless otherwise specifically authorized by this Code. This
Section
7-9-3 does not apply to a person who is involuntarily homeless provided that
such person complies with the following restrictions on the time, place, and
manner with respect to their campsite set out in Section
7-9-4. (Ord. 673-23, 6-20-2023)
7-9-4: TIME, PLACE, AND MANNER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Time Regulations: An involuntarily homeless person may camp between the
hours of seven o’clock (7:00) p.m. and seven o’clock (7:00) a.m. After seven
o’clock (7:00) a.m., an involuntarily homeless person must dismantle the
campsite and remove all personal property from the campsite. Any camp, camp
materials, or personal property in violation of any standards in this chapter
may be removed or cleaned up by the City.
   B.   Place regulations: Except as expressly authorized in the Nyssa City
Code, it shall be unlawful for any person to camp in the following places at
any time:
      1.   On or within any public right-of-way, including undeveloped public
rights-of-ways.
      2.   City parking lots.
      3.   City parks except as specifically authorized by the City Manager.
      4.   Any City property that is fenced, posted with signs such as "keep
out" or "no trespassing" or otherwise not open to the public.
      5.   Within five hundred (500) feet of any school or childcare facility.
      6.   Within twenty-five (25) feet of the public entrance to a business,
including the front entrance of a City business.
      7.   Within twenty-five (25) feet of a public or private driveway.
      8.   On or within one hundred (100) feet of City property located within
any area zoned residential or industrial on the City zoning maps or ordinances
in effect at the time.
      9.   On or within one hundred (100) feet of the City water tanks, wells,
water treatment facilities, wastewater treatment facilities, lagoons, and
agricultural land used for disposal of treated wastewater.
   C.   Manner Regulations: An involuntarily homeless person camping on public
property may not:
      1.   Obstruct access to private property or businesses adjacent to the
public right-of-way.
      2.   Start or maintain any fire for the purposes of burning any
combustible material in or around the campsite.
      3.   Use a gas heater in or around a campsite.
      4.   Erect, install, place, leave, or set up any type of permanent or
temporary fixture or structure of any material(s) in or upon public property or
public right-of-way. Items such as tents and similar items used for shelter
that are readily portable are not structures for the purposes of this section.
      5.   Dig, excavate, terrace soil, alter the ground or infrastructure,
cause environmental damage, or damage vegetation or trees in or around a
campsite.
      6.   Place or store personal belongings, or other objects, in a total
area encompassing more than ten square feet outside the tent or readily
portable shelter.
      7.   Accumulate, discard, or leave behind garbage, debris, unsanitary or
hazardous materials, sewage, drug paraphernalia, improperly disposed of
syringes, or other evidence of conspicuous drug use on such property or any
adjacent private property. (Ord. 673-23, 6-20-2023)
7-9-5: VEHICLES, AUTOMOBILES, OR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
It is prohibited at all times for any person to use City property to camp in
vehicles, automobiles, or recreation vehicles, provided the City may, in its
discretion, designate certain City properties or portions of properties where
camping in licensed and fully operable vehicles, automobiles or recreation
vehicles may be allowed on a limited basis, and may set the terms and
conditions of camping that may be allowed. Any such use of City property will
follow environmental health and building code provisions. (Ord. 673-23, 6-20-
2023)
7-9-6: VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violation: A violation of this chapter is a Class D civil infraction.
Citations will only be issued when other means of achieving compliance have
been unsuccessful or are not practical for the situation. Violators will be
cited in the Malheur County Justice Court.
   B.   Prior to civil infraction: Before a civil infraction citation is
issued, the City enforcement officer will contact the person(s) and provide a
reasonable opportunity to cure or remedy the alleged violation. The enforcement
officer shall consider weather conditions if the person has a disability, and
other appropriate factors in determining a reasonable period of time to cure.
In most cases, the enforcement officer will assess whether the person subject
to the citation has been referred to service providers, and make a referral if
it appears none have been made.
   C.   Campsite and Property Removal: A violation of this chapter may result
in the removal of an established campsite (existing for more than 24 hours). In
addition, when enforcement personnel determines a campsite that endangers
public health and safety, the campsite may be removed immediately. Typically,
removal of a campsite and clean-up of the camp, camp material, camp
paraphernalia, or other personal property will not occur until after a request
for voluntary compliance has been made, except in the case of an exceptional
emergency, such as possible contamination by hazardous materials, a public
health emergency or when there is an immediate danger to human life or safety
or illegal activities. Any camp, camp materials, camp paraphernalia, or
personal property in violation of the standards or manner regulations in this
chapter may be removed or cleaned up by the City or its contractors, subject to
the requirements in section D below. A campsite and individual may be subject
to removal or citation, or both.
   D.   Policies Related to Campsite and Personal Property Removal:
      1.   Prior to removing an established campsite on City property, at least
seventy-two (72) hours in advance, except in the case of emergency, danger to
human life or safety, or criminal/illegal activity, the City will post notice
(in English and Spanish) at the location of the established campsite stating
the individuals must leave and all remaining personal property will be removed
by the City. The notice will state:
         a.   An address where the unclaimed personal property will be stored;
         b.   Lists a phone number and hours a person can claim ownership and
collect or make arrangements to collect their personal property; or
         c.   List a phone number and address individuals may call to find out
where the property will be stored.
      The City will also inform local agencies that deliver services to
homeless individuals that such notice has been posted and the location of the
notice.
      2.   A campsite may be removed for violation of this chapter without
posting a seventy-two (72)-hour notice when there are grounds for law
enforcement officials to believe that illegal activity, other than camping, is
occurring on the campsite or in the immediate vicinity of the campsite, or the
property that comprises the campsite is being used or intended to be used to
commit or facilitate the commission of otherwise illegal activity; or in the
event of an exceptional emergency, such as possible site contamination by
hazardous materials or when there is an immediate danger to human life or
safety.
      3.   Once the seventy-two (72)-hour notice has been posted, the City may
remove the established campsite and personal property beginning seventy-two
(72) hours after posting and for up to ten (10) days following the posting.
      4.   After the established campsite has been removed subject to a
seventy-two (72)-hour notice or for campsites when no advance notice is
required due to the circumstances, the camp and all associated camp facilities,
camp paraphernalia, and personal property can be removed by City.
      5.   When removing individuals and property from campsites, enforcement
personnel will make reasonable efforts to remove individuals without the use of
force, arrest, or citation.
      6.   When removing camp facilities, camp paraphernalia, and personal
property, the City will make reasonable efforts to determine if the property
belongs to an individual and if it has any apparent value or utility. The City
will make reasonable efforts to identify which established campsite personal
property was removed from and aid in connecting people with their property.
Items that are perishable, have no apparent use or value, or are in an
unsanitary condition due to saturation or contamination from bodily fluids,
whether human or animal or other contamination, will be considered garbage,
discarded, and not stored.
      7.   Weapons, drug paraphernalia, other contraband, and items that appear
to be either stolen or evidence of a crime shall be given to law enforcement
officials. Items that appear to have a value of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or more shall be given to law enforcement officials for storage and
safekeeping and shall be made available as described in Section D.9. below.
      8.   When personal property, camp paraphernalia, and camp facilities are
removed and notice was not provided as set out in Section D1 the City must post
a notice at or near as possible to the location where the personal property was
collected. The notice will state where the personal property is being stored,
list a phone number and hours a person can claim ownership, and collect or make
arrangements to collect their personal property.
      9.   Personal property removed from a campsite and unclaimed at the time
of removal will be stored by the City for a minimum of thirty (30) days, or the
duration required by law at the time of the removal. To the extent possible,
the City will store personal property at a City building or facilities in the
same community of the campsite so that individuals can reasonably retrieve
personal property. The City will make reasonable efforts to provide a range of
times the storage location will be available for individuals to collect their
personal property. The City may dispose of any personal property that remains
unclaimed after thirty (30) days, or such duration as required by law. (Ord.
673-23, 6-20-2023)
ARTICLE A. CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
SECTION:
7-8A-1: Compliance Requirements
7-8A-2: Construction Codes
7-8A-3: Construction Permits
7-8A-4: Permit Applications
7-8A-5: Applicant's Verification
7-8A-6: Construction Schedule
7-8A-7: Construction Permit Fee
7-8A-8: Issuance Of Permit
7-8A-9: Notice Of Construction
7-8A-10: Compliance With Permit
7-8A-11: Noncomplying Work
7-8A-12: Completion Of Construction
7-8A-13: As Built Drawings
7-8A-14: Restoration Of Public Rights Of Way And City Property
7-8A-15: Performance And Completion Bond
7-8A-16: Location Of Telecommunications Facilities
7-8A-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS:
No person shall commence or continue with the construction, installation or
operation of telecommunications facilities within a public right of way, except
as provided in sections
7-8A-4 through
7-8A-16 of this article and with all applicable codes, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8A-2: CONSTRUCTION CODES:
Telecommunications facilities shall be constructed, installed, operated and
maintained in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local codes,
rules and regulations, including the national electrical code and the national
electrical safety code. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8A-3: CONSTRUCTION PERMITS:
No person shall construct or install any telecommunications facilities within a
public right of way without first obtaining a construction permit, and paying
the construction permit fee established in section
7-8A-7 of this article. No permit shall be issued for the construction or
installation of telecommunications facilities within a public right of way:
   A.   Unless the telecommunications carrier has first filed a registration
statement with the city pursuant to section
7-8-5 of this chapter; and if applicable.
   B.   Unless the telecommunications carrier has first applied for and
received a franchise pursuant to sections
7-8B-6 through
7-8B-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8A-4: PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
Applications for permits to construct telecommunications facilities shall be
submitted upon forms to be provided by the city and shall be accompanied by
drawings, plans and specifications in sufficient detail to demonstrate:
   A.   That the facilities will be constructed in accordance with all
applicable codes, rules and regulations.
   B.   That the facilities will be constructed in accordance with the
franchise agreement.
   C.   The location and route of all facilities to be installed aboveground or
on existing utility poles.
   D.   The location and route of all new facilities on or in the public rights
of way to be located under the surface of the ground, including the line and
grade proposed for the burial at all points along the route which are within
the public rights of way. Existing facilities shall be differentiated on the
plans from new construction.
   E.   The location of all of applicant's existing underground utilities,
conduits, ducts, pipes, mains and installations which are within the public
rights of way along the underground route proposed by the applicant. A cross
section shall be provided showing new or existing facilities in relation to the
street, curb, sidewalk or right of way.
   F.   The construction methods to be employed for protection of existing
structures, fixtures, and facilities within or adjacent to the public rights of
way, and description of any improvements that applicant proposes to temporarily
or permanently remove or relocate. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8A-5: APPLICANT'S VERIFICATION:
All permit applications shall be accompanied by the verification of a
registered professional engineer, or other qualified and duly authorized
representative of the applicant, that the drawings, plans and specifications
submitted with the application comply with applicable technical codes, rules
and regulations. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8A-6: CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE:
All permit applications shall be accompanied by a written construction
schedule, which shall include a deadline for completion of construction. The
construction schedule is subject to approval by the City Manager. (Ord. 00-590,
3-14-2000)
7-8A-7: CONSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE:
Unless otherwise provided in a franchise agreement, prior to issuance of a
construction permit, the applicant shall pay a permit fee in an amount to be
determined by resolution of the City Council. Such fees shall be designed to
defray the costs of City administration of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8A-8: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   All applicants for a construction permit shall be required to reimburse
the City for all costs it reasonably incurs in evaluating the applicant's
proposal, impacts and permit/condition compliance, including review by the City
Manager, City Engineer, City Attorney and any other outside consultant.
   B.   Approval of a construction permit, including conditions designed to
protect the aesthetics of the City, long-term function, safety and structural
integrity of the right-of-way, and all utilities within the right-of-way, shall
not be unreasonably withheld. However, where protection of the aesthetics of
the City, the function, safety and structural integrity of the right-of-way or
existing utility facilities within the right-of-way cannot be assured through
the imposition of conditions, the permit shall be denied.
   C.   All construction permit applications shall be reviewed and decided in
writing by the City Manager in consultation with the City Engineer, City
Attorney, and any affected State, County or Federal agencies. The City Manager
may refer any construction permit application to the City Council for review
and decision.
   D.   Any additions or modifications to a telecommunication structure are not
allowed unless a new construction permit is issued by the City.
   E.   Any decision on a construction permit by the City Manager is final
unless appealed to the City Council. A construction permit decision may be
appealed to the City Council by requesting Council review within fourteen (14)
days of when the City's decision is reduced to writing and signed. Any decision
by the City Council on a construction permit is final. The City's decision on a
right-of-way permit is not a "land use decision" or "limited land use decision"
under Oregon Revised Statutes 197, nor is it a "permit" under Oregon Revised
Statutes 227. (Ord. 652-16, 11-8-2016)
7-8A-9: NOTICE OF CONSTRUCTION:
Except in the case of an emergency, the permittee shall notify the City Manager
not less than two (2) working days in advance of any excavation or construction
in the public rights-of-way, and in addition shall call the one-call
underground utility locate number for utility locates where excavation will
occur. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8A-10: COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT:
All construction practices and activities shall be in accordance with the
permit and approved final plans and specifications for the facilities. The City
Manager and his representative shall be provided access to the work site and
such further information as he may require to ensure compliance with such
requirements. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8A-11: NONCOMPLYING WORK:
Subject to the notice requirements in section
7-8A-14 of this article, all work which does not comply with the permit, the
approved or corrected plans and specifications for the work, or the
requirements of this chapter, shall be removed at the sole expense of the
permittee. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8A-12: COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION:
The permittee shall promptly complete all construction activities so as to
minimize disruption of the City rights-of- way and other public and private
property. All construction work within the City rights-of-way, including
restoration, must be completed within one hundred twenty (120) days of the date
of issuance of the construction permit unless an extension or an alternate
schedule has been approved pursuant to the schedule submitted and approved by
the appropriate City official as contemplated by section
7-8A-6 of this article. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8A-13: AS BUILT DRAWINGS:
If requested by the City, the permittee shall furnish the City with two (2)
complete sets of plans drawn to scale and certified to the City as accurately
depicting the location of all telecommunications facilities constructed
pursuant to the permit. These plans shall be submitted to the City Manager or
designee within sixty (60) days after completion of construction, in a hard
copy format and in an electronic format mutually acceptable to the permittee
and the City. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8A-14: RESTORATION OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND CITY PROPERTY:
   A.   Restoration Required: When a permittee, or any person acting on its
behalf, does any work in or affecting any public rights-of-way or City
property, it shall, at its own expense, promptly remove any obstructions
therefrom and restore such ways or property to good order and condition unless
otherwise directed by the City and as determined by the City Manager or
designee.
   B.   Delay; Temporary Restoration: If weather or other conditions do not
permit the complete restoration required by this section, the permittee shall
temporarily restore the affected rights-of-way or property. Such temporary
restoration shall be at the permittee's sole expense and the permittee shall
promptly undertake and complete the required permanent restoration when the
weather or other conditions no longer prevent such permanent restoration. Any
corresponding modification to the construction schedule shall be subject to
approval by the City.
   C.   Failure To Restore; Notice; Restoration By City: If the permittee fails
to restore rights-of-way or property to good order and condition, the City
shall give the permittee written notice and provide the permittee a reasonable
period of time not exceeding thirty (30) days to restore the rights-of-way or
property. If, after said notice, the permittee fails to restore the rights-of-
way or property to as good a condition as existed before the work was
undertaken, the City shall cause such restoration to be made at the expense of
the permittee.
   D.   Safety Measures; Barricades, Flags Or Lights: A permittee or other
person acting in its behalf shall use suitable barricades, flags, flagging
attendants, lights, flares and other measures as required for the safety of all
members of the general public and to prevent injury or damage to any person,
vehicle or property by reason of such work in or affecting such rights-of-way
or property. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8A-15: PERFORMANCE AND COMPLETION BOND:
Unless otherwise provided in a franchise agreement, a performance bond or other
form of surety acceptable to the City equal to at least one hundred percent
(100%) of the estimated cost of constructing a permittee's telecommunications
facilities within the public rights-of-way of the City, shall be provided
before construction is commenced.
   A.   Term Of Surety: The surety shall remain in force until sixty (60) days
after substantial completion of the work, as determined in writing by the City,
including restoration of public rights-of-way and other property affected by
the construction.
   B.   Guarantees: The surety shall guarantee, to the satisfaction of the
City:
      1.   Timely completion of construction;
      2.   Construction in compliance with applicable plans, permits, technical
codes and standards;
      3.   Proper location of the facilities as specified by the City;
      4.   Restoration of the public rights-of-way and other property affected
by the construction; and
      5.   Timely payment and satisfaction of all claims, demands or liens for
labor, material, or services provided in connection with the work. (Ord. 00-
590, 3-14-2000)
7-8A-16: LOCATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
   A.   Location Of Facilities: All facilities located within the public right-
of-way shall be constructed, installed and located in accordance with the
following terms and conditions, unless otherwise specified in a franchise
agreement:
      1.   Whenever all existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public right-of-
way of the City, a grantee with permission to occupy the same public right-of-
way must also locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
      2.   Whenever all new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public right-of-way of the City, a grantee that currently occupies the same
public right- of-way shall relocate its facilities underground concurrently
with the other affected utilities to minimize disruption of the public right-
of-way, absent extraordinary circumstances or undue hardship as determined by
the City and consistent with applicable State and Federal law.
   B.   Interference With Public Rights-Of-Way: No grantee may locate or
maintain its telecommunications facilities so as to unreasonably interfere with
the use of the public rights-of- way by the City, by the general public or by
other persons authorized to use or be present in or upon the public rights- of-
way. All use of public rights-of-way shall be consistent with City codes,
ordinances and regulations.
   C.   Relocation Or Removal Of Facilities: Except in the case of an
emergency, within ninety (90) days following written notice from the City, a
grantee shall, at no expense to grantor, temporarily or permanently remove,
relocate, change or alter the position of any telecommunications facilities
within the public rights-of-way whenever the City shall have determined that
such removal, relocation, change or alteration is reasonably necessary for:
      1.   The construction, repairs, maintenance or installation of any City
or other public improvement in or upon the public rights-of-way.
      2.   The operations of the City or other governmental entity in or upon
the public rights-of-way.
      3.   The public interest.
   D.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the City, any grantee, telecommunications carrier, or other
person that owns, controls or maintains any unauthorized telecommunications
system, facility, or related appurtenances within the public rights-of-way of
the City shall, at its own expense, remove such facilities or appurtenances
from the public rights-of-way of the City. A telecommunications system or
facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   One (1) year after the expiration or termination of the grantee's
telecommunications franchise.
      2.   Upon abandonment of a facility within the public rights-of- way of
the City. A facility will be considered abandoned when it is deactivated, out
of service, or not used for its intended and authorized purpose for a period of
ninety (90) days or longer. A facility will not be considered abandoned if it
is temporarily out of service during performance of repairs or if the facility
is being replaced.
      3.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed without the
appropriate prior authority at the time of installation.
      4.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed at a location
not permitted by the grantee's telecommunications franchise or other legally
sufficient permit.
   E.   Coordination Of Construction Activities: All grantees are required to
make a good faith effort to cooperate with the City.
      1.   By January 1 of each year, grantees shall provide the City with a
schedule of their proposed construction activities in, around or that may
affect the public rights-of-way.
      2.   If requested by the City, each grantee shall meet with the City
annually or as determined by the City, to schedule and coordinate construction
in the public rights-of-way. At that time, the City will provide available
information on plans for local, State, and/or Federal construction projects.
      3.   All construction locations, activities and schedules shall be
coordinated, as ordered by the City Manager or designee, to minimize public
inconvenience, disruption or damages. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
   F.   Limitations And Conditions On Use Of The Right-Of-Way: Any use of the
public right-of-way for telecommunications, including the placement of
permanent facilities, utilities, poles, equipment or other fixtures, shall be
subject to the following requirements and limitations:
      1.   No permanent fixtures shall be placed in the public right- of-way
that obstruct vehicle traffic lanes or reduce the usable width of the sidewalk
to less than four feet (4').
      2.   No new permanent fixtures or facilities shall be allowed in the
public right-of-way without an engineer's certification of structural integrity
and that the fixture or facility does not pose an unsafe obstruction in the
traffic clear area or safety hazard to vehicles that might leave the travel
lane.
      3.   No permanent fixtures or other facilities in the public right-of-way
shall be taller than sixty five feet (65'), including new structures or
extensions to existing utility or light poles.
      4.   Applicants for a construction permit may be required to design the
telecommunication structure in such a way to conform to the aesthetics of the
community which may include camouflage or other design techniques. (Ord. 652-
16, 11-8-2016)
ARTICLE B. TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE
SECTION:
7-8B-1: Franchise Required
7-8B-2: Application For Franchise
7-8B-3: Application And Review Fee
7-8B-4: Determination By City
7-8B-5: Rights Granted
7-8B-6: Term Of Grant
7-8B-7: Franchise Territory
7-8B-8: Franchise Fee
7-8B-9: Amendment Of Grant
7-8B-10: Renewal Applications
7-8B-11: Renewal Determination
7-8B-12: Obligation To Cure As Condition Of Renewal
7-8B-13: Assignments Or Transfers Of System Or Franchise
7-8B-14: Revocation Or Termination Of Franchise
7-8B-15: Notice And Duty To Cure
7-8B-16: Public Hearing
7-8B-17: Standards For Revocation Or Lesser Sanctions
7-8B-18: Other City Costs
7-8B-1: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
A telecommunications franchise shall be required of any telecommunications
carrier who desires to occupy public rights of way of the city. (Ord. 00-590,
3-14-2000)
7-8B-2: APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE:
Any person that desires a telecommunications franchise must register as a
telecommunications carrier and shall file an application with the city finance
department, which includes the following information:
   A.   The identity of the applicant.
   B.   A description of the telecommunications services that are to be offered
or provided by the applicant over its telecommunications facilities.
   C.   Engineering plans, specifications, and a network map in a form
customarily used by the applicant and in a computerized format compatible with
AutoCAD 14, of the facilities located or to be located within the public rights
of way in the city, including the location and route requested for the
applicant's proposed telecommunications facilities, all in sufficient detail to
identify the location and size of said facilities.
   D.   The area or areas of the city the applicant desires to serve and a
preliminary construction schedule for build-out to the entire franchise area.
   E.   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all other
governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the facilities and
to offer or provide the telecommunications services proposed.
   F.   An accurate map showing the location of any existing telecommunications
facilities in the city that applicant intends to use or lease. (Ord. 00-590, 3-
14-2000)
7-8B-3: APPLICATION AND REVIEW FEE:
   A.   Subject to applicable state law, the applicant shall reimburse the city
for such reasonable costs as the city incurs in entering into the franchise
agreement.
   B.   An application and review fee of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) shall
be deposited with the city as part of the application filed pursuant to section
7-8B-2 of this article. Expenses exceeding the deposit will be billed to the
applicant or the unused portion of the deposit will be returned to the
applicant following the determination granting or denying the franchise. (Ord.
00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8B-4: DETERMINATION BY CITY:
The city shall issue a written determination granting or denying the
application in whole or in part. If the application is denied, the written
determination shall include the reasons for denial. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8B-5: RIGHTS GRANTED:
No franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall convey any right, title or
interest in the public rights of way, but shall be deemed a grant to use and
occupy the public rights of way for the limited purposes and term stated in the
franchise agreement. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8B-6: TERM OF GRANT:
Unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement, a telecommunications
franchise granted hereunder shall be in effect for a term of years. (Ord. 00-
590, 3-14-2000)
7-8B-7: FRANCHISE TERRITORY:
Unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement, a telecommunications
franchise granted hereunder shall be limited to a specific geographic area of
the city to be served by the franchise grantee, and the public rights of way
necessary to serve such areas, and may include the whole city. (Ord. 00-590, 3-
14-2000)
7-8B-8: FRANCHISE FEE:
Each franchise granted by the city is subject to the city's right, which is
expressly reserved, to fix a fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for
the privileges granted; provided, nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the
city and a grantee from agreeing to the compensation to be paid. The
compensation shall be subject to the specific payment terms and conditions
contained in the franchise agreement and applicable state and federal laws.
(Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8B-9: AMENDMENT OF GRANT:
Conditions for amending a franchise:
   A.   A new application and grant shall be required of any telecommunications
carrier that desires to extend or locate its telecommunications facilities in
public rights of way of the city which are not included in a franchise
previously granted under this chapter.
   B.   If ordered by the city to locate or relocate its telecommunications
facilities in public rights of way not included in a previously granted
franchise, the city shall grant an amendment without further application.
   C.   A new application and grant shall be required of any telecommunications
carrier that desires to provide a service which was not included in a franchise
previously granted under this chapter. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8B-10: RENEWAL APPLICATIONS:
A grantee that desires to renew its franchise under this chapter shall, not
less than one hundred eighty (180) days before expiration of the current
agreement, file an application with the city for renewal of its franchise,
which shall include the following information:
   A.   The information required pursuant to section
7-8B-7 of this article.
   B.   Any information required pursuant to the franchise agreement between
the city and the grantee. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8B-11: RENEWAL DETERMINATION:
Within ninety (90) days after receiving a complete application under section
7-8B-15 of this article, the city shall issue a written determination granting
or denying the renewal application in whole or in part, applying the following
standards. If the renewal application is denied, the written determination
shall include the reasons for nonrenewal:
   A.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
   B.   The legal ability of the applicant.
   C.   The continuing capacity of the public rights of way to accommodate the
applicant's existing and proposed facilities.
   D.   The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this chapter and
the franchise agreement.
   E.   Applicable federal, state and local telecommunications laws, rules and
policies.
   F.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to use
the public rights of way will serve the community interest. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-
2000)
7-8B-12: OBLIGATION TO CURE AS CONDITION OF RENEWAL:
No franchise shall be renewed until any ongoing violations or defaults in the
grantee's performance of the agreement, or of the requirements of this chapter,
have been cured, or a plan detailing the corrective action to be taken by the
grantee has been approved by the city. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8B-13: ASSIGNMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF SYSTEM OR FRANCHISE:
Ownership or control of a majority interest in a telecommunications system or
franchise may not, directly or indirectly, be transferred, assigned or disposed
of by sale, lease, merger, consolidation or other act of the grantee, by
operation of law or otherwise, without the prior consent of the city, which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and then only on such
reasonable conditions as may be prescribed in such consent.
   A.   Grantee and the proposed assignee or transferee of the franchise or
system shall agree, in writing, to assume and abide by all of the provisions of
the franchise.
   B.   No transfer shall be approved unless the assignee or transferee has the
legal, technical, financial and other requisite qualifications to own, hold and
operate the telecommunications system pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   Unless otherwise provided in a franchise agreement, the grantee shall
reimburse the city for all direct and indirect fees, costs, and expenses
reasonably incurred by the city in considering a request to transfer or assign
a telecommunications franchise.
   D.   Any transfer or assignment of a telecommunications franchise, system or
integral part of a system without prior approval of the city under this section
or pursuant to a franchise agreement shall be void and is cause for revocation
of the franchise. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8B-14: REVOCATION OR TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE:
A franchise to use or occupy public rights of way of the city may be revoked
for the following reasons:
   A.   Construction or operation in the city or in the public rights of way of
the city without a construction permit.
   B.   Construction or operation at an unauthorized location.
   C.   Failure to comply with section
7-8B-13 of this article with respect to sale, transfer or assignment of a
telecommunications system or franchise.
   D.   Misrepresentation by, or on behalf of, a grantee in any application to
the city.
   E.   Abandonment of telecommunications facilities in the public rights of
way.
   F.   Failure to relocate or remove facilities as required in this chapter.
   G.   Failure to pay taxes, compensation, fees or costs when and as due the
city under this chapter.
   H.   Insolvency or bankruptcy of the grantee.
   I.   Violation of material provisions of this chapter.
   J.   Violation of the material terms of a franchise agreement. (Ord. 00-590,
3-14-2000)
7-8B-15: NOTICE AND DUTY TO CURE:
In the event that the city believes that grounds exist for revocation of a
franchise, the city shall give the grantee written notice of the apparent
violation or noncompliance, providing a short and concise statement of the
nature and general facts of the violation or noncompliance, and providing the
grantee a reasonable period of time, not exceeding thirty (30) days, to furnish
evidence that:
   A.   Corrective action has been, or is being, actively and expeditiously
pursued to remedy the violation or noncompliance;
   B.   Rebuts the alleged violation or noncompliance; and/or
   C.   It would be in the public interest to impose some penalty or sanction
less than revocation. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8B-16: PUBLIC HEARING:
In the event that a grantee fails to provide evidence reasonably satisfactory
to the city as provided in section
7-8B-15 of this article, the city manager shall refer the apparent violation or
noncompliance to the city council. The city council shall provide the grantee
with notice and a reasonable opportunity to be heard concerning the matter.
(Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8B-17: STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION OR LESSER SANCTIONS:
If persuaded that the grantee has violated or failed to comply with material
provisions of this chapter, or of a franchise agreement, the city council shall
determine whether to revoke the franchise, or to establish some lesser sanction
and cure, considering the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the
violation as reflected by one or more of the following factors, whether:
   A.   The misconduct was egregious.
   B.   Substantial harm resulted.
   C.   The violation was intentional.
   D.   There is a history of prior violations of the same or other
requirements.
   E.   There is a history of overall compliance.
   F.   The violation was voluntarily disclosed, admitted or cured. (Ord. 00-
590, 3-14-2000)
7-8B-18: OTHER CITY COSTS:
All grantees shall, within thirty (30) days after written demand therefor,
reimburse the city for all reasonable direct and indirect costs and expenses
incurred by the city in connection with any modification, amendment, renewal or
transfer of the franchise or any franchise agreement consistent with applicable
state and federal laws. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
ARTICLE C. GENERAL FRANCHISE TERMS
SECTION:
7-8C-1: Facilities
7-8C-2: Damage To Grantee's Facilities
7-8C-3: Duty To Provide Information
7-8C-4: Service To City
7-8C-5: Compensation For City Property
7-8C-6: Cable Franchise
7-8C-7: Leased Capacity
7-8C-8: Grantee Insurance
7-8C-9: General Indemnification
7-8C-10: Performance Surety
7-8C-1: FACILITIES:
Upon request, each grantee shall provide the city with an accurate map or maps
certifying the location of all telecommunications facilities within the public
rights of way. Each grantee shall provide updated maps annually. (Ord. 00-590,
3-14-2000)
7-8C-2: DAMAGE TO GRANTEE'S FACILITIES:
Unless directly and proximately caused by wilful, intentional or malicious acts
by the city, the city shall not be liable for any damage to or loss of any
telecommunications facility within the public rights of way of the city as a
result of, or in connection with, any public works, public improvements,
construction, excavation, grading, filling, or work of any kind in the public
rights of way by or on behalf of the city, or for any consequential losses
resulting directly or indirectly therefrom. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8C-3: DUTY TO PROVIDE INFORMATION:
Within ten (10) business days of a written request from the city, each grantee
shall furnish the city with information sufficient to demonstrate:
   A.   That the grantee has complied with all requirements of this chapter.
   B.   All books, records, maps, and other documents maintained by the grantee
with respect to its facilities within the public rights of way shall be made
available for inspection by the city at reasonable times and intervals. (Ord.
00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8C-4: SERVICE TO CITY:
If the city contracts for the use of telecommunications facilities,
telecommunications services, installation, or maintenance from the grantee, the
grantee shall charge the city the grantee's most favorable rate offered at the
time of the request charged to similar users within Oregon for a similar volume
of service, subject to any of grantee's tariffs or price lists on file with the
OPUC. With the city's permission, the grantee may deduct the applicable charges
from fee payments. Other terms and conditions of such services may be specified
in a separate agreement between the city and the grantee. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-
2000)
7-8C-5: COMPENSATION FOR CITY PROPERTY:
If any right is granted by lease, franchise or other manner, to use and occupy
city property for the installation of telecommunications facilities, the
compensation to be paid for such right and use shall be fixed by the city.
(Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8C-6: CABLE FRANCHISE:
Telecommunications carriers providing cable service shall be subject to the
cable franchise requirements set forth by the city. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8C-7: LEASED CAPACITY:
A grantee shall have the right, without prior city approval, to offer or
provide capacity or bandwidth to its customers; provided, that the grantee
shall notify the city that such lease or agreement has been granted to a
customer or lessee. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8C-8: GRANTEE INSURANCE:
Unless otherwise provided in a franchise agreement, each grantee shall, as a
condition of the grant, secure and maintain the following liability insurance
policies insuring both the grantee and the city, and its elected and appointed
officers, officials, agents and employees as coinsured:
   A.   General Liability: Comprehensive general liability insurance with
limits not less than:
      1.   Three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death to
each person;
      2.   Three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for property damage resulting
from any one accident; and
      3.   Three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability.
   B.   Automobile Liability: Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and
hired vehicles with a limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for each
person and three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for each accident.
   C.   Workers' Compensation: Workers' compensation within statutory limits
and employers' liability insurance with limits of not less than one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00).
   D.   Hazards: Comprehensive form premises-operations, explosions and
collapse hazard, underground hazard and products completed hazard with limits
not less than three million dollars ($3,000,000.00).
   E.   Endorsement: The liability insurance policies required by this section
shall be maintained by the grantee throughout the term of the
telecommunications franchise, and such other period of time during which the
grantee is operating without a franchise hereunder, or is engaged in the
removal of its telecommunications facilities. Each such insurance policy shall
contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until ninety (90) days after receipt by the
City, by registered mail, of a written notice addressed to the City Manager of
such intent to cancel or not to renew.
   F.   Evidence Of Meeting Requirements: Within sixty (60) days after receipt
by the city of said notice, and in no event later than thirty (30) days prior
to said cancellation, the grantee shall obtain and furnish to the city evidence
that the grantee meets requirements of this section.
   G.   Alternative, Self-Insurance: As an alternative to the insurance
requirements contained herein, a grantee may provide evidence of self-insurance
subject to review and acceptance by the city. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8C-9: GENERAL INDEMNIFICATION:
Each franchise agreement shall include, to the extent permitted by law,
grantee's express undertaking to defend, indemnify and hold the city and its
officers, employees, agents and representatives harmless from and against any
and all damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and
costs of suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from, or alleged to arise
out of, or result from, the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions,
failures to act or misconduct of the grantee or its affiliates, officers,
employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction,
operation, maintenance, repair or removal of its telecommunications facilities,
and in providing or offering telecommunications services over the facilities or
network, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or prohibited
by this chapter or by a franchise agreement made or entered into pursuant to
this chapter. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8C-10: PERFORMANCE SURETY:
Before a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter is effective, and as
necessary thereafter, the grantee shall provide a performance bond, in form and
substance acceptable to the city, as security for the full and complete
performance of a franchise granted under this chapter, including any costs,
expenses, damages or loss the city pays or incurs because of any failure
attributable to the grantee to comply with the codes, ordinances, rules,
regulations or permits of the city. This obligation is in addition to the
performance surety required by section
7-8A-15 of this chapter for construction of facilities. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-
2000)
ARTICLE D. GENERAL PROVISIONS; ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
7-8D-1: Governing Law
7-8D-2: Written Agreement
7-8D-3: Nonexclusive Grant
7-8D-4: Compliance With Laws
7-8D-5: Consent
7-8D-6: Application To Existing Ordinances And Agreements
7-8D-7: Confidentiality
7-8D-8: Severability And Preemption
7-8D-9: Penalty; Judicial Remedies
7-8D-1: GOVERNING LAW:
Any franchise granted under this chapter is subject to the provisions of the
constitution and laws of the United States, and the state of Oregon and the
ordinances and charter of the city. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8D-2: WRITTEN AGREEMENT:
No franchise shall be granted hereunder unless the agreement is in writing.
(Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8D-3: NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT:
No franchise granted under this chapter shall confer any exclusive right,
privilege, license or franchise to occupy or use the public rights of way of
the city for delivery of telecommunications services or any other purpose.
(Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8D-4: COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS:
Any grantee under this chapter shall comply with all federal and state laws and
regulations, including regulations of any administrative agency thereof, as
well as all ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the city
heretofore or hereafter adopted or established during the entire term of any
franchise granted under this chapter, which are relevant and relate to the
construction, maintenance and operation of a telecommunications system. (Ord.
00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8D-5: CONSENT:
Wherever the consent of either the city or of the grantee is specifically
required by this chapter or in a franchise granted, such consent will not be
unreasonably withheld. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8D-6: APPLICATION TO EXISTING ORDINANCES AND AGREEMENTS:
To the extent that this chapter is not in conflict with and can be implemented
with existing ordinance and franchise agreements, this chapter shall apply to
all existing ordinance and franchise agreements for use of the public rights of
way for telecommunications. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8D-7: CONFIDENTIALITY:
The city agrees to use its best efforts to preserve the confidentiality of
information as requested by a grantee, to the extent permitted by the Oregon
public records law. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8D-8: SEVERABILITY AND PREEMPTION:
If any article, section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, term, provision,
condition, covenant or portion of this chapter is for any reason held to be
invalid or unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, or superseded
by state or federal legislation, rules, regulations or decision, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected thereby but shall be deemed as a
separate, distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions hereof, and each remaining section,
subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, provision, condition, covenant and
portion of this chapter shall be valid and enforceable to the fullest extent
permitted by law. In the event that federal or state laws, rules or regulations
preempt a provision or limit the enforceability of a provision of this chapter,
then the provision shall be read to be preempted to the extent and/or the time
required by law. In the event such federal or state law, rule or regulation is
subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise changed so that the
provision hereof that had been preempted is no longer preempted, such provision
shall thereupon return to full force and effect, and shall thereafter be
binding, without the requirement of further action on the part of the city, and
any amendments hereto. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
7-8D-9: PENALTY; JUDICIAL REMEDIES:
   A.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate and distinct offense
shall be deemed committed each day on which a violation occurs.
   B.   Other Remedies: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting
any judicial remedies that the city may have, at law or in equity, for
enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 00-590, 3-14-2000)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
UTILITIES, BILLING AND DELINQUENCIES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Credit Establishment And Deposits
8-1-2: Delinquencies; Discontinuance Of Service
8-1-3: Utility Bill Disputes
8-1-4: Termination Of Water And Sewer Services
8-1-1: CREDIT ESTABLISHMENT AND DEPOSITS:
   A.   Conditions For Establishing Credit: The credit of the applicant for
service shall be deemed established if:
      1.   A cash deposit is made with the city to secure the payment of bills
for water, sewer, water debt, fire protection and street lighting charges. The
deposit shall be in an amount to be set by resolution of the city council,
whether the service is metered or flat rated.
      2.   In the case of flat rated service, payment of a prorated advance
payment for the remainder of the monthly billing period, in addition to the
required deposit, is made.
      3.   The applicant, for a reasonable time in the past, has promptly paid
all accounts due the city and otherwise satisfied the city manager that bills
rendered will continue to be paid when due.
   B.   Reestablishment Of Credit:
      1.   An applicant who has been receiving city utilities and whose service
has been temporarily disconnected at the request of the applicant, or whose
service has been discontinued for failure to pay utility bills, may be required
to reestablish credit by making a regular cash deposit before reconnection of
service is made. The applicant shall also pay a reconnection charge for
restoration of service. The amount of the reconnection charge shall be
specified by resolution of the city council.
      2.   Utility service shall not be restored to an applicant who has been
disconnected until all charges, including interest, penalties and the
reconnection charge, whether at the premises listed in the application or at
premises other than those specified in the application, have been paid. Service
may be denied anyone who uses any subterfuge whatsoever to avoid payment for
service.
   C.   Deposits And Return Of Deposits:
      1.   At the time of payment of the deposit required under subsections A
and B of this section, the applicant shall be given a receipt for same. Deposit
receipts are not negotiable or transferable.
      2.   A deposit is not to be considered as a payment on the account. If at
any time a bill to a customer is not paid within the required time, the deposit
may be applied to the customer's account, at the option of the city.
      3.   When service is discontinued by the customer, the city will return
any deposit made, less any current charges for utilities that are accrued but
unpaid, or charges for material and labor, and provided that the customer shall
surrender to the city the deposit receipt, properly endorsed; or provided that
the customer shall sign a cancellation receipt for the deposit when the service
is discontinued.
      4.   At the sole option and discretion of the city, the city may return
the deposit at the expiration of one year from the time the deposit is made,
provided the customer's credit has become satisfactorily established by prompt
payment of all accounts due to the city.
      5.   Any change of ownership or occupancy of the premises shall not be
cause for restoration of service without payment of all utility charges due the
city.
      6.   Unless an error in a utility bill is called to the city's attention
within sixty (60) days from the date of the bill, the bill shall be deemed
final and correct. (Ord. 01-599, 11-13-2001, eff. 11-13-2001)
8-1-2: DELINQUENCIES; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   Due Date; Notice Of Delinquency:
      1.   All water, sewer, water debt, fire protection and street lighting
charges are due and payable at the city hall on a monthly basis, and are due
and payable on the fifteenth day of the first month following the period for
which such charges are billed; and if not so paid, are deemed delinquent.
      2.   The city shall send a notice of delinquency by mail to the last
known address of the owner of the property, and to the billing address, if
different from the owner's last known address. The notice shall state that the
service will be terminated unless the utility charges listed above are paid in
full within five (5) days. (Ord. 01-599, 11-13-2001, eff. 11-13-2001; amd. 2014
Code)
   B.   Billings For Irrigation Water: Charges for irrigation water shall be
billed in addition to the regular water charges in six (6) installments; the
first installment to be payable on May 1, and continuing on the first day of
each month thereafter, through the payment due November 1.
   C.   Vacated Premises; Refunds Or Credits: In the event the premises being
served with city utility services shall become vacated by reason of termination
of ownership or tenancy, unused water charges shall be refunded to the person
having paid the same, or, in the case of multiple units being served by one
connection, may be credited to future utility bills against the landlord
utility user. In computing such refunds or credits, unused, flat rate charges
shall be determined on a monthly basis with fractions of fifteen (15) or more
days treated as a whole month. (Ord. 01-599, 11-13-2001, eff. 11-13-2001)
8-1-3: UTILITY BILL DISPUTES:
   A.   Contents Of Notice Of Termination: The notice of delinquency provided
in section
8-1-2 of this chapter shall state that service will be terminated unless the
utility charges are paid in full within five (5) days from the date of the
notice of termination. (Ord. 01-599, 11-13-2001, eff. 11-13-2001; amd. 2014
Code)
   B.   Dispute; File Request For Hearing: An owner or occupant of the premises
who questions or disputes a utility bill shall file with the city manager a
request for hearing within seven (7) days after the date of the notice of
termination.
   C.   Hearing Before Council: If a hearing is timely requested and the matter
has not been informally resolved by the city manager, the city council shall
hold a hearing, consider the evidence offered by the owner or occupant of the
premises and the city manager, and determine whether the utility charges are
correct, due and payable. The owner or occupant may have an attorney or other
representative present at the hearing.
   D.   Council Determination: The city council shall make its determination in
writing and shall, by certified mail, send a copy of its determination to the
complainant at the billing address, or if the occupant is not the owner, then
at the last known address of the owner.
   E.   Delay Of Termination: If a hearing is timely requested, the city shall
not terminate utility service until three (3) days after the date of mailing
its determination. If a hearing is not timely requested, the city may terminate
utility service fifteen (15) days after the date of the notice of termination.
(Ord. 01-599, 11-13-2001, eff. 11-13-2001)
8-1-4: TERMINATION OF WATER AND SEWER SERVICES:
   A.   Voluntary Termination Of Services: Water and sewer service may be
suspended indefinitely when the following criteria are met:
      1.   The owner files a written request with the city for indefinite
suspension of water and sewer fees and charges; and
      2.   Agrees that the water meter serving the property may be removed by
the city; and
      3.   Agrees that the sewer line serving the property may be capped; and
      4.   Pays a fee to the city based upon the estimated actual cost to the
city of removing the water meter and capping the sewer line; and
      5.   Agrees that the structure served by the water and sewer line will
not be used for human habitation or business as long as the water and sewer
services are suspended. Streetlights, debt service, and fire protection
assessments and charges shall continue to be billed to the owner.
   B.   Removal Of Water Meter; New Connection: Where indefinite suspension of
water and sewer services has been requested, upon removal of the water meter,
the meter becomes the property of the city; and in the future if the indefinite
suspension is lifted at the request of the owner, the resumption of water and
sewer service to the property shall be treated as a new connection as if the
property had never before been served with water and sewer service.
   C.   Avoiding Payment Of Fees And Charges Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for
any person to turn on or shut off water service to any property within the city
with intent to avoid the water and sewer charges or to provide city water to or
receive city water from a neighboring property with intent to avoid the water
and sewer charges and to remove, without the prior written consent of the city,
any water meter of any part of the public water or sewer system.
   D.   Future Fees Set By Resolution: Future shutoff and reconnect fees shall
be set by resolution of the city council.
   E.   Penalty: Any persons violating the provisions of this section shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor for each day of violation and the application of
a penalty shall not prevent the forced termination or cessation of prohibited
or unlawful acts. (Ord. 647-16, 5-10-2016)
ARTICLE A. PUBLIC SAFETY SURCHARGE
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Title
8-1A-2: Purpose And Intent
8-1A-3: Definitions
8-1A-4: Imposition Of Surcharge
8-1A-5: Dedication Of Funds
8-1A-6: Collection
8-1A-7: Program Administration
8-1A-8: Enforcement
8-1A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the PUBLIC SAFETY SURCHARGE. (Ord. 633-11, 8-9-
2011)
8-1A-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The principal purpose of this article is to safeguard, facilitate and
encourage the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens and businesses of the
city. The city council also finds that a continuous and consistent public
safety program provides a multitude of economic and social benefits to the
public, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Reduction in the incidence of fire.
      2.   Improved response to fire and other disaster situations.
      3.   Increased police protection.
      4.   Prevention of crime.
      5.   Enhanced protection of property.
      6.   Promotion of business and industry.
      7.   Promotion of community spirit and growth.
   B.   It is the intent of this article to provide a funding mechanism to help
pay for the benefits conferred on city residents and businesses by the
provision of an adequate program of public safety; and further to help bring
the police and fire departments up to acceptable service levels.
   C.   The structure of this article is intended to be a surcharge for service
within the city limits. However, it is not intended to provide full funding for
the police and fire departments. In the event that public safety surcharge
revenues collected are insufficient to properly operate the police and fire
departments, additional funding may be allocated by the city council from other
nondedicated city funds; provided, however, the city council may direct the
reimbursement to such other nondedicated city funds if additional public safety
surcharge revenues are collected. (Ord. 633-11, 8-9-2011)
8-1A-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
DEVELOPED PROPERTY: A parcel or portion of real property on which an
improvement exists. Improvement on developed property includes, but is not
limited to, buildings, parking lots, concrete pads, and outside storage.
NONRESIDENTIAL UNIT: A use of property which is primarily not for personal,
domestic accommodation, such as a business or commercial enterprise. A
nonresidential structure which provides facilities for one or more businesses,
including, but not limited to, permanent provisions for access to the public,
shall have each distinct business facility considered as a separate
nonresidential unit.
PERSON: A natural person; unincorporated association; tenancy in common;
partnership; corporation; limited liability company; cooperative; trust, any
governmental agency, including the state of Oregon but excluding the city of
Nyssa; and other entity in law or in fact.
RESIDENTIAL UNIT: A residential structure, which provides complete living
facilities for one or more persons, including, but not limited to, permanent
provisions for living, sleeping, and sanitation. A home business in a
residential zone will be regarded only as a residential unit, not as a
nonresidential unit. An ancillary unit on a single-family parcel shall be
considered as a separate residential unit. Multi-family residential property
consisting of two (2) or more dwelling units, condominium units or individual
mobile home units have each unit considered as a separate residential unit.
Transient lodging shall not be considered as a residential unit.
RESPONSIBLE PARTY: The person owing the public safety surcharge. (Ord. 633-11,
8-9-2011)
8-1A-4: IMPOSITION OF SURCHARGE:
   A.   Public Safety Surcharge Created: There is hereby created a public
safety surcharge to accomplish the stated purposes in section
8-1A-2 of this article.
   B.   Police Public Safety Surcharge: The police public safety surcharge is
hereby established and shall be assessed to each residential unit and to each
nonresidential unit on the initial basis of five dollars ($5.00) per unit per
month. Billing shall be as a line item on the city's utility bill unless
otherwise specified in this article.
   C.   Fire Public Safety Surcharge: The fire public safety surcharge is
hereby established and shall be assessed on a monthly basis to each residential
unit and to each nonresidential unit initially as follows:
      1.   Class 1: Residential construction, one dollar seventy five cents
($1.75).
      2.   Class 2: Nonresidential and more than thirty feet (30') from
neighboring structure, three dollars ($3.00).
      3.   Class 3: Nonresidential and more than ten feet (10'), but less than
thirty feet (30') from neighboring structures, four dollars fifty cents
($4.50).
      4.   Class 4: Nonresidential and less than ten feet (10') from
neighboring structure, eight dollars seventy five cents ($8.75).
      5.   Class 5: Nonresidential and more than ten thousand (10,000) square
feet, seventeen dollars fifty cents ($17.50). (Ord. 633-11, 8-9-2011)
   D.   Obligation To Pay: The obligation to pay a public safety surcharge
arises when a person responsible uses or otherwise benefits from public safety
services. It is presumed that public safety services are used, and that a
benefit arises, whenever the subject real property is a developed property.
(Ord. 633-11, 8-9-2011; amd. 2014 Code)
   E.   Developed Property Charged: All developed properties within the city
limits shall be charged the public safety surcharge.
   F.   Undeveloped Properties Not Charged: Undeveloped properties shall not be
charged a public safety surcharge.
   G.   Increased Or Decreased By Resolution: The amounts of the public safety
surcharges may be increased or decreased from time to time by resolution of the
city council. (Ord. 633-11, 8-9-2011)
8-1A-5: DEDICATION OF FUNDS:
All public safety surcharge revenues derived shall be distinctly and clearly
noted in both the revenue and expenditure sections of the city budget and shall
be used only for the improvement, maintenance, administration and operation of
the police and fire departments and costs incidental thereto and for no other
purpose in order to help provide for a safe, well functioning public safety
program. The surcharges paid and collected by virtue of this article shall not
be used for general or other governmental or proprietary purposes of the city.
(Ord. 633-11, 8-9-2011)
8-1A-6: COLLECTION:
   A.   Monthly Charges; Statement: Public safety surcharges shall be collected
monthly. Statements for the surcharge shall be included as an additional item
on the city monthly utility billing wherever feasible, unless otherwise
specified below.
   B.   Responsibility For Payment:
      1.   Unless another person responsible has agreed in writing to pay, and
a copy of that writing is filed with the city, the person normally responsible
for paying the city water and sewer utility charges is responsible for paying
the public safety surcharge, if the property is located within the city limits.
      2.   In the event a developed property is not served by a domestic water
meter or sewer hookup, or if water and sewer service is discontinued, the
public safety surcharge shall be paid by the persons having the right to occupy
the property.
   C.   Automatic Initiation Of Billing: A request for water or sewer service,
a building permit, or the occupancy of an unserviced building will
automatically initiate appropriate billing for public safety services.
   D.   Undeveloped Property: There shall be no charge for an undeveloped
property until such time as building permits are issued for that property.
   E.   Calculation Of Surcharge: The imposition of surcharges shall be
calculated on the basis of the number of residential or nonresidential units
supported, without regard to the number of water meters servicing that
property.
   F.   Late Charges:
      1.   Late charges in the amount of five dollars ($5.00) per month shall
be attached to any public safety surcharge not received within thirty (30) days
of billing.
      2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, if the public safety
surcharge is not paid for a period of three (3) months, the surcharge, with any
attendant late fees, shall be imposed on the responsible party. (Ord. 633-11,
8-9-2011)
8-1A-7: PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Administration: Except as otherwise provided in this section, the city
manager shall be responsible for the administration of the public safety
program.
   B.   Collection Of Fees: The city recorder shall be responsible for the
collection of fees under this article.
   C.   Review And Recommendations: The city manager is authorized and directed
to review the operation of this article and, where appropriate, recommend
changes thereto in the form of administrative procedures for adoption by the
city council by resolution. Such procedures, if adopted by the council, shall
be given full force and effect, and, unless clearly inconsistent with this
article, shall apply uniformly throughout the city. (Ord. 633-11, 8-9-2011)
8-1A-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Inadequate Funds: In the event funds received from city utility
billings are inadequate to satisfy in full all of the sewer charges, public
safety surcharge, streetlight charges and water charges, credit shall be given
first to the sewer charges, second to the public safety surcharges, third to
the streetlight charges and fourth to the water charges. In addition to other
lawful enforcement procedures, the city may enforce the collection of charges
required by this article by withholding delivery of water to any premises where
public safety surcharges are delinquent or unpaid.
   B.   Injunctive Relief: Notwithstanding any provision herein to the
contrary, the city may institute any necessary legal proceedings to enforce the
provisions of this article, including, but not limited to, injunctive relief
and collection of charges owing. The city's enforcement rights shall be
cumulative. (Ord. 633-11, 8-9-2011)
CHAPTER 2
WATER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Water Connection Mandatory
8-2-2: Application For Water Connection
8-2-3: Water Used For Certain Purposes Only
8-2-4: Renewal Or Change Of Service
8-2-5: Service Laterals
8-2-6: Water Meters
8-2-7: Extension Of Mains
8-2-8: Fire Hydrants
8-2-9: Stop And Waste Cocks
8-2-10: Repair And Protection Of Service Pipes
8-2-11: Joint Use
8-2-12: Irrigation Wells Permit; Irrigation Schedule
8-2-13: Wasting Of Water
8-2-14: Responsibility For Service, Repairs And Service Preference
8-2-15: Inspection
8-2-16: Water Rates And Charges; Responsibility
8-2-17: Sewer Facilities Charges
8-2-18: Water System Account
8-2-19: Service Outside City
8-2-20: Water Use Restriction
8-2-21: Penalty
8-2-1: WATER CONNECTION MANDATORY:
Every person owning or occupying any land on which buildings are situated
within the service area of any public water distribution system in the city
shall connect all such buildings having sewer service to said water system. Any
person owning or occupying any land on which buildings are situated within the
service area of the public water system, as aforesaid, who shall fail, refuse
and neglect to make such connection to the water system within thirty (30) days
after written notice to make such connection shall be deemed guilty of an
infraction and shall be subject to a fine of not more than fifty dollars
($50.00) per day so long as such failure to connect continues. (Ord. 563, 10-
10-1995)
8-2-2: APPLICATION FOR WATER CONNECTION:
   A.   Contents Of Application; Conditions: Before any connection is made to
any water main, application for water connection shall be made in writing by
the owner of the premises to be served, or by his authorized representative, at
the office of the water department. Such application shall be made on forms
provided by the water department, and must state fully all the purposes for
which water may be required; and the applicant must agree to conform to the
rules and regulations of the city water department concerning use of water as a
condition for the granting of such permit.
   B.   Deposit For Costs Of Street Repair: At the time authorization for water
connection is issued, a deposit shall be made estimated to be sufficient to
cover the costs of any street repairs made necessary by the installation of the
water connection. The water department may collect any part of such costs in
excess of the deposit, and shall refund any amounts deposited in excess of the
costs of such street repairs. (1962 Code §
2-1-1)
   C.   Water Use During Construction; Fee: When water connection is requested
for a building under construction, the owner shall pay to the department, in
addition to the regular charges, a fee for water used during construction. This
fee shall be estimated by the city manager in accordance with the size of the
building and class of construction. It shall in no case be less than two
dollars ($2.00). (1962 Code §
2-1-1; amd. 2014 Code)
8-2-3: WATER USED FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ONLY:
No person supplied with water from the city mains will be entitled to use such
water for any purpose other than as stated in his or her application, or to
supply in any way, other persons. (1962 Code §
2-1-2)
8-2-4: RENEWAL OR CHANGE OF SERVICE:
   A.   Charge As For New Service:
      1.   When requests for change of service are granted, the charge will be
the same as for a new service.
      2.   When requests for an increase in size of service connection at the
same location are granted, the charge will be the same as for a new service of
the size desired.
   B.   Service Pipes And Materials; Installation And Responsibility:
      1.   Service pipe of all sizes between the main and the curb cock, cutoff
or meter shall be of the type and material specified by the city manager. Pipe
of a better grade of material may be used, subject to the approval of the city
manager. Service pipes between the main and cutoff or the main and meter shall
be installed and maintained by the city water department, except where the same
is located at a distance from the main farther than the street property line,
in which event special arrangements shall be made as to cost of the extra
length of line. If pressure reducers which restrict backflow are installed on
the customer's service line, there shall also be installed therein a proper
safety relief valve.
      2.   The corporation cock and stop box shall be provided in place and
maintained by the water department after payment of the fee charged for a water
permit. The service pipe from the curb cock to the building shall be installed
and properly maintained by the owner. The owner shall keep the stop box free
from dirt, stones, or other substances that will prevent access to the service
cock.
      3.   All service pipe and water piping in all premises shall be installed
in compliance with city or state plumbing codes. Plumbers shall not interfere
in any way with fixtures installed by the water department and shall not turn
water on or off at the service cock, except for the purpose of testing their
work, in which case the service cock shall be left in the same condition and
position as it is found. Any plumber called upon to shut off water and drain
pipes in any premises shall do so inside the building only, except as above
provided.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make attachment to or
detachment from any water main or service pipe, or other connection through
which water is supplied by the city, or to interfere in any manner with such
pipes or connections. Where such attachment is from the cutoff or meter to the
premises, or upon the premises, permission shall be obtained from the city
manager, and the work shall be performed at the expense of the owner; provided
always, that all water rates and charges against the applicant shall be fully
paid.
      5.   All service pipe on either public or private property shall be laid
on solid ground not less than four feet (4') below the established grade of the
street. Service pipe laid in the same trench with a sewer shall be at least
thirty six inches (36") distant from the sewer horizontally, and if the sewer
is laid at a greater depth, shall be shelved into the bank to a solid bottom.
In no case shall a service pipe be laid on a fill. (1962 Code §
2-1-3)
8-2-5: SERVICE LATERALS:
   A.   Specifications:
      1.   Service laterals shall be type K copper, a minimum of three-fourths
inch (3/4") in diameter. Pipe sizes one inch (1") up to four inches (4") shall
be PVC, copper or asbestos cement. Pipes four inches (4") and over shall be
transite.
      2.   Water connections shall be limited to only one service lateral for
each business or residential unit.
      3.   Service laterals larger than three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter
will be installed upon application to the water department and upon condition
that the applicant shall pay the cost of the water meter of equivalent pipe
size, together with the usual installation charges of the city as provided
herein. (1962 Code §
2-1-4)
   B.   Cost: Service laterals of suitable size not to exceed sixty five feet
(65') in length will be furnished from the main to the property line upon
application to the water department and prepayment of the charges therefor, as
hereinafter provided. The water department shall furnish all labor and
materials necessary for such construction, including tapping of mains,
installation of corporation and curb cocks and connections, and such quality
and type of pipe as specified in this section. The charge for installation of a
service connection shall be the actual cost to the city of labor, materials and
normal overhead expenses. The estimated cost of the work shall be paid before
installation is commenced. All service connections shall be maintained by the
city at its sole expense. (1962 Code §
2-1-6)
8-2-6: WATER METERS:
   A.   Meter Required: Commencing with the effective date hereof, a water
meter of appropriate size shall be required to be installed for water service
to all new residential or commercial water hookups, or any first time request
for water service.
   B.   Order Installation: The city council may order the installation of a
water meter in any residence or place of business where city water is used, if
in the discretion of said council such meter installation shall be in the best
interest of the city.
   C.   Request Of Water User: Any water user desiring installation of a water
meter in lieu of payment of fixed rates for domestic and irrigation water shall
be entitled to such installation upon written request to the water department
and upon payment of the city's then prevailing charge for installation of water
meters. All such meters shall remain the property of the city. (1962 Code §
2-1-5)
   D.   Meter Accessible: The occupants of any building or premises where a
water meter is located shall see that the meter is kept and remains free from
obstructions on or around the same and is conveniently accessible at all times
for the purpose of reading, inspection or repairing. (1962 Code § 2-1-18)
8-2-7: EXTENSION OF MAINS:
   A.   Plan Required: A plan of the proposed water main extension showing line
size and type of material, valve sizes, hydrants and size of other fittings
shall be submitted to the city manager for approval prior to construction.
   B.   Applicant Responsible For Cost:
      1.   Construction of water main lines and extension of main lines shall
be at the expense of the applicant, and water main extensions shall be made to
the extreme of the owner's property fronting on the main.
      2.   When application for water service is made which requires
construction or extension of a main line, the applicant shall pay to the city
or a contractor designated by the city, prior to construction, the total cost
of the required extension. (1962 Code §
2-1-7)
8-2-8: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Location; Cost: During the extension of an existing main line, a new
fire hydrant shall be installed on the new line so that a fire hydrant shall be
located at a distance not to exceed three hundred fifty feet (350') from an
existing hydrant and each three hundred feet (300') thereafter. Cost of the
hydrant shall be a part of the new main line cost. Special distance
consideration may be made by the city council upon written request by an
applicant showing unusual extenuating circumstances.
   B.   Prorating Cost Agreement: Prorating cost agreement may be made where
extension passes property not to be connected at the time of construction.
(1962 Code §
2-1-8)
8-2-9: STOP AND WASTE COCKS:
A waste cock shall be placed inside the basement or crawl space, or other
convenient place which will protect it from freezing, whereby the water pipes
to a building may be drained prior to freezing weather. If a building is not
provided with a basement, stop and waste cock shall be placed near the outside
wall thereof. Additional stop and waste cocks shall be placed in sags and bends
in pipes when they cannot be otherwise drained. (1962 Code § 2-1-9)
8-2-10: REPAIR AND PROTECTION OF SERVICE PIPES:
All service pipes, within and without the premises, except that portion between
the tap in the city main and the curb cock or meter, must be kept in repair,
and protected from freezing at the expense of the owner, lessee, or agent, who
shall be responsible for all damages resulting from leaks and breaks. (1962
Code § 2-1-10)
8-2-11: JOINT USE:
Where water is now supplied through one service to several houses, families or
persons, the water department may, in its discretion, either decline to furnish
water until separate services are provided or may continue to supply water upon
condition that one person shall pay for all users on the same service. (1962
Code § 2-1-11)
8-2-12: IRRIGATION WELLS PERMIT; IRRIGATION SCHEDULE:
   A.   Permit Required: Any person owning or occupying any land in the city
which has an irrigation well or water well used for other than domestic
purposes shall be required to obtain a permit from the city before such person
may use said well. There shall be no fee charged for issuance of the permit.
Any person owning or occupying any land on which an irrigation well or other
water well for other than domestic purposes shall be located who shall fail,
refuse or neglect to obtain such permit within thirty (30) days after written
notice to obtain such permit, shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and shall
be subject to a fine of up to fifty dollars ($50.00) per day for each day such
violation continues. (Ord. 563, 10-10-1995)
   B.   Irrigation Schedule: The irrigation season will be from April 1 until
October 1. Anyone irrigating other than these months shall first obtain a
permit at city hall, or be in violation of this chapter. (1962 Code § 2-1-12)
8-2-13: WASTING OF WATER:
Water shall not be wasted due to defective or leaking faucets, toilets,
urinals, other fixtures or faulty valves, nor shall lawn hoses or sprinklers be
permitted to flow so that excess water flows into the streets and gutters, or
using water during hours other than those designated. After a written warning
of such violation, the city shall have the authority to order a water meter to
be installed on the property at the cost of the owner, or, that water be shut
off from the premises until such time as a meter is installed. (1962 Code § 2-
1-13)
8-2-14: RESPONSIBILITY FOR SERVICE, REPAIRS AND SERVICE PREFERENCE:
   A.   Water Department:
      1.   The water department will exercise reasonable diligence and care to
furnish and deliver a continuous and sufficient supply of pure water to the
customer, and to avoid any shortage or interruption of delivery of same.
      2.   The water department will not be liable for high or low pressure
conditions, chemical or bacteriological conditions, interruption or shortage or
insufficiency of supply, or any loss or damage occasioned thereby.
      3.   The use of water upon the premises of the customer is at the risk of
the customer, and the responsibility of the water department shall cease at the
point of delivery of water.
   B.   Right To Temporarily Suspend Water Use:
      1.   The water department, whenever it shall find it necessary for the
purpose of making repairs or improvements to its system, shall have the right
to suspend temporarily the delivery of water, but in all such cases, as
reasonable notice thereof as circumstances will permit shall be given to the
customers, and the making of such repairs or improvements shall be prosecuted
as rapidly as may be practicable, and if practicable, at such times as will
cause the least inconvenience to the customers.
      2.   While water is temporarily shut off from the mains, the hot water
faucets shall be kept open by the occupants of premises being serviced to allow
steam to escape from water heaters, and should damage result to city property
by reason of steam or hot water, the owner shall be charged with and shall pay
the cost of all repairs.
   C.   Shortage Of Supply: In case of shortage of supply, the water department
reserves the right to give preference in the matter of furnishing service to
customers, as in the judgment of its representatives shall be to the best
interests of the city, from the standpoint of public convenience or necessity.
(1962 Code § 2-1-14)
8-2-15: INSPECTION:
   A.   Right Of Access: The city manager or any of his or her authorized
agents shall have free access at all reasonable hours to inspect any premises
supplied with water. (1962 Code § 2-1-15; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Hindering Or Refusing To Allow Admittance: No person shall refuse to
admit authorized agents of the water department to any premises for such
purpose. In case any authorized employee shall be refused admittance, or shall
in any way be hindered in making the necessary inspection or examination, the
water may be turned off from such premises after giving twenty four (24) hours'
notice to the owner or occupant thereof. (1962 Code § 2-1-15)
8-2-16: WATER RATES AND CHARGES; RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Rates Set By Resolution: Rates and charges for metered and nonmetered
water use, irrigation charges, charges for water connections, installation of
meters, service laterals and all other water department fees and charges shall
be set from time to time by resolution of the city council. (1962 Code § 2-1-
16)
   B.   Factors In Determining Rates And Charges: In determining the rates and
charges to be assessed under this section, the city council shall take into
account all direct or indirect costs incurred by the city in order to deliver
water. The actual cost of delivering water includes the average cost or an
allocated portion of the total amount of the actual cost of making the water
available to a water connection, whether stated as a minimum, fixed or variable
amount. Such actual cost also includes, but is not limited to, the costs of
labor, materials, supplies, equipment rental, property acquisition, permits,
engineering, financing reasonable program delinquencies, return on investment,
required fees, insurance, administration, accounting, depreciation,
amortization, operation, maintenance, repair or replacement and debt service,
including debt service payments or payments into a reserve account for debt
service and payment of amounts necessary to meet debt service coverage
requirements. (Ord. 541, 7-9-1991)
   C.   Occupant Responsible For Payment: The occupant of premises served by
City water service shall be responsible for all charges for City water service.
"Occupant" means the person or entity entitled to occupy the property. (Ord.
634-11, 11-15-2011)
8-2-17: SEWER FACILITIES CHARGES:
   A.   Collection Of Charges: The City Water Department shall collect such
sewer facility charges as the City Council may establish pursuant to section
8-3-2 of this title. The amount of such sewer facility charges will be billed
with the regular or irrigation water charges, in the case of City water users,
and will be shown as a separate item on the water bill. (1962 Code § 2-1-21;
amd. Ord. 541, 7-9-1991)
   B.   Making Payment: Payment of sewer facility charges shall be made in
accordance with the regulations for payment of regular and irrigation water
charges.
   C.   Nonpayment; Discontinuance Of Water Service: Nonpayment of sewer
facility charges within the time specified in said regulations shall be deemed
just and sufficient reason for discontinuance of water service to the premises
to which such sewer facility charges apply. (1962 Code § 2-1-21)
8-2-18: WATER SYSTEM ACCOUNT:
   A.   Account Created: There is hereby created a water system account into
which there shall be paid all revenues received or resulting from the operation
of the Municipal waterworks and distribution system, and said revenues and
receipts shall be kept separate and distinct from all other revenues received
by the City, including ad valorem taxes, excepting such ad valorem taxes as may
be specifically levied for the purpose of paying any deficiency in operating
revenues necessary to pay indebtedness due on Water Department general
obligation bonds.
   B.   Transfer Monies Into Account: The City Recorder and City Treasurer are
hereby authorized and directed to transfer into said water system account and
fund all monies that remain unexpended of the amount budgeted for the year,
together with all collections in excess of the anticipated and budgeted
amounts, as same may exist at the close of the calendar year.
   C.   Depositing Funds Into Account: From and after January 1, all revenues
resulting from the operation of said water system shall be deposited in and
credited to said water system account and all operating and maintenance costs.
   D.   Disbursements: No funds shall be disbursed from said water system
account excepting such as may be authorized by the Common Council and for the
purpose of paying the necessary operating expenses of said water system and for
the payment of indebtedness due on Water Department general obligation bonds.
(1962 Code § 2-1-25)
8-2-19: SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY:
Water service may be provided outside the City limits if the property to be
provided the service is located within the City's Urban Growth Boundary as
amended from time to time. The rates for such service, connection charges, and
other charges and fees related to the connection and use of the water shall be
set from time to time by resolution of the City Council. The City will not
provide new water services outside the City's Urban Growth Boundary; however,
existing water services to users outside the City's Urban Growth Boundary will
be permitted to continue with a rate charge of thirty percent (30%) greater
than the charges prescribed for users inside the City. Existing agreements for
delivery for water outside the City's Urban Growth Boundary may be permitted to
continue so long as the property remains in the same ownership. At such time as
the ownership of property outside the City's Urban Growth Boundary to which
City water is delivered shall change, then City service shall be terminated. If
City water service to property outside the City's Urban Growth Boundary is
discontinued for any reason after the effective date hereof, then such service
shall not be reestablished. (Ord. 662-18, 9-25-2018)
8-2-20: WATER USE RESTRICTION:
   A.   If a shortage of water shall exist, the City Manager shall have the
authority at any time to restrict the use of water.
   B.   The City may prohibit the use of water for any purpose, such regulation
being within the police power and precautionary measure to promote the health
and safety of the inhabitants of the City. (1962 Code § 2-1-22)
8-2-21: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter, other than those relating
to nonpayment of water or other charges, shall be guilty of an infraction
punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 541,
7-9-1991)
ARTICLE A. CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Purpose
8-2A-2: Definitions
8-2A-3: Cross Connections Regulated
8-2A-4: Plumbing Code
8-2A-5: Backflow Prevention Assembly Requirement
8-2A-6: Installation Requirements
8-2A-7: Access To Premises
8-2A-8: Annual Testing And Repairs
8-2A-9: Thermal Expansion And Pressure Loss
8-2A-10: Cost Of Compliance
8-2A-11: Termination Of Service
8-2A-12: Liability
8-2A-13: Responsibilities
8-2A-14: Fire Systems
8-2A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to maintain safe drinking water and to comply
with Oregon administrative rules chapter 333, division 61. (Ord. 573, 5-12-
1998)
8-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AIR GAP SEPARATION: The physical vertical separation between the free flowing
discharge end of a potable water supply pipeline and the open or nonpressure
receiving vessel.
APPROVAL OR APPROVED: Approved in writing.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any supply of water used upon the premises other than,
or in addition to, the supply obtained from the city potable water system.
BACKFLOW: The flow in the direction opposite to the normal flow of water from
the city system.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: Oregon state health division approved backflow
prevention assembly such as a pressure vacuum breaker, a double check valve
assembly, or a reduced pressure principle assembly, and the attached shutoff
valves on the inlet and outlet ends of the assembly as a complete unit.
CERTIFIED BACKFLOW TESTER: A person who is certified by the Oregon state health
division assembly tester to test backflow assemblies.
CITY: The city of Nyssa or the city's designee.
CITY WATER SYSTEM: The potable system of the city of Nyssa.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any unprotected actual or structural arrangement between a
public or a consumer's potable water system and any other source or systems
through which any used water, industrial fluid, gas, or substance other than
the intended potable water with which the system is supplied is introduced into
any part of the potable system. Bypass arrangements, jumper connections,
removable sections, swivel or changeover devices, and other temporary or
permanent devices through which or because of which backflow can occur are
considered to be cross connections. Wells and sprinkler systems which are not
connected to the city water system shall not be considered cross connections.
DIVISION: The health division of the Oregon department of human resources.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly approved by the Oregon state health
division consisting of two (2) independently acting check valves with shutoff
valves on each side of the check valves and test cocks for checking the
watertightness of each check valve.
OWNER: Any person owning a beneficial interest with a right of possession in
property served by the municipal water system, any occupant of any premises
served by the city water system, and any customer or water user of the city
water system.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, association, firm, partnership, municipal,
state or federal agency, or joint stock company, and includes any receiver,
special master, trustee, assignee or other similar representative thereof.
POTABLE WATER: Safe drinking water.
POTENTIAL CROSS CONNECTION: A cross connection that would most likely occur,
but may not be taking place at the time of an inspection.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (RP): An assembly
approved by the Oregon state health division for preventing backflow which has
two (2) check valves, two (2) shutoff valves (1 on the upstream side and the
other on the downstream side of the check valves), and four (4) test cocks for
checking the watertightness of the check valves and the operation of the relief
valve.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The piping connection by means of which water is conveyed
from a distribution main of a public water system to a customer's premises. The
portion of the service connection which conveys water from the distribution
main to the customer's property line, or to the service meter where provided,
is owned by and under the jurisdiction of the water supplier.
WATER SYSTEM: A system for the provision of piped water for human consumption.
(Ord. 573, 5-12-1998; amd. Ord. 614-06, 8-8-2006; Ord. 617-06, 1-9-2007)
8-2A-3: CROSS CONNECTIONS REGULATED:
No cross connections shall be created, installed, used or maintained within the
territory served by the city, except in accordance with this article. (Ord.
573, 5-12-1998)
8-2A-4: PLUMBING CODE:
All current uniform plumbing codes must be maintained. (Ord. 573, 5-12-1998)
8-2A-5: BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY REQUIREMENT:
Approved backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed at the expense of
the owner at the service connection as determined by the city in each of the
following circumstances:
   A.   If the nature and extent of any activity of the premises, or the
materials used in connection with any activity of the premises, or materials
stored on the premises, could contaminate or pollute the drinking water supply.
   B.   On premises having any one or more cross connections as that term is
defined in section
8-2A-2 of this article.
   C.   Internal cross connections that are not correctable, or intricate
plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to ascertain whether or not
cross connections exist.
   D.   A repeated history of cross connections being established or
reestablished.
   E.   Unduly restricted entry so that inspections for cross connections
cannot be made with sufficient frequency or with sufficient notice to assure
that cross connections do not exist.
   F.   Materials of a toxic or hazardous nature being used such that, if back
siphonage should occur, a health hazard could result.
   G.   Any mobile apparatus which uses the city water system or water from any
premises within the city water system.
   H.   On any premises where installation of an approved backflow prevention
assembly is deemed to be necessary to accomplish the purpose of this article in
the judgment of the city.
   I.   There is an auxiliary water supply which is connected to the potable
water piping. (Ord. 614-06, 8-8-2006)
   J.   All new construction. (Ord. 617-06, 1-9-2007)
8-2A-6: INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
To ensure proper operation and accessibility of all backflow prevention
assemblies, the following requirements shall apply to the installation of these
assemblies:
   A.   No part of the backflow prevention assembly shall be submerged in water
or installed in a location subject to flooding. If installed in a vault or
basement, adequate drainage shall be provided.
   B.   Assemblies must be installed at the point of delivery of the water
supply, before any branch in the line, on private property located just inside
the property line. Alternate locations must be approved in writing by the city
prior to installation.
   C.   The assembly must be protected from freezing and other severe weather
conditions.
   D.   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be of a type and model
approved by the state of Oregon health division, and shall be at least
commensurate with the degree of hazard that exists as determined by the city in
accordance with Oregon administrative rules chapter 333-61-070, section 6.
   E.   The property owner assumes all responsibility for all maintenance and
repairs.
   F.   If written permission is granted to install the backflow assembly
inside the building, the device shall be readily accessible during regular
working hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M., Monday
through Friday.
   G.   All assemblies shall be installed in accordance with Oregon
administrative rules chapter 333-61-071.
   H.   Upon completion of installation, the city shall be notified and all
assemblies must be inspected and tested. All backflow assemblies must be
registered with the city. Registration shall consist of date of installation,
make, model, serial number of the backflow assembly, and initial test report.
(Ord. 573, 5-12-1998)
8-2A-7: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
Authorized employees of the city, with proper identification, shall have access
during reasonable hours to all parts of a premises and within the building to
which water is supplied. However, if any owner refuses access to a premises or
to the interior of a structure at reasonable times and on reasonable notice for
inspection by a cross connection specialist appointed by the city, a high
hazard will be assumed and a reduced pressure principle assembly will be
required to be installed at the service connection to that premises. (Ord. 573,
5-12-1998)
8-2A-8: ANNUAL TESTING AND REPAIRS:
All backflow assemblies installed within the territory served by the city water
system shall be tested immediately upon installation and at least annually
thereafter by a state certified tester. All such assemblies found not
functioning properly shall be promptly repaired or replaced by the owner. If
any such assembly is not promptly repaired or replaced, the city may deny or
discontinue water to the premises. All repairs are the financial responsibility
of the owner. The city will test all assemblies for residences within the city
limits, at no cost to the owner. The cost for testing assemblies for
nonresidences (for example business, industrial, and commercial) shall be the
financial responsibility of the owner. The city may test those assemblies
outside the city limits and assemblies for nonresidences with the fee being the
going rates charged by state certified testers. (Ord. 617-06, 1-9-2007)
8-2A-9: THERMAL EXPANSION AND PRESSURE LOSS:
   A.   Thermal Expansion: It is the responsibility of the property owner to
eliminate the possibility of thermal expansion.
   B.   Pressure Loss: It is the owners' responsibility for any loss of
pressure due to the addition of a backflow assembly. (Ord. 573, 5-12-1998)
8-2A-10: COST OF COMPLIANCE:
All costs associated with the purchase, installation, replacement, maintenance,
parts and repairs of the backflow assembly are the financial responsibility of
the owner. (Ord. 573, 5-12-1998)
8-2A-11: TERMINATION OF SERVICE:
Failure on the part of any owner to discontinue the use of all cross
connections and to physically separate cross connections is sufficient cause
for the immediate discontinuance of public water service to the premises. (Ord.
573, 5-12-1998)
8-2A-12: LIABILITY:
The water user or owner shall be strictly liable for any backflow incident from
his premises, and shall pay the costs for any remedial action and any
associated claims of injury, medical expense, or long or short term health
effects. (Ord. 573, 5-12-1998)
8-2A-13: RESPONSIBILITIES:
It is the responsibility of all property owners and their renters to abide by
the conditions of this article. In the event of any changes to the plumbing
system, it is the responsibility of the property owners and their renters to
notify the city. (Ord. 573, 5-12-1998)
8-2A-14: FIRE SYSTEMS:
An approved double check valve assembly shall be the minimum protection for
fire sprinkler systems using piping material that is not approved for potable
water use and/or which does not provide for periodic flow through during each
twenty four (24) hour period. An RP assembly shall be installed if any solution
other than potable water can be introduced into the sprinkler system. (Ord.
573, 5-12-1998)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Rates And Charges; Sewage Facilities
8-3-3: Connection Fee And Costs; Responsibility
8-3-4: Connection Required
8-3-5: Disposition Of Revenue
8-3-6: Due Date For Charges
8-3-7: Use Of Public Sewers
8-3-8: Connection Regulations
8-3-9: Maintenance Responsibility
8-3-10: Dispute Resolution
8-3-11: Building Sewers And Connections
8-3-12: Broken Pipes
8-3-13: Extension Of Sewer Mains
8-3-14: Reimbursement Of Extension Costs
8-3-15: Manholes
8-3-16: Grease Interceptors
8-3-17: Infiltration And Inflow
8-3-18: Admission And Control Of Industrial Wastes Into Public Sewers
8-3-19: Recreational Vehicle (RV) Septic Tank Wastes
8-3-20: Connection Permit Requirements
8-3-21: Compliance With State Code
8-3-22: Recorder's Duty
8-3-23: Powers And Authority Of Supervisor
8-3-24: Unlawful Acts
8-3-25: Violation; Penalty
8-3-26: Recovery Of Damages
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them. Unless the context specifically
indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used in this chapter shall be as
follows:
APARTMENT HOUSE: Any building for the housing of three (3) or more families at
one time.
BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter. The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in "Standard Methods".
BIOSOLIDS: Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
BUILDING: A structure which is built for permanent use; a house, garage, shed,
store, etc.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
EDU OR EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT: The basic cost unit for various fees and
charges imposed in connection herewith. In the event that a given site,
facility or person receiving service from the city shall have at a single
service location more than one EDU, whether of the same or different type, a
charge shall be imposed for each EDU.
ERU OR EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT: The basic cost unit for various fees and
charges imposed in connection herewith. In the event that a given site,
facility or person receiving service from the city shall have at a single
service location more than one ERU, whether of the same or different type, a
charge shall be imposed for each ERU.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
GREASE INTERCEPTOR: A vault with a minimum capacity of between five hundred
(500) and seven hundred fifty (750) gallons that is located on the exterior of
the building. The vault includes a minimum of two (2) compartments, and flow
between each compartment is through a ninety degree (90°) fitting designed for
grease retention. The capacity of the interceptor provides adequate residence
time so that the wastewater has time to cool, allowing any remaining grease not
collected by the traps time to congeal and rise to the surface where it
accumulates until the interceptor is cleaned.
GREASE TRAP: A small reservoir built into the wastewater piping a short
distance from the grease producing area. Baffles in the reservoir retain the
wastewater long enough for the grease to congeal and rise to the surface.
GROCERY STORE: A store designated primarily for the purpose of selling
groceries and meats from a meat counter, which has at least one walk-in type
cooler for the storage of meats.
IDAHO STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION (ISPWC): The set of standards
used by the city of Nyssa for all public works construction.
INDUSTRIAL USER: Industrial manufacturing processes, trade or business as
distinct from sanitary sewage.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage and contains:
   A.   A five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand greater than three hundred
(300) parts per million by weight; or
   B.   More than three hundred fifty (350) parts per million of suspended
solids by weight; or
   C.   Having an average daily flow greater than 0.20 percent of the average
daily design flow of the city wastewater treatment plant.
INSPECTOR: The supervisor of sewer and/or water, or authorized deputy, agent or
representative.
MAY: "May" is permissive; "shall" is mandatory.
MEDICAL CLINIC: An office building used by any branch of the healing arts which
is occupied by more than one professional person engaged in the particular
profession.
MILLIGRAM PER LITER: A weight to weight ratio; the milligram per liter value
multiplied by the factor 8.345 shall be equivalent to pounds per million
gallons of water.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a water source, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface water or groundwater.
POTW: Publicly owned treatment works.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH OR THE LOGARITHM (BASE-10) OF THE RECIPROCAL: The logarithm of the
reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
PRETREATMENT: The method by which an industry can comply with local waste
discharge ordinances and also federal and state regulations, protecting the
environment, the POTW agency's facilities and personnel, and the local
community from adverse effects due to industrial waste discharges. The process
designed to remove pollutants from waste streams prior to discharge to the
local sewer system.
PRODUCT: Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
ROOMING HOUSE: Any building permitting the rental of one or more rooms, not
classified as apartments, where cooking or eating facilities are not available
to the renting tenants.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwater, surface
water and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
SERVICE AREA: Being within three hundred feet (300') of the sewer main.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The sewer between the property line and the lateral, main
or trunk sewer of the city sewer system.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
groundwater, surface water and stormwater as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
STANDARD METHODS: The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water, Sewage,
And Industrial Wastes", published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Federation Of Sewage
And Industrial Wastes Associations.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed STORM SEWER): A sewer which carries stormwater
and surface water and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes,
other than unpolluted cooling water.
SUPERMARKET: A store designated primarily for the purpose of selling groceries
and meats from a meat counter, which has at least one walk-in type cooler for
the storage of meats.
SUPERVISOR: The city supervisor of sewer and/or water, or authorized deputy,
agent or representative.
SURCHARGE: The assessment in addition to the service charge which is levied on
those persons whose wastes are greater in strength than the concentration
values established as representative of normal sewage.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering. Quantitive determination of suspended solids shall be
made in accordance with procedures set forth in "standard methods".
UNPOLLUTED WATER OR LIQUIDS: Any water or liquid containing none of the
following: free or emulsified grease or oil; acids or alkalies; substances that
may impart taste and odor or color characteristics; toxic or poisonous
substances in suspension, colloidal state or solution; odorous or otherwise
obnoxious gases. It shall contain not more than 1.0 milligram per liter by
weight of dissolved solids; not more than 2.0 milligrams per liter of suspended
solids or biochemical oxygen demand. Analytical determinations shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in "standard methods".
USER: Any property owner of any property connected to, or which is, by this
chapter, required to be connected with the sewer facilities of the city, and
the property owner, will be held responsible for the payment of said charges
when due.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-2: RATES AND CHARGES; SEWAGE FACILITIES:
   A.   Set By Resolution: Rates and charges for the use of the city sewage
facilities, connection fees, inspection fees and all other fees and charges
shall be set from time to time by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Factors In Determining Charges: In determining the rates and charges to
be assessed under this section, the city council shall take into account all
direct or indirect costs incurred by the city in order to furnish sewer
services. The actual cost of furnishing sewer services includes the average
cost or an allocated portion of the total amount of the actual cost of making
sewer services available to an improvement equipped with plumbing for
wastewater disposal, whether stated as a minimum, fixed or variable amount.
Such actual cost also includes, but is not limited to, the costs of labor,
materials, supplies, equipment rental, property acquisition, permits,
engineering, financing reasonable program delinquencies, return on investment,
required fees, insurance, administration, accounting, depreciation,
amortization, operation, maintenance, repair or replacement and debt service,
including debt service payments or payments into reserve account for debt
service and payment of amounts necessary to meet debt service coverage
requirements.
   C.   Effective Date Of Rates And Charges: Rates and charges in effect prior
to the effective date hereof shall remain in effect unless changed by
resolution of the council, as provided herein. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-3: CONNECTION FEE AND COSTS; RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Fees Set By Resolution: All connection fees to the city sewer lines
shall be set by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Connection Costs; Responsibility: All costs and expenses incident to
the installation and connection of a connection to the sewer shall be borne by
the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the connection to the sewer. The owner/
contractor connecting to the city sewer shall put up a performance bond and/or
security in an amount set by resolution. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-4: CONNECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   Requirement; Time Limit: It is hereby declared to be the duty of the
owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city service area
and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now located
or may be in the future located a public sanitary sewer of the city, at his or
her expense, to connect such facilities directly with the public sewer, either
by gravity or with approved pumping facilities, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within one hundred eighty (180) days after the date
of official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is available to
or on the property and/or at a property line of said property, and the
facilities are within three hundred feet (300') of the public sewer.
   B.   Filing Objections With Council: In the event that, during the said
period of one hundred eighty (180) days, the said owner shall file his or her
written objections with the city recorder against so being required to make
said connection, the city shall not enforce the provisions of this section upon
said owner so filing his or her objections until the city council shall have,
at a meeting thereof, heard the objections of said owner, and rendered its
decision thereon. The meeting of the council shall be held not less than ten
(10) days nor more than thirty (30) days from and after the date of the filing
of said objections with the city recorder. Not less than seven (7) days prior
to the date set by the council for said meeting, the city shall give due notice
of the date set therefor to said owner. The decision of the council shall be
final and no appeal shall be taken therefrom by said owner, except as is
provided by law.
   C.   Failure To Connect Or Pay Sewer Charges: Any owner who shall fail,
refuse or neglect to make connection to the sewer system within one hundred
eighty (180) days after written notice to make such connection shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. Failure to pay sewer charges may result in termination
of water service pursuant to section
8-3-25 of this chapter. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-5: DISPOSITION OF REVENUE:
All revenue derived from the use of the sewage system, in excess of the amount
required for the operation and maintenance of the sewage system and treatment
plant, shall be used to pay principal and interest of revenue bonds of the city
issued to finance the sewer system and sewage disposal facilities with any
excess thereof to be disposed of as directed by the city council. (Ord. 624-08,
8-12-2008)
8-3-6: DUE DATE FOR CHARGES:
All charges for sewage facilities as hereinbefore provided shall become payable
monthly or in such other manner as may be established by the city council, and
if not paid on or before fifteen (15) days from and after the date payable,
such charges shall be deemed delinquent. Failure to pay sewer charges may
result in termination of water service pursuant to section
8-3-25 of this chapter. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-7: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   Prohibited Discharges Into Sanitary Sewer: No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, subsurface
drainage, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters
to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Use Of Storm Sewers: Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall
be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or
to a natural outlet approved by the supervisor. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the supervisor, to
a storm sewer, or natural outlet.
   C.   Specific Prohibited Discharges Into Public Sewers: No person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or
wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter (2 mg/l) as CN in the wastes
as discharged to the public sewer;
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works;
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, gravel, grout, concrete wash and construction wastewater, sand, mud,
straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground
garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and paper
dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
   D.   Harmful Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged
the following described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears
likely in the opinion of the supervisor that such wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
these wastes, the supervisor will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F).
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two (32) and one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installations
and operation of any garbage grinder (disposal) equipped with a motor of one
horsepower or greater shall be subject to review and approval of the
supervisor.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the supervisor for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the supervisor as necessary, after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the composite sewage, to meet the
requirements of the state, federal, or other public agencies of jurisdiction
for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the supervisor in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, grout, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
   E.   Substances Not Amenable To Treatment: Waters or wastes containing
substances which are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage
treatment processes employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree
that the sewage treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other
agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
   F.   Authority Of Supervisor: If any waters are discharged, or are proposed
to be discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in subsection D of this section, and
which, in the judgment of the supervisor, may have deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the supervisor may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes.
   G.   Pretreatment Plant And Equipment, Review And Approval: If the
supervisor permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design
and installation of the pretreatment plant and equipment shall be subject to
the review and approval of the supervisor, and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   H.   Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors: Grease, oil and sand interceptors
shall be provided at the expense of the property owner when, in the opinion of
the supervisor, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units, except where required by the
supervisor. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
supervisor, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
   I.   Maintenance Of Treatment Facilities: Where preliminary treatment or
flow equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
his or her expense.
   J.   Control Manhole: When required by the supervisor, the owner of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install
a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the supervisor. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   K.   Measurements, Tests And Analyses: All measurements, tests and analyses
of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which references are made in
this chapter shall be determined in accordance with Idaho standards for public
works construction, with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The
Examination Of Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special
manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the
nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The
particular analysis involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analysis
are obtained from periodic grab samples.)
   L.   Special Agreements: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city
and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment
therefor, by the industrial concern. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-8: CONNECTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Connections In Workmanlike Manner: All connections with the public
sewer shall be made in a good and workmanlike manner, even with the inside
surface of the sewer.
   B.   Service Connection; Wye Not Provided: Where a connective wye has not
been left to service an undeveloped property, the service connection shall be
as determined by the city in its sole discretion. In order to protect the
integrity of the public sewers, they shall be disturbed as little as possible
and, therefore, where a connection is desired and there is no wye, the
connection to the public sewer shall be made as per "Idaho Standards For Public
Works Construction", as determined by the city in its sole discretion.
   C.   Wye Provided: Where a wye has been provided to a previously undeveloped
property, the connection to the public sewer shall be made by using the wye and
using care not to damage or break the wye. If the wye is broken, repairs shall
be made as determined by the city in its sole discretion.
   D.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required; Fee: Any person desiring a connection to be made to
any sewer must first obtain from the city, a permit to connect or hook up to
such sewer. An application shall be made to the city with the proposed
specifications for the connection, accompanied by the fee to be set by the city
council by resolution.
      2.   Connection By City Or Plumber: Such permit from the city will be
first had and obtained whether such connection to a sewer be performed by the
city or by a licensed plumber as provided below.
      3.   Notify City For Inspection: The applicant for a sewer connection
permit shall notify the city when the building sewer is ready for inspection
and connection to the public sewer.
      4.   Final Approval And Testing: After final approval and testing of the
building sewer by the city, the owner shall make the final connection to the
building drain, unless otherwise authorized by the city. A thirty (30) minute
internal hydrostatic test will be required on all building sewers before
connection is made to the building drain. All water, plugs and other facilities
for making the test shall be furnished by the applicant. Minimum head over the
top of the pipe shall be two feet (2') and maximum allowable leakage shall be
four (4) gallons per hour per one hundred feet (100').
      5.   Abandoned House Lateral, Capping: Any abandoned house lateral shall
be securely capped off at the public sewer line to keep groundwater out.
   E.   Work Performed By City Employees:
      1.   No hookup or connection will be made to any sewer unless the same be
done and performed by an employee or employees of the city or unless the same
be done by a plumber duly and regularly licensed under the laws of the state of
Oregon and ordinances of the city. All hookups or connections shall be
inspected and approved by the supervisor or his or her duly appointed
representative.
      2.   No sewer will be opened or tapped unless the same be done and
performed by an employee or employees of the city in conformance with standards
and specifications established by the city, a plumber duly and regularly
licensed under the laws of the state of Oregon and ordinances of the city. The
supervisor may authorize other person or persons to perform said sewer tap if
he or she feels the situation may warrant it.
   F.   Bond: No one shall be allowed to make connections of private sewers to
the sewage works of the city on behalf of any owners of property therein
without first posting with the city a bond in such amount as the supervisor
deems sufficient to indemnify the city and the inhabitants thereof against any
loss or damage which the city or the inhabitants thereof might suffer by reason
of the action of said person in making said connections.
   G.   Inspection Of Work And Materials: No work on the public sewers shall be
covered until the work and materials have been inspected and approved by the
city.
   H.   Filling Excavation: At the conclusion of the work and following
inspection and approval, the excavation shall be filled and compacted and the
surface of the ground restored to its previous condition, with all rubbish and
surplus earth removed.
   I.   Drain And Plumbing Fixtures: It shall be unlawful to construct or
extend any drain for the reception of sewage or wastewater under or into any
building or premises, or to connect the same with any public sewer, unless the
said drain and the plumbing fixtures installed shall, in the plan and
construction, conform to the following requirements:
      1.   No lower standard of installation of plumbing and drainage work
shall be permitted than that specified in the Oregon code, as amended, the
requirements of which are hereby adopted as the minimum requirements in the
city.
      2.   Every sewer connection must be separately and independently
connected with the street or alley sewer and no openings shall be provided in
the sewer or drain pipe of any building for the purpose of surface drainage. No
roof drain or rainwater leader shall be connected to a public sewer, unless
special conditions make the same proper and when such special condition exists,
the city council shall order the same and keep a record thereof.
      3.   All material must be of good quality and free from defects and the
work must be done in a thorough and workmanlike manner. All materials must be
inspected and approved prior to installation by the city sewer superintendent
or designee.
      4.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth shall be
sufficient to afford protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at
uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible.
   J.   Joints: Joints in cast iron pipe shall be made as per "Idaho Standards
For Public Works Construction", and Oregon code.
   K.   Concrete Or Bituminous Pavement: All concrete or bituminous pavement of
stabilized base course shall be removed and replaced as follows:
      1.   Removal: The original cut in the pavement shall be the same width as
the trench to be excavated, after backfilling and tamping as hereinafter
specified;
      2.   Replacement: The pavement replaced shall conform in type and quality
to the pavement removed, and shall be as thick as the original pavement.
   L.   Replace Pavement Over Excavation: Property owners shall be required to
replace pavement over the full width of excavation, plus any extra removal
directed by the supervisor.
   M.   Replace Sidewalk: Property owners shall replace any sidewalk removed
during sewer connection installation and shall replace the full width of
excavation plus any extra removal directed by the supervisor.
   N.   Area In Clean And Satisfactory Condition: Upon completion of the work,
the contractor shall place the entire area involved in a clean and satisfactory
condition.
   O.   Sewer Lines And House Laterals; Compliance With Standards: All sewer
lines and house laterals hereafter laid within the city shall be constructed as
per "Idaho Standards For Public Works Construction", and the Oregon code.
   P.   Sewer Main Lines; Compliance With Standards: Sewer main lines shall be
constructed as per "Idaho Standards For Public Works Construction", and the
Oregon code.
   Q.   Cleanout Construction: A cleanout shall be constructed in each house
lateral on the private property affected thereby as per "Idaho Standards For
Public Works Construction", and the Oregon code. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-9: MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Responsibility Designated: It is the responsibility of the city to
maintain the sewer mains and trunk lines within the city (hereinafter referred
to as "public sewers"). It is the responsibility of individual owners to
maintain the line connecting a home or business to the main or trunk line
(hereinafter referred to as "house lateral").
   B.   Division Of Responsibility: In order to establish uniformity in
administration and fairness in allocating the burden of maintaining and making
repairs to sewer lines, the city determines that the city responsibility for
the public sewer does not include any portion of an individual owner's house
lateral. A failure or an obstruction in the house lateral is the repair
responsibility of the individual property owner. The point of division of
responsibility for repair and maintenance as between the city and a property
owner for sewer maintenance and repair is the point at which the house lateral
joins the public sewer and whether the house lateral is connected to the public
sewer line by a wye or a saddle, the point of connection and the division of
responsibility is the inside surface of the city sewer line.
   C.   Repairs To City Mains Or Trunk Lines; Permit And Bond: In making
repairs to a house lateral, no contact shall be made with the city sewer mains
or trunk lines without first obtaining a permit from the city, paying the fee
set by resolution of the city council for such permit, and posting a
performance bond in such amount as determined by the supervisor to be
sufficient to indemnify the city and the inhabitants thereof against any loss
or damage which the city or the inhabitants thereof might suffer by reason of
the action of said persons in making such repairs.
   D.   Performance Of Work: No work shall be performed involving the city
sewer main or trunk line unless the same be done and performed by an employee
or employees of the city or unless the same be done by a plumber duly and
regularly licensed under the laws of the state of Oregon and the ordinances of
the city. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-10: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
   A.   Matter Referred To City Manager: Whenever a dispute arises as to
whether the city or a property owner should be responsible for sewer line
maintenance or repairs, the matter shall first be referred to the city manager
who will order a complete investigation of the facts by the city staff.
   B.   City Staff Report; City Manager Decision: Upon receipt of the city
staff report, the city manager may either accept it or order more
investigation. When the city manager is satisfied that all pertinent facts have
been gathered, the city manager shall issue an opinion and decision in writing
and serve a copy on the adverse party in the dispute.
   C.   Hearing Before Council: Any property owner who is affected by the
decision of the city manager may have a hearing before the city council;
provided, that the hearing request is made in writing and filed with the city
manager within ten (10) days following the date of the city manager's opinion
and decision.
   D.   Conducting Hearing: The request for hearing must state with
particularity what the objections are to the city manager's decision and the
hearing shall be confined to the points raised in the request for hearing.
(Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-11: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
There shall be three (3) classes of building sewer permits: a) for residential;
b) for commercial service; and c) for service to establishments producing
industrial wastes. In any case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the supervisor. A permit and inspection
fee for residential, commercial building sewer permit and for an industrial
building sewer permit shall be established by resolution and paid to the city
at the same time the application is filed. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-12: BROKEN PIPES:
When any private drainpipe connected with any public sewer becomes obstructed,
broken or out of order, the supervisor shall, if the owner of such premises
fails to repair the same after two (2) days' notice so to do, cause such
drainpipe to be removed, reconstructed, repaired, altered or cleansed, as he or
she may deem expedient, same to be done at the expense of the owner, and such
expense shall be collected in the manner provided in section
8-3-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-13: EXTENSION OF SEWER MAINS:
   A.   Methods Of Extension: Extension of the sewer mains of the sewer system
may be made by any one of the following methods, in addition to the procedures
provided in this chapter or other ordinances of the city:
      1.   By forming a sewer improvement district, as provided by state law,
as a separate district, or included with other improvements in a local
improvement district;
      2.   By assessment of benefited properties by the city council based upon
such apportionment as is deemed fair and reasonable by the city council;
      3.   By the city installing a sewer main, the entire material and
installation costs of which shall be paid by the person requesting such main,
and which main thereafter shall be owned by the city.
   B.   Size, Grade And Location: The size, grade and location of such main
shall be determined by the city. Minimum sewer main size shall be no less than
eight inch (8") and shall provide for anticipated future development of the
property in the adjacent area, and for the connections which such development
may generate.
   C.   Easement: Where a sewer main is located other than on a city street
right of way, a twelve foot (12') easement for installation, maintenance and
repair of the sewer line shall be obtained from the owner of the property over
which said sewer line traverses, including an easement or permission from
Malheur County or the state of Oregon, if located on a county or state highway
right of way. The easement will be in the form and contain the contractual
provisions required by the city.
   D.   Costs:
      1.   The cost of installation which the applicant shall pay shall include
material costs, calculated city labor and equipment costs and all other costs
incurred for contract services, such as city engineer, city attorney, etc.,
that are necessary for review and construction observation, and including all
necessary testing of sewer mains prior to acceptance and any repavement of
roads or other secondary costs incurred as a consequence of the main
installation.
      2.   In the event the applicant or developer installs city sewer mains,
the sewer mains shall be inspected and approved by the city prior to acceptance
of title by the city and prior to provision of service.
      3.   Any sewer lines, including mains and trunk lines, laid in city
streets as part of a proposed development or service connection, shall become
city property. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-14: REIMBURSEMENT OF EXTENSION COSTS:
   A.   Owners Of Benefited Properties: In the event an applicant (hereinafter
"original applicant") requests and pays for an extension of a sewer main, which
extension makes possible service to other properties whose owners did not
contribute to the cost of extension (hereinafter "benefited properties"), as a
condition of sewer service to owners of benefited properties, reimbursement of
the pro rata cost of said main line extension shall be required as a condition
of any connection to said main line made to any benefited property owner within
eight (8) years of the date of completion of the main line extension. The
amount of reimbursement and the mechanics of payment thereof shall be as
provided in this section.
   B.   Basis For Reimbursement Amount: The amount of reimbursement shall be
based upon the total ownership units associated with the parcel owned by the
original applicant and the benefited property for which service is later
requested. The ownership units associated with a particular parcel consist of
the equivalent user unit or units, based upon water usage for the proposed use
as defined below, plus area units equal to one unit per acre of area served;
fractional area units shall be used for parcels which are not a multiple of one
acre in size. There is one equivalent user unit for each single-family dwelling
or apartment, and for other uses, one unit per each two hundred fifty (250)
gallons of water projected to be used per day (or fraction thereof), based upon
previous consumption records for the same or similar uses and based upon
prevailing municipal water system consumption guidelines, for various kinds of
uses. The calculation shall be based upon winter water usage; it shall be based
on gross water consumption rather than return flow introduced into the sewer.
In the event the estimated usage utilized does not reflect actual usage later
incurred by the facility, the reimbursement may be increased, but not
decreased, based upon actual water usage.
   C.   Formula: Reimbursement shall be based upon the original applicant's
cost of construction of the portion of the original applicant's line extension
which would be utilized by the benefited property to be connected thereto. The
percentage of said initial construction cost to be reimbursed by the owner of
the benefited property shall be calculated based upon ownership units according
to the following formula:
Percent = Ownership units/benefited property
Total ownership units. The total ownership units in the above formula is the
total of ownership units: 1) presently being served by the line extension; plus
2) ownership units associated with the benefited property.
   D.   Payment; Percentage To City: The amount of reimbursement so calculated
shall be paid to the city, prior to connection of the benefited property to the
line extension. The city shall retain ten percent (10%) thereof and remit the
balance to the party or parties entitled thereto. The amount any party is to
receive is based upon the attributed ownership of the line extension. The city
is the owner of the line extension, for all purposes, but for reimbursement
calculation purposes, ownership shall be attributed as follows: The original
applicant who paid for the line extension has one hundred percent (100%)
attributed ownership until such time as the first owner of a benefited parcel
connects thereto and pays a reimbursement amount. Thereafter, the original
applicant and each benefited owner who pays to connect thereto shall be co-
owners in proportion to their contribution to the cost of extension. The net
reimbursement amount to be distributed by the city shall be distributed in
accordance with attributed ownership of the line extension, so calculated.
   E.   Time Limit: No reimbursement shall be permitted after the expiration of
eight (8) years from the date the line extension is placed in service;
thereafter benefited properties may connect to the line extension without
paying any reimbursement costs under this section. Reimbursement under this
chapter shall be to the person or legal entity which funded the line extension
(or paid reimbursement as a condition of connection thereto), or their legal
successors in interest and, in the event all or a portion of the property
served by the line extension is sold, not to the subsequent owner or owners of
such property. In the event such person or legal entity who paid for the line
extension or paid a reimbursement fund to connect thereto does not have a
current mailing address on file with the city at the time a reimbursement
amount is to be paid, the city may retain the reimbursement amount otherwise
payable to such party.
   F.   Statement Of Cost: If an original applicant, who pays for a line
extension, is to receive reimbursement under this section for subsequent
connections within eight (8) years, then, within ninety (90) days of the date
said line extension is placed in service, the applicant must file a written
statement of the construction cost for said line extension with the city
recorder and obtain an approval thereof by the city manager and supervisor.
Said statement shall contain sufficient information from which the cost of each
component part of the line construction may be obtained.
   G.   Alternate Calculation: If the application of the specific provisions of
this section yield a reimbursement amount, or cause a result which is unfair or
unjust, the city may order an alternate calculation consistent with the
requirements of fairness and justice. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-15: MANHOLES:
   A.   Location: Manholes shall be required on all sewer main lines and shall
be located at each street intersection, or as required by the "Idaho Standards
For Public Works Construction", and the Oregon code. Where the distance between
two (2) manholes is greater than three hundred feet (300'), an additional
manhole shall be constructed; provided, however, that if the distance between
two (2) manholes is greater than three hundred feet (300') but less than three
hundred fifty feet (350'), the city engineer may waive the requirement for an
additional manhole if he or she shall first make a written determination that
it is hydraulically feasible to dispense with the additional manhole. The
burden of proof lies with the applicant's engineer in the written determination
to waive an intermediate manhole.
   B.   Cul-De-Sac: Where a sewer main shall be constructed in a cul-de-sac
street of less than one hundred fifty feet (150') in length, a sewer main may
terminate in an approved lamp hole cleanout, or an approved manhole. If the
cul-de-sac street is greater than one hundred fifty feet (150') in length, it
shall terminate only in an approved manhole.
   C.   House Laterals: No house lateral shall connect directly into a manhole
unless the city engineer shall determine it is infeasible to connect with the
sewer line available to the property to be connected. House laterals on cul-de-
sac streets shall connect only to the down flow side of the manhole. (Ord. 624-
08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-16: GREASE INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided by hotels, restaurants,
filling and service stations, laundries, meatpacking plants, woolen mills, milk
processing plants, metal fabrication plants, biofuel processing/manufacturing,
and other places when it shall be shown by the wastewater supervisor that they
are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease, or
any flammable wastes, nonbiodegradable material, sand and other harmful
ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units, except as required by the supervisor. All
interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the sewer supervisor
and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall
be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily removable
covers which, when bolted in place, shall be watertight.
All grease, oil and sand interceptors, when installed, shall be maintained by
the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times and
shall be cleaned and/or replaced at least once each month.
   A.   In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captured material at no cost or responsibility of the city and shall maintain
records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
supervisor. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by
the owner's personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal
firms.
      1.   Owners who fail to maintain interceptors, shall be invoiced a
cleaning fee as set by resolution of the city council for the expense of a
public works crew to clean the line.
      2.   Owners will also be required to submit copies of cleaning records to
city hall every sixty (60) days to be checked after noted violation.
   B.   Interceptors (clarifiers), including grease, oil and sand interceptors
(clarifiers), etc., shall be provided when, in the judgment of the supervisor,
they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease,
flammable wastes, nonbiodegradable material, solids, acid or alkaline
substances or other ingredients harmful to the building drainage system, the
public or private sewer or to public or private sewage disposal.
   C.   The size, type and location of each interceptor (clarifier) or
interceptor shall be approved by the supervisor, in accordance with these
standards. Except where otherwise specifically permitted, no wastes other than
those requiring treatment or separation shall be discharged into any
interceptor (clarifier). Wastes in excess of one hundred forty degrees
Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C) shall not discharge into a grease interceptor.
   D.   Interceptors (clarifiers) for sand and similar heavy solids shall be so
designed and located as to be readily accessible for cleaning and shall have a
water seal in accordance with the most recent state of Oregon plumbing code and
other applicable codes.
   E.   Interceptors (clarifiers) shall be so designed that they will not
become air bound if closed covers are used. Each interceptor (clarifier) shall
be properly vented.
   F.   Each interceptor (clarifier) cover shall be readily accessible for
servicing and maintaining the interceptor (clarifier) in working and operating
condition. The use of ladders or the removal of bulky equipment in order to
service interceptors (clarifiers) shall constitute a violation of
accessibility. Location of all interceptors (clarifiers) shall be shown on the
approved building plan.
   G.   Every fish, fowl and animal slaughterhouse or establishment and every
fish, fowl and meatpacking or curing establishment and every soap factory,
tallow rendering, fat rendering and hide curing establishment, or any other
establishment from which a considerable amount of grease is likely to be
discharged into any plumbing system, sewer system, shall be connected to and
shall drain or discharge into a grease interceptor (clarifier) of an approved
design for this use.
   H.   Every private or public wash rack and/or floor or slab used for
cleaning machinery or machine parts shall be adequately protected against storm
or surface water. It shall drain or discharge into an approved interceptor for
grease and sand designed for this use.
   I.   When, in the judgment of the supervisor, waste pretreatment is
required, an approved type grease trap complying with the provisions of this
section shall be installed in the waste line leading from sinks, drains, or
other fixtures or equipment in establishments such as restaurants, sanatorium,
factory, or school kitchens, or other establishments where grease may be
introduced into the drainage or sewage system. A grease trap is not required
for individual dwelling units or any private living quarters unless required by
the supervisor.
      1.   A grease trap shall be installed which has an approved rate of flow
in accordance with the most recent state of Oregon plumbing code, "Idaho
Standards For Public Works Construction", and other applicable codes, except
when specially approved by the supervisor.
      2.   All interceptors shall be installed and operated in accordance with
the most recent state of Oregon plumbing code, "Idaho Standards For Public
Works Construction", and other applicable codes.
   J.   When grease interceptors are required, the sizing criteria shall be in
accordance with the most recent state of Oregon plumbing code and other
applicable codes.
   K.   Unless specifically required or permitted by the supervisor, no food
waste disposal unit shall be connected to or discharge into any interceptor or
grease trap.
   L.   Use of emulsifiers is prohibited. The introduction of emulsifiers,
enzymes, or any other products into a grease trap or interceptor (clarifier)
which would cause, or is meant to cause, oil or grease to pass through the
grease trap or interceptor (clarifier) is prohibited. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-17: INFILTRATION AND INFLOW:
   A.   All property owners identified by the city as contributors to excessive
or improper infiltration or inflow into the city wastewater treatment works
shall be advised of their infiltration and inflow problems.
   B.   All such situation properties shall be provided a sixty (60) day grace
period in which to correct the infiltration and inflow problems as identified,
said sixty (60) day grace period to extend from the date of notification.
   C.   By the end of the sixty (60) day grace period, each property owner
shall notify the city that corrective actions have been taken or are in
progress, which actions shall be specified in the notification to the city.
   D.   A property owner failing to notify the city of corrective actions prior
to the end of the sixty (60) days' grace period shall be subject to termination
of service, without further notice, and water service, if provided by the city,
shall be immediately discontinued and shut off until the violation shall have
been corrected in accordance with federal, state and city regulations.
   E.   In the event any instance of excessive or improper infiltration or
inflow into the city wastewater treatment works of the city shall continue
beyond the sixty (60) day grace period, it is declared that such continuing
infiltration or inflow is a public nuisance, that the city shall have the right
to abate such public nuisance, and to enter upon any private property within
the city for such purpose. The public nuisance shall be prosecuted as other
public nuisances in the city.
   F.   Violators shall be charged for cleaning of lines to remove chemicals
and expense incurred by a public works crew as set per resolution by the city
council. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-18: ADMISSION AND CONTROL OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES INTO PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   No discharger shall increase the use of potable or process water in any
way, nor mix separate waste streams for the purpose of diluting a discharge as
a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance
with the standards set forth in this chapter.
   B.   This section shall apply to industrial wastes as previously defined and
further to any business or industry connected to the city sanitary sewer system
who uses more than one hundred thousand (100,000) cubic feet of water in any
one month during the calendar year, or who discharges more than one hundred
thousand (100,000) cubic feet of waste into the public sewer in any one month
during the calendar year, or if the waste contains an average BOD in excess of
two hundred forty milligrams per liter (240 mg/l) or a suspended solids
concentration greater than three hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l) based
upon a composite sample. The composite sample shall mean not less than twelve
(12) individual samples taken at not less than thirty (30) minute intervals for
a period of not less than six (6) hours.
   C.   Review and acceptance of the city shall be obtained prior to the
discharge into the public sewers of any waste having a BOD greater than two
hundred forty milligrams per liter (240 mg/l) or a suspended solids content
greater than three hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l).
   D.   Where required, in the opinion of the supervisor, to modify or
eliminate wastes that are harmful to the structures, processes or operation of
the sewage treatment works, the person shall provide at his or her expense such
preliminary treatment or processing facilities as may be determined necessary
to render his or her waste acceptable for admission to the public sewers.
   E.   All industries shall provide pretreatment to include, but not be
limited to, vibrating or rotary screens to remove any particle larger the
twenty (20) mesh.
   F.   Each person discharging industrial wastes into a public sewer shall
construct and maintain one or more control manholes or access points to
facilitate observation, measurement and sampling of wastes. Control manholes or
access facilities shall be located and built in a manner acceptable to the
supervisor.
   G.   The volume of flow used for computing industrial waste charges shall be
the metered water consumption of the person as shown in the records of meter
readings maintained by the city. If the person discharging industrial wastes
into the public sewers procures any part, or all, of his or her water from
sources other than the city water department, all or a part of which is
discharged into the public sewers, the person shall install and maintain at his
or her expense water meters of a type approved by the supervisor for the
purpose of determining the volume of water obtained from these other sources.
   H.   Industrial wastes discharged into the public sewers shall be subject to
periodic inspection and a determination of character and concentration of said
wastes. The determinations shall be made as often as may be deemed necessary by
the supervisor. The samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be
representative of the composition of the wastes. The sampling may be
accomplished either manually or by the use of mechanical equipment acceptable
to the supervisor. Access to the sampling locations shall be granted to the
supervisor or his or her duly authorized representatives at all times. All
tests will be run by the supervisor or his or her duly authorized
representatives.
   I.   All persons discharging industrial wastes into the public sewers shall
be subjected to a surcharge, in addition to any other sewer service charges, if
these wastes have a concentration greater than either of the following maximum
concentrations:
      1.   A BOD of one thousand milligrams per liter (1,000 mg/l);
      2.   A suspended solids content of one thousand five hundred milligrams
per liter (1,500 mg/l);
      3.   An average BOD loading of seven hundred fifty (750) pounds per day.
The amount of the surcharge shall reflect the cost incurred by the city in
removing the excess BOD and suspended solids and cost of additional testing
necessary should an industrial user exceed the maximum concentrations.
   J.   The surcharge per person shall be set by resolution of the city council
for each and every calendar day that the average concentration of BOD or
suspended solids exceeds the maximum limits outlined. Sampling shall be
performed as previously outlined. The surcharge shall be in effect for each and
every calendar day after notification that test results on samples show the
concentration of BOD or suspended solids exceed the maximum allowable limits.
   K.   The BOD in pounds per day loading shall be computed by multiplying the
person's metered water flow in million gallons per day by the constant eight
thousand three hundred forty five (8,345) and multiplying this product by the
person's average daily concentration of BOD in milligrams per liter. Devices
for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be installed, owned and
operated by the person following approval of the supervisor, and these devices
may be used for determining volumes of waste discharged in lieu of the metered
water volume if approved by the supervisor. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-19: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) SEPTIC TANK WASTES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dispose of
septic tank sewage wastes within the city.
   B.   RV's septic tank sewage wastes shall be dumped or disposed of within
the city only at the wastewater treatment plant of the city during regular
business hours; provided, however, that any such person, firm or corporation
desiring to dispose of RV septic tank sewage wastes shall first obtain a permit
therefor from the city clerk, and pay the required fee therefor in advance.
   C.   The city council shall, from time to time by resolution, establish
rates and charges for the use of the city sewage treatment plant for disposing
of RV septic tank wastes.
   D.   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. The application of the above
penalty shall not prevent the enforced termination or cessation of prohibited
or unlawful acts. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-20: CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Indemnification: No person shall make any connection
with any public sewer, nor shall any opening be made into a public sewer, until
the person making the same shall obtain a permit to do so, and shall have given
ample security that he or she will indemnify and save harmless the city from
all actions, accidents, and damages by reason of any opening in any street,
alley, highway or avenue made by such person making any connection with any
public or private sewer, or for any other purpose whatsoever, and that he or
she will also replace and restore the street, alley or avenue which may be
opened to as good a condition as such street, alley or avenue was prior to the
time of the commencement of said work, and shall conform to and abide by all
rules and regulations of the city relating thereto.
   B.   Contents Of Application; Fee: All applications for permits to connect
with the wastewater system must be made to the city recorder, in writing, by
the owner of the property to be served, and must state the fixture to be
installed, the location of the sewer, the number of the lot and block and the
number of the buildings to be connected, and the type of occupancy, and shall
be accompanied by the fee to be set by the city council by resolution.
   C.   Industrial Waste; Anticipated Volume: Where industrial wastes are to be
discharged into the public sewer, the application must be accompanied by a
determination of the anticipated volume of sewage to be discharged into the
public sewer and the character of such sewage expressed in terms of five (5)
day BOD (biochemical oxygen demand) and the pounds of suspended solids. Such
determination must be made by a registered professional engineer engaged in
sanitary engineering work, at the cost of the applicant.
   D.   Industrial Wastes; Application; Control Manhole: Application for a
permit to discharge industrial wastes must be approved by the city council. A
suitable control manhole shall be installed in the service line of each
industrial user of sewage services so that sampling and measurement of sewage
wastes can be made at any time. Such manhole shall be installed at the
industrial user's expense and shall be maintained by him. A chemical analysis
of the wastes being discharged shall be furnished by the industrial user upon
request of the sewer supervisor.
   E.   Agreement To Pay Service Charges; Construction Limitation: Application
for a sewer connection permit shall contain an agreement to pay all service
charges, and in default of such payment, water service to the premises served
may be terminated. It shall be unlawful for any person to extend any private
sewer or drain beyond the limits of the buildings or property for which the
permit has been issued. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-21: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE CODE:
All plumbing jobs now in use, or hereafter to be done in the city, shall
conform to the standard of the Oregon code and "Idaho Standards For Public
Works Construction", and no line of drain or sewer shall be run into or
connected with the public sewer without the approval of the supervisor or other
officer charged with the duty of enforcing this chapter. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-
2008)
8-3-22: RECORDER'S DUTY:
The city recorder, with the assistance of the supervisor, shall make and keep
in a book and on a map, a complete record and account of all connections made
with the sewer mains, with the names of the owners and a description of the
premises with which and for whom such connections are made. The permit shall
specify the point where, and the manner in which, such connection shall be
made, and such connection shall be made under the supervision of said inspector
or supervisor and in conformity with such permit and the provisions of this
code regulating the same. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-23: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF SUPERVISOR:
   A.   The supervisor and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The supervisor
or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire into any
processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or
other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   B.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection A of this section, the supervisor or fully authorized employees
of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company.
   C.   The supervisor and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-24: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to break, damage or remove any
portion of any manhole, lamp hole, flush tank or any part of the public sewers
or drains.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to maliciously, wilfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, tamper with or insert any substance
into any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the wastewater
facilities, including, but not limited to, manholes and the flush ends of sewer
lines.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged into any public sewer, any of the following described substances:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor from industrial use having a temperature higher
than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F).
      2.   Water or waste which contains more than one hundred (100) parts per
million, by weight, of fat, oil or grease.
      3.   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquids, solids or gases.
      4.   Garbage that has not been properly shredded.
      5.   Ashes, cinders, sand, gravel, grout, concrete wash water and
construction wastewater, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers,
tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous substance
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with
the proper operation of the sewage works.
      6.   Waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0, or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
      7.   Waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant.
   D.   Any persons violating the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. The application of the above penalty shall not prevent
the enforced termination or cessation of prohibited or unlawful acts. (Ord.
624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-25: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Notice To Cease Violation: Any person found to be violating any
provision of this chapter shall be served by the city with written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      1.   Failure to cease violation may result in termination of water
services.
      2.   Violators shall be charged actual expenses incurred by city for
cleaning of lines to remove chemicals or other blockage and other expenses
incurred by public works crew.
   B.   Continuing Violation; Penalty Imposed: Any person who shall continue
any violation beyond the time limit provided for in subsection A of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be
fined in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation. Each day
in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
      1.   Failure to cease violation may result in termination of water
services.
      2.   Violators shall be charged actual expenses incurred by the city for
cleaning of lines to remove chemicals or other blockage and other expenses
incurred by public works crew.
   C.   Repeat Violations:
      1.   Any person who has repeat violations or fails to repair violation
thereof may experience termination of water services, until violation is
corrected.
      2.   Repeat violators will be required to submit copies of cleaning
records to city hall every sixty (60) days to be inspected after noted
violation.
   D.   Penalty For Noncompliance: The violation of the provisions of this
chapter, or the failure to conform to its conditions, shall subject the person
of such violation or failure, on conviction, to a fine of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per violation. Each day in which any such violation or failure
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   E.   Liability: Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by
the city by reason of such violation. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-2008)
8-3-26: RECOVERY OF DAMAGES:
Any person who, as the result of violating any of the provisions of this
chapter, causes any expense, loss or damage to the city shall immediately
become liable to the city for the full sum of such expense, loss or damage. The
city council may, at its discretion, instruct the city attorney to proceed
against any such person, in any court of competent jurisdiction, in a civil
action to be brought in the name of the city, for the recovery of the full sum
of any such expense, loss, or damage sustained by the city. (Ord. 624-08, 8-12-
2008)
CHAPTER 4
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICE FRANCHISE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Purpose, Policy And Scope
8-4-2: Definitions
8-4-3: Exclusive Franchise
8-4-4: Franchise Term
8-4-5: Franchise Fee
8-4-6: Franchisee Responsibility
8-4-7: Supervision And Enforcement
8-4-8: Suspension, Modification Or Revocation Of Franchise
8-4-9: Annexation
8-4-10: Interruption Or Termination Of Service
8-4-11: Route Selection
8-4-12: Subcontracts
8-4-13: Rates
8-4-14: Public Responsibility
8-4-15: Accumulation Of Solid Waste
8-4-16: Disturbance Or Removal Of Solid Waste
8-4-17: Burning Of Putrescible Solid Waste
8-4-18: Dumping Of Solid Waste
8-4-19: Offensive Littering
8-4-20: No Waiver Of Conditions
8-4-21: Assignment Of Franchise
8-4-22: Notice
8-4-23: Penalties
8-4-1: PURPOSE, POLICY AND SCOPE:
   A.   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare and environment, and
to conserve energy and natural resources within the city; to provide for the
opportunity to recycle, and to otherwise provide for solid waste management, it
is declared to be the public policy of the city to regulate solid waste
management to:
      1.   Carry out the policies in Oregon Revised Statutes 459 and 459A and
to provide for the opportunity to recycle, taking advantage of a coordinated
areawide recycling collection service and promotion, education and marketing
program.
      2.   Ensure safe, economical and comprehensive solid waste management
service, efficient accumulation, storage, collection, transportation and
disposal or resource recovery of solid wastes.
      3.   Ensure maintenance of economical solid waste collection service.
      4.   Ensure rates that are just, fair, reasonable and adequate to provide
necessary service to the users.
      5.   Prohibit rate preference and other discriminatory practices which
benefit one or a few users at an expense to other users of the service or the
public.
      6.   Provide for technologically and economically feasible resource
recovery by and through the franchisee.
   B.   Pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes 459A.085, this chapter is adopted
and the collection service franchise granted under this chapter is continued,
extended and renewed. This action carries out the requirements of Oregon
Revised Statutes 459A; the purposes of Oregon Revised Statutes 459.015 and the
state solid waste management plan. This chapter is also adopted under municipal
authority of the city.
   C.   To achieve the purposes of this chapter, the city council finds that it
is necessary to have an exclusive collection service franchise for the city. On
the basis of adequate public service, a voluntary level of recycling service in
excess of city and state requirements; and, meeting all requirements of this
chapter, the existing collector, S&S Disposal, Inc., is recognized and
franchised.
   D.   No person shall accumulate, store, collect, transport, dispose of or
resource recover solid wastes or provide service, except in compliance with
this chapter and with Oregon Revised Statutes 459 and 459A dealing with solid
waste and with regulations of the department of environmental quality
promulgated thereunder.
   E.   Except as otherwise provided in section
8-4-3 of this chapter, no person other than the franchisee shall provide
service or offer to provide or advertise for the performance of service. (Ord.
627-10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section. Words not defined in this chapter, but
defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 459 and 459A, shall have the meanings given
in those statutes.
CITY: The city of Nyssa and the area within its boundaries, including its
boundaries as extended in the future.
COMPACT OR COMPACTION: The process of, or to engage in a process, by which
material is shredded, manually compacted or mechanically compacted.
COMPENSATION: Includes:
   A.   Any type of consideration paid for service, including, but not limited
to: rent, the proceeds from resource recovery, any direct or indirect
provisions for the payment of money, goods, services or benefits by tenants,
lessees, occupants, members, or similarly situated persons.
   B.   The exchange of service between persons; and
   C.   The flow of consideration from a person owning, possessing or
generating solid waste to another person who provides services or from a person
providing services to another person owning, possessing or generating solid
waste.
CURBSIDE: A location within three feet (3') of a city street, public access
road, state or federal road. This does not allow solid waste or recycling
receptacles to be placed on the inside of a fence or enclosure for collection,
even if the receptacle is within three feet (3') of said road or roads. For
residences on "flag lots", private roads or driveways, "curbside" shall be the
point where the private road or driveway intersects a city street, public
access road, state or federal road.
DISPOSE OR DISPOSAL: The ultimate disposition at a disposal site of solid waste
collected by the franchisee.
FRANCHISE: The authorization given by this chapter for the franchisee to
provide solid waste management service in the city in accordance with this
chapter.
FRANCHISEE: S&S Disposal, Inc., an Oregon corporation, granted a franchise
pursuant to section
8-4-3 of this chapter or a subsequent ordinance. It also includes any
subcontractor to S&S Disposal, Inc., of Nyssa operating within the franchise
territory.
GENERATOR: The person whose act or process produces the solid waste and
recyclable material and places it for collection and disposal or processing.
The term does not include a person who manages an intermediate function that
results in alteration or compaction of the solid waste or recyclable material
after it has been produced by the generator and placed for collection and
disposal or recovery.
GROSS REVENUE: Revenues derived from all sources of operation within the city,
allowed by law to be included within the term of gross revenue. No expenses,
encumbrances or expenditures shall be deducted from the gross revenue in
determining the total gross revenue subject to the franchise fee, except net
uncollectibles.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Has the meaning given in Oregon Revised Statutes 466.005.
INFECTIOUS WASTE: Any infectious material as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes
459.386 and 459.387.
MIXED AND COMMINGLED RECYCLABLES: Two (2) or more recyclable materials
collected together, that are not separated, and that are in the combination of
materials allowed by the city.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, association, corporation, cooperative, sole
proprietorship, trust, firm, estate, governmental unit, or any other private
legal entity in law or fact.
PLACED FOR COLLECTION: Solid waste, recyclable materials or yard debris that
has been placed by the generator for collection by the franchisee in accordance
with the terms of this chapter.
PROCESSING: An operation where collected materials are sorted, graded, cleaned,
identified or otherwise prepared for end use markets.
PUTRESCIBLE WASTE: Solid waste or waste, including: bones; meat and meat
scraps; fat; grease; fish and fish scraps; food containers or products
contaminated with food wastes, particles or residues; prepared vegetable and
fruit food wastes or scraps; manure; feces; sewer sludge; dead animals or
similar wastes which cause offensive odor or create a health hazard, or which
are capable of attracting or providing food for potential disease carriers,
such as birds, rodents, flies and other vectors. Organic materials that can
decompose and that may create foul smelling, offensive odors or products.
RECEPTACLE: Trash cans (owned by customer), carts, bins, containers
(dumpsters), or drop boxes used for the containment, collection and disposal of
solid waste, recyclable materials or yard debris.
RECYCLABLE MATERIAL: Any material or group of materials that can be collected
and sold for recycling at a net cost equal to or less than the cost of
collection and disposal of the same material. Recyclable materials are a subset
of solid waste.
RECYCLING: The process by which solid waste materials are transformed into new
or different products in such a manner that the original products may lose
their original identity.
As used in this chapter, recycling includes the collection, transportation and
storage of solid waste done in order to place the solid waste in the stream of
commerce for recycling or for resource recovery.
RESOURCE RECOVERY: The process of obtaining useful material or energy resources
from solid waste, including energy recovery, material recovery, recycling and
reuse of solid waste as these terms are defined in Oregon Revised Statutes
459.005.
REUSE: The result of waste into the economic stream, to the same or to a
similar use or application, without change in the waste's identity.
SERVICE: The collection, storage, transportation, transfer or disposal of solid
waste by a franchisee, including such activities that result in recycling or
resource recovery from solid waste by franchisee.
SERVICE AREA: The geographic area in which solid waste management service is
provided by this franchise. For the purpose of this chapter, the service area
is the legal boundaries of the city of Nyssa, including any areas annexed
during the term of this franchise, and all property owned by the city, outside
city limits.
SOLID WASTE: As defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 459.005(24), including, but
not limited to: all useless or discarded putrescible, nonputrescible and
recyclable materials. All waste, in solid, semisolid or liquid form, including,
but not limited to: garbage, rubbish, ashes, street refuse, wastepaper,
cardboard, demolition and construction debris, vegetable or animal solid and
semisolid wastes, dead animals, infectious waste as defined in Oregon Revised
Statutes 459.386(4), but excluding sewage, sewage sludge or sewage hauled as an
incidental part of a septic tank or cesspool cleaning service, or material used
by the generator of the material for fertilizer or composting or for other
productive agricultural or horticultural purposes.
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT: The business of collection, transportation, storage,
treatment, utilization, processing, disposal, recycling and resource recovery
of solid waste and recyclable material.
SOURCE SEPARATION: The separation of solid waste materials by the generator in
preparation for recovery by recycling or reuse.
TRANSFER SITE OR TRANSFER FACILITY: A facility used as an adjunct to collection
vehicles, a resource recovery facility, or a disposal site between the
collection of the waste/solid waste and disposal site, including, but not
limited to: a concrete slab, pit, building, hopper, railroad gondola or barge.
Transfer site or transfer facility does not include a self-propelled, compactor
type solid waste collection vehicle into which scooters, pickups, small packers
or other satellite collection vehicles dump collected solid waste for transfer
to a transfer site, disposal site, landfill or resource recovery site or
facility.
WASTE: Material that is no longer wanted or usable by the source, the source
generator or producer of the material, and the material is to be disposed of or
resource recovered by another person, and includes both source separated
material and nonsource separated materials.
YARD DEBRIS: Grass, clippings, leaves, hedge trimmings and similar vegetative
solid waste, but does not include stumps or similar bulky wood materials. Yard
debris is a subset of solid waste. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010; amd. 2014 Code)
8-4-3: EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE:
Subject to the provisions of this chapter and any amendments thereto,
exceptions contained in this section, the city hereby grants and renews the
exclusive right, privilege and franchise to S&S Disposal, Inc., to provide
solid waste management service upon the streets of the city, to residents and
persons located within the city, and to operate a transfer, recycling or
resource recovery facilities. Without the written consent of the city council,
nothing in this chapter shall:
   A.   Prevent the officers of the city from employing persons and using
vehicles for the purpose of collection and removal of solid wastes for the
annual cleanup or for cleaning public rights of way.
   B.   Prohibit any person from transporting wastes produced by themselves if
the loading and operation of the vehicle containing the solid waste or wastes
prevents the contents from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping
onto public rights of way or property adjacent thereto, and if such wastes will
be disposed of or resource recovered pursuant to all applicable laws,
ordinances and regulations of federal, state or local government units having
jurisdiction. Solid waste produced by a tenant, lessee, member, occupant or
person other than the owner of the leased, occupied or licensed premises shall
be considered to be produced by such tenant, lessee, member, occupant or person
and shall not be collected or transported by the owner or manager of the
facility being rented, leased or for which a membership benefit may accrue.
   C.   Prevent another person from transporting and disposing of hazardous
wastes or, with permission of the franchisee, materials which by their size or
weight cannot be handled in open trucks, packer trucks, front end loaders or
roll-off box trucks supplied by the franchisee directly or through subcontract.
Upon notice by a customer to the city of such unusual size or weight of
materials, if the franchisee cannot provide the service, the franchisee shall
waive the exclusive franchise with respect to these materials only. Such waiver
shall be written and shall be filed with the city. The person in whose favor
the waiver is granted shall obtain a permit from the city for such hauling and
shall pay the same franchise fee as would have been required of the franchisee
under section
8-4-5 of this chapter.
   D.   Prevent civic, benevolent or charitable organizations from providing
recycling or reuse services as a fundraising drive or benefit, provided said
organization is not organized or operated for any solid waste management
purpose.
   E.   Prevent the collection, transportation or redemption of returnable
beverage containers under Oregon Revised Statutes 459A, commonly known as the
"bottle bill".
   F.   Prevent a generator, producer or source that transports and disposes of
solid waste created as an incidental part of regularly carrying on the business
of auto dismantling, to the extent licensed by Oregon law.
   G.   Prevent a person that transports and disposes of solid waste
accumulated or created as an incidental part of regularly carrying on the
business of janitorial services. As used in this subsection, "the business of
janitorial services" does not include a business that primarily or solely
transports and disposes of solid waste accumulated, created, generated or
produced by a property owner or occupants.
   H.   Prevent any person from transporting and disposing of solid waste
created as an incidental part of regularly carrying on the business of
gardening, tree trimming or landscaping.
   I.   Prevent any person or company from shredding or disposing of
confidential documents. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-4: FRANCHISE TERM:
The franchise is granted for a seven (7) year term. The right, privilege and
collection franchise granted by this chapter is considered as a rolling
collection franchise, subject to renewal and termination only as follows:
   A.   Extension Or Notice Of City Decision To Terminate Franchise; Procedure:
      1.   Beginning January 1 of each year, an additional year shall
automatically be added to the term of the franchise to maintain a seven (7)
year term.
      2.   If the city council chooses not to extend the franchise, then at
least sixty (60) days before the date that the franchise would otherwise
automatically be extended, the city shall provide the franchisee with written
notice of the city council's intent not to extend the franchise. The franchisee
shall have thirty (30) days from the date of the notice to request a public
hearing. If, following the public hearing, the city council reaffirms the
decision not to extend the franchise term, the franchise shall become a fixed
seven (7) year franchise and shall not automatically be extended as provided in
this section. Further continuing term renewals may be reinstated by the city.
   B.   City Review Of Terms Of Franchise: The city shall have the right, at
the end of every five (5) year period, to review any of the terms of this
franchise and to work with franchisee to implement the modifications desired by
the city, taking into account the technological and economical feasibility of
such modifications, and allowing compensation to franchisee in the rates for
any increased cost of service due to such modifications.
   C.   Suspension, Modification Or Revocation: The franchise may be suspended,
modified, or revoked as provided in section
8-4-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-5: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   Franchise Fee Established; Payment:
      1.   In consideration of the collection franchise being continued,
extended and renewed, S&S Disposal, Inc., shall pay to the city a franchise fee
of five percent (5%) of the gross revenue received for services.
      2.   The franchise fee shall be paid quarterly to the city and shall be
based on the gross revenues collected from its solid waste management customers
for franchised collection services within the city.
      3.   For the purpose of determining the franchise fee, uncollectible
debts shall be deducted in computing gross revenue.
   B.   Statement Of Gross Revenues Collected: The franchisee shall furnish to
the city on a quarterly basis a true statement of gross revenues collected from
its solid waste management customers for franchised collection in the city, as
stated in this section. This shall be for the purpose of determining the
franchise fee payable by franchisee to the city. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-6: FRANCHISEE RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   The franchisee shall:
      1.   Provide an automated or semiautomated system of collection for solid
waste. All receptacles designed for mechanical collection shall be supplied by
franchisee. Any receptacle that is customer provided and designed for manual
collection shall be approved by the franchisee.
      2.   Dispose of solid waste and waste collected at a disposal site, waste
to energy facility, or transfer site or facility approved by the department of
environmental quality, or resource recover the solid waste and waste, both in
compliance with Oregon Revised Statutes 459 and 459A, and regulations
promulgated thereunder. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010)
      3.   Provide and keep in force public liability insurance in an amount
that is not less than the minimum requirements of the Oregon tort claims act in
Oregon Revised Statutes 30.260, which shall be evidenced by a certificate of
insurance filed with the city recorder. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010; amd. 2014
Code)
      4.   Agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the city, its officers,
employees, volunteers and agents from any and all claims, demands, action, or
suits arising out of or in connection with the city council's grant of this
franchise. Franchisee shall be responsible to defend any suit or action brought
by any person challenging the lawfulness of this franchise or seeking damages
as a result of or arising in connection with its grant; and shall likewise be
responsible for full satisfaction of any judgment or settlement entered against
the city in any such action,
      5.   Damages and penalties under subsection A4 of this section include,
but shall not be limited to, damages arising out of personal injury, property
damage, copyright infringement, defamation, theft, and fire.
      6.   Within thirty (30) days after the effective date hereof, file with
the city recorder a written, continued acceptance of the solid waste management
franchise and of the terms of this chapter, which shall be evidenced by
endorsement on the original of the ordinance in the form prescribed by the city
council.
      7.   Provide sufficient collection vehicles, receptacles, facilities,
personnel and finances to provide all types of necessary solid waste management
service, or subcontract with others to provide such service pursuant to section
8-4-12 of this chapter.
      8.   Respond to any oral complaint on service within five (5) business
days and to any written complaint on service within ten (10) business days from
the time the complaint was received. If the complaint is not resolved in this
manner, the following process shall be followed:
         a.   The person making the complaint shall attempt to settle the issue
by notifying the franchisee of the nature of the issue and affording the
franchisee the opportunity to resolve the issue.
         b.   If the issue is unresolved, the person making the complaint may
contact the city manager. The city may require a written description of the
issue from either party, and shall attempt to mediate and resolve the grievance
with the complainant and the franchisee.
         c.   If the issue remains unresolved, the complainant or the
franchisee may appeal to the city council who shall hear the dispute. The
decision of the city council shall be final and binding.
      9.   Ensure a responsive, customer service oriented business. Maintain a
convenient bill paying station and telephone answering service within the city
during normal business hours. Business days will be Monday through Thursday,
but customer calls will be received and, if necessary, responded to on Fridays.
      10.   Treat as confidential the contents of a customer's receptacle. The
franchisee shall treat the contents of a customer's receptacle as confidential
and will not discuss the contents of any receptacle with others, except under
the following conditions: a) the contents appear to contain illegal or
hazardous materials that would be reportable by franchisee to law enforcement
or another appropriate governmental entity; b) the franchisee is required by
court order to describe the contents of the receptacle; or c) the franchisee is
cooperating with law enforcement.
      11.   Furnish to the city on an annual basis a true and complete
statement of its financial condition, including a statement of income and
expenses prepared by an independent accountant.
      12.   Provide and keep in force public liability insurance issued by an
insurer authorized to conduct business in Oregon in the amounts declared by
city council resolution and as provided in the franchise agreement, as
reasonably appropriate for that which is required of the franchisee's indemnity
obligations under the terms of this chapter; proof of such insurance shall be
evidenced by a certificate of insurance filed with the city manager. The policy
of such insurance shall:
         a.   Name the city as additional insured; and
         b.   Provide that such policy not be canceled, terminated, amended or
permitted to expire without not less than ten (10) days' prior written notice
to the city. The city shall have the option to purchase insurance and charge
the franchisee for the cost thereof.
         c.   Within thirty (30) days or a time otherwise fixed by the
council's resolution granting a franchise authorized by this chapter, execute
and file with the city manager the franchise agreement.
      13.   If any elderly or certifiably handicapped residential customer is
unable to roll the container to the street or curb, the franchisee will furnish
a receptacle to the customer and pick it up at the customer's residence at the
same rate as curb service. All such containers shall remain the property of the
franchisee.
   B.   The franchisee shall not:
      1.   Give any rate preference to any person, locality or service. This
subsection shall not prevent uniform classes of rates based upon length of
haul, type or quantity of waste handled and location of customers, so long as
such rates are reasonably based upon costs of the particular service and are
approved by the city council in the same manner as other rates, nor shall it
prevent any person from volunteering service at reduced cost for a charitable,
community, civic or benevolent purpose.
      2.   Transfer this franchise or any portion thereof to other persons
without the prior written consent of the city council, which consent shall not
be unreasonably withheld. The city council shall approve the transfer if the
transferee meets all applicable requirements met by the original franchise
holder. A pledge of this franchise shall be considered as a transfer for the
purposes of this subsection. The city council may attach whatever conditions it
deems appropriate to guarantee maintenance of service and compliance with this
chapter.
      3.   Discriminate in the provisions of service or the employment of
persons engaged in performance of this agreement on account of race, religious
creed, color, national origin, disability, marital status, or sex of such
persons or as otherwise prohibited by law.
      4.   Violate or disregard traffic laws within the city or state.
      5.   Enter onto closed street(s) when the city is making repairs.
   C.   The franchisee may:
      1.   Where one or a few large volume customers require substantial
investment in new or added equipment not otherwise necessary to serve the city,
the franchisee may require a contract with such customers to provide a retainer
for service for a reasonable period of time, to prevent shifting the cost to
city ratepayers of the customer(s) voluntarily terminating service. (Ord. 627-
10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-7: SUPERVISION AND ENFORCEMENT:
Solid waste management service provided under this chapter shall be under the
supervision and inspection of the city council or their designee. The council
or their designee shall make necessary inspections of equipment and service
practices during franchisee's normal business hours, investigate written
complaints and take such further action as is deemed necessary. The city,
through its appropriate officers, shall take all appropriate steps within the
power of the city to protect the exclusive right and interest hereby given to
the franchisee and shall cooperate in all particulars with the franchisee in
protecting such exclusive right and shall, if deemed necessary, pass such
additional ordinances as may be required to make the franchise exclusive and to
enforce such ordinances. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-8: SUSPENSION, MODIFICATION OR REVOCATION OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Grounds: Wilful violation of this chapter, or failure of franchisee to
comply with a written notice to provide necessary service or to otherwise
comply with this chapter, after a reasonable opportunity to comply, shall be
grounds for modification, revocation, and/or suspension of the collection
franchise.
   B.   Notice: After written notice from the city council that such grounds
exist, the franchisee shall have thirty (30) days from the date of giving such
notice in which to comply or to request a public hearing before the city
council. Said notice may be delivered to franchisee personally, electronically
or by U.S. mail to franchisee's business address.
   C.   Council Action: If franchisee fails to comply within the specified time
or fails to comply with the order of the city council entered upon the basis of
findings at the public hearing, the city council may suspend, modify or revoke
the franchise, or make such action contingent upon continued noncompliance with
this chapter.
   D.   Public Hearing: At a public hearing, the franchisee and other
interested persons shall have an opportunity to present oral, written or
documentary evidence to the city council.
   E.   Immediate And Serious Danger: In the event that the city council finds
an immediate and serious danger to the public through creation of a health
hazard, it may take action within a time specified in the notice to the
franchisee, and without a public hearing prior to taking such action. (Ord.
627-10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-9: ANNEXATION:
Subject to Oregon Revised Statutes 459.085(3), franchisee reserves all rights
to serve any and all areas annexed to the city and to purchase any annexed
franchisee's rights. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-10: INTERRUPTION OR TERMINATION OF SERVICE:
The franchisee shall not interrupt or terminate service to all or a portion of
its customers unless:
   A.   The street or road access is blocked and there is no alternate route to
serve all or a portion of its customers; and, provided that the city shall not
be liable for any such blocking of access.
   B.   Excessive weather conditions or other access conditions render
providing service unduly hazardous to persons or equipment providing service,
or such interruption or termination is caused by accidents or casualties caused
by an act of God or a public enemy.
   C.   A customer has not paid for service within forty five (45) days of
mailing of the bill, and after giving seven (7) days' written notice to pay,
which notice can be made by mail or in person. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-11: ROUTE SELECTION:
The city council may designate the streets and roads to be used by franchisee
in providing service and may reroute where traffic conditions, the public
convenience or public welfare so require. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-12: SUBCONTRACTS:
The franchisee may subcontract with others to provide a portion of the service
where franchisee does not have the necessary equipment for service. Such a
subcontract shall not relieve the franchisee of total responsibility for
providing and maintaining service and for compliance with this chapter. The
subcontractor shall abide by all the terms and conditions of this chapter, and
the subcontractor shall have no claim or right of action whatsoever against the
city. Except where emergency service is provided by a subcontractor, such
subcontract shall be in writing, shall be filed with the city manager for any
service extending more than ninety (90) days, and shall provide that the
subcontractor shall have no claim or right of action whatsoever against the
city. The subcontractor shall provide a certificate of insurance listing the
city as an additional insured. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-13: RATES:
Rates for service shall be established by separate city council resolution.
(Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010; amd. 2014 Code)
   A.   Rates Adjusted By Council Resolution: The city council may, from time
to time, adjust the rates charged by the franchisee by adopting a revised rate
resolution. The franchisee may apply for a rate adjustment at the end of one
year from the previous adjustment, or when franchisee's overall costs increase
by five percent (5%), or when a single catastrophic cost increase occurs,
whichever comes first. At the time of application for a rate adjustment, the
franchisee shall submit a proposed schedule of rates for solid waste management
service, which shall be reviewed by the city.
   B.   Establishing Rates Or Rate Adjustments; Considerations: In establishing
rates or in considering rate adjustments, the city shall find that the rates
will be just, fair, reasonable and sufficient to provide proper service to the
public and will take into consideration the cost of doing business by the
franchisee, the ability of the customer to pay such rates and the rates charged
by a similar business. In determining the appropriate rate to be charged by the
franchisee, the city council may consider the following:
      1.   The cost of performing the service provided by the franchisee.
      2.   The anticipated increase or decrease in the cost of providing this
service.
      3.   The need for equipment replacement and the need for additional
equipment to meet the service needs; compliance with federal, state or local
law or regulations; or, technological changes.
      4.   The franchisee's investment, the value of the business and the
necessity that the franchisee has a reasonable operating margin and rate of
return on revenue.
      5.   The public interest in assuring reasonable rates to enable the
franchisee to provide efficient and beneficial service to the residents and
other users of the service.
      6.   The local wage scale cost of management, facilities, and disposal
fees and charges.
      7.   Any profit or cost savings resulting from recycling and resource
recovery, and any additional costs resulting from recycling and resource
recovery.
      8.   Any increase or decrease in the franchise fee charged by the city.
      9.   Rates in other cities for similar service.
      10.   Any other information deemed necessary for a rate review and
adjustment. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-14: PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY:
Both the franchisee and the public shall comply with Oregon Revised Statutes
459 and 459A and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, including those
regulations issued by the department of environmental quality. The following
requirements shall pertain to service under this chapter:
   A.   Disposal In Approved Manner; Certain Intervals: Each person in the city
shall dispose of their putrescible solid waste and wastes in an approved manner
at least every seven (7) days or at more frequent intervals where necessary to
prevent the creation of health hazards, rodent harborage or sustenance, vector
production or sustenance, or public nuisance.
   B.   Receptacles: Each customer shall use only receptacles furnished by the
franchisee; unless the franchisee has authorized the use of a customer provided
receptacle. The loaded weight of the receptacles shall comply with the
manufacturer's specifications.
   C.   Carts: All carts designed for mechanical solid waste collection and all
receptacles designed for mechanical recyclable materials collection shall be
placed at the curb or roadside by the customer prior to the time of collection.
   D.   Location: Commercial carts and containers and any other receptacles not
required by the franchisee to be at roadside must be located where access and
egress is possible without hazard or risk to the person providing service or
other persons, or risk to property, and shall be located outside of any locked
or latched gate or outside any building.
   E.   Stationary Compactors: No stationary compactor or other receptacle for
commercial or industrial uses shall exceed the safe loading design limit for
collection vehicles providing the service. Stationary compacting devices for
handling solid waste or recyclable materials shall comply with applicable
federal and state safety regulations.
   F.   Customer Action: Customers shall take appropriate action to ensure that
hazardous materials, chemicals, paint, corrosive materials, infectious waste,
or hot ashes are not put into a cart, container or drop box. When materials or
customer abuse, fire, or vandalism causes excessive wear or damage to a cart,
container or drop box, the cost of repair or replacement may be charged to the
customer.
   G.   Responsibility For Payment: Any person who receives service shall be
responsible for the payment for that service. The landlord of any premises
impliedly consents to the provision of service to the tenant thereof, and shall
be responsible for payment for the service if the tenant does not pay.
   H.   Additional Billing Policies: The following additional billing policies
shall apply:
      1.   There shall be a pro rata credit allowed on the regular monthly
charge for service which is canceled for three (3) weeks or more, but none
shall be allowed for service which is canceled for less than three (3) weeks.
      2.   The franchisee may deny solid waste collection service to nonowner
occupants of property unless payment therefor has been guaranteed in advance by
the property owner, or unless a satisfactory cash deposit or advance payment
has been made by said nonowner occupant.
      3.   The franchisee may charge a late fee for payment more than thirty
(30) days after it is due in the amount of eighteen percent (18%) APR (1.5
percent per month).
      4.   The franchisee may terminate service to a customer for nonpayment in
accordance with subsection
8-4-10C of this chapter. The franchisee may require advance payment of a
restart fee in the future from a previously nonpaying customer before resuming
service.
      5.   For purposes of solid waste management service billing charges, two
(2) plastic bags or waterproof paper bags (not exceeding 30 inches by 37
inches, and which must be securely closed) shall be the equivalent of one 32-
to 35-gallon receptacle. No sharp or abrasive materials shall be placed in a
plastic or paper bag. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-15: ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTE:
All solid waste shall be prepared for collection in accordance with this
chapter, and removed from a premises weekly, or at other reasonable intervals,
so as to prevent spillage from receptacles, escape of odors, or conditions that
would attract pests. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-16: DISTURBANCE OR REMOVAL OF SOLID WASTE:
No person shall:
   A.   Enter into a receptacle for the purpose of compacting the contents of
the receptacle.
   B.   Remove a receptacle from the location where the receptacle was placed
for collection, unless the person is authorized to do so by the generator.
   C.   Remove the lid from any solid waste receptacle and remove, disturb,
collect, compact or scatter solid waste or recyclable material placed in such
receptacle, or deposit solid waste into such receptacle, unless the person is
authorized to do so by the generator. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-17: BURNING OF PUTRESCIBLE SOLID WASTE:
No person shall burn or attempt to burn putrescible solid waste in any open
place within the city. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-18: DUMPING OF SOLID WASTE:
No person shall:
   A.   Discard, scatter, dump, deposit or cause or permit to be discarded,
scattered, dumped or deposited, any amount of solid waste along the bank of, or
in any canal, ditch, stream, waterway, creek, river or other body of water, or
in or upon any public place or other publicly owned property, other than in
receptacles provided for the purpose of holding such solid waste.
   B.   Discard, scatter, dump, deposit or cause or permit to be discarded,
scattered, dumped or deposited, any amount of solid waste in or upon any
private property unless such activity is undertaken with the consent of the
property owner and is otherwise authorized by federal, state or local laws and
regulations. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-19: OFFENSIVE LITTERING:
No person shall create an objectionable stench or degrade the beauty or
appearance of property or detract from the natural cleanliness or safety of
property by intentionally:
   A.   Discarding or depositing any solid waste upon the land of another
without the permission of the owner, or upon any public way or in or upon any
public transportation facility; or
   B.   Draining or causing or permitting to be drained, sewage or the drainage
from cesspools, septic tanks, recreational or camping vehicle waste holding
tanks or any other contaminated source, upon the land of another without the
permission of the owner, or upon any public way; or
   C.   Throwing or discarding, or permitting any solid waste to be thrown or
discarded from a vehicle which the person is operating; provided, however, that
nothing in this subsection shall impose liability upon a person who is
operating a vehicle transporting passengers for hire subject to regulations by
the interstate commerce commission or the Oregon department of transportation
or operating a school bus described under Oregon Revised Statutes 801.460, and
who does not throw or discard the solid waste. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-20: NO WAIVER OF CONDITIONS:
The city shall not be deemed to have waived the performance of or the
observance by the franchisee of any of the terms, conditions or provisions
hereof unless and except such waiver be by resolution or other appropriate
action by the city council and recorded in the minutes thereof. (Ord. 627-10,
9-21-2010)
8-4-21: ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE:
This franchise shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
successors, legal representatives and assigns of the franchisee. (Ord. 627-10,
9-21-2010)
8-4-22: NOTICE:
Whenever required for any purpose in this agreement, notice by either party
shall be deemed sufficient if it is in the form of a letter sent by certified
mail, returned receipt requested, to the business address specified below:
Franchisee:
S&S Disposal
321 Good Avenue
Nyssa, OR 97913
Franchisor:
City Of Nyssa
301 Main Street
Nyssa, OR 97913
(Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010)
8-4-23: PENALTIES:
Violation by any person of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to be
a violation and shall be punishable, upon conviction thereof, by a fine of not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per violation in accordance with
section
4-1-9 of this code. The following are violations of this chapter that are
subject to penalty; it shall be unlawful:
   A.   For any person to provide or offer to provide solid waste management
service in the city, except as provided under this chapter.
   B.   For a person to commit any of the acts that are prohibited by sections
8-4-15 through
8-4-19 of this chapter. (Ord. 627-10, 9-21-2010)
TITLE 9
DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE A. TITLE, PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY
SECTION:
9-1A-1: Introduction
9-1A-2: Title
9-1A-3: Purpose
9-1A-4: Compliance And Scope
9-1A-5: Rules Of Code Construction
9-1A-6: Consistency With Comprehensive Plan And Laws
9-1A-7: Development Code And Zoning Map Implementation
9-1A-8: Zoning Checklists And Coordination Of Building Permits
9-1A-9: Official Action
9-1A-10: Code Interpretations
9-1A-1: INTRODUCTION:
This title, also referred to as the city of Nyssa development code, is
administered by the city manager or his or her designee. The development code
regulates land use and development within the city, and is organized as
follows:
   A.   Chapter 1:
      1.   This chapter describes the title, purpose, authority, organization
and general administration of the development code. This chapter also explains
how city officials interpret and enforce code requirements.
      2.   Article B of this chapter contains definitions and other exhibits
that the city uses in interpreting and administering the development code. For
example, where chapter 2 of this title contains a general list of land uses
allowed in each zone, article B of this chapter provides examples of uses that
are consistent with each general category.
   B.   Chapter 2: Chapter 2 of this title contains the zoning regulations.
Zoning districts or "zones" are designated on the city of Nyssa zoning map,
consistent with the city of Nyssa comprehensive plan. The zoning regulations
specify allowed land uses, and lot and development standards that are specific
to particular land uses or zones. Before commencing a new use or development,
changing an existing use or development, or applying for a building permit, the
property owner should verify the city's zoning requirements. The owner is
required to file a zoning checklist pursuant to section
9-4A-2 of this title prior to issuance of building permits.
   C.   Chapter 3: Chapter 3 of this title contains the city's development
design standards, including requirements for street access; pedestrian and
vehicle circulation; parking; landscaping, screening, fences and walls; outdoor
lighting; adequate transportation, water, sanitary sewer, and storm drainage
facilities; and utility requirements. Chapter 3 of this title applies to all
development, including land divisions and projects for which no land use
application or review is required; the city public works design standards
support chapter 3 of this title.
   D.   Chapter 4: Chapter 4 of this title contains the city's application
requirements and review procedures for land use and development decisions,
including, but not limited to, procedures for land divisions, property line
adjustments, conditional use permits, site design review, master planned
developments, and variances. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1A-2: TITLE:
The official name of this title is the CITY OF NYSSA DEVELOPMENT CODE. It may
also be referred to as "development code" and, within this title, "this code"
or "this title". (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1A-3: PURPOSE:
This title is enacted to promote the public health, safety, and welfare, and to
encourage the orderly and efficient development and use of land within the city
consistent with the city comprehensive plan and the following principles:
   A.   Compact physical development, which promotes the efficient provision of
public services and infrastructure;
   B.   Mixed use, which places homes, jobs, stores, parks, and services within
walking distance of one another;
   C.   Orderly growth and utilization of urban services (e.g., water, sewer,
storm drainage, parks and transportation facilities) which maximizes the return
on public investments in infrastructure;
   D.   Transportation efficiency, or development of an interconnected street
system supporting multiple modes of transportation, which yields more direct
routes (shorter distances) between local designation, conserves energy, reduces
emergency response times, and provides alternatives to the automobile for those
who are unable or choose not to drive a car;
   E.   Human scale design, or development in which people feel safe and
comfortable walking from place to place because buildings, streetscapes,
parking areas, landscaping, lighting and other components of the built
environment are designed foremost with pedestrians in mind;
   F.   Environmental health and open space, including adequate light and air
circulation, provision of park lands with development, management of surface
water runoff, and treatment and disposal of waste; and
   G.   Efficient administration of code requirements, consistent with the
needs of the city, a small city with limited administrative capacity. (Ord.
635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1A-4: COMPLIANCE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Compliance With Development Code: No structure or lot shall hereinafter
be used, developed, or occupied, and no structure or part thereof shall be
erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or otherwise altered except
as permitted by this title. Furthermore, annexations and amendments to the
zoning map, and amendments to the development code shall conform to applicable
provisions of this title.
   B.   Obligation By Successor: The requirements of this title apply to the
owner(s) of record, persons undertaking the development or the use of land, and
to those persons' successors in interest.
   C.   Transfer Of Development Standards Prohibited: Except as otherwise
specifically authorized by this title, no lot area, yard, landscaping, or open
space that is used to satisfy a requirement of this title for one use shall be
used to satisfy the same requirement for another use. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1A-5: RULES OF CODE CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Provisions Declared To Be Minimum Requirements: The provisions of this
title, in their interpretation and application, are minimum requirements,
adopted for the protection of the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   B.   Highest Standard Or Requirement Applies: Whereas the requirement of
this title varies from another provision of this title or with other applicable
regulations, the highest standard or regulation shall govern. The city manager
or planning commission, as applicable, shall determine which code provision
sets the highest standard. Where the applicability of a code provision is
unclear, the city manager or planning commission, or upon referral the city
council, may issue a formal interpretation pursuant to section
9-1A-10, "Code Interpretations", of this article.
   C.   Tenses: Words used in the present tense include the future; the
singular form includes the plural; and the plural includes the singular.
   D.   Interpreting Illustrations: This title contains references to
illustrations, which are intended to serve as examples of development design
that either meet or do not meet particular code standards. Except where a
graphic contains a specific numerical standard or uses the word "shall",
"must", "required" or "prohibited", strict adherence to the graphic is not
required.
   E.   Severability: The provisions of this title are severable; where any
section, sentence, clause or phrase is judged to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, that decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portion of this title. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1A-6: CONSISTENCY WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND LAWS:
   A.   City Comprehensive Plan: This title implements the city comprehensive
plan. Except as otherwise required by applicable state or federal law, all
provisions of this title shall be construed in conformity with the
comprehensive plan, including any comprehensive plan elements or public
facility master plans, adopted pursuant to the comprehensive plan.
   B.   Compliance With Other Laws Required: In addition to the requirements of
this title, all uses and development must comply with all other applicable
city, state of Oregon, and federal rules and regulations.
   C.   References To Other Regulations: All references to other city, state,
and federal rules and regulations are for informational purposes only and do
not constitute a complete list of such requirements. The references do not
imply any responsibility by the city for enforcement of state or federal
regulations. Where a proposal, permit, or approval is subject to both city
requirements and state or federal requirements, the property owner is
responsible for contacting the applicable agencies and complying with their
rules and regulations.
   D.   Current Versions And Citations: All references to the regulations of
other jurisdictions refer to the most current version and citation for those
regulations, except where this title, city council policy, or applicable law
require otherwise. Where a referenced regulation has been amended or repealed,
the city manager, planning commission or, upon referral, the city council,
shall interpret this title and, based on adopted city policy, determine whether
an equivalent standard applies. Such determinations, unless made through a
legislative process, may be appealed to city council. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1A-7: DEVELOPMENT CODE AND ZONING MAP IMPLEMENTATION:
   A.   Zoning Of Areas To Be Annexed: Concurrent with annexation of land to
the city, the city council, upon considering the recommendation of the planning
commission, shall enact an ordinance applying applicable zoning designation(s)
to the subject land, pursuant to chapter 4, article F of this title. The
comprehensive plan shall guide the designation of zoning for annexed areas.
   B.   Land Use Consistent With Development Code: Land and structures in the
city may be used or developed only in accordance with this title, including all
amendments thereto. A lawful use of land ("use") is one that is permitted in
accordance with this title, or is allowed as a legal nonconforming use,
pursuant to article E of this chapter, provided state or federal law does not
prohibit the use.
   C.   Development Code And Zoning Map: The city's official zoning map
("zoning map"), which may be published, amended, and filed separately, is part
of this title. The zoning districts depicted on the zoning map correspond to
the zoning districts in this title. In addition, this title may contain zoning
regulations for special areas (i.e., overlay zones), and for certain uses or
structures that do not appear on the zoning map.
   D.   Interpreting Zoning Map: Except as otherwise specified by this title,
the city's zoning boundaries are as designated on the official zoning map,
which is kept on file at city hall. The city may adopt and publish supplemental
zoning maps where it is impractical to illustrate all regulated features on one
map; examples of regulated features include, but are not limited to, historical
landmarks, special street setbacks, base flood (floodplain) elevation, local
wetland inventories, and specific area plans. In addition, the city may require
field verification and mapping (e.g., survey) of a regulated feature as part of
a development application, where the feature is thought to exist on or adjacent
to the subject property but its exact location is unknown.
   E.   Boundary Lines: Zoning district boundaries are determined pursuant to
section
9-2A-3 of this title.
   F.   Changes To Official Zoning Map: Proposed changes to the official zoning
map are subject to review and approval under chapter 4, article F, "Amendments
To Zoning Map Or Code", of this title. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1A-8: ZONING CHECKLISTS AND COORDINATION OF BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Land Use Approvals And Building Permits: Land use and building
approvals are processed by two (2) city officials:
      1.   The city building official ("building official") administers the
city building regulations and issues building permits.
      2.   The city manager administers the development code, processes land
use approvals, and coordinates with the building official on development and
building projects to ensure compliance with the development code.
   B.   Zoning Compliance Required For Building Permits: A building permit
shall not be issued until city manager has confirmed that all applicable
requirements of this title are met, or appropriate conditions of approval are
in place to ensure compliance.
   C.   Zoning Checklist: Where a zoning checklist is required prior to
issuance of a building permit, pursuant to section
9-4A-2 of this title, the city manager through a type I procedure shall review
the project proposal. The building official shall not issue any building permit
without an approved zoning checklist for the project. If in reviewing the
project proposal the city manager determines that other permits or approvals
are required before development may commence or a building permit may be
issued, the city manager shall advise the applicant in writing, accordingly.
See chapter 4, "Application Review Procedures And Approval Criteria", of this
title. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1A-9: OFFICIAL ACTION:
   A.   Official Action, Authority: The city manager, planning commission, and
city council are vested with authority to issue permits and grant approvals in
conformance with this title, pursuant to chapter 4, "Application Review
Procedures And Approval Criteria", of this title. City officials shall issue no
permit and grant no approval for any development or use that violates or fails
to comply with conditions or standards imposed to carry out this title.
   B.   Void Future Actions: Any permit or approval issued or granted in
conflict with the provisions of this title shall be void, unless the city
modifies it in conformance with this title. The city manager shall determine
when an approval is void and, as applicable, he or she shall refer it back to
the decision making body for modification to ensure code compliance.
   C.   Referral To Planning Commission: In addition to those actions that
require planning commission approval, the city manager may refer any question
or permit request to the planning commission, who then shall take action on the
request pursuant to the applicable provisions of this title. See also, section
9-1A-10, "Code Interpretations", of this article and chapter 4, "Application
Review Procedures And Approval Criteria", of this title.
   D.   Notices, Filing And Validity Of Actions: The failure of any person to
receive mailed notice or failure to post or file a notice, staff report, or
form shall not invalidate any actions pursuant to this title, provided a good
faith effort was made to notify all parties entitled to such notice report, or
form. See chapter 4, article A, "General Review Procedures", of this title.
(Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1A-10: CODE INTERPRETATIONS:
Some terms or phrases within this title may have two (2) or more reasonable
meanings. This section provides a process for resolving differences in the
interpretation of the code text.
   A.   Authorization Of Similar Uses: Where a proposed use is not specifically
identified by this title, or this title is unclear as to whether the use is
allowed in a particular zone, the city manager may find the use is similar to
another use that is permitted, allowed conditionally, or prohibited in the
subject zone and apply this title accordingly. However, uses and activities
that this title specifically prohibits in the subject zone, and uses and
activities that the city manager finds are similar to those that are
prohibited, are not allowed. Similar use rulings that require discretion on the
part of city officials shall be processed following the type II procedure of
section
9-4A-3 of this title. The city manager may refer a request for a similar use
determination to the planning commission for its review and decision making in
a public hearing, following the type III procedure of section
9-4A-4 of this title.
   B.   Code Interpretation Procedure: Requests for code interpretations,
including, but not limited to, similar use determinations, shall be made in
writing to the city manager and shall be processed as follows:
      1.   The city manager, within fourteen (14) days of the inquiry, shall
advise the person making the inquiry in writing as to whether the city will
make a formal interpretation.
      2.   Where an interpretation does not involve the exercise of discretion,
the city manager shall advise the person making the inquiry of his or her
decision within a reasonable time frame and without public notice.
      3.   Where an interpretation requires discretion, the city manager shall
inform the person making the request that an application for code
interpretation is required and advise the applicant on how to make the request.
At a minimum, an application for code interpretation shall include a letter
citing the nature and reasons for the request, and, as required, a city fee.
The city manager then shall review relevant background information, including,
but not limited to, other relevant code sections and previous city land use
decisions, and issue a written decision following the type II review procedure
of section
9-4A-3 of this title.
   C.   Written Interpretation: Following the close of the public comment
period on an application for a code interpretation (discretionary review under
subsection B3 of this section), the city manager shall mail or deliver the
city's decision in writing to the person requesting it, to any other person who
specifically requested a copy of the decision, and to those who provided public
testimony on the application. The decision shall become effective when the
appeal period for the decision expires.
   D.   Referral To City Council: Where a code interpretation may have
significant citywide policy implications, the city manager may bypass the
procedure in subsection B of this section and refer the request directly to the
city council for its legislative review in a public hearing; such public
hearings shall be conducted following type IV procedure of section
9-4A-5 of this title.
   E.   Interpretations On File: The city shall keep on file a record of its
code interpretations. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
ARTICLE B. DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-1B-1: Purpose
9-1B-2: Applicability
9-1B-3: General Definitions
9-1B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to define terms that are used in the city
development code (this title) and other terms that may arise in interpreting
this title, particularly those that may be uncommon or have more than one
meaning. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1B-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Definitions: The definitions in this article apply to all actions and
interpretations under the city development code. The meanings of some terms in
this article may, in certain contexts in which they are used, be clearly
inapplicable. In such cases, the context in which a term is used will indicate
its intended meaning, and that intent shall control.
   B.   When Terms Not Defined: Terms not defined in this title shall have
their ordinary accepted meanings within the context in which they are used.
"Webster's Third New International Dictionary Of The English Language,
Unabridged", shall be considered a standard reference.
   C.   Land Use Categories: This article defines the land use categories used
in chapter 2 of this title.
   D.   Conflicting Definitions: Where a term listed in this article is defined
by another section of this title or by other regulations or statutes referenced
in this title, the term is not redefined herein for purposes of that other
section, regulation or statute. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1B-3: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions are organized alphabetically.
ABUTTING: Contiguous or adjoining.
ACCESS: A way or means of approach to provide pedestrian, bicycle, and/or motor
vehicular entrances or exits to a property.
ACCESS CONTROL: Where the right of access between a property abutting the
highway and the highway has been acquired by a roadway authority or eliminated
by law pursuant with access or approach spacing standards.
ACCESS EASEMENT: An easement conveyed for the purposes of providing vehicle,
bicycle, and/or pedestrian access from a public street to a lot or parcel
across intervening property under separate ownership from the parcel being
provided access. Cross access easement is an easement providing vehicular
access between two (2) or more separate sites, so that the driver need not
enter the public street system between sites.
ACCESS MANAGEMENT: The systematic control of the location, spacing, design, and
operation of driveways, median openings interchanges, and street connections to
a roadway to minimize conflicts between turning and through vehicles,
bicyclists and pedestrians. The purpose of access management is to provide
vehicular access to land development in a manner that preserves the safety and
efficiency of the transportation system. Public facility measures to support
access management include roadway design applications, such as median
treatments and auxiliary lanes, and the appropriate spacing of traffic signals.
Measures that may be included as conditions of approval for development
decisions include, but are not limited to: a) standards such as minimum spacing
of driveways and on site vehicle storage requirements; b) mitigations related
to site conditions such as right-in-right-out only approaches, medians,
dedicated turn lanes, and shared driveways; and c) provision for future
opportunities for mitigation by land dedication or easement.
ACCESS MANAGEMENT PLAN: A plan adopted by the city, or jointly by the Oregon
transportation commission (OTC) in coordination with the city, for managing
access on a designated section of an arterial street or highway.
ACCESS POINT: A connection providing for the movement of vehicles to or from a
lot or parcel to a public roadway.
ACCESS, REASONABLE: Access that does not require excessive out of direction
travel or pose a safety hazard.
ACCESS SPACING/APPROACH SPACING: The distance from one connection to a public
street to another street connection.
ACCESS SPACING STANDARDS: The minimum distance required between a proposed
street or driveway connection, as measured from its centerline, and the
centerline of the nearest existing street or driveway connection on the same
side of the highway or street in both directions, as set forth by the standards
of the applicable roadway authority. Spacing standards for state highways are
contained in Oregon administrative rules section 734-051-4020.
ACCESSIBLE: Two (2) meanings are possible depending on the specific code
provision: In general, accessible means approachable by pedestrians, vehicles
or other transportation mode, as applicable. Accessible may also mean
approachable and usable by people with disabilities, in conformance with the
federal Americans with disabilities act. Either or both definitions may apply
in a particular situation.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure of secondary importance or function on a site.
In general, the primary use of the site is not carried on in an accessory
structure. Accessory structures are detached from the primary structure.
Examples of accessory structures include, but are not limited to: garages,
decks, fences, arbors, gazebos, workshops and other structures. See also
definition of Primary Structure.
ACCESSORY USE: A use or activity that is a subordinate part of a primary use
and that is clearly incidental to a primary use on a site. See also definition
of Primary Structure.
ACCESSWAY: A. A walkway or multiuse path connecting two (2) rights of way to
one another where no vehicle connection is made.
   B.   A walkway providing a through connection for pedestrians between two
(2) streets, between two (2) lots, or between a development and a public right
of way. It may be an accessway for pedestrians and bicyclists (with no vehicle
access), or a walkway on public or private property (i.e., with a public access
easement); may also be designed to accommodate emergency vehicles. See also
definition of Walkway.
ADJACENT: Abutting or located directly across a street right of way or
easement.
ALTER/ALTERATION: A change in use or occupancy or physical change to a
structure or site. Alteration does not include normal maintenance and repair.
Alterations may or may not require land use approval, but property owners
should check with the city of Nyssa before preparing project plans or
commencing development. Alterations include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Changes in use or occupancy;
   B.   Changes to the exterior of a building;
   C.   Changes to the interior of a building;
   D.   Increases or decreases in floor area of a building;
   E.   Changes to other structures on the site, or the development of new
structures;
   F.   Changes to exterior improvements;
   G.   Changes to landscaping; and
   H.   Changes in the topography of the site.
ALTERNATE ACCESS: The right to access a property by means other than the
proposed approach or access connection. It may include an existing public right
of way, another location on the subject street or highway, an easement across
adjoining property, a different street, a service road, a local road, or an
alley, and may be in the form of a single or joint approach.
APPLICANT: A person who applies for a permit or approval under this title. An
applicant can be the owner of the property, a contract purchaser, or someone
who is legally authorized to represent the owner, such as a builder, developer,
or contract purchaser.
BED AND BREAKFAST INN: Any establishment located in a structure designed for a
single-family residence and structures appurtenant thereto, providing limited
overnight lodging and meals for guests pursuant with the special use
requirements for bed and breakfast inns.
BLOCK: All of the property bounded by streets, rights of way (pedestrian or
vehicle ways), water features, or any combination thereof, but is not divided
or separated in any way by streets or water features.
BLOCK FACE/STREET FRONTAGE: All of the property fronting on one side of a
street that is between intersecting or intercepting streets, or that is between
a street and a water feature, or end of a dead end street. An intercepting
street determines the boundary of the block frontage only on the side of the
street that it intercepts. See figure on file in the city.
BUILDING: See applicable building code.
BUILDING FOOTPRINT: The outline of a building, as measured around its
foundation, or building coverage, whichever is greater.
BUILDING LINE: A line running parallel to a lot line that is the same distance
from the lot line as the closest portion of a building on the site, typically
used in reference to required setback yards. See figure on file in the city.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The person who enforces the building ordinances and
regulations for the city, and other ordinances and regulations as assigned.
BUILDING/STRUCTURE HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the grade plane to the
average height of the highest roof structure. Refer to the international
building code.
CAPACITY: Maximum holding or service ability, as used for transportation,
utilities, parks and other public facilities. See also definition of
"occupancy" in applicable building codes.
CARPORT: A stationary structure consisting of a roof, its supports, not more
than one wall or storage cabinets substituting for a wall, used to shelter
motor vehicles, recreational vehicles, or boats; does not include temporary
shelters or canopies not affixed to a permanent foundation per applicable
building codes.
CHANGE OF USE: Change in the primary type of use on a site.
CHILDCARE FACILITY: Facilities that provide care and supervision of minor
children for periods of less than twenty four (24) hours that do not otherwise
meet the definition of Family Daycare.
CITY: The city of Nyssa, Oregon.
CLEAR AND OBJECTIVE: Decision criteria and standards that do not involve
substantial discretion or individual judgment in their application.
CLEARING (As In CLEARING AND GRADING): Any activity that removes existing
vegetation or strips surface material from any portion of the site and
exceeding typical yard maintenance for a single-family dwelling.
CLUB: Any organization, group, or association supported by the members thereof,
the purpose of which is to render a service customarily rendered for members
and their guests but shall not include any organization, group, or association,
the chief activity of which is to render a service customarily carried on as a
business.
COMMERCIAL: Land use involving buying/selling of goods or services as the
primary activity. See also definition of Retail Sales And Service Uses (Land
Use).
COMMERCIAL OUTDOOR RECREATION (LAND USE): Includes firing ranges, golf courses,
driving ranges, miniature golf courses, and other unenclosed commercial
recreation or amusement activities.
COMMON AREA: Land jointly owned to include open space, landscaping or
recreation facilities (e.g., may be managed by a homeowners' association).
COMMUNITY SERVICES (LAND USE): Uses of a public, nonprofit, or charitable
nature generally providing a local service to people of the community, except
for schools, which are categorized separately. Generally, they provide the
service on the site or have employees at the site on a regular basis. The
service is ongoing, not just for special events. Private lodges, clubs, and
nonprofit organizations that have membership provisions may be considered a
community service. Uses providing mass shelter or short term housing where
tenancy may be arranged for periods of less than one month when operated by a
public or nonprofit agency may also be considered a community service. The use
may also provide special counseling, education, or training of a public,
nonprofit or charitable nature. See also definitions of Parks And Open Space
(Land Use) and Religious Institutions And Places Of Worship (Land Use).
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The current adopted comprehensive plan of the city of
Nyssa.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use that requires a conditional use permit. See chapter 4,
article D of this title.
CONDOMINIUM: Ownership of a single unit in a multi-unit structure that may
contain common areas and facilities; includes both residential and commercial
condominiums. See Oregon Revised Statutes 100 for applicable requirements.
CORNER LOT: See definition of Lot: Corner Lot.
CORNER RADIUS: The radius of a street corner, as measured around the curb or
edge of pavement, except as otherwise specified by applicable engineering
design standards.
COUNCIL/CITY COUNCIL: The city council of Nyssa, Oregon.
COUNTY: Malheur County.
DAYS: Calendar days, unless specifically stated as working days. Working days
include Monday through Friday, excluding federal holidays.
DEDICATION: The designation of land by its owner for any public use as shown on
a subdivision plat or deed. The term may also be used for dedications to a
private homeowners' association.
DENSITY(IES): A measurement of the number of dwelling units in relationship to
a specified amount of land based on the minimum lot size per dwelling unit
required by the applicable zone.
DEVELOP: To construct or alter a structure or to make a physical change to the
land including excavations, clearing and fills. See also definition of Alter/
Alteration.
DEVELOPMENT: All improvements on a site, including alterations to land and new
or remodeled structures, parking and loading areas, landscaping, paved or
graveled areas, and areas devoted to exterior display, storage, or activities.
DISCONTINUED USE: A use that physically left the land it was on, a permitted
use that ceased, or a use terminated at the end of a lease or contract. See
article E, "Nonconforming Situations", of this chapter.
DISCRETIONARY: A permit action or decision that involves substantial judgment
or discretion.
DRIVE-THROUGH/DRIVE-UP FACILITY: A facility or structure that is designed to
allow drivers to remain in their vehicles before and during an activity on the
site. Drive-through facilities may serve the primary use of the site or may
serve accessory uses. Examples are drive-up windows; automatic teller machines;
coffee kiosks and similar vendors; menu boards; order boards or boxes; gas pump
islands; car wash facilities; auto service facilities, such as air compressor,
water, and windshield washing stations; quick lube or quick oil change
facilities; and drive-in theaters. All driveway queuing and waiting areas
associated with a drive-through/drive-up facility are similarly regulated as
part of such facility.
DRIVEWAY: The area that provides vehicular access to a site from a street, or
the area that provides vehicular circulation on a site.
DRIVEWAY APPROACH: A driveway connection to a public street or highway where it
meets a public right of way. Note: The design standards of the applicable
roadway authority apply. See also Oregon administrative rules chapter 734,
division 51 for definitions specific to state highways.
DRIVEWAY APRON: The edge of a driveway where it meets a public right of way.
Note: The design standards of the applicable roadway authority apply.
DRIVEWAY, SHARED: When land uses on two (2) or more lots or parcels share one
driveway. An easement or tract (owned in common) must be created and recorded
for this purpose.
DWELLING (LAND USE): A structure conforming to the definition of a dwelling
under applicable building codes. For the purposes of this title, the following
definitions are provided:
Accessory Dwelling: A secondary dwelling unit on a lot where the primary use is
a single-family dwelling.
Attached, Single-Family (Townhome): A dwelling unit located on its own lot that
shares one or more common or abutting walls with one or more dwelling units on
adjacent lot(s).
Duplex Dwelling: A structure that contains two (2) primary dwelling units on
one lot. The units must share a common wall or common floor/ceiling.
Dwelling Unit: A building, or a portion of a building, that has independent
living facilities including provisions for sleeping, cooking, and sanitation,
and that is designed for residential occupancy by a group of people. Buildings
with more than one set of cooking facilities are considered to contain multiple
dwelling units or accessory dwelling units, as applicable, unless the
additional cooking facilities are clearly accessory to the primary use, such as
an outdoor grill or wet bar.
Manufactured Home: A structure constructed for movement on the public highways
that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended for human
occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and that was constructed
in accordance with federal manufactured housing construction and safety
standards and regulations in effect at the time of construction.
Mobile Home: A structure constructed for movement on the public highways that
has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended for human
occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and that was constructed
between January 1, 1962 and June 15, 1976, and met the construction
requirements of Oregon mobile home law in effect at the time of construction.
Multi-Family Development: A structure or grouping of structures containing
three (3) or more dwellings on the same lot.
Multi-Family Structure: A structure containing three (3) or more dwelling
units. The land underneath the structure is not divided into separate lots.
Recreational Vehicle: A vehicle with or without motive power, that is designed
for human occupancy and to be used temporarily for recreational, seasonal or
emergency purposes and as further defined by state law and/or administrative
rules.
Residential Facility: As defined under Oregon Revised Statutes 430.010 (for
alcohol and drug abuse programs); 443.400 (for persons with disabilities); and
443.880. Residential facilities provide housing and care for six (6) to fifteen
(15) individuals who need not be related. Staff persons required to meet state
licensing requirements are not counted in the number of facility residents and
need not be related to each other or the residents.
Residential Home: A residential treatment or training or adult foster home
licensed by or under the authority of the state of Oregon, pursuant to Oregon
Revised Statutes 443.400 through 443.825, a residential facility registered
under Oregon Revised Statutes 443.480 through 443.500, or an adult foster home
licensed under Oregon Revised Statutes 443.705 to 443.825 that provides
residential care alone or in conjunction with treatment or training or a
combination thereof for five (5) or fewer individuals who need not be related.
See also Oregon Revised Statutes 197.660.
Residential Trailer: A structure constructed for movement on the public
highways that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended
for human occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and that was
constructed before January 1, 1962.
Senior Housing: Housing designated and/or managed for persons over a specified
age. Specific age restrictions vary, and uses may include assisted living
facilities, retirement homes, convalescent or nursing homes, and similar uses
not otherwise classified as residential homes or residential facilities.
Single-Family, Detached Dwelling: A detached dwelling unit located on its own
lot.
EASEMENT: A grant of rights by a property owner that allows others to use the
owner's land for a specific purpose, such as access, or to locate utilities;
recorded and on record at Malheur County.
EMERGENCY APPARATUS LANE OR FIRE LANE: Unobstructed area or driveway meeting
uniform fire code requirements; typically not to be used for parking or loading
area.
FAMILY DAYCARE: Care for not more than sixteen (16) children in a home. See
Oregon Revised Statutes 657A.440(4) for applicable licensing and other
requirements.
FINAL PLAT: The diagrams, drawings, and other writing containing all the
descriptions, locations, dedications, provisions and information concerning a
land division, pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes 92 and chapter 4, article C
of this title.
FLOODPLAIN/HAZARD AREA: Area as so indicated by the federal flood insurance
rate map, as amended.
FLOOR AREA: Area of building, which may be described in terms of gross
(overall) square feet, or net marketable/leasable space.
GARAGE: A covered permanent structure designed to provide shelter for vehicles,
and which is accessory to a dwelling or other primary use. Carports are
considered garages.
GRADE: The lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground,
paving, or sidewalk within the area between the building and the property line
or, when the property line is more than five feet (5') from the building,
between the building and a line five feet (5') from the building. This is the
definition used in the Oregon structural specialty code (the international
building code as amended by the state of Oregon).
GRADING: All cuts, fills, embankments, stockpile areas, and equipment
maneuvering areas associated with development.
GROUND COVER: Living or processed plant material (e.g., mulch, bark chips),
river rock and cinders used for aesthetic purposes and to prevent erosion
(i.e., cover bare ground) in designated landscape areas. See chapter 3, article
D, "Landscaping, Fences And Walls; Outdoor Lighting", of this title.
GROUND FLOOR: Building floor closest to street level and within four feet (4')
of finished grade.
GROUP LIVING: Characterized by the long term (i.e., more than 28 days)
residential occupancy of a structure by a group of people who do not meet the
definition of household living. The size of the group typically is larger than
the average size of a household. Group living structures do not include self-
contained units but rather have common facilities for residents including those
for dining, social and recreational and laundry. Group living is divided into
two (2) subcategories based on whether or not residents receive any personal
care, training and/or treatment:
Long Term Care Facilities: Group living establishments where personal care for
children, the aged, and special categories of persons with some limits on
ability for self- care is provided. In addition to the provision of room and
board, services such as supervision; protection; assistance while bathing,
dressing, grooming or eating; management of money; transportation; and
recreation are provided. Medical care may or may not be a major element.
Examples include hospice, nursing and personal care facilities, homes for the
deaf or blind, and similar uses.
Room And Board Facilities: Group living establishments where no personal care,
training and/or treatment is provided. Examples include dormitories,
fraternities, sororities, boarding houses, monasteries and convents,
residential hotels, lodging houses operated by organizations for members only,
and similar uses.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES: Any substance, material, or waste listed below:
   A.   Nuclear or radioactive materials or waste;
   B.   Chemicals subject to reporting under title III of the superfund
amendments and reauthorization act (SARA) of 1986, published July, 1987, U.S.
environmental protection agency; and
   C.   Hazardous materials table, in the code of federal regulations (CFR),
title 49, part 172.101.
   D.   Other substances as determined by applicable state or federal agency.
HOME OCCUPATION, HOME OCCUPATION SITE: A business activity that is carried out
on the same site as a dwelling unit, and which is accessory to the household
living use on the site, subject to the special use provisions of chapter 2,
article C of this title.
HOTEL/MOTEL: A building or portion thereof designed and used for occupancy of
transient individuals lodged with or without meals for a continuous period not
to exceed twenty nine (29) days. See Oregon Revised Statutes 446.310.
INCIDENTAL AND SUBORDINATE TO: Secondary to, and less apparent than, the
primary use or other portion of the development.
INDUSTRIAL SERVICE USES: Industrial service firms are engaged in the repair or
servicing of industrial, business or consumer machinery, equipment, products or
byproducts. Examples include welding shops; machine shops; tool repair;
electric motor repair; sales, repair, salvage or wrecking of heavy machinery,
metal, building materials, autos or trucks (does not include junkyards); towing
and temporary vehicle storage; heavy truck servicing and repair; tire
retreading or recapping; truck stops; building, heating, plumbing or electrical
contractors; printing, publishing and lithography; exterminators; recycling
operations; janitorial and building maintenance services; fuel oil
distributors; solid fuel yards; research and development laboratories;
industrial laundry, dry cleaning, and carpet cleaning plants; photofinishing
laboratories; and similar uses.
INTERSECTION: An at grade connection of a public or private approach road to
the highway.
JUNKYARD: A. Any property or establishment on which one or more persons are
engaged in breaking up, dismantling, sorting, storing, distributing, buying, or
selling scrap or waste materials.
   B.   Any establishment or place of business on which an unreasonable volume
of waste or refuse is collected, stored, maintained, bought, or sold. Includes
wrecking yards, automobile graveyards, garbage dumps, and scrap metal
processing facilities.
KENNEL: As defined in section
6-2-1 of this code.
LAND DIVISION: The process of dividing land to create parcels or lots. See
chapter 4, article C of this title.
LAND USE: The activity or activities that occur on a piece of land. Activities
may be individually identified as primary or accessory uses.
LAND USE DECISION 1 : A final decision or determination made by the city of
Nyssa (or other agency with jurisdiction) that concerns the adoption,
amendment, or application of the statewide planning goals, the comprehensive
plan, or any land use regulation (i.e., this title) where the decision requires
the interpretation or exercise of policy or legal judgment. Note: All decisions
requiring quasi-judicial review by the city of Nyssa are land use decisions.
Decisions subject to administrative review are considered limited land use
decisions, pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes 197.015.
LANDSCAPING: Any combination of living plants such as trees, shrubs, plants,
vegetative ground cover or turf grasses, and may include structural features
such as walkways, fences, benches, plazas, works of art, reflective pools,
fountains or the like. Also includes irrigation systems, mulches, topsoil, and
revegetation or the preservation, protection and replacement of trees.
LEGISLATIVE: A legislative action or decision is the making of law, as opposed
to the application of existing law to a particular use (e.g., adoption of, or
amendment to, a comprehensive plan or development regulation). See also section
9-4A-5 of this title.
LEVEL OF SERVICE (LOS): A quantitative standard for transportation facilities
describing operational conditions. See city of Nyssa transportation system
plan.
LOADING AREA: The area available for the maneuvering and standing of vehicles
engaged in delivering and loading goods, freight, or other articles. See also
chapter 3, article E, "Parking And Loading", of this title.
LOT: A legally defined piece of land other than a tract that is the result of a
land division. The following definitions for "lot" apply to the state
definition of both lot (result of subdividing) and parcel (result of
partitioning). See figures on file in the city.
Corner Lot: A lot that has frontage on more than one intersecting street. A
street that curves with angles of one hundred twenty degrees (120o) or less,
measured from the centerline of the street, is considered two (2) intersecting
streets for the purpose of evaluating whether a lot is a corner lot. See
figures on file in the city.
Flag Lot: A lot with two (2) distinct parts:
   A.   The flag, which is the only building site; and is located behind
another lot; and
   B.   The pole, which connects the flag to the street; provides the only
street frontage for the lot; and at any point is less than the minimum lot
width for the zone.
Lot Of Record: A legally created lot or parcel meeting all applicable
regulations in effect at the time of creation, and held in separate ownership,
or any other lot deemed a legal lot under article D of this chapter.
Through/Reverse Frontage Lot: A lot that has frontage on two (2) parallel or
approximately parallel streets.
LOT AREA: The total surface area (measured horizontally) within the boundary
lines of a lot.
LOT CONSOLIDATION: The reduction in the number of lots; i.e., the creation of
one lot from two (2) or more existing lots.
LOT COVERAGE: The total area of a lot covered by building(s) or impervious
surfaces, as provided by the applicable land use district development
standards.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: See definition of Lot: Through/Reverse Frontage Lot.
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT: See definition of Property Line Adjustment.
LOT LINES/PROPERTY LINES: The property lines along the edge of a lot or site.
See figures on file in the city.
Front Lot Line: A lot line, or segment of a lot line, that abuts a street. On a
corner lot, the front lot line is the shortest of the lot lines that abut a
street. If two (2) or more street lot lines are of equal length, then the
applicant or property owner can choose which lot line is to be the front lot
line for the purpose of determining required setbacks. However, a through lot
has two (2) front lot lines regardless of whether the street lot lines are of
equal or unequal length. See figures on file in the city.
Rear Lot Line: A lot line that is opposite a front lot line. A triangular lot
has two (2) side lot lines but no rear lot line. For other irregularly shaped
lots, the rear lot line is all lot lines that are most nearly opposite the
front lot line. See figures on file in the city.
Side Lot Line: A lot line that connects front and rear lot lines. On a corner
lot, the longer lot line that abuts a street is a side lot line. See figures on
file in the city.
Side Street Lot Line: A lot line that is both a side lot line and a street lot
line. See figures on file in the city.
Street Lot Line: A lot line, or segment of a lot line, that abuts a street.
Street lot line does not include lot lines that abut a dedicated alley. On a
corner lot, there are two (2) (or more) street lot lines. Street lot line can
include front lot lines and side lot lines; however, both are considered front
yards for the purpose of measuring required setbacks. See figures on file in
the city.
MAJOR REMODELING: Major remodel projects are those where a site is not vacant
and the floor area or developed area of the site is proposed to increase by ten
percent (10%) or more. See also chapter 4, article B, "Site Design Review", of
this title.
MANEUVERING AREA/AISLE: The driving area in a parking lot where motor vehicles
are able to turn around and access parking or loading spaces.
MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOME PARK (LAND USE): Any place where four (4) or more
manufactured dwellings are located within five hundred feet (500') of one
another on a lot, tract or parcel of land under the same ownership, the primary
purpose of which is to rent or lease space or keep space for rent or lease to
any person for a charge or fee paid or to be paid for the rental or lease or
use of facilities or to offer space free in connection with securing the trade
or patronage of such person. "Manufactured dwelling park" does not include a
lot or lots located within an approved subdivision being rented or leased for
occupancy by no more than one manufactured dwelling per lot. See also Oregon
Revised Statutes 446.
MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES: See definitions of Dwelling (Land Use) related
terms.
MANUFACTURING AND PRODUCTION (LAND USE): Manufacturing and production firms are
involved in the manufacturing, processing, fabrication, packaging, or assembly
of goods. Examples include processing of food and related products; breweries
and distilleries when not accessory to a commercial use; slaughterhouses or
meatpacking; taxidermist; lumber mills, pulp and paper mills, and other wood
products manufacturing; woodworking, including cabinetmakers; production of
chemical, rubber, leather, clay, bone, plastic, stone, or glass materials or
products; concrete batching and asphalt mixing; production or fabrication of
metals or metal products including enameling and galvanizing; manufacture or
assembly of machinery, equipment, vehicles, appliances; sign making; production
of prefabricated structures, including mobile homes; and the production of
energy.
MINOR REMODELING: Minor remodel projects do not meet the definition of major
remodeling; examples include replacement of exterior cladding, doors or windows
on a building, where the floor area and developed area of the site do not
increase.
MIXED USE: The combination of residential uses with commercial (e.g., office,
retail, or services), civic, or light industrial uses on a site.
MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING: See definitions of Dwelling (Land Use) related terms.
NONCONFORMING DEVELOPMENT: An element of a development, such as lot area,
setback, height, lot coverage, landscaping, sidewalk, or parking area, or lack
thereof, that was created in conformance with development regulations but which
subsequently, due to a change in the zone or applicable code standards, is no
longer in conformance with the current applicable development regulations. See
article E of this chapter.
NONCONFORMING SITUATION: A nonconforming development or nonconforming use. A
situation may be nonconforming in more than one aspect. For example, a site may
contain a nonconforming use and also have some nonconforming development. See
also definitions of Nonconforming Development and Nonconforming Use. See
article E of this chapter.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use that was allowed by right when established or a use
that obtained a required land use approval when established, but that
subsequently, due to a change in the zone or zoning regulations, the use or the
amount of floor area of the use is now prohibited in the zone. See article E of
this chapter.
OFF STREET PARKING: All off street areas designed, constructed, used, or
required or intended to be used for the parking of motor vehicles. See chapter
3, article E of this title for parking standards.
OFFICE (LAND USE): Office uses are characterized by activities conducted in an
office setting and generally focusing on business, government, professional,
medical, or financial services.
ON STREET PARKING: Parking in the street right of way, typically in parking
lanes or bays, when allowed by the applicable roadway authority. See chapter 3,
article E of this title for parking standards.
ORIENTATION: To cause to face toward a particular point of reference (e.g., "a
building oriented to the street").
OWNER: The owner of the title to real property or the contract purchaser of
real property of record, as shown on the latest assessment records in the
office of the county assessor. Owner also includes a deed holder or contract
purchaser whose name does not appear in the latest assessment records, but who
presents to the city a copy of a deed or contract of sale signed by the owner
of record.
PARCEL: A legally defined area of land created through a partition.
PARKING AREA: All the area devoted to the standing, maneuvering, and
circulation of motor vehicles. Parking areas do not include driveways or areas
devoted exclusively to nonpassenger loading or fire apparatus lanes.
PARKING LOT PERIMETER: The boundary of a parking lot area that usually contains
a landscaped buffer area.
PARKING SPACE: An improved space designed to provide standing area for a motor
vehicle. See chapter 3, article E of this title for parking space standards.
PARKING VERSUS STORAGE: Parking is to leave a motor vehicle for a temporary
time. Storage is to place or leave in a location for storage, maintenance,
repair, future sale or rental, or future use for an indefinite period of time.
PARKS AND OPEN SPACE (LAND USE): Public parks or private common areas
consisting mostly of recreational facilities, community gardens, or natural
areas.
PARTITION: To divide an area or tract of land into two (2) or three (3) parcels
within a calendar year when such area or tract of land exists as a unit or
contiguous units of land under single ownership at the beginning of such year.
See Oregon Revised Statutes 92.010(8).
PATHWAY: A walkway, bikeway or accessway conforming to city standards and
separated from the street right of way, that may or may not be within a public
right of way.
PLANNED ROAD OR STREET: A highway, road, street or alley identified in an
adopted corridor plan, comprehensive plan or transportation system plan in
accordance with administrative procedures of Oregon administrative rules
section 660-012 and Oregon Revised Statutes 197 but has not been constructed.
PLANTER STRIP: A landscape area for street trees and other plantings within the
public right of way, usually a continuous planter area between the street and a
sidewalk.
PLAT: Diagrams, drawings and other writing containing all the descriptions,
locations, dedications, provisions, and information concerning a land division.
This term includes the state law definitions of "partition plat" and
"subdivision plat". See also chapter 4, article C, "Land Divisions And Property
Line Adjustments", of this title.
POSTED SPEED: The statutory speed established by Oregon Revised Statutes
811.105 or the designated speed established by Oregon Revised Statutes 810.180.
PRACTICABLE: Capable of being done after taking into consideration reasonable
cost, existing technology, and logistics in light of overall project purposes.
PRIMARY BUILDING ENTRANCE: A main entrance is the entrance to a building that
most pedestrians are expected to use. Generally, each building has one main
entrance; however, some buildings may have more than one primary entrance or
may have entrances that open directly into the building's lobby or principal
interior ground level circulation space.
PRIMARY STRUCTURE: A structure or combination of structures of chief importance
or function on a site. In general, the primary use of the site is carried out
in a primary structure. The difference between a primary and accessory
structure is determined by comparing the size, placement, design, appearance,
and the orientation of the structures on a site.
PRIMARY USE: An activity or combination of activities of chief importance on
the site. One of the main purposes for which the land or structures are
intended, designed, or ordinarily used. A site may have more than one primary
use.
PROJECT: An existing or proposed use or development subject to one or more land
use approvals.
PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT: The relocation of a single common property line
between two (2) abutting properties not resulting in an increase in the number
of lots, pursuant to chapter 4, article C of this title. See figure on file in
the city.
PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT: An easement granted to the public for vehicular and
pedestrian access, or for nonmotorized access.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS: Development of public infrastructure, as required by the
city, special district, or road authority, as applicable. See chapter 3,
article F of this title.
QUASI-JUDICIAL: An action or decision that requires substantial discretion or
judgment in applying the standards or criteria of this title to the facts of a
development or land use proposal, and requires a public hearing. See section
9-4A-4 of this title.
RADIO FREQUENCY TRANSMISSION FACILITIES (LAND USE): Radio frequency
transmission facilities includes all devices, equipment, machinery, structures
or supporting elements necessary to produce nonionizing electromagnetic
radiation within the range of frequencies from one hundred (100) KHz to three
hundred (300) GHz and operating as a discrete unit to produce a signal or
message. Towers may be self-supporting, guyed, or mounted on poles or
buildings.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK (LAND USE): A commercial use providing space and
facilities for motor homes or other recreational vehicles for recreational use
or transient lodging. There is no minimum required stay in a recreational
vehicle park; however, the city may establish the maximum length of stay. Uses
where unoccupied recreational vehicles are offered for sale or lease, or are
stored, are not included as recreational vehicle parks.
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS AND PLACES OF WORSHIP (LAND USE): Uses primarily
providing meeting areas for religious activities; may include schools as an
accessory use.
RESIDENTIAL USE (LAND USE): Residential use is characterized by the long term
(i.e., more than 28 days) occupancy of a dwelling unit, including owner
occupied and rented dwellings. See also definition of Dwelling (Land Use).
RETAIL SALES AND SERVICE USES (LAND USE): Retail sales and service uses sell,
lease, or rent new or used products, goods, or services. They include services
such as barber/salon, accountant, restaurant, bar, repair service, and similar
uses. See also definition of Vehicle Servicing.
RIGHT OF WAY: Real property or an interest in real property owned by a roadway
authority for the purpose of constructing, operating and maintaining public
facilities.
ROAD/ROADWAY AUTHORITY: The city or other agency (e.g., Oregon department of
transportation, city of Nyssa, or Malheur County) with jurisdiction over a road
or street.
ROADWAY: The portion of a right of way that is improved for motor vehicle and
bicycle travel, subject to applicable state motor vehicle licensing
requirements. Roadway includes vehicle travel lanes and on street parking
areas. Roadway does not include area devoted to curbs, parking strips, or
sidewalks.
SCHOOLS (LAND USE): Public and private schools, secular or parochial, at the
primary, elementary, middle, junior high, or high school level.
SELF-SERVICE STORAGE: Ministorage or other storage areas for individual or
business uses. The storage areas are designed to allow private access by the
tenant for storing personal property.
SETBACK/SETBACK YARD: The minimum distance required between a specified object,
such as a building, and another point, measured from lot lines to a specified
object. Typically, a setback refers to the minimum distance (yard dimension)
from a building to a specified property line.
SHARED DRIVEWAY: A driveway used to access two (2) or more parcels.
SHARED PARKING: Required parking facilities for two (2) or more uses,
structures, or lots or parcels, which are satisfied jointly with the same
facilities. See chapter 3, article E of this title.
SIDEWALK: A paved walkway within a public street right of way that is generally
located adjacent to and separated from the roadway.
SIGHT DISTANCE: The unobstructed viewing distance measured from one object or
location to another object or location, usually required the purpose of traffic
safety. For example, a length of street or highway that a driver can see with
an acceptable level of clarity, pursuant with the standards of the applicable
roadway authority.
SIGN: Any outdoor device, or device visible from outdoors, providing
identification, advertising or directional information for a specific business,
group of businesses, service, product, brand, person, organization, place or
building. Included in this definition of signs are: graphic devices such as
logos, trademarks, and attention attracting objects such as wind driven
spinners and portable sign devices, logo sculpture, and banners, balloons,
streamers, strobe lights, flags, inflatable structures, projected picture
signs, holographic projection signs, laser projected designs/images/copy and
other attention attracting media and devices.
SITE: For land divisions, property line adjustments, and lot consolidations,
the site is the lots, lots of record, parcels, or tracts proposed to be divided
or reconfigured. For all other purposes, the site is an ownership, except as
follows:
   A.   If a proposed development includes multiple ownerships, then the site
is the combined area of all contiguous ownerships.
   B.   If a proposed development includes only a portion of an ownership, and
the balance of the ownership is vacant, then the applicant may choose to define
the site as the portion of the ownership that is proposed for development.
   C.   If a proposed development includes only a portion of an ownership, and
there is other development on the ownership, then the applicant may choose to
define the site as the portion of the ownership that is currently developed
plus the portion proposed for development.
SITE FRONTAGE: The part of a site that abuts a street. See also definition of
Block Face/Street Frontage.
STREET: A right of way that is intended for motor vehicle, pedestrian or
bicycle travel or for motor vehicle, bicycle or pedestrian access to abutting
property. For the purposes of this title, street does not include alleys, rail
rights of way that do not also allow for motor vehicle access, or freeways and
their on ramps.
STREET CONNECTIVITY: Expressed as the number of street and/or accessway
connections within a specific geographic area. Higher levels of connectivity
provide for more direct transportation routes and better dispersion of traffic,
resulting in less traffic on individual streets and potentially slower speeds
through neighborhoods.
STREET FACING/ORIENTED TO STREET: A wall plane of a structure that faces or is
oriented within forty five degrees (45o) or less from a street lot line.
STREET STUB: A temporary street ending where the street will be extended
through adjacent property in the future, as those properties develop. Not a
permanent street end or dead end street.
STRUCTURE: Except as provided by applicable building codes, any object
constructed in or on the ground. Structure includes buildings, decks, fences,
towers, flagpoles, signs, utility vaults, and other similar objects. Structure
does not include paved areas or vegetative landscaping materials.
SUBDIVISION: To divide land into four (4) or more lots within a single calendar
year. See also chapter 4, article C, "Land Divisions And Property Line
Adjustments", of this title, and Oregon Revised Statutes 92.010.
THROUGH STREET: A street that connects to other streets at both ends or is
planned to do so in the future, pursuant to a comprehensive plan,
transportation system plan, access management plan, or land use approval.
TOPOGRAPHICAL CONSTRAINT: Where existing slopes, landforms (e.g., streams,
canals, rock outcropping, etc.) or existing manmade feature (e.g., embankment
or berm) make conformance with a code standard impracticable.
TRACT: A piece of land within a platted subdivision reserved for open space,
utility corridor, recreation facilities, sensitive lands, or other purpose; may
be dedicated to a homeowners' association or other entity for maintenance.
TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS: A report prepared by a professional engineer that
analyzes existing and future roadway conditions, and which may recommend
transportation improvements and mitigation measures.
TRAVEL TRAILER: A vacation structure or self-propelled vehicle equipped with
wheels for street or highway use; intended for human occupancy; equipped with
plumbing, sink or toilets; used for vacation and recreational purposes; and not
used as a residence. See Oregon Revised Statutes 446.003(5) and (24); and see
definition of Recreational Vehicle under Dwelling (Land Use) related terms.
TURNAROUND: A vehicle maneuvering area at the end of a dead end street (e.g.,
hammerhead, cul-de-sac, or other configuration) that allows for vehicles to
turn around.
USE (LAND USE): The purpose for which land or a structure is designed,
arranged, intended, occupied, or maintained.
UTILITIES: For the purposes of this title, there are two (2) types of
utilities: a) private: telephone, electric, telecommunication, and similar
franchise facilities; and b) public: water and wastewater conveyance and
treatment facilities.
UTILITIES (LAND USE): Utilities are infrastructure services, which need to be
located in or near the area where the service is provided. Basic utility uses
may or may not have regular employees at the site. Services may be public or
privately provided. Examples include water and sewer pump stations; sewage
disposal and conveyance systems; electrical substations; water towers and
reservoirs; water quality and flow control facilities; water conveyance
systems; stormwater facilities and conveyance systems; telephone exchanges;
suspended cable transportation systems; public safety facilities; district
heating and cooling systems; solar, wind, or geothermal power generation
facilities that are not accessory to a primary use; and emergency communication
broadcast facilities. Larger scale utility facilities, and those that do not
conform to the above definition (e.g., biomass power generation), may be
classified as industrial uses or "other" uses (e.g., utility corridor), as
applicable.
VARIANCE: A city council decision to lessen or otherwise modify the
requirements of this title. See chapter 4, article G of this title.
VEHICLE AREAS: All of the areas on a site where vehicles may circulate or park
including parking areas, driveways, drive- through lanes, and loading areas.
See also definitions of Driveway and Parking Area.
VEHICLE REPAIR: Repair of passenger vehicles, trucks or other motor vehicles
such as motorcycles, boats and recreational vehicles.
VEHICLE SERVICING: Gas stations, unattended card key stations, car washes,
commercial vehicle maintenance and/or oil and lubrication services, and similar
uses.
VISION CLEARANCE AREA: Areas near intersections of roadways and motor vehicle
access points where a clear field of vision is required for traffic safety and
to maintain adequate sight distance. See chapter 3, article C of this title.
WALKWAY: A sidewalk or path, including any accessway, improved to city
standards, or to other roadway authority standards, as applicable. See also
definitions of Accessway, Pathway, and Sidewalk.
WAREHOUSE, FREIGHT MOVEMENT AND DISTRIBUTION: The storage or movement of goods,
except as accessory to a primary permitted use on the subject site.
WASTE RELATED USE: Characterized by uses that receive solid or liquid wastes
from others for disposal on the site or for transfer to another location, uses
that collect sanitary wastes, or uses that manufacture or produce goods or
energy from the biological decomposition of organic material. Waste related
uses also include uses that receive, store, sort, and distribute postconsumer
recyclable materials; and those that receive hazardous wastes from others and
are subject to the regulations of Oregon administrative rules section 340.100-
110, hazardous waste management.
WASTE/TRASH COLLECTION AREAS: Waste collection areas include areas set aside or
designed to be used for garbage collection and collection of materials for
recycling. Waste collection areas include areas occupied by dumpsters and other
solid waste receptacles.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT: Cellular towers, antennas, monopoles, and
related facilities used for radio signal transmission and receiving.
YARD: The area defined by setbacks (i.e., between the setback line and nearest
property line). (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. ORS 197.015.
ARTICLE C. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-1C-1: Responsible Officer
9-1C-2: Building Permit
9-1C-3: Certificate Of Occupancy
9-1C-4: Noncompliance With Approved Development Plans
9-1C-5: Stop Work Order
9-1C-6: Violations
9-1C-1: RESPONSIBLE OFFICER:
The development code is administered and enforced by the city manager. (Ord.
635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1C-2: BUILDING PERMIT:
No building permit shall be issued for any development unless the city manager
has determined that the:
   A.   Proposed development complies with the provisions of this title,
including any conditions of approval established by the authority of the city
council, the planning commission, or city manager, or otherwise authorized by
this title, city ordinances, or state law;
   B.   Proposed development complies with all applicable city ordinances and
requirements, including all city adopted public facilities master plans, and
building and fire codes, and required land use and development permit(s) have
been issued. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1C-3: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any development unless all
requirements of this title have been met, including any conditions of approval
established by the authority of the city council, the planning commission, or
the city manager, or otherwise authorized by this title, city ordinances, or
state law, or until the applicant has provided some written form of assurance
acceptable to the city manager and guaranteeing the completion of all
requirements. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1C-4: NONCOMPLIANCE WITH APPROVED DEVELOPMENT PLANS:
If the city manager determines that a development substantially differs from
the approved plans or the provisions of this title, including any conditions of
approval, the city manager shall notify the developer and building official in
writing. Thereafter, the building official may issue orders to the developer as
are within the range of authority available to the building official, and upon
continued noncompliance may withhold site development permits and/or building
permits for further construction or revoke those permits previously issued
until compliance is achieved. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1C-5: STOP WORK ORDER:
Whenever any work is done contrary to the provisions of this title, including
any conditions of approval, the city manager may order the work stopped by
notice in writing served on any persons engaged in the work, and any such
persons shall immediately stop such work until authorized by the city manager
to proceed. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1C-6: VIOLATIONS:
Use of land in the city not in accordance with the provisions of this title,
including any conditions of approval established by the authority of the city
council, the planning commission, or the city manager, or otherwise authorized
by this title, city ordinances, or state law, constitutes a violation. Upon
receiving information concerning a violation of this title, the city manager
may conduct an investigation to determine whether a violation exists. The city
manager may request the assistance of other governmental agencies and officers
in conducting such investigations.
The city manager may prepare and deliver to the city attorney a request for
prosecution indicating the location and nature of the suspected violation,
applicable code sections, and other information provided by the staff.
   A.   Classification Of Violation: Violations shall be identified by the city
manager under one of the following classifications:
      1.   Type I: Violations which represent a serious threat to public
health, safety, and welfare, or those unapproved actions deemed potentially to
create serious adverse environmental or land use consequences as the result of
continued development activity; or
      2.   Type II: Violations which do not pose a serious threat to public
health, safety, and welfare, but do violate provisions of this title, including
any conditions of approval.
   B.   Notice Of Violation:
      1.   Type I: After receiving a report of an alleged type I violation, the
city manager will determine whether the violation requires that a citation be
issued immediately or whether to provide notice of the violation prior to the
issuance of a citation. Notice shall be in writing and shall be provided to the
owner of record for tax purposes or to the person in charge of the property.
Such a notice shall indicate the following:
         a.   Location and nature of the violation; and
         b.   Provision or provisions of this title or conditions of approval
which allegedly have been violated; and
         c.   Whether immediate enforcement will be sought or if a specified
time period will be allowed to correct or remove the violation.
      2.   Type II: After receiving a report of an alleged type II violation
from the city manager, the city attorney shall, if he/she determines that
probable cause exists, promptly give notice of the alleged violation by
certified first class mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service to
the owner of record for tax purposes and to the person in charge of the
property. Such a notice shall indicate the following:
         a.   Location and nature of the violation;
         b.   Provision or provisions of this title or conditions of approval,
which allegedly have been violated;
         c.   Whether immediate enforcement shall be sought or if fifteen (15)
days will be allowed to correct or remove the violation; and
         d.   The date when the notice was personally served or, if the notice
was sent by first class mail, the date three (3) days after mailing if the
address to which it was mailed is within this state and seven (7) days after
mailing if the address to which it was mailed is outside this state. However, a
defect in the notice of violation with respect to this notice delivery
provision shall not prevent enforcement of this title.
   C.   City Attorney To Pursue Enforcement: When the compliance deadline
expires, the city attorney shall proceed with any legal or equitable action
deemed appropriate, unless:
      1.   The city attorney finds that the violation has been corrected,
removed, or will not be committed; or
      2.   A court of competent jurisdiction has halted enforcement pending the
outcome of a proceeding concerning the violation.
   D.   Penalties: Violations of this title may be subject to criminal, civil,
or other sanctions authorized under ordinance of the city.
      1.   Criminal Penalties: Unless specified otherwise, every violation of
the terms of this title is a class A infraction, punishable by a fine of up to
five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense.
      2.   Civil Penalties And Remedies: In addition to, or in lieu of,
criminal actions, a violation of this title or a permit issued hereunder may be
the subject of a civil action in the nature of a debt or of any appropriate
remedy issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction, including mandatory and
prohibitory injunctions and orders of abatement.
         a.   The city manager is authorized to impose a civil penalty of up to
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for any violation of this title.
         b.   In imposing a penalty amount pursuant to the schedule authorized
by this section, the city manager shall consider the following factors:
            (1)   The history of the person incurring a penalty in taking all
feasible steps or procedures necessary or appropriate to correct any violation;
            (2)   Any prior violations of statutes, rules, orders, and permits
pertaining to development regulations;
            (3)   The economic and financial conditions of the person incurring
a penalty;
            (4)   The gravity and magnitude of the violation;
            (5)   Whether the violation was repeated or continuous; and
            (6)   Whether the cause of the violation was an unavoidable
accident, negligence, or an intentional act.
         c.   Imposition and enforcement of civil penalties is not an exclusive
remedy, but shall be in addition to any other procedures or remedies provided
by law. Imposition or payment of a civil penalty under this section shall not
bar any criminal proceeding authorized under this title.
         d.   A civil penalty shall be imposed under this section by issuance
of a notice of penalty. A civil penalty may be imposed for each thirty (30)
days the condition continues. The notice of penalty shall be provided in the
manner as described under subsection D2e of this section.
         e.   Any civil penalty imposed under this section shall become due and
payable when the notice of penalty is served upon the person incurring the
penalty. Service shall be by personal service or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address of the person incurring the
penalty. The notice of penalty shall include a:
            (1)   Reference to the particular provision or law violated;
            (2)   Statement of the matters asserted or charged;
            (3)   Statement of the amount of the penalty or penalties imposed;
            (4)   Statement of the owner's right to appeal the penalty; and
            (5)   Statement that if the penalty is not paid within the time
required under subsection D2j of this section, the penalty and any costs of
service and recording fees shall be recorded by the city recorder in the city
lien docket and shall become a lien on the property of the person incurring the
penalty.
         f.   If the notice of penalty is returned to the city without service
upon the named person, the city manager shall post a notice of penalty on the
premises where the violation has occurred. The notice shall be posted so as to
be visible from the public right of way and shall be delivered to a person, if
any, occupying the premises. The posted notice shall be affixed to the premises
and shall also indicate that tampering or removal of the notice shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
         g.   The person to whom the notice of penalty is issued shall have
twenty (20) days from the date of service of the notice in which to appeal the
penalty before the municipal judge, after which time the notice of penalty
becomes a final order. The appeal shall be as provided in subsections D2h and
D2i of this section.
         h.   Any appeal shall be in writing and signed by the person against
whom the penalty has been assessed or the attorney for that person. The appeal
shall state the grounds of the appeal. A deposit in the amount of the civil
penalty assessed and an appeal fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall accompany
the appeal. The appeal shall be filed with the municipal court and served upon
the city attorney. Failure to comply with these provisions shall result in the
appeal's dismissal.
         i.   The only issues to be decided by the municipal judge are
determinations of whether the condition of the property was as alleged in the
notice of penalty and if so, whether that condition violated this title. If the
judge finds that the alleged condition existed at the time and date specified
on the notice of penalty, and that the condition violated this title, the
municipal judge shall issue an order affirming the penalty. The order shall
contain a provision for court costs to be paid by the violator in the amount of
one hundred dollars ($100.00). If the judge finds that the condition alleged in
the notice of penalty did not exist at the time and date specified on the
notice, the municipal judge shall void the notice of penalty. The order voiding
the notice of penalty shall provide for return of the deposit, including the
appeal fee. The judge's order is final.
         j.   Unless the amount of penalty imposed under this section is paid
within ten (10) days after the notice of penalty or the order becomes final by
operation of law or after appeal, the order shall constitute a lien on the
owner's subject property and shall be recorded in the city lien docket. Where
the service has been made by certified mail or other means providing a receipt,
the returned receipt shall be attached to and made a part of the recorded
order. The penalty and any added costs imposed by the order become a lien upon
the real property. That lien shall have priority over all other liens and
encumbrances of any form. The lien shall accrue interest at the rate applicable
for municipal assessment liens from the date of docketing until clearance. The
lien may be foreclosed on and the property sold as may be necessary to
discharge the lien in the manner specified in Oregon Revised Statutes 223.505
through 223.650, as amended.
         k.   Any lien for a civil penalty shall be released when the full
amount determined to be due has been paid to the city, the owner or person
making such payment shall receive a receipt stating that the full amount of
penalties, interest, recording fees, and service costs have been paid, and that
the lien is thereby released and the record of the lien satisfied.
   E.   Tampering With Official Notices:
      1.   No person shall remove or tamper with a notice posted on property
pursuant to the provisions of this article unless authorized by the city
manager.
      2.   A violation of this provision shall be a class C misdemeanor. (Ord.
635-13, 6-11-2013)
ARTICLE D. LOT OF RECORD AND LEGAL LOT DETERMINATION
SECTION:
9-1D-1: Purpose And Intent
9-1D-2: Criteria
9-1D-3: Legal Lot Determination Procedure
9-1D-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this article is to establish criteria and a process for
determining when a lot of record exists for the purpose of allowing a use or
development on a nonconforming lot (e.g., substandard lot that does not meet
lot area, setback, or coverage regulations) and in evaluating whether a
hardship exists for purposes of approving a variance under chapter 4, article G
of this title. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1D-2: CRITERIA:
A lot of record is a plot of land that meets one or more of the following
criteria, pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes 92.176:
   A.   The plot of land was lawfully created through a subdivision or
partition plat in Malheur County prior to annexation to the city;
   B.   The plot of land was created through a deed or land sales contract
recorded with Malheur County prior to July 12, 2013; or
   C.   The plot of land was created through a deed or land sales contract
recorded with Malheur County prior to January 1, 2007, and the subject plot of
land would have complied with the applicable planning, zoning, subdivision or
partition regulations in effect at the time it was created. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-
2013)
9-1D-3: LEGAL LOT DETERMINATION PROCEDURE:
The city manager through a type I procedure shall process requests to validate
a lot of record, pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes 92.010 to 92.190. (Ord.
635-13, 6-11-2013)
ARTICLE E. NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS
SECTION:
9-1E-1: Purpose And Applicability
9-1E-2: Nonconforming Use
9-1E-3: Nonconforming Development
9-1E-4: Nonconforming Lot
9-1E-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
This article provides standards and procedures for the continuation of uses and
developments that are lawfully established but do not comply with current code
standards ("nonconforming situations"). This title is intended to protect
public health, safety, and general welfare, while allowing reasonable use of
private property. This article contains three (3) as follows:
   A.   Nonconforming uses (e.g., use is not allowed in zone) are subject to
section
9-1E-2 of this article;
   B.   Nonconforming developments (e.g., structure does not meet development
standard) are subject to section
9-1E-3 of this article; and
   C.   Nonconforming lots (e.g., lot is smaller than minimum area standard)
are subject to section
9-1E-4 of this article. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1E-2: NONCONFORMING USE:
Where a use of land exists that would not be permitted under the current code,
but was lawful at the time it was established, the use may continue, provided
it conforms to the following requirements:
   A.   Expansion Of Nonconforming Use Limited: Except as provided for
residential uses, herein, expansion of a nonconforming use is not permitted.
Expansion of a nonconforming residential uses is allowed, subject to approval
of a conditional use permit under chapter 4, article D of this title and
provided the use meets the following criteria: The expansion shall not exceed
twenty percent (20%) of the subject site area or building footprint, and by not
more than five hundred (500) square feet of the building footprint,
cumulatively, whichever is less, based on the area that existed as of July 12,
2013.
   B.   Location Of Nonconforming Use: A nonconforming use shall not be moved
in whole or in part from one lot to another lot, except as to bring the use
into conformance with this title.
   C.   Discontinuation Or Abandonment Of Nonconforming Use: Except as provided
by subsection E of this section, a nonconforming use that is discontinued for
any reason other than fire or other catastrophe beyond the owner's control for
a period of more than twelve (12) months shall be deemed abandoned and shall no
longer be an allowed use. For purposes of calculating the twelve (12) month
period, a use is discontinued upon the first occurrence of any one of the
following:
      1.   The date when the use of land is physically vacated;
      2.   The date the use ceases to be actively involved in the sale of
merchandise or the provision of services; for example, as evidenced by the
removal of signs, goods/stock, or office equipment, or the disconnection of
telephone or utility service;
      3.   The date of termination of any lease or contract under which the
nonconforming use has occupied the land;
      4.   The date a request for final reading of water and power meters is
made to the applicable utility districts;
      5.   The date when the owner's utility bill or property tax bill account
became delinquent; or
      6.   The date of an event similar to those listed in subsections C1
through C5 of this section, as determined by the planning commission.
   D.   Application Of Code Criteria And Standards To Nonconforming Use: Once
the city deems a use abandoned pursuant to subsection C of this section, any
subsequent use of the subject lot shall conform to the current standards and
criteria of this title. After the city has deemed a nonconforming use
abandoned, the use shall not be allowed to resume, in whole or in part, under
the same or different ownership/management; any such activity is a violation of
this title and subject to enforcement proceedings under article C of this
chapter.
   E.   Extension Of Nonconforming Use: Notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection C of this section, a nonconforming use that is discontinued shall
not be considered abandoned where, through a type III procedure, the planning
commission approves an extension for ongoing, active renovation and efforts to
lease the subject property. The owner must request the extension within a
twelve (12) month period of discontinuance. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1E-3: NONCONFORMING DEVELOPMENT:
This section regulates nonconforming development. Nonconforming development
includes situations where a development exists on the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this title that could not be built under the terms of
this title today; for example, by reason of restrictions on lot area, lot
coverage, location on a lot, setbacks, height, yard, equipment, access,
parking, landscaping, or other physical restriction or requirement. If the
development was lawful when constructed, it may remain on the site so long as
it remains otherwise lawful and complies with the following regulations:
   A.   Alterations: Expansion of a nonconforming development is limited to
residential uses, and shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the subject
building area or development area, as applicable; for example, such area may
include floor area or other surface area, paving, parking spaces, landscaping,
outdoor storage, signage, lighting, or other developed areas lawfully in
existence as the date of the requested alteration. Expansion of a nonconforming
use, where allowed, requires approval of a conditional use permit under chapter
4, article D of this title. A nonconforming development shall not be enlarged
or altered in a way that increases its nonconformity by more than twenty
percent (20%); approval of a variance is required to increase a development's
nonconformity, and not more than one such variance shall be approved to expand
the same development. A development or portion thereof may be enlarged or
altered in a way that satisfies the current requirements of this title or moves
in the direction of conformity.
   B.   Destruction: Should a nonconforming development or nonconforming
portion of development be destroyed by any means to an extent more than fifty
percent (50%) of its surface area (lot area or building floor space), it shall
be reconstructed only in full conformity with this title. This does not
preclude the reestablishment of a nonconforming use after fire or other
catastrophe as allowed under section
9-1E-2 of this article.
   C.   Roadway Access: The owner of a nonconforming driveway approach or
access to a public street or highway, upon receiving land use or development
approval, may be required as a condition of approval to bring the nonconforming
access into conformance with the standards of the applicable roadway authority.
   D.   Relocation Or Removal: Once a nonconforming structure or a portion of a
nonconforming structure or development is moved, it shall thereafter conform to
current code standards. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-1E-4: NONCONFORMING LOT:
A lot that meets the criteria for a legal lot or lot of record under article D
of this chapter, with an area or dimensions that do not meet the standards of
the zoning district in which the property is located, may be occupied by a use
permitted in the zone subject to other requirements of the zone; provided, that
if there is a lot area deficiency, residential use shall be limited to a
single-family dwelling. See also article D, "Lot Of Record And Legal Lot
Determination", of this chapter. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED
SECTION:
9-2A-1: Purpose And Classification
9-2A-2: Classification Of Zoning Districts
9-2A-3: Determination Of Zoning District Boundaries
9-2A-1: PURPOSE AND CLASSIFICATION:
This article establishes zoning districts, consistent with the city
comprehensive plan. Every parcel, lot, and tract of land within the city is
designated with a zoning district. The use of land is limited to the uses
allowed by the applicable zoning district. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2A-2: CLASSIFICATION OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
Zoning designations are as depicted on the city zoning map. The city manager
maintains official copies of the zoning map and comprehensive plan. Where a
conflict between documents arises, the comprehensive plan shall govern.
   A.   Residential (R) Districts: The following residential districts (R-1, R-
2, R-3, R-4, and R-5) accommodate a variety of housing at a range of planned
densities, consistent with the housing needs of the city. The zoning
regulations promote the orderly development and improvement of Nyssa's
neighborhoods, facilitate compatibility between dissimilar land uses, allow
residences in proximity, and with direct connections, to schools, parks, and
community services, and to ensure efficient use of land and public facilities.
The following summarizes the purpose of each residential district. See also
article B, "Zoning District Regulations", and article C, "Special Use
Standards", of this chapter.
      1.   The single-family residential (R-1) district permits detached
single-family dwellings and community service uses such as schools, parks,
religious institutions/places of worship, and public and semipublic structures
such as fire stations and utilities.
      2.   The medium density (R-2) district permits single-family dwellings on
small to medium sized lots, duplex dwellings, and multiple-family dwellings
with up to three (3) dwellings per lot. Permitted single-family dwellings
include detached housing and attached (e.g., townhouse and multi-family)
housing. The R-2 district also permits community service uses such as schools,
parks, religious institutions/places of worship; and public and semipublic
structures such as fire stations and utilities.
      3.   The multi-family residential (R-3) district permits single- family
dwellings on small lots, duplex dwellings, and multiple-family dwellings.
Permitted single-family dwellings include detached housing and attached (e.g.,
townhouse and multi-family) housing. The R-3 district also permits community
service uses such as schools, parks, religious institutions/places of worship;
and public and semipublic structures such as fire stations and utilities.
      4.   The multi-family manufactured home residential (R-4) district allows
the same uses allowed in the R-3 district but at higher densities and includes
manufactured/mobile home parks.
      5.   The rural residential (R-5) district provides areas for low density
residential development in a rural environment.
   B.   Commercial (C) District: The city's commercial (C) district accommodate
a mix of commercial services, retail, and civic uses, with existing residences
permitted to continue, and new residential uses permitted in the upper stories
of buildings. The zoning district regulations are intended to promote the
orderly development and improvement of walkable commercial areas; facilitate
compatibility between dissimilar land uses; provide employment opportunities in
proximity, and with direct connections, to housing; and to ensure efficient use
of land and public facilities.
   C.   Industrial (I) District: The city's industrial (I) district
accommodates a mix of intensive and less intensive uses engaged in
manufacturing, processing, warehousing, distribution, and similar activities.
The industrial district standards are intended to: provide for efficient use of
land and public services; maintain a high quality environment for business;
offer a range of parcel sizes and locations for industrial site selection;
avoid encroachment by incompatible uses; provide transportation options for
employees and customers; and facilitate compatibility between dissimilar uses.
The industrial district standards, in conjunction with the design standards of
chapter 3 of this title, additionally provide for appropriate buffering and
screening of intensive uses, such as those with processing, manufacturing,
assembly, packaging, distribution and similar activities.
   D.   Public Facilities (PF) District: The public facilities (PF) district
provides a zoning option for public and semipublic uses, including, but not
limited to, schools, government offices, fire stations, police stations,
libraries, public works yards, reservoirs, and other public facilities,
consistent with adopted public facility master plans. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2A-3: DETERMINATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where due to the scale, lack of scale, lack of detail or illegibility of the
zoning map, or due to any other reason, there is uncertainty, contradiction or
conflict as to the intended location of a zoning district boundary, the city
manager or, upon referral, the planning commission or city council, shall
determine the boundary as follows:
   A.   Rights Of Way: Boundaries that approximately follow the centerlines of
a street, highway, alley, bridge, railroad, or other right of way shall be
construed to follow such centerlines. Whenever any public right of way is
lawfully vacated, the lands formerly within the vacated right of way shall
automatically be subject to the same zoning district designation that is
applicable to lands abutting the vacated areas. In cases where the right of way
formerly served as a zoning district boundary, the vacated lands within the
former right of way shall be allocated proportionately to the abutting zoning
districts;
   B.   Parcel, Lot, Tract: Boundaries indicated as approximately following the
boundaries of a parcel, lot, or tract shall be construed as following such
boundaries;
   C.   Jurisdiction Boundary: Boundaries indicated as approximately following
a city or county boundary, or the urban growth boundary, shall be construed as
following said boundary; and
   D.   Natural Features: Boundaries indicated as approximately following a
river, stream, topographic contour, or similar feature not corresponding to any
feature listed in subsections A through C of this section shall be construed as
following such feature. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
ARTICLE B. ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2B-1: Purpose
9-2B-2: Applicability
9-2B-3: Allowed Uses
9-2B-4: Lot And Development Standards
9-2B-5: Setback Yards Exceptions
9-2B-6: Lot Coverage
9-2B-7: Height Measurement And Exceptions
9-2B-1: PURPOSE:
This article regulates allowed land uses ("uses") and sets forth lot and
development standards, including minimum dimensions, area, density, coverage,
structure height, and other provisions that control the intensity, scale, and
location of development. The regulations of this article are intended to
implement the city comprehensive plan and the purposes of this title, per
section
9-1A-3 of this title. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2B-2: APPLICABILITY:
All real property in the city is subject to the zoning regulations of this
article. Certain types of land uses are also subject to the special use
regulations in article C of this chapter. In addition, some properties are
subject to both the general ("base zone") regulations of this article and the
floodplain overlay regulations of article D of this chapter. Property owners,
realtors, project proponents, and others are advised to verify the regulations
that apply to a particular property before beginning a new project, purchasing
real estate, or marketing a property for sale. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2B-3: ALLOWED USES:
   A.   Uses Allowed In Base Zones: Allowed uses include those that are
permitted, those that are permitted subject to special use standards, and those
that are allowed subject to approval of a conditional use permit, as identified
by table
9-2B-3 of this section. Allowed uses fall into four (4) general categories:
residential, public and institutional, commercial, and other. Where table
9-2B-3 of this section does not list a specific use, and the definitions in
section
9-1B-3 of this title do not identify a use or include it as an example of an
allowed use, the city may find that use is allowed, or is not allowed,
following the procedures of section
9-1A-10, "Code Interpretations", of this title. Uses not listed in table
9-2B-3 of this section and not found to be similar to an allowed use are
prohibited.
   B.   Permitted Uses And Uses Permitted Subject To Special Use Standards:
Uses listed as "permitted (P)" are allowed, provided they conform to section
9-2B-4, "Lot And Development Standards", of this article. uses listed as
"permitted subject to special use standards (S)" are allowed, provided they
conform to article C, "Special Use Standards", of this chapter, and section
9-2B-4, "Lot And Development Standards", of this article. Uses listed as "not
allowed (N)" are prohibited. Uses not listed but similar to those allowed may
be permitted pursuant to section
9-1A-10 of this title.
   C.   Conditional Uses: Uses listed as "conditional (CU)" are allowed subject
to the requirements of chapter 4, article D, "Conditional Use Permits", of this
title.
   D.   Uses Regulated By Overlay Zones: Notwithstanding the provisions of this
article, additional standards may apply to uses within overlay zones. In
addition, an overlay zone may allow exceptions to some standards of the
underlying zone. See article D of this chapter.
   E.   Master Planned Development: Uses that are not otherwise allowed by the
underlying zone may be permitted through the master planned development
procedure under chapter 4, article E of this title.
   F.   Accessory Uses: Uses identified as "permitted (P)" are permitted as
primary uses and as accessory uses. For information on other uses that are
customarily allowed as accessory, please refer to the description of the use
categories in section
9-1B-3, "Definitions", of this title.
   G.   Mixed Use: Uses allowed individually are also allowed in combination
with one another, in the same structure or on the same site, provided all
applicable development standards and building code requirements are met.
   H.   Outdoor Uses And Unenclosed Activities: Notwithstanding the provisions
of table
9-2B-3 of this section, any use, except for an allowed accessory use, that
occurs primarily outside (i.e., not within a permitted building) requires a
conditional use permit under chapter 4, article D of this title. Examples of
outdoor uses and unenclosed activities that may or may not be considered
accessory uses, depending on their location and size relative to other uses on
the same property, include, but are not limited to, equipment storage related
to industrial- agricultural, automotive services, vehicle and equipment repair,
fueling, drive-in restaurants, drive-up windows and similar drive-through
facilities, automatic teller machines, kiosks, outdoor assembly and theaters,
outdoor markets, and similar uses.
   I.   Temporary Uses: Temporary uses are subject to the standards of section
9-2C-14 of this chapter.
   J.   Disclaimer: Property owners are responsible for verifying whether a
specific use is allowed on a particular site. Submittal of a zoning checklist
for review and approval by the city manager is required in order to determine
whether use is allowed on a given site, and whether further land use review is
required.
   TABLE
9-2B-3
   USES ALLOWED BY ZONING DISTRICT
Key:
 
 P = Permitted use               CU = Conditional use permit required
 S = Permitted with special use  N  = Not allowed
      standards
 
     Residential Zones   Commercial And   Public Facilities
                         Industrial Zones Zone              Special Use
Uses                                                        Standards
     R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-5 C I              PF                (Code Section)
                                          Commercial Public
                  Residential Zones       And        Facilities
                                          Industrial Zone       Special Use
Uses                                      Zones                 Standards
                                                                (Code
                  R-1  R-2  R-3  R-4  R-5 C    I     PF         Section)


Residential uses:                                        
 Accessory       S    S    S    S    P   CU   CU    N          9-2C-15
  dwelling
 Boarding/       N    N    S    S    N   CU+S CU    N          9-2C-7 and
  rooming house                                                 9-2C-8
 Duplex dwelling S    P    S    S    N   N    N     N          9-2C-6
 Family daycare  S    S    S    S    S   N    N     N          9-2C-9
 Home occupation S    S    S    S    S   P    N     N          9-2C-11
 Manufactured    S    S    S    S    S   S    N     N          9-2C-8 and
  home on a lot                                                 9-2C-12
 Manufactured    N    N    N    S    N   N    N     N          9-2C-13
  home park
  Microgeneration
  (wind and
  solar), except
 as permitted by CU   CU   CU   CU   CU  CU   CU    CU          
  Oregon Revised
  Statutes
  227.505
  Multi-family                                                  9-2C-7 and
 dwelling, 3 - 4 N    S    S    S    N   S    N     N          9-2C-8
  dwelling units
  Multi-family
 dwellings, more N    N    S    S    N   S    N     N          9-2C-7 and
  than 4 dwelling                                               9-2C-8
  units
 Residential     N    N    S    S    N   S    N     CU         9-2C-8 and
  care facility                                                 9-2C-10
 Residential     S    S    S    S    S   S    N     N          9-2C-8 and
  care home                                                     9-2C-10
  Single-family
 dwelling,       N    S    S    S    P   S    N     N          9-2C-8 and
  attached                                                      9-2C-11
  (townhome)
  Single-family
 dwelling,       P    P    P    P    P   S    S     N          9-2C-8
  nonattached
Public and
institutional                                            
uses:
  Airport, public                                               Reserved for
 use             N    N    N    N    N   N    P     P          airport
                                                                overlay
  Automobile
 parking, off    P    P    P    P    N   P    P     P           
  street parking
  facility
  Cemetery,
 including       CU   N    N    N    CU  N    N     N           
  crematorium
 Child daycare   N    N    N    N    N   P    N     CU          
  center
                                                                Except
 Clinic,         N    N    N    N    N   P    N     CU         animal
  outpatient only                                               clinic
                                                                requires CU
  Club lodge,
 fraternal       N    N    CU   CU   N   P    N     N           
  organization
 Community       CU   CU   CU   CU   CU  CU   CU    P           
  garden
  Community
  service;
 includes        N    N    CU   CU   N   P    N     P           
  governmental
  offices
  Emergency
  services;
 includes        N    N    N    N    N   CU   CU    P           
  police, fire,
  ambulance
  Hospital,
 including acute N    N    N    N    N   CU   N     CU          
  care center
 Mortuary        N    N    N    N    N   P    N     N           
  Nonprofit
 member          N    N    N    N    N   P    N     CU          
  organization
  offices
  Parks and open
  space,
  including
 playgrounds,    P    P    P    P    P   P    P     P           
  athletic
  fields, trails,
  courts, swim
  pools, etc.
  Public works/
  utilities
  storage yards;
 includes        N    N    N    N    N   CU   P     CU          
  vehicle and
  equipment,
  maintenance,
  repair
 Railroad        N    N    N    N    N   CU   P     CU          
  facilities
  Religious
 institutions    CU   CU   CU   CU   CU  CU   N     N           
  and houses of
  worship
  School,
 preschool -     CU   CU   CU   CU   CU  CU   N     P           
  kindergarten
 School,         CU   CU   CU   CU   CU  CU   N     P           
  secondary
 School, college N    N    CU   CU   N   CU   N     P           
  or vocational
  Solid waste
  disposal
  transfer
  station, in
  compliance with
 state and       N    N    N    N    N   CU   CU    CU          
  federal
  requirements,
  and per
  nuisance
  ordinance
  Transportation
  facilities;
  includes
  construction,
  operation, and
  maintenance of
  travel lanes,
  curbs, gutters,
  drainage
 facilities,     P    P    P    P    P   P    P     P           
  sidewalks,
  transit stops,
  landscaping,
  and related
  improvements,
  consistent with
  city of Nyssa
  transportation
  system plan
  Utility
  structures and
  facilities,
  consistent with
  city master
  plan or subject
  to site design
 review          P    P    P    P    P   P    P     P           
  approval;
  includes
  microgeneration
  (wind and
  solar) power
  generating
  facilities
  Utility
  structures and
  facilities,
  regional
  projects;
 project is not  CU   CU   CU   CU   CU  CU   CU    CU          
  part of an
  adopted city
  master plan or
  development
  review approval
  Wireless
 communication   N    N    N    N    N   CU   P     CU          
  facilities -
  new facilities
Commercial uses:                                         
  Amusement/
  entertainment,
  commercial
  recreation;
  includes
 theater/concert N    N    N    N    N   CU   N     N           
  hall, bowling
  alley,
  miniature golf,
  arcade, similar
  uses
  Automotive
  repair and
  service,
  includes
  fueling
  station, car
  wash, tire
  sales and
 repair/         N    N    N    N    N   S    P     N          9-2C-5
  replacement,
  painting, and
  other repair
  for
  automobiles,
  motorcycles,
  aircraft,
  boats, RVs,
  trucks, etc.
  Automotive
  sales and
  rental;
 includes        N    N    N    N    N   S    N     N           
  motorcycles,
  boats, RVs, and
  trucks
  Bed and
  breakfast inn
  (see also
 Hotels, motels  CU+S CU+S CU+S CU+S N   -    -     N          9-2C-16
  and similar
  overnight
  accommodations)
  Commercial
 retail sales    N    N    N    N    N   P    N     N           
  and services
  Commercial
  retail sales                                                  Applies only
 and services,   N    N    N    N    N   N    P     N          to
  accessory to a                                                industrial
  permitted                                                     zone
  industrial use
  Computer server
 hotel/data      N    N    N    N    N   CU   P     N           
  center
 Customer call   N    N    N    N    N   P    P     N           
  center
 Drive-through   N    N    N    N    N   CU+S S     N          9-2C-5
  service
  Golf course
  and/or driving
  range, with/
 without pro     N    N    N    N    N   CU   CU    CU          
  shop and/or
  clubhouse/
  restaurant
  Hotels, motels
 and similar     N    N    N    N    N   P    N     N           
  overnight
  accommodations
  Kennel (see
 also Veterinary N    N    N    N    N   P    N     N           
  clinic)
  Lumberyard and
  similar sales
 of building or  N    N    N    N    N   P    P     N           
  contracting
  supplies, or
  heavy equipment
 Medical clinic, N    N    N    N    N   P    N     N           
  outpatient
  Microgeneration
  (wind and
  solar), except
 as permitted by CU   CU   CU   CU   CU  CU   P     P           
  Oregon Revised
  Statutes
  227.505
 Recreational    N    N    CU   CU   CU  CU   N     CU          
  vehicle park
  Self-service
 storage,        N    N    N    N    N   P    P     N           
  commercial
 Veterinary      N    N    N    N    N   P    N     N           
  clinic
Industrial and                                           
employment uses:
  Artisanal/light
  manufacture use
  - includes
  craft studio
  and uses
  providing
  instruction
  and/or retail
  sales related
  to painting,
 sculpting,      N    N    N    N    N   S    P     N          9-2C-4
  photography,
  picture
  framing,
  knitting,
  sewing,
  literature,
  theater, music,
  specialty
  foods/catering,
  or similar uses
                                                                Owners are
                                                                responsible
                                                                for
 Auction yard    N    N    N    N    N   CU   P     N          compliance
                                                                with Oregon
                                                                DEQ rules
                                                                and permit
                                                                requirements
  Beverage and
  bottling
 facility,       N    N    N    N    N   CU   P     N           
  except as
  allowed as for
  commercial uses
  Bulk storage of
  flammable
  liquids or
  gases;
 petroleum       N    N    N    N    N   N    CU    N           
  products
  storage and
  distribution;
  wood or biomass
  fuel dealers
  Cement, glass,
  clay, and stone
  products
  manufacture;
 except as       N    N    N    N    N   N    CU    N           
  allowed for
  artisanal/light
  manufacture
  uses
  Chemical,
  fertilizer,
 insecticide,    N    N    N    N    N   N    CU    N           
  paint product
  manufacture, or
  similar uses
  Concrete or
 asphalt batch   N    N    N    N    N   N    CU    N           
  plants
  Dairy products
  manufacture,
  e.g., butter,
  milk, cheese,
 ice cream;      N    N    N    N    N   N    CU    N           
  except where
  artisanal/light
  manufacture
  uses allowed
  Data center/
 computer server N    N    N    N    N   CU   P     N           
  hotel
  Dwelling for a
 caretaker or    N    N    N    N    N   CU   CU    P           
  watchman
  Finished
  textile and
  leather
  products
  manufacture;
 except as       N    N    N    N    N   P    P     N           
  allowed for
  artisanal/light
  manufacture
  uses. See also
  Tanneries and
  similar uses
  Food
  processing,
  including
  canning,
  freezing,
  drying, similar
 processing and  N    N    N    N    N   CU   CU    N           
  preserving;
  except as
  allowed for
  artisanal/light
  manufacture
  uses
  Freight
  terminals,
  including
  loading docks,
  storage,
 warehousing,    N    N    N    N    N   CU   P     N           
  wholesale
  distribution,
  cold storage;
  except
  ministorage
  warehouses
  Machine shop,
  welding, and
  related sales,
  services and
 repairs; except N    N    N    N    N   CU   P     N           
  where
  artisanal/light
  manufacture
  uses allowed
  Metal
  manufacture,
  plating; except
 where           N    N    N    N    N   CU   CU    N           
  artisanal/light
  manufacture
  uses allowed
  Printing,
  except
 artisanal/light N    N    N    N    N   P    P     N           
  manufacture
  uses
  Special trade
  contracting
  facilities,
  such as floor
  laying,
  masonry, stone,
 plumbing,       N    N    N    N    N   CU   P     N           
  electrical,
  metal work,
  roofing,
  heating/air
  conditioning,
  cabinetmaking
  and carpentry
 Tanneries and   N    N    N    N    N   N    CU    N           
  similar uses
  Wood products
  manufacture,
  including
  sawmills,
  assembly, and
 paper and       N    N    N    N    N   CU   P     N           
  allied
  products;
  except where
  artisanal/light
  manufacture
  uses allowed
  Wrecking,
 demolition, and N    N    N    N    N   N    CU    N           
  junk yards
 
(Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2B-4: LOT AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Development Standards: This section provides the general lot and
development standards for each of the city's base zoning districts. The
standards of this section are organized into two (2) tables: table 9-2B-4D of
this section applies to residential zones, and table 9-2B-4E of this section
applies to nonresidential zones.
   B.   Design Standards: Standards for access, circulation, site and building
design, parking, storm drainage, landscaping, fences and screening, and public
improvements, among others, are located in chapter 3 of this title.
Notwithstanding the provisions of table 9-2B-4D of this section, and chapter 3
of this title, different standards may apply in specific locations, such as at
street intersections, within overlay zones, adjacent to natural features, and
other areas as may be regulated by this title or subject to state or federal
requirements. For requirements applicable to the city's floodplain overlay,
please refer to article D of this chapter. See also public works design
standards.
   C.   Disclaimer: Property owners are responsible for verifying whether a
proposed development meets the applicable standards of this title. Submittal of
a zoning checklist for review and approval by the city manager is required in
order to determine whether use is allowed on a given site, and whether further
land use review is required.
   D.   Lot And Development Standards For Residential Districts: The
development standards in the following table apply to new development in the
city's residential zones.
   TABLE 9-2B-4D
   LOT AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL ZONES
(Except as provided by sections
9-2B-5 through
9-2B-7 of this article, or as modified under chapter 4, article G, "Variances",
of this title or as approved under chapter 4, article H, "Master Planned
Developments", of this title.)
Standard R-1 R-2 R-3 And R-4 R-5
Standard             R-1            R-2            R-3 And R-4    R-5
                                                                  The minimum
Minimum lot area 1:                                            lot size is 1
                                                                  acre
  Single-family,
 dwellings not                                                 
  attached:
  Corner lot       5,000 sq. ft.  5,000 sq. ft.  5,000 sq. ft.
  Interior lot     5,000 sq. ft.  6,000 sq. ft.  6,000 sq. ft.   
  Single-family,
 common wall                                                   
  dwellings:
  Corner lot       -              3,000 sq. ft.  3,000 sq. ft.   
  Interior lot     -              2,500 sq. ft.  2,500 sq. ft.   
 Duplex             -              6,000 sq. ft.  6,000 sq. ft.   
                                    7,500 sq. ft.  7,500 sq. ft.
  Multiple-family (3                for 3 dwelling for the first
  or more dwelling                  units and      dwelling unit,
 units on a lot,    -              9,000 sq. ft.  and 1,500 sq.   
  where allowed)                    for 4 units on ft. for each
                                    a lot          additional
                                                   unit on a lot
 Nonresidential     5,000 sq. ft.  5,000 sq. ft.  5,000 sq. ft.   
  uses
Minimum lot width:                                              
  Single-family,
 dwellings not                                                 
  attached:
  Corner lot       50 ft.         60 ft.         60 ft.         80 ft.
  Interior lot     50 ft.         50 ft.         50 ft.         80 ft.
  Single-family,
 common wall/                                                  
  attached:
  Corner lot       -              30 ft.         30 ft.         -
  Interior lot     -              25 ft.         25 ft.         -
 Duplex             -              50 ft.         50 ft.         -
  Multiple-family (3
 or more dwelling   -              60 ft.         60 ft.         -
  units on a lot,
  where allowed)
 Nonresidential     50 ft.         60 ft.         60 ft.         80 ft.
  uses
Minimum lot depth    100 ft.        100 ft.        100 ft.        100 ft.
Building/structure
height (see also
section
9-2B-5, "Setback
Yards Exceptions",
of this article and  35 ft.         35 ft.         45 ft.         35 ft.
sections
9-3C-3, clear
vision, and
9-3D-4, "Fences And
Walls", of this
title)
 Fences and                                                    
  nonbuilding walls:
  Maximum height - 4 ft.          4 ft.          4 ft.           
    front yard
    Maximum height -
    all other yards
    (structures >6
    ft. in height
  require a        8 ft.          8 ft.          8 ft.          See note 2
    building permit)
    (See also
    section
    9-3D-4 of this
    title)
Lot coverage (2                                                 
options):
  Maximum lot
  coverage
  (foundation plane
 area as percent of                                            
  site area, per
  international
  building code):
  Single-family,   50%            50%            50%            No standard
    not attached
    Single-family,
  common wall/     60%            70%            70%             
    attached
  Duplex           60%            60%            60%             
  Multi-family     60%            60%            60%             
  Other,           60%            60%            60%             
    nonresidential
                     The planning commission, subject to review through a type
 Lot coverage bonus III procedure, may approve an increase to the lot coverage
                     standards, above, pursuant to section
                     9-2B-6 of this article
Minimum landscape
area (percent lot                                               
area):
  Landscape area may
  include plant                     20% where site 20% where site
  areas and some                    contains       contains
 nonplant areas as  Not applicable nonresidential nonresidential See note 2
  allowed under                     use            use
  9-3D-3 of this
  title
Minimum setback yard
(ft.). See also
section
9-2B-5, "Setback
Yards Exceptions",
of this article and                                             
sections
9-3C-3, clear
vision, and
9-3D-4, "Fences And
Walls", of this
title)
  Front/street
 facing side                                                   
  setback yard:
  Standard setback 10 ft.         10 ft.         10 ft.         See note 2
  Garage or        20 ft.         20 ft.         20 ft.          
    carport opening
    Porch or similar
    open structure
  (e.g., balcony,  10 ft.         10 ft.         10 ft.          
    portico, patio,
    wall)
  Exception (0 ft.
 for wheelchair                                                
  ramp)
  Interior side
 setback yards                                                 
  (side yard not
  facing street):
  Structure >12    8 ft.          5 ft.          5 ft.          See note 2
    ft. height
    Structure </=12
    ft. height,
  except as        5 ft.          5 ft.          5 ft.           
    allowed for
    fences
Rear setback yard:                                              
 Structure >12 ft.  15 ft.         15 ft.         15 ft.         See note 2
  height
 Structure </=12    5 ft.          5 ft.          5 ft.           
  ft. height
Build-to line:                                                  
                                    20 ft. for     20 ft. for
  Applies to new                    buildings      buildings
 buildings only:    Not applicable containing     containing     See note 2
                                    multi- family  multi- family
                                    dwellings      dwellings
    At least 1
    primary building
    entrance shall
    be built no
    farther from the
    street right of
    way than the
    build-to line;
  except that                                                 
    where a greater
    setback is
    required for a
    planned street
    improvement, the
    build-to line
    increases
    proportionately.
    The city may
    also approve
    exceptions to
    the build-to
    line through
    site design
    review where a
    pedestrian
    plaza, seating
    area, or similar
    amenity is
  provided between                                            
    a primary
    building
    entrance and the
    street right of
    way. (See also
    section
    9-3B-5, "Civic
    Space And
    Pedestrian
    Amenities", of
    this title.)
 
Notes:
    1.    Lot size may be reduced in new subdivisions through lot size
averaging, per section
9-4C-5 of this title, or through approval of a master planned development under
chapter 4, article H of this title, provided the density standards of this
section are met. Minimum lot sizes do not apply to open space tracts and
similar properties where development is restricted.
   2.   Special standards applicable to the rural residential (R-5) district
only:
      a.   No building or sight obscuring fence, other than rangeland fencing,
shall be closer than 40 ft. from a street or road right of way line, 15 ft.
from another other property line, 20 ft. from any major irrigation canal right
of way, and 100 ft. from the boundary line of an EFU, EFFU, or ERU zone.
      b.   No sight obscuring fence exceeding 3 ft. in height shall be placed
within the 40 ft. street/road setback; also within this setback, shrubbery
other than trees shall be maintained at heights not exceeding 3 ft.
      c.   Accessory buildings greater than 200 sq. ft. in lot coverage shall
have a residential appearance; this standard is met by using materials; roof
height, pitch and overhangs (3 ft. or more); and window styles with proportions
similar to a single-family dwelling.
Special setback for planned street improvements: New structures or structure
additions on lots abutting an existing public street that does not meet the
minimum standards of section
9-3F-2 of this title for right of way width shall provide setbacks sufficient
to allow for the future widening of the right of way, plus the minimum required
yard setback.
Always check for utility easements prior to construction.
   E.   Lot And Development Standards For Nonresidential Districts: The
development standards in the following table apply to all new development in
the city's nonresidential zones.
   TABLE 9-2B-4E
   LOT AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
   FOR NONRESIDENTIAL ZONES
(Except as provided by sections
9-2B-5 through
9-2B-7 of this article, or as modified under chapter 4, article G, "Variances",
of this title or as approved under chapter 4, article H, "Master Planned
Developments", of this title.)
Standard C Zone I Zone PF Zone
Standard                      C Zone I Zone         PF Zone
Lot area, minimum             None   5,000 sq. ft.  None
Lot width and depth, minimum  None   50 ft.         None
                              None, except the city may limit structure height
Building/structure height,    and/or require fire suppression sprinkler systems
maximum                       where due to the structure's height sprinkler
                              systems are necessary
Fences and nonbuilding walls  No standard, except height and materials subject
(see also section             to site design review
9-3D-4 of this title)
Lot coverage, maximum         90%    100%           90%
Landscape area, minimum
(percent site area), includes
required parking lot
landscaping and any required
screening. Landscape area in
the commercial (C) zone also  10%    None           10%
includes street trees and
civic space improvements, per
subsection 9-3B-3D and
section
9-3B-5 of this title
Minimum setbacks:                                  
  Front, street side,
  interior side, and rear
 property lines, except as   0 ft.  0 ft.          0 ft.
  provided below or as
  required by other code
  provisions
 Garage/carport opening,     20 ft. 20 ft.         20 ft.
  setback from street
 Alley                       3 ft.  3 ft.          3 ft.
 Adjacent to R-1 district    10 ft. 10 ft.         10 ft.
Build-to line:                                     
  New buildings only: With
  new building development,
  at least 1 primary building
  entrance shall be built no
  farther from the street
  right of way than the
  build-to line; except where
  a greater setback is
  required for a planned
  street improvement, then
  the build-to line increases
 proportionately. The build- 10 ft. Not applicable Not applicable
  to line may also be
  increased through site
  design review when a
  pedestrian plaza, seating
  area, or similar amenity is
  provided between a primary
  building entrance and the
  street right of way. (See
  also section
  9-3B-5, "Civic Space And
  Pedestrian Amenities", of
  this title.)
 
Notes:
   1.   Special setback for planned street improvements: New structures or
structure additions on lots abutting an existing public street that does not
meet the minimum standards of section
9-3F-2 of this title for right of way width shall provide setbacks sufficient
to allow for the future widening of the right of way, plus the minimum required
yard setback. Building permits shall not be issued for new structures or
additions that do not meet this standard.
   2.   Always check for utility easements prior to construction.
(Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013; amd. Ord. 670-22, - -2022)
9-2B-5: SETBACK YARDS EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Encroachments:
      1.   Except as otherwise restricted by applicable building codes,
building elements such as eaves, chimneys, bay windows, overhangs, heating,
cooling and ventilation systems, and similar incidental structures, may extend
into the required setback yards by no more than thirty six inches (36");
provided, that a setback of not less than thirty six inches (36") is
maintained, all applicable building codes are met, and the clear vision
standards in section
9-3C-3 of this title are met.
      2.   Porches, decks, patios, and similar features not exceeding thirty
inches (30") in height may encroach into setbacks, provided a minimum setback
of not less than thirty six inches (36") is maintained and all applicable
building codes are met.
      3.   Fences may be placed within setback yards, subject to the standards
of section
9-2B-4 of this article and section
9-3D-4 of this title.
   B.   Reverse Frontage Lots: Buildings on reverse frontage lots (through
lots) are required to meet the front yard setback and build-to line standards
of this title on only one street frontage. Reverse frontage lots are subject to
the landscape standards of section
9-3D-3 of this title. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2B-6: LOT COVERAGE:
   A.   Lot Coverage Calculation: The maximum allowable lot coverage shall be
as provided in section
9-2B-4, tables 9-2B-4D and 9-2B-4E of this article. Lot coverage is calculated
as the percentage of a lot or parcel covered by buildings or structures (as
defined by the foundation plan area) and other structures with surfaces greater
than thirty six inches (36") above the finished grade. It does not include
paved surface level developments such as driveways, parking pads, and patios.
   B.   Lot Coverage Bonus: The city manager/planning commission, subject to
review through a type II/III procedure, may approve increases to the lot
coverage standards for new development. The city may approve increases to the
lot coverage standards in section
9-2B-4, tables 9-2B-4D and 9-2B-4E of this article, as follows:
      1.   By up to one-half (1/2) square foot for every one square foot of
proposed parking area paving that uses a city approved porous/permeable paving
material (i.e., allowing stormwater infiltration); and
      2.   By up to one-half (1/2) square foot for every one square foot of
city approved water quality treatment area (e.g., vegetative swale or
biofiltration) to be provided on the subject site; and
      3.   In approving increases in lot coverage under subsections B1 through
B3 of this section, the city may require additional landscape buffering or
screening, above that which is required under chapter 3, article D of this
title, and may impose reasonable conditions of approval to ensure the ongoing
maintenance of parking areas and surface water management facilities; and
      4.   Notwithstanding the lot coverage increases authorized by subsections
B1 through B4 of this section, all other development standards of this chapter,
and other applicable provisions of this title, must be met. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-
2013)
9-2B-7: HEIGHT MEASUREMENT AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Building Height Measurement: Building height is measured consistent
with the international building code.
   B.   Exception From Maximum Building Height Standards: Chimneys, bell
towers, steeples, building systems equipment (e.g., heating, solar voltaic,
ventilation, air conditioning, and similar building systems equipment),
flagpoles, and similar features not for human occupancy are exempt from the
maximum building heights; provided, that all applicable fire and building codes
are met.
   C.   Airport Approach: Where construction is subject to airport approach
requirements, the applicant shall coordinate with the Oregon department of
aviation. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
ARTICLE C. SPECIAL USE STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-2C-1: Purpose
9-2C-2: Applicability
9-2C-3: Review Process
9-2C-4: Artisanal/Light Manufacture Uses
9-2C-5: Drive-Through Service
9-2C-6: Duplex Dwelling Standards
9-2C-7: Multi-Family Development Standards
9-2C-8: Dwellings In Commercial And Industrial Zones
9-2C-9: Family Daycare
9-2C-10: Residential Care Homes And Residential Care Facilities
9-2C-11: Home Occupations
9-2C-12: Manufactured Home On Single-Family Lot
9-2C-13: Mobile Home And Manufactured Dwelling Parks
9-2C-14: Temporary Uses
9-2C-15: Accessory Dwellings
9-2C-16: Bed And Breakfast Inns
9-2C-1: PURPOSE:
Special uses included in this article are uses, which, due to their effect on
surrounding properties, must be developed in accordance with special conditions
and standards. These special use standards may differ from the development
standards established for other uses in the same zoning district. (Ord. 635-13,
6-11-2013)
9-2C-2: APPLICABILITY:
All uses designated as "special (S) uses" in section
9-2B-3, table
9-2B-3 of this chapter, and uses the city determines to be similar to such
uses, are subject to the standards of this chapter. The standards of this
article supplement the other requirements of this title. When a dimensional
standard for a special use differs from that of the underlying district, the
standard for the special use shall apply. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2C-3: REVIEW PROCESS:
The city uses the procedures for site design review, under chapter 4, article B
of this title, in reviewing proposed uses for compliance with the requirements
of this article. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2C-4: ARTISANAL/LIGHT MANUFACTURE USES:
   A.   Purpose: The following provisions are intended to encourage mixed use
development, including cottage industries and business incubators, by
integrating small scale manufacturing with commercial uses. For the purposes of
this section, artisanal uses are those that blend manufacturing and retail uses
such as brewpubs, winery tasting rooms, artist studios, cabinetmakers, and
similar uses, on the same site.
   B.   Applicability: The following standards apply where manufacturing uses
are allowed in commercial zones and where retail uses are allowed in industrial
zones. The standards are applied through site design review or conditional use
permit review, as applicable.
   C.   Standards:
      1.   Where a manufacturing use is allowed in a commercial zone, it shall
be permitted only in conjunction with a primary commercial use and shall not
exceed the floor area of the primary commercial use; and
      2.   Where a manufacturing use is allowed in a commercial zone, it shall
be wholly enclosed in a building, except the city may permit unenclosed
operations of any use subject to this section, subject to approval of a
conditional use permit; and
      3.   Where a manufacturing use is allowed in a commercial zone and the
subject site is located within one hundred feet (100') of a residential zone,
the city may limit the hours of operation of the commercial and/or industrial
use(s) to between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. where
it has identified concerns about noise, parking, or other impacts related to
the use; and
      4.   Where a commercial use is allowed in an industrial zone, it shall be
permitted only in conjunction with the primary industrial use and shall not
exceed the floor area of the primary industrial use. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2C-5: DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE:
Drive-through service uses are subject to site design review and shall comply
with the design standards of section
9-3B-6 of this title. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2C-6: DUPLEX DWELLING STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose: The following provisions are intended to promote compatibility
between duplex dwellings and single-family dwellings in the R-1 zone.
   B.   Applicability: The following standards apply where a duplex is proposed
adjacent to a single-family dwelling where the duplex lot and single-family lot
share a common property line. The standards are applied through a zoning
checklist (type I) review procedure, prior to submittal of building plans to
the building official.
   C.   Standards: Duplexes shall meet the design standards in section
9-3B-3 of this title. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2C-7: MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose: The following standards are intended to ensure that multi-
family developments are planned with adequate open space and are designed to
prevent conflicts between residential uses, on site recreation, and vehicle
circulation and parking areas. The standards supplement the design standards of
chapter 3 of this title.
   B.   Applicability: This section applies to new multi-family developments.
   C.   Standards:
      1.   Multi-Family Housing Density: The number of multi-family dwelling
units shall not exceed three (3) units per lot in the R-2 district. In the R-
3 and R-4 districts, the number of dwelling units permitted on a lot is three
(3) units per seven thousand (7,000) square feet of lot area, plus one unit for
every one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet of additional lot area. The
density standards do not apply to boarding houses. Boarding houses are required
to meet the requirements of the Oregon structural specialty code.
      2.   Common Open Space And Landscaping: A minimum of fifteen percent
(15%) of the site area of a multi-family development shall be designated and
permanently reserved as common area or open space, in accordance with all of
the following criteria:
         a.   "Site area", for the purposes of this section, is defined as the
subject lot or lots after subtracting any required dedication of street right
of way;
         b.   The common area or open space shall contain one or more of the
following: outdoor recreation area, tree grove (e.g., existing mature trees),
turf play fields or playgrounds, sports courts, swim pool, walking fitness
course, natural area with picnic benches, or similar open space amenities as
appropriate for the intended residents;
         c.   In order to be counted as eligible toward the minimum open space
area, such areas shall have dimensions of not less than twenty feet (20');
         d.   Open space and common areas not otherwise developed with
recreational facilities shall be landscaped.
      3.   Private Open Space: Private open space areas shall be required for
dwelling units based on the following criteria. The standards do not apply to
boarding houses.
         a.   A minimum of forty percent (40%) of all ground floor dwelling
units shall have front or rear patios or decks containing at least forty eight
(48) square feet of usable area. "Ground floor housing" means the housing unit
entrance (front or rear) is within five feet (5') of the finished ground
elevation (i.e., after grading and landscaping).
         b.   A minimum of forty percent (40%) of all upper floor housing units
shall have balconies or porches containing at least forty eight (48) square
feet of usable area. "Upper floor housing" means housing units that are more
than five feet (5') above the finished grade.
      4.   Access, Circulation, Landscaping, Parking, Public Facilities: The
standards of chapter 3, articles B through F of this title shall be met.
      5.   Trash Storage: Trash receptacles, recycling and storage facilities
shall be oriented away from building entrances, set back at least ten feet
(10') from any public right of way and adjacent residences and shall be
screened with an evergreen hedge or solid fence or wall of not less than six
feet (6') in height. Receptacles must be accessible to trash pick up trucks.
(Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2C-8: DWELLINGS IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES:
   A.   Purpose: This section provides standards for residential uses in the C
and I zones.
   B.   Applicability: This section applies to dwellings in the C and I zones.
   C.   Standards: Residential uses in the C and I zones shall conform to all
of the following standards:
      1.   New residential uses shall not be established in any ground floor
building space fronting Main Street. A new residential use may be established
on a lot that fronts Main Street, provided the residential use is located above
an allowed commercial or public/institutional use or it is set back from Main
Street behind an allowed commercial or public/institutional use.
      2.   Single-family dwellings lawfully existing as of the effective date
hereof continue as permitted uses; and in the event of involuntary damage or
destruction due to fire or other event beyond the owner's control, such single-
family use may be rebuilt and reestablished pursuant to section
9-2B-3 of this chapter and applicable building codes. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2C-9: FAMILY DAYCARE:
Family daycare uses are limited to on site care for not more than sixteen (16)
children, and shall conform to the state licensing requirements and standards
under Oregon Revised Statutes 657A.250 and 657A.440(4). Where required, family
daycare uses must also have a current business license. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-
2013)
9-2C-10: RESIDENTIAL CARE HOMES AND RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES:
Residential care homes and residential care facilities, where allowed, shall
conform to all of the following standards and procedures. Note: Residential
care facilities are not the same as acute care facilities, which are classified
as community service uses; and they are not the same as senior housing
facilities that provide limited or no medical care, which are classified as
multi-family housing.
   A.   Licensing And State Requirements: Residential care homes and
residential care facilities shall be licensed by the state of Oregon and comply
with state requirements, pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes 197.660 through
197.670.
   B.   Residential Care Homes: Residential care homes may provide residential
care alone, or in conjunction with treatment and/or training, for five (5) or
fewer individuals who need not be related. Staff required to meet state
licensing requirements is not counted in the number of facility residents and
need not be related to each other or the residents. The same development code
standards that apply to single-family dwellings also apply to residential care
homes, except where state law supersedes city standards.
   C.   Residential Care Facilities: Residential care facilities may provide
residential care alone, or in conjunction with treatment and/or training, for
between six (6) and fifteen (15) individuals who need not be related. Staff
required to meet state licensing requirements is not counted in the number of
facility residents and need not be related to each other or the residents. The
same development code standards that apply to multiple-family dwellings also
apply to residential care homes, except where state law supersedes city
standards.
   D.   Access: The access and circulation standards of chapter 3, article C of
this title shall be met.
   E.   Parking: The parking standards of chapter 3, article E of this title
shall be met.
   F.   Landscaping: Residential care facilities are required to comply with
the landscaping and screening standards of chapter 3, article D of this title.
The city may require the installation of a landscape hedge or fence on the
property line separating a residential care facility from an abutting lot
containing a single-family dwelling for the purposes of visual screening and
privacy between uses. The landscaping standards do not apply to building
permits for individual residential care homes.
   G.   Building Design Standards: Residential care facilities are required to
comply with the building orientation and design standards for multi-family
housing, pursuant to chapter 3, article B of this title; except where a state
requirement conflicts with a city standard, the state requirement, not the city
standard, shall apply. The building design standards do not apply to
residential care homes.
   H.   Review Procedure: Residential care homes are subject to review and
approval through a type I zoning checklist review procedure under section
9-4A-2 of this title prior to issuance of building permits. Residential care
facilities are subject to a type III (public hearing) review and approval under
section
9-4A-4 of this title. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2C-11: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to encourage those who are
engaged in small commercial ventures that could not necessarily be sustained if
it were necessary to lease commercial quarters, or which by the nature of the
venture are appropriate in scale and impact to be operated within a residence.
   B.   Applicability: This section applies to home occupation uses in
residential zones. A home based business in a commercial or residential-
commercial zone is considered a commercial use and is not subject to the
standards of this section.
   C.   Home Occupation In Residential Zones: Home occupations covering less
than five hundred (500) square feet of lot area are permitted, provided the
owner completes a zoning checklist and, where required, obtains a business
license. Home occupations covering more than five hundred (500) square feet of
lot area are allowed, subject to approval of a conditional use permit. For the
purpose of this section, "lot area" includes building floor area, areas within
accessory structures, and all other portions of a lot. The above lot coverage
limitations do not apply to family daycare uses, which are subject to section
9-2C-9 of this article; other requirements of this section may apply.
   D.   Home Occupation Standards: Home occupations shall conform to all of the
standards listed in this subsection, except the city may approve adjustments to
the standards through the conditional use permit approval, provided all uses
and structures on the subject property conform to applicable city regulations,
including, but not limited to, building codes and nuisance regulations.
      1.   Appearance Of Residence:
         a.   The home occupation shall be restricted to lawfully built
enclosed structures and be conducted in such a manner as not to give an outward
appearance of a business.
         b.   The home occupation shall not result in any structural
alterations or additions to a structure that will change its primary use or
building code occupancy classification.
         c.   The home occupation shall not violate any conditions of
development approval (i.e., prior land use development permit or approval).
         d.   No products and/or equipment produced or used by the home
occupation may be displayed to be visible from outside any structure.
      2.   Storage:
         a.   Outside storage visible from the public right of way or adjacent
properties that exceeds what is customary for a single-family residence in the
vicinity is prohibited.
         b.   On site storage of hazardous materials (including toxic,
explosive, noxious, combustible or flammable material) beyond those normally
incidental to residential use is prohibited.
         c.   Storage of inventory or products and all other equipment,
fixtures, and activities associated with the home occupation shall be enclosed
in a structure or otherwise screened from view from adjacent properties and
public right of way.
      3.   Employees:
         a.   Other than family members residing within the dwelling located on
the home occupation site, there shall be not more than two (2) employees at the
home occupation site at any given time. As used in this section, the term "home
occupation site" means the legal lot on which the home occupation is conducted.
         b.   Additional individuals may be employed by or associated with the
home occupation, so long as they do not report to work or pick up/deliver at
the home occupation site.
         c.   The home occupation site shall not be used as a headquarters for
the assembly of employees for instruction or other purposes, including dispatch
of employees to other locations.
      4.   Advertising And Signs: Signs shall not exceed a total of four (4)
square feet of surface area on each side of one or two (2) faces. See also
chapter 3, article G, "Signs", of this title.
      5.   Vehicles, Parking And Traffic:
         a.   Not more than one commercially licensed vehicle associated with
the home occupation is allowed at the home occupation site in the same twenty
four (24) hour period. Vehicles shall be of a size that would not overhang into
the public right of way when parked.
         b.   There shall be no commercial vehicle deliveries during nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
      6.   Business Hours: There shall be no restriction on business hours,
except that clients or customers are permitted at the home occupation only from
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. only, Monday through
Saturday.
      7.   Prohibited Home Occupation Uses:
         a.   Any activity that produces radio, TV, or other electronic
interference; noise, glare, vibration, smoke, or odor beyond allowable levels
as determined by local, state or federal standards, or that can be detected
beyond the property line, is prohibited.
         b.   Any activity involving on site retail sales, including garage
sales exceeding the thresholds of a temporary use, is prohibited, except that
the sale of items that are incidental to a permitted home occupation is
allowed. For example, the sale of lesson books or sheet music from music
teachers, art or craft supplies from arts or crafts instructors, computer
software from computer consultants, and similar incidental items for sale by
the home business is allowed.
         c.   The following uses and uses with similar objectionable impacts
because of motor vehicle traffic, noise, glare, odor, dust, smoke or vibration,
are prohibited:
            (1)   Ambulance service;
            (2)   Animal hospital, veterinary services, kennels or animal
boarding;
            (3)   Auto and other vehicle repair, including auto painting; and
            (4)   Repair, reconditioning or storage of motorized vehicles,
boats, recreational vehicles, airplanes or large equipment on site.
      8.   Enforcement: With cause, the city's designated code enforcement
officer or other law enforcement official may visit a home occupation site to
inspect the site and enforce the provisions of this title. See also chapter 1,
article C, "Administration And Enforcement", of this title. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-
2013)
9-2C-12: MANUFACTURED HOME ON SINGLE-FAMILY LOT:
Manufactured homes are permitted on individual lots, subject to all of the
following design standards. Manufactured dwellings relocated into the city
shall conform to city standards.
   A.   Floor Plan: The manufactured home shall be multisectional and have an
enclosed floor area of not less than one thousand (1,000) square feet.
   B.   Roof: The manufactured home shall have a pitched roof with a slope not
less than three feet (3') in height for each twelve feet (12') in width (14
degrees).
   C.   Residential Building Materials: The manufactured home shall have
exterior siding and roofing which in color, material and appearance are similar
or superior to the exterior siding and roof material used on nearby residences
(e.g., horizontal wood or wood appearance siding is considered "superior" to
metal siding and roofing).
   D.   Garages And Carports: If the manufactured home has a garage or carport,
the garage or carport shall be constructed of materials like those used on the
house.
   E.   Thermal Envelope: The manufactured home shall be certified by the
manufacturer to meet the thermal envelope requirements equivalent to those for
a single-family dwelling constructed under the state building code. Evidence
demonstrating that the manufactured home meets "Super Good Cents" energy
efficiency standards, or equivalent standard, is deemed to satisfy the exterior
thermal envelope certification requirement.
   F.   Placement: The manufactured home shall be placed on an excavated and
backfilled foundation and enclosed at the perimeter such that the manufactured
home is located not more than sixteen inches (16") above grade, and complies
with the minimum setup standards of the adopted state administrative rules for
manufactured dwellings, Oregon administrative rules chapter 918. Where the
building site has a sloped grade, no more than sixteen inches (16") of the
enclosing material shall be exposed on the uphill side of the home.
   G.   Floodplain: Manufactured homes shall comply with article D, "Floodplain
Overlay Zone", of this chapter, and the following standards:
      1.   The stand shall be a minimum of twelve inches (12") above base flood
elevation (BFE) unless the foundation wall is opened on one side or end so that
floodwater cannot be trapped (manufactured dwelling specialty code 4-3.1(5)).
      2.   The bottom of the longitudinal chassis frame beam in A zones, and
the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member supporting the dwelling
in V zones shall be a minimum of twelve inches (12") above BFE. (See definition
of "lowest floor" in manufactured dwelling specialty code.)
      3.   The manufactured dwelling shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement during the base flood. Anchoring methods may
include, but are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground
anchors (reference FEMA's "Manufactured Home Installation In Flood Hazard
Areas" guidebook for anchoring techniques) (44 code of federal regulations 60.3
(c)(6)).
      4.   Electrical crossover connections shall be a minimum of twelve inches
(12") above BFE (manufactured dwelling specialty code 6-4.2(1)).
   H.   Foundation Skirt: The foundation area of the manufactured home shall be
fully skirted with concrete, horizontal wood or vinyl siding, or other
materials, pursuant to applicable building codes.
   I.   Prohibited: The manufactured home shall not be located in a designated
historic district, except where the historic district regulations specifically
provide for manufactured homes. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2C-13: MOBILE HOME AND MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARKS:
Manufactured/mobile home parks (not including recreational vehicles) are
permitted on parcels of one acre or larger, subject to compliance with the
following subsections:
   A.   Permitted Uses: Single-family residences, manufactured home park
manager's office, home occupations, and accessory structures that are necessary
for the operation and maintenance of the manufactured dwelling park (e.g.,
landscape maintenance).
   B.   Development Standards: Development of manufactured and mobile home
parks, including placement of manufactured and mobile homes within a park,
shall comply with applicable building codes and state requirements for mobile
home and manufactured dwelling parks in Oregon Revised Statutes 446.
   C.   Perimeter Landscaping: When manufactured dwellings are oriented with
their back or side yards facing a public right of way, the city may require
installation of fencing and/or planting of a landscape buffer of five (5) to
ten feet (10') in width between the right of way and a manufactured home park
for the privacy and security of park residents or for privacy of adjacent
residences.
   D.   Floodplain: Compliance with the city floodplain overlay, article D of
this chapter, is required. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2C-14: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses are characterized by their short term or seasonal nature and by
the fact that permanent improvements are not made to the site. Temporary uses
include, but are not limited to: construction trailers, leasing offices,
temporary carnivals and fairs, parking lot sales, retail warehouse sales,
seasonal sales such as Christmas tree sales and vegetable stands, and similar
uses. This title contains permit procedures for three (3) types of temporary
uses: seasonal and special events, temporary sales offices and model homes, and
temporary buildings, trailers, kiosks, and other structures, as follows:
   A.   Seasonal And Special Events: Through a type II procedure, pursuant to
section
9-4A-3 of this title, the city shall approve, approve with conditions or deny a
temporary use application for a seasonal or special event based on the
following criteria being met:
      1.   The use is permitted in the underlying zone, and does not violate
any conditions of approval for the property (e.g., prior development permit
approval).
      2.   The use occurs only once in a calendar year and for not longer than
sixty (60) consecutive days.
      3.   The use is permitted in the underlying land use district and does
not violate any conditions of approval for the property (e.g., prior
development permit approval).
      4.   The applicant, if different than the property owner, has proof of
the owner's permission to place the use on his/her property.
      5.   Ingress and egress are adequate and do not raise safety concerns
when the proposed use combined with the other uses of the site, pursuant to
section
9-3C-3, "Vehicular Access And Circulation", of this title.
      6.   The use does not conflict (i.e., create a nonconformity) with the
provisions of chapter 3, article D, "Landscaping, Fences And Walls; Outdoor
Lighting", of this title.
      7.   There is sufficient parking to accommodate the temporary use and
other uses existing on the site, pursuant to chapter 3, article E, "Parking And
Loading", of this title.
      8.   The use does not conflict (i.e., create a nonconformity) with the
provisions of chapter 3, article F, "Public Facilities", of this title.
      9.   The use does not create adverse off site impacts including vehicle
traffic, noise, odors, vibrations, glare or lights that affect an adjoining use
in a manner in which other uses allowed outright in the district do not affect
the adjoining use.
      10.   The use is adequately served by sewer or septic system and water,
as applicable.
      11.   The applicant shall be responsible for maintaining all required
licenses and permits.
   B.   Temporary Sales Office Or Model Home: Through a type II procedure,
pursuant to section
9-4A-3 of this title, the city shall approve, approve with conditions or deny a
temporary use application for a temporary sales office or model home, based on
the following criteria being met:
      1.   Temporary Sales Office: The use of any real property within the city
as a temporary sales office, office for the purpose of facilitating the sale of
real property, shall meet all of the following criteria:
         a.   The temporary sales office shall be located within the boundaries
of the subdivision or tract of land in which the real property is to be sold;
         b.   The property to be used for a temporary sales office shall not be
permanently improved for that purpose; and
         c.   Conditions may be imposed regarding temporary utility
connections, and as necessary to protect public health, safety, or welfare.
      2.   Model House: The use of any real property within the city for a
model home, including a model home in any subdivision or on any tract of land
within the city, shall meet all of the following criteria:
         a.   Where the model house is located in a residential zone, it shall
be located within the boundaries of the subdivision or tract of land where the
real property to be sold is situated;
         b.   A model house located in a residential zone shall be designed as
a permanent structure that meets all relevant requirements of this title and
other applicable codes and permit requirements; and
         c.   A model house located in a nonresidential zone, as with a
manufactured home sales display lot, shall be removed when the use of the
subject site for home sales ends.
   C.   Temporary Buildings, Trailers, Kiosks And Other Structures: Through a
type II procedure, pursuant to section
9-4A-3 of this title, the city shall approve, approve with conditions or deny
an application for a placement and use of a temporary building, trailer, kiosk,
or other structure, based on the following criteria:
      1.   The use is permitted in the underlying zone and does not violate any
conditions of approval for the property (e.g., prior development permit
approval);
      2.   The applicant, if different than the property owner, has proof of
the owner's permission to place the use on his/her property;
      3.   The lot development standards of section
9-2B-4 of this chapter are met;
      4.   Ingress and egress are adequate and do not raise safety concerns
when the proposed use combined with the other uses of the site, pursuant to
section
9-3C-3, "Vehicular Access And Circulation", of this title;
      5.   The use does not conflict (i.e., create a nonconformity) with the
provisions of chapter 3, article D, "Landscaping, Fences And Walls; Outdoor
Lighting", of this title;
      6.   There is sufficient parking to accommodate the temporary use and
other uses existing on the site, pursuant to chapter 3, article E, "Parking And
Loading", of this title;
      7.   The temporary use does not conflict (i.e., create a nonconformity)
with the provisions of chapter 3, article F, "Public Facilities", of this
title;
      8.   The use does not create adverse off site impacts including vehicle
traffic, noise, odors, vibrations, glare or lights that affect an adjoining use
in a manner in which other uses allowed outright in the district do not affect
the adjoining use;
      9.   The use is adequately served by sewer or septic system and water, as
applicable;
      10.   The structure complies with applicable building codes;
      11.   Except where specifically authorized by the city manager, the
length of time that the temporary structure may remain on a site shall not
exceed ninety (90) cumulative days in any one calendar year;
      12.   The applicant shall be responsible for maintaining all required
licenses and permits; and
      13.   The city manager may require installation of a water meter and may
require other improvements, pursuant to chapter 3, article F, "Public
Facilities", of this title as necessary, to protect public health, safety, or
welfare. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2C-15: ACCESSORY DWELLINGS:
Accessory dwellings, where allowed, are subject to review and approval through
a type II procedure, pursuant to section
9-4A-3 of this title, and shall conform to all of the following standards:
   A.   One Unit: A maximum of one accessory dwelling unit is allowed per legal
lot and is included in the permissible residential density for the subject lot.
   B.   Floor Area: An accessory dwelling unit shall not exceed six hundred
(600) square feet of floor area, or forty percent (40%) of the primary dwelling
unit's floor area, whichever is smaller. The unit may be a detached cottage, a
unit attached to a dwelling, or in a portion of an existing dwelling. The floor
area of any garage associated with the primary dwelling is not included in the
calculation of maximum floor area.
   C.   Lot Size: The minimum lot size for a lot with an accessory dwelling is
six thousand (6,000) square feet.
   D.   Building Design: The accessory dwelling shall be constructed of
materials that are the same or similar to the materials used on the primary
dwelling. The accessory dwelling shall comply with applicable Oregon structural
specialty code requirements.
   E.   Building Height: The height of an accessory dwelling shall not exceed
the height of the primary dwelling.
   F.   Parking: A minimum of two (2) off street parking spaces is required,
total, including parking for the primary single- family dwelling unit and for
the accessory dwelling unit, on the subject site.
   G.   Screening And Buffering: The city may require a landscape hedge or
fence be installed on the property line separating a detached accessory
dwelling from an abutting lot containing a single-family dwelling for the
purposes of visual screening and privacy between uses. Screening and buffering
shall conform to the standards of chapter 3, article D of this title. (Ord.
635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2C-16: BED AND BREAKFAST INNS:
Bed and breakfast inns, where allowed, are subject to review and approval
through a type II procedure, pursuant to section
9-4A-3 of this title, and shall conform to all of the following standards:
   A.   Accessory Use: The use must be accessory to a household already
occupying the site.
   B.   Maximum Size: A maximum of six (6) bedrooms for guests, and a maximum
of twelve (12) guests are permitted per night.
   C.   Length Of Stay: The maximum length of stay is twenty eight (28) days
per guest; any stay longer is classified as a hotel or commercial lodging use.
   D.   Employees: The inn shall have not more than two (2) nonresident
employees on site at any one time. There is no limit on residential employees.
   E.   Food Service: Food service shall be provided only to overnight guests
of the business, except where a restaurant use is also an allowed use (as in
the C zone).
   F.   Signs: Signs shall not exceed a total of four (4) square feet of
surface area on each side of one or two (2) faces. See also sign regulations in
chapter 3, article G of this title.
   G.   Screening And Buffering: The city may require a landscape hedge or
fence be installed on the property line separating a detached accessory
dwelling from an abutting single-family dwelling for the purposes of visual
screening and privacy between uses. Screening and buffering shall conform to
the standards of chapter 3, article D of this title. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
ARTICLE D. FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
9-2D-1: Description And Purpose
9-2D-2: Permitted Uses Outright
9-2D-3: Permitted Buildings And Building Uses
9-2D-4: Water Service Extension Prohibited
9-2D-1: DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE:
The floodplain (FP) designation may be applied in any zone as hereinafter set
forth where the area is subject to inundation by flooding of surface water. The
area subject to flooding shall be as determined by the army corps of engineers
and the federal emergency management agency's (FEMA's) most recent data,
including FEMA's flood insurance rate map, which designates the area subject to
a one percent (1%) or 100-year flood. The purpose of the FP overlay zone is to
minimize property loss, danger of injury and health hazards. To accomplish this
purpose, the city prior to issuing any building permits shall establish flood
elevations. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2D-2: PERMITTED USES OUTRIGHT:
The city manager may establish floodplain (FP) areas, subject to planning
commission approval by designating the boundaries thereof. Such designation
shall be based upon objective floodplain and surface water data. Such
designation shall be removed by the city manager upon it being established to
his or her satisfaction that, because of additional flood control measures,
control of development through the establishment of minimum floor elevations is
no longer necessary.
In any zone where the zone symbol is followed by the parenthetically enclosed
letters "FP", raising and harvesting crops and other compatible agricultural or
horticultural uses are permitted outright and only the following other land
uses are allowed (permitted or permitted subject to conditional use permit), if
said uses are allowed in such zone classification:
   A.   Parking area, private;
   B.   Parking area, public; and
   C.   Parks, playgrounds, golf courses or driving ranges. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-
2013)
9-2D-3: PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND BUILDING USES:
In any zone also designated "FP", the following buildings only are permitted:
   A.   Accessory building normal and incidental to the uses provided in
section
9-2D-2 of this article; and
   B.   Uses normally permitted in the zone classification upon approval of the
city manager only where it appears no hazard to property, person or health
would exist or be created by reason of such building and building use. (Ord.
635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-2D-4: WATER SERVICE EXTENSION PROHIBITED:
Municipal water services will not be extended to new development within
designated floodplain areas. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
CHAPTER 3
COMMUNITY DESIGN STANDARDS
ARTICLE A. DESIGN STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
9-3A-1: Purpose
9-3A-2: Applicability
9-3A-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter contains design standards for the built environment. The standards
are intended to protect the public health, safety and welfare through
multimodal accessibility and interconnectivity, and through the provision of
parking, landscaping, adequate public facilities, and appropriate signage.
(Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-3A-2: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter apply to permits and approvals granted under
this title, and other city actions, as summarized in table
9-3A-2 of this section.
   TABLE
9-3A-2
   APPLICABILITY OF DESIGN STANDARDS
   TO APPROVALS AND PERMITS
           9-3B     9-3C        9-3D        9-3E      9-3F       9-3G
Approvals1 Building Access      Landscapes  Parking & Public     Signs
           Design   Circulation & Screening Loading   Facilities
               9-3B     9-3C        9-3D           9-3E      9-3F       9-3G
Approvals1     Building Access      Landscapes     Parking & Public     Signs
               Design   Circulation & Screening    Loading   Facilities
Zoning         Review and determine whether a land use application is
checklist      required
review
Access/
approach       N        Y           N              Y         Y          N
permit
Annexation     N        N           N              N         Y          N
Building       The city reviews building plan proposals through a type I
permit         (zoning checklist) procedure and determine which standards
               apply
Code           Standards are subject to city interpretation under section
interpretation 9-1A-10 of this title
Code text      Chapters apply where amendment affects design standards
amendment
Comprehensive
plan map       N        N           N              N         Y          N
amendment
Conditional    Y        Y           Y              Y         Y          Y
use permit
Home           N        N           N              N         N          Y
occupation
Legal lot      N        Y           N              N         Y          N
determination
Master planned Y        Y           Y              Y         Y          Y
development
Modification
to approval or Individual chapters may apply, depending on the modification
condition of   request
approval
Nonconforming
use or         Y        Y           Y              Y         Y          Y
structure,
expansion of
Partition or
replat of 2 -  Y                                   Y
3 lots (see    (if bldg Y           Y              (if use   Y          N
also chapter   exists)              (for flag lot) exists)
4, article C
of this title)
Property line
adjustments,
including lot  Y                                   Y
consolidations (if bldg Y           Y              (if use   Y          N
(see also      exists)              (for flag lot) exists)
chapter 4,
article C of
this title)
Site design
review (see
also chapter   Y        Y           Y              Y         Y          Y
4, article B
of this title)
Subdivision or
replat of >3   Y                                   Y
lots (see also (if bldg Y           Y              (if use   Y          N
chapter 4,     exists)              (for flag lot) exists)
article C of
this title)
Variances      Individual chapters may apply, depending on the variance
               request
Zoning
district map   N        N           N              N         Y          N
change
 
Note:
    1.    The applicant may be required to comply with the design standards of
other agencies, such as a road authority or natural resource regulatory agency.
The city's failure to notify the applicant of any requirement or procedure of
another agency shall not invalidate a permit or other decision made by the city
under this code.
(Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
ARTICLE B. BUILDING ORIENTATION AND DESIGN
SECTION:
9-3B-1: Purpose
9-3B-2: Applicability
9-3B-3: Residential Buildings
9-3B-4: Nonresidential Buildings
9-3B-5: Civic Space And Pedestrian Amenities
9-3B-6: Drive-Up And Drive-Through Uses
9-3B-1: PURPOSE:
This article regulates the placement, orientation, and design of buildings. The
regulations are intended to protect public health, safety, and welfare through
clear and objective standards that promote land use compatibility and
livability, while protecting property values and ensuring predictability in the
development process. In summary, this article is intended to create and
maintain a built environment that:
   A.   Is conducive to alternative modes of transportation, such as walking
and bicycling;
   B.   Provides natural surveillance of public spaces, or "eyes on the
street", for crime prevention and security;
   C.   Reduces dependency on the automobile for short trips, thereby
conserving energy and reducing unwanted congestion;
   D.   Supports reusable energy generation, through the use of solar, wind,
and renewable sources; and
   E.   Creates a sense of place that is consistent with the character of
Nyssa, including historical development patterns and the community's vision for
downtown. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-3B-2: APPLICABILITY:
This article applies to all new buildings, except the following building types
are exempt:
   A.   Single-family detached dwellings; and
   B.   Exterior alterations and remodels where at least fifty percent (50%) of
the existing building floor area and associated exterior walls are retained.
(Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-3B-3: RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS:
   A.   Purpose: The following requirements are intended to support development
that is conducive to walking, reduces dependency on the automobile for short
trips, provides natural surveillance for safety in public spaces, and avoids
parked vehicles encroaching into the public right of way.
   B.   Building Orientation: Residential buildings subject to the provisions
of this article, pursuant to section
9-3B-2 of this article, shall conform to all of the following standards:
      1.   Building Orientation To Street: Except as provided in subsection B1a
or B1b of this section, dwelling units shall orient toward a street and have a
primary entrance opening toward the street and connected to the right of way
via an approved walkway or residential front yard.
         a.   A dwelling may have its primary entrance oriented to a yard other
than the front/street yard where the only permitted access to the property is
from a shared driveway or flag lot drive and orienting the dwelling entrance to
the street is not practical due to the layout of the lot and driveway; and
         b.   Where there is no adjacent street to which a dwelling may be
oriented, or it is not practical to orient a dwelling to an adjacent street due
to lot layout, topographic, or other characteristics of the site, the dwelling
may orient to a walkway, courtyard, open space/common area, lobby, breezeway
(i.e., for multiple-family buildings).
      2.   Limitation On Parking Between Primary Entrance And Street: Off
street parking is not allowed between a primary building entrance and the
street to which it is oriented, except that assisted living facilities, group
care facilities, and similar institutional-residential uses serving clients
with disabilities may have one driveway located between the primary building
entrance and an adjacent street as required to serve as a drop off/loading
zone, provided the primary building entrance shall connect to an adjacent
street by a pedestrian walkway that conforms to the standards of section
9-3C-4 of this chapter. The intent of this exception is to provide for one drop
off/loading zone while maintaining a direct, convenient and safe pedestrian
access to a primary building entrance.
      3.   Build-To Line: Where a new building is proposed in a zone that
requires a build-to line per section
9-2B-4 of this title, the building shall comply with the build-to line standard
and the development shall meet the standards for pedestrian access under
section
9-3C-4 of this chapter.
   C.   Garages: The following standards apply to vehicle storage areas,
including, but not limited to, buildings, carports, canopies, and other
permanent and temporary structures. The standards are intended to balance
residents' desire for a convenient, safe, and private access to their vehicles
with the public interest in maintaining safe and aesthetically pleasing
streetscapes.
      1.   Alleys And Shared Drives: Where a garage or carport abuts an alley
or a shared driveway, it shall orient to the alley or shared drive, as
applicable, and not a street.
      2.   Setback For Garage Opening Facing Street: In order to avoid the
instance of parked vehicles encroaching into the street right of way, garage
and carport openings shall be placed not closer than twenty feet (20') to a
street right of way.
      3.   Garages For Duplex Dwellings: Where a duplex is located on a corner
lot and contains two (2) garages, one for each dwelling unit, each garage shall
orient to different street so as to create the appearance of individual single-
family dwellings facing each street frontage. Where two (2) or more duplexes
are to be situated on abutting lots, their garages or carports, as applicable,
shall receive vehicle access from a rear alley or a shared side yard driveway.
   D.   Architecture: This title requires variation in architectural plans to
avoid monotony in new development. The standards support the creation of
architecturally varied neighborhoods, whether a neighborhood develops all at
once or one lot at a time, avoiding homogeneous street frontages that detract
from the community's appearance. The standards are applied through the site
design review process, and are in addition to the special use requirements of
chapter 2, article C of this title. The city, upon the applicant's request, may
approve a subdivision or site design review application with house plans
predesignated for specific lots, thereby exempting those lots from future site
design review.
      1.   Detailed Design: Dwelling designs shall incorporate not fewer than
four (4) architectural features per dwelling unit from subsections D1a through
D1k of this section. Applicants are encouraged to use those elements that best
suit the proposed building style and design.
         a.   Covered front porch: Not less than six feet (6') in depth and not
less than thirty percent (30%) of the width of dwelling, excluding the landing
for dwelling entrance.
         b.   Dormers: Minimum of two (2) required per building; must be a
functional part of the structure, for example, providing light into a living
space.
         c.   Recessed entrance: Not less than three feet (3') deep.
         d.   Windows: Not less than thirty percent (30%) of surface area of
all street facing elevation(s).
         e.   Window trim: Minimum four inch (4") width (all elevations).
         f.   Eaves: Overhang of not less than twelve inches (12").
         g.   Offset: Offset in facade or roof (as per subsection D2,
"Articulation", of this section).
         h.   Bay window: Projects from front elevation by twelve inches (12").
         i.   Balcony: One per dwelling unit facing street.
         j.   Decorative top (e.g., cornice or pediment with flat roof or
brackets with pitched roof).
         k.   Other feature not listed but providing visual relief or
contextually appropriate design similar to subsections D1a through D1j of this
section, as approved by the city manager or planning commission, subject to
site design review.
      2.   Articulation: Residential buildings subject to this article shall
incorporate design features to break up large building walls and provide visual
relief. Such elements shall occur at a minimum interval of thirty (30) to forty
feet (40'), and each building story shall contain at least two (2) elements
meeting the following criteria:
         a.   Recess that has a minimum depth of four feet (4') and that runs
horizontally for a minimum length of four feet (4'); examples include a porch,
courtyard entrance, balcony, or similar feature;
         b.   Projection of not less than four feet (4') that runs horizontally
for a minimum length of four feet (4'); examples include a porch, balcony,
overhang, or similar feature;
         c.   Offset or break in roof elevation of two feet (2') or greater in
height, not including chimneys, vents, mechanical equipment, and other
nonstructural elements; and
         d.   Other features, as approved by the city manager, which break up
an otherwise long, uninterrupted building wall. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-3B-4: NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS:
   A.   Purpose And Applicability: The following requirements apply to
nonresidential development, including individual buildings, shopping centers,
office complexes, and other developments. Specifically, this section is
intended to:
      1.   Create and maintain a built environment that is conducive to
walking, reducing dependency on the automobile for short trips;
      2.   Promote natural surveillance of public areas for crime prevention
and safety;
      3.   Improve Nyssa's commercial areas, enhancing the community as an
attractive place to work, shop, and conduct business;
      4.   Build on the storefront character along Main Street by requiring
storefront windows, pedestrian shelters, and furnishings;
      5.   Encourage a diversity of building facades and rooflines that fall
into a consistent rhythm; and
      6.   Promote predictability in the development review process.
   B.   Building Orientation: The following standards apply to new buildings
and building additions that are subject to site design review.
      1.   Buildings subject to this section shall conform to the applicable
build-to line standard in section
9-2B-4, tables 9-2B-4D and 9-2B-4E of this title. The standard is met when at
least fifty percent (50%) of the abutting street frontage has a building placed
no farther from at least one street property line than the build-to line in
section
9-2B-4, tables 9-2B-4D and 9-2B-4E of this title. The city manager or planning
commission, as applicable, through site design review, may waive the build-to
line standard upon finding that one of the situations in subsections B1a
through B1g of this section exists:
         a.   A proposed building is adjacent to a single-family dwelling, and
an increased setback promotes compatibility with the adjacent dwelling;
         b.   The standards of the roadway authority preclude development at
the build-to line;
         c.   The applicant proposes extending an adjacent sidewalk or plaza
for public use, or some other pedestrian amenity is proposed to be placed
between the building and public right of way, pursuant to section
9-3B-5 of this article and subject to site design review approval;
         d.   The build-to line may be increased to provide a private open
space (e.g., landscaped forecourt), pursuant to section
9-2C-7 of this title, between a residential use in a mixed use development
(e.g., live-work building with ground floor residence) and a front or street
property line;
         e.   A significant tree or other environmental feature precludes
strict adherence to the standard and will be retained and incorporated in the
design of the project;
         f.   A public utility easement or similar restricting legal condition
that is outside the applicant's control makes conformance with the build-to
line impracticable; in this case, the building shall instead be placed as close
to the street as possible given the legal constraint, and a pedestrian
amenities (e.g., plaza, courtyard, landscaping, outdoor seating area, etc.)
shall be provided within the street setback in said location pursuant to
section
9-3B-5 of this article;
         g.   Where an existing building that was lawfully created but does not
conform to the above standard is proposed for expansion, strict compliance with
the build-to line is not required; however, where practicable, the building
addition should move in the direction of compliance.
      2.   Except as provided in subsections C5 and C6 of this section, all
buildings shall have at least one primary entrance (i.e., tenant entrance,
lobby entrance, or breezeway/courtyard entrance) facing an abutting street
(i.e., within 45 degrees of the street property line); or if the building
entrance must be turned more than forty five degrees (45o) away from the street
(i.e., front door is on a side or rear elevation) due to the configuration of
the site or similar constraints, a pedestrian walkway must connect the primary
entrance to the sidewalk in conformance with section
9-3C-3 of this chapter.
      3.   Off street parking, trash storage facilities, and ground level
utilities (e.g., utility vaults), and similar obstructions shall not be placed
between building entrances and the street(s) to which they are oriented; to the
extent practicable, such facilities shall be oriented internally to the block
and accessed by alleys or driveways.
      4.   Off street parking shall be oriented internally to the site to the
extent practicable, and shall meet the access and circulation requirements of
article C of this chapter, the landscape and screening requirements of article
D of this chapter, and the parking and loading requirements of article E of
this chapter.
      5.   Where a development contains multiple buildings and there is
insufficient street frontage to meet the above building orientation standards
for all buildings on the subject site, a building's primary entrance may orient
to plaza, courtyard, or similar pedestrian space containing pedestrian
amenities and meeting the requirements under section
9-2C-7 of this title, subject to site design review approval. When oriented
this way, the primary entrance(s), plaza, or courtyard shall be connected to
the street by a pedestrian walkway conforming to section
9-3C-3 of this chapter.
   C.   Primary Entrances And Windows: The following standards apply to new
buildings and building additions that are subject to site design review.
      1.   All Elevations Of Building: Architectural designs shall address all
elevations of a building; building forms, detailing, materials, textures, and
color shall contribute to a unified design with architectural integrity.
Materials used on the front facade must turn the building corners and include
at least a portion of the side elevations, consistent with the building's
overall composition and design integrity.
      2.   Pedestrian Entrances: Ground level entrances oriented to a street
shall be at least partly transparent for natural surveillance and shall contain
pedestrian shelters (e.g., canopy or awning) for weather protection. This
standard may be met, for example, by providing a recessed entry with a windowed
door, a door with a transom window above the door, or sidelights beside the
door. Where ATMs or other kiosks are proposed on any street facing elevation,
they shall be visible from the street for security and have a pedestrian
shelter.
      3.   Corner Entrances: Buildings on corner lots are encouraged to have
corner entrances. Where a corner entrance is not provided, the building plan
should provide an architectural element or detailing (e.g., tower, beveled
corner, art, special trim, etc.) that accentuates the corner location.
      4.   Street Level Entrances: All primary building entrances shall open to
the sidewalk and shall conform to ADA requirements, as applicable. Primary
entrances above or below grade may be allowed where ADA accessibility is
provided.
      5.   Windows, General: Except as approved for parking structures or
accessory structures, the front/street facing elevations of buildings shall
provide display windows, windowed doors and, where applicable, transom windows
to express a storefront character.
      6.   Storefront Windows: Storefront windows shall consist of framed
picture or bay windows, which may be recessed. Framing shall consist of trim
detailing such as piers or pilasters (sides), lintels or hoods (tops), and kick
plates or bulkheads (base) (or similar detailing) consistent with a storefront
character. The ground floor, street facing elevation(s) of all buildings shall
comprise at least sixty percent (60%) transparent windows, measured as a
section extending the width of the street facing elevation between the building
base (or 30 inches above the sidewalk grade, whichever is less) and a plane
seventy two inches (72") above the sidewalk grade.
      7.   Defined Upper Story(ies): Building elevations shall contain
detailing that visually defines street level building spaces (storefronts) from
upper stories. The distinction between street level and upper floors shall be
established, for example, through the use of awnings, canopies, belt course, or
similar detailing, materials and/or fenestration. Upper floors may have less
window area than ground floors, but shall follow the vertical lines of the
lower level piers and the horizontal definition of spandrels and any cornices.
Upper floor window orientation shall primarily be vertical, or have a width
that is no greater than height. Paired or grouped windows that, together, are
wider than they are tall, shall be visually divided to express the vertical
orientation of individual windows.
      8.   Buildings Not Adjacent To Street: Buildings that are not adjacent to
a street, such as those that are set back behind another building and those
that are oriented to a civic space (e.g., internal plaza or court), shall meet
the sixty percent (60%) transparency standard on all elevations abutting civic
space(s) and on elevations containing a primary entrance.
      9.   Side And Rear Elevation Windows: All side and rear elevations,
except for zero lot line/common wall elevations, where windows are not
required, shall provide not less than thirty percent (30%) transparency.
      10.   Window Trim: At a minimum, windows shall contain trim, reveals,
recesses, or similar detailing of not less than four inches (4") in width or
depth as applicable. The use of decorative detailing and ornamentation around
windows (e.g., corbels, medallions, pediments, or similar features) is
encouraged.
      11.   Projecting Windows, Display Cases: Windows and display cases shall
not break the front plane of the building (e.g., projecting display boxes are
discouraged). For durability and aesthetic reasons, display cases, when
provided, shall be flush with the building facade (not affixed to the exterior)
and integrated into the building design with trim or other detailing. Window
flower boxes are allowed, provided they do not encroach into the pedestrian
through zone.
      12.   Window Exceptions: The city decision making body may approve an
exception to the above standards where existing topography makes compliance
impractical. Where an exception to the window transparency requirement is made
for parking garages or similar structures, the building design must incorporate
openings or other detailing that resembles the window patterns (rhythm and
scale).
   D.   Articulation And Detailing: The following standards apply to new
buildings and building additions that are subject to site design review.
      1.   Articulation: All building elevations that orient to a street or
civic space must have breaks in the wall plane (articulation) of not less than
one break for every thirty feet (30') of building length or width, as follows:
         a.   A "break", for the purposes of this subsection, is a change in
wall plane of not less than twenty four inches (24") in depth. Breaks may
include, but are not limited to, an offset, recess, window reveal, pilaster,
frieze, pediment, cornice, parapet, gable, dormer, eave, coursing, canopy,
awning, column, building base, balcony, permanent awning or canopy, marquee, or
similar architectural feature.
         b.   The city manager or planning commission, as applicable, through
site design review may approve detailing that does not meet the break in wall
plane standard where it finds that proposed detailing is more consistent with
the architecture of a historic/historically significant or historic-
contributing building existing in the vicinity.
         c.   Changes in paint color and features that are not designed as
permanent architectural elements, such as display cabinets, window boxes,
retractable and similar mounted awnings or canopies, and other similar
features, do not meet the break in wall plane standard.
         d.   Building elevations that do not orient to a street or civic space
need not comply with the break in wall plane standard but should complement the
overall building design.
      2.   Change In Materials: Elevations should incorporate changes in
material that define a building's base, middle and top, as applicable, and
create visual interest and relief. Side and rear elevations that do not face a
street, public parking area, pedestrian accessway or plaza may utilize changes
in texture and/or color of materials; provided, that the design is consistent
with the overall composition of the building.
      3.   Horizontal Lines: New buildings and exterior remodels shall
generally follow the prominent horizontal lines existing on adjacent buildings
at similar levels along the street frontage; and a clear visual division shall
be maintained between the ground level floor and upper floors, for example,
through the use of a belt course, transom, awning, canopy, or similar division.
Examples of such horizontal lines include, but are not limited to: the base
below a series of storefront windows; an existing awning or canopy line, or
belt course between building stories; and/or an existing cornice or parapet
line. Where existing adjacent buildings do not meet the city's current building
design standards, a new building may establish new horizontal lines.
   E.   Pedestrian Shelters: Pedestrian shelters, including, but not limited
to, building canopies and awnings, and covered benches, shall comply with
applicable building codes, and shall be designed to be visually compatible with
the architecture of the building to which they are attached. If mezzanine or
transom windows exist, the shelter shall be below such windows where practical.
Where applicable, pedestrian shelters shall be designed to accommodate
pedestrian signage (e.g., blade signs) while maintaining required vertical
clearance.
   F.   Mechanical Equipment:
      1.   Building Walls: Where mechanical equipment, such as utility vaults,
air compressors, generators, antennas, satellite dishes, or similar equipment,
are permitted on a building wall that abuts a public right of way or civic
space, it shall be screened pursuant to article D of this chapter. Standpipes,
meters, vaults and similar equipment need not be screened but shall not be
placed on a front elevation when other practical alternatives exist; such
equipment shall be placed on a side or rear elevation where practical.
Equipment for microgeneration or small scale renewable energy (e.g., mini- wind
turbines, solar panels, and similar features) is subject to a conditional use
permit pursuant to chapter 4, article D of this title.
      2.   Rooftops: Except as permitted for solar voltaic systems, rooftop
mechanical units shall be set back and/or screened behind a parapet wall so
that they are not visible from any public right of way or civic space. Where
such placement and screening is not practicable, the city decision making body
may approve painting of mechanical units in lieu of screening; such painting
may consist of muted, earth tone colors that make the equipment visually
subordinate to the building and adjacent buildings, if any.
      3.   Ground Mounted Mechanical Equipment: Ground mounted equipment, such
as generators, air compressors, trash compactors, and similar equipment, shall
be limited to side or rear yards and screened with fences or walls constructed
of materials similar to those on adjacent buildings. Hedges, trellises, and
similar plantings may also be used as screens where there is adequate air
circulation and sunlight, and irrigation is provided. The city may require
additional setbacks and/or noise attenuating equipment for compatibility with
adjacent uses.
   G.   Drive-Up And Drive-Through Facilities: Drive-up and drive- through
facilities shall comply with the requirements of section
9-3B-6 of this article.
   H.   Mixed Use Building Height Bonus: Where section
9-2B-4 of this title provides for a building height bonus for mixed use
development, the city decision making body shall approve, approve with
conditions, or deny a proposed height bonus based on finding all of the
following criteria are met:
      1.   The proposed height increase is for the sole purpose of allowing a
residential use above a permitted commercial, civic, or institutional use; or
is required to accommodate structured parking;
      2.   The proposed building complies with the requirements of subsection D
of this section; and
      3.   The proposed increase in height is compatible with adjacent uses and
structures, or can be made compatible through reasonable conditions of
approval. For the purposes of this subsection, "a finding of compatibility"
means that the proposed height increase does not create a fire hazard; does not
conflict with a locally or federally designated historic landmark or district,
or with a building found to be eligible for the national register of historic
places; and does not create excessive glare, shade, noise, or privacy concerns
for existing adjacent residential uses.
   I.   Graphics: The graphics are on file in the city. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-
2013)
9-3B-5: CIVIC SPACE AND PEDESTRIAN AMENITIES:
   A.   Purpose: This section provides standards for civic spaces where such
areas are required or provided voluntarily. Civic spaces provide for pedestrian
resting areas, and may include protection from the elements (e.g., summer
shade, shelter from rain). Civic spaces also offer opportunities for
socialization in the most densely developed parts of the city. This title
allows developments on properties abutting Main Street to meet minimum
landscape area standards of article D of this chapter, in part, by providing
civic space adjacent to street frontages or in courtyards or plazas between
buildings, instead of with planted areas elsewhere on a lot as is typically
done for residential developments.
   B.   Applicability: All new buildings developed on properties abutting Main
Street shall provide pedestrian improvements as required by this section.
   C.   Standards:
      1.   Pedestrian Improvements In Civic Spaces: Except as provided by
subsection C2 of this section, developments that are subject to this section
shall provide pedestrian amenities, pursuant to the following standards:
         a.   Pedestrian amenities shall be provided in an amount equal to or
greater than twenty five hundredths percent (0.25%) of the estimated
construction cost of the proposed building(s). A licensed architect, landscape
architect, or other qualified professional, shall prepare cost estimates for
civic space improvements, which shall be subject to review and approval by the
city manager.
         b.   Pedestrian amenities may include, but are not limited to,
improved plaza surfaces with scored concrete or decorative pavers, outdoor
seating areas adjacent to building entrances, landscaped forecourts, street
furnishings (e.g., benches, public art, pedestrian scale lighting, water
fountains, trash receptacles, pedestrian shelters/shade structures), wayfinding
signs, and similar amenities, as approved by the city manager or planning
commission, as applicable, through site design review.
         c.   Where a pedestrian shelter (e.g., canopy or awning) is used, it
shall extend not less than four feet (4') over a sidewalk, walkway, or other
area that is actively used by pedestrians.
         d.   The city may accept pedestrian amenities proposed within a public
right of way (e.g., street corner or midblock pedestrian accessway) and grant
the developer credit toward fulfilling the above improvement standard.
         e.   The developer's contribution toward the cost of a public parking
facility may be credited toward fulfilling the above improvement standard.
      2.   Exception For Minor Projects: Building additions and new
construction that do not require site design review (chapter 4, article B of
this title) and exterior remodels that do not meet the definition of a major
remodel (section
9-1B-3 of this title) are not required to provide pedestrian amenities.
Additionally, the standards of this section do not apply to major remodels of
buildings designated locally or by the state or federal government as
historically significant. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-3B-6: DRIVE-UP AND DRIVE-THROUGH USES:
   A.   Purpose: Where drive-up or drive-through uses and facilities are
allowed, they shall conform to all of the following standards, which are
intended to calm traffic, provide for adequate vehicle queuing space, prevent
automobile turning movement conflicts, and provide for pedestrian comfort and
safety.
   B.   Standards: Drive-up/drive-through facilities (i.e., driveway queuing
area, customer service windows, teller machines, kiosks, drop boxes, or similar
facilities) shall meet all of the following standards:
      1.   The drive-up/drive-through facility shall orient to and receive
access from a driveway that is internal to the development and not a street;
      2.   The drive-up/drive-through facility shall not be oriented to a
street corner;
      3.   The drive-up/drive-through facility shall not be located within
twenty feet (20') of a street right of way. Walk-up only teller machines or
kiosks, where permitted, shall not be oriented to a street corner;
      4.   Drive-up/drive-through in queuing areas shall be designed so that
vehicles will not obstruct any street, fire lane, walkway, bike lane, or
sidewalk; and
      5.   In the commercial (C) district, no new drive-up/drive- through
facility is allowed within four hundred (400) linear feet of another drive-up/
drive-through facility, where the existing drive-up/drive-through facility
lawfully existed as of the date of an application for a new drive-up/drive-
through facility. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
ARTICLE C. ACCESS AND CIRCULATION
SECTION:
9-3C-1: Purpose
9-3C-2: Applicability
9-3C-3: Vehicular Access And Circulation
9-3C-4: Pedestrian Access And Circulation
9-3C-1: PURPOSE:
This article contains standards for vehicular and pedestrian access,
circulation, and connectivity. The standards promote safe, reasonably direct,
and convenient options for walking and bicycling, while accommodating vehicle
access to individual properties, as needed, and access to transit. (Ord. 635-
13, 6-11-2013)
9-3C-2: APPLICABILITY:
This article applies to new development and changes in land use necessitating a
new or modified street access or highway approach. Except where the standards
of a roadway authority other than the city supersede city standards, this
article applies to all connections to a street or highway, and to driveways and
walkways. The city manager, on the advice of the city engineer or public works
designee, may grant exceptions to article B of this chapter, where an exception
is justified for public safety. For street improvement requirements, refer to
section
9-3F-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-3C-3: VEHICULAR ACCESS AND CIRCULATION:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: This section implements the city transportation
system plan. It is intended to promote safe vehicle access and egress to
properties, while maintaining traffic operations in conformance with adopted
standards. "Safety", for the purposes of this article, extends to all modes of
transportation.
   B.   Permit Required: Vehicular access to a public street (e.g., a new or
modified driveway connection to a street or highway) requires an approach
permit approved by the applicable roadway authority. The city engineer or
public works designee reviews permit requests for connections to city streets
in conformance with the city's public works design standards.
   C.   Traffic Study Requirements: The city, in reviewing a development
proposal or other action requiring an approach permit, may require a traffic
impact analysis, pursuant to section
9-3F-2 of this chapter, to determine compliance with this title.
   D.   Approach And Driveway Development Standards: Approaches and driveways
shall conform to all of the following development standards:
      1.   The number of approaches on higher classification streets (e.g.,
collector and arterial streets) shall be minimized; where practicable, access
shall be taken first from a lower classification street.
      2.   Approaches shall conform to the spacing standards of subsections E
and F of this section and shall conform to minimum sight distance and
channelization standards of the roadway authority.
      3.   Driveways shall be paved and meet applicable construction standards.
Where permeable paving surfaces are allowed or required, such surfaces shall
conform to applicable public works design standards.
      4.   The city may limit the number or location of connections to a
street, or limit directional travel at an approach to one- way, right turn
only, or other restrictions, where the roadway authority requires mitigation to
alleviate safety or traffic operations concerns.
      5.   Where the spacing standards of the roadway authority limit the
number or location of connections to a street or highway, the city may require
a driveway extend to one or more edges of a parcel and be designed to allow for
future extension and interparcel circulation as adjacent properties develop.
The city may also require the owner(s) of the subject site to record an access
easement for future joint use of the approach and driveway as the adjacent
property(ies) develop(s).
      6.   Where applicable codes require emergency vehicle access, approaches
and driveways shall be designed and constructed to accommodate emergency
vehicle apparatus and shall conform to applicable fire protection requirements.
The city may restrict parking, require signage, or require other public safety
improvements pursuant to the recommendations of an emergency service provider.
      7.   As applicable, approaches and driveways shall be designed and
constructed to accommodate truck/trailer turning movements.
      8.   Except where the city decision making body and roadway authority, as
applicable, permit an open access with perpendicular or angled parking (see
section
9-3E-3 of this chapter), driveways shall accommodate all projected vehicular
traffic on site without vehicles stacking or backing up onto a street.
      9.   Driveways shall be designed so that vehicle areas, including, but
not limited to, drive-up and drive-through facilities and vehicle storage and
service areas, do not obstruct any public right of way.
      10.   Approaches and driveways shall not be wider than necessary to
safely accommodate projected peak hour trips and turning movements, and shall
be designed to minimize crossing distances for pedestrians.
      11.   As it deems necessary for pedestrian safety in areas with a history
of speeding or accidents, the city, in consultation with the roadway authority,
as applicable, may require traffic calming features be installed on or in the
vicinity of a site as a condition of development approval. Examples of traffic
calming features include, but are not limited to, raised crosswalks (speed
tables), speed humps, textured driveway surfaces (e.g., pavers or similar
devices), curb extensions, signage or traffic control devices, and other
features.
      12.   Construction of approaches along acceleration or deceleration
lanes, and along tapered (reduced width) portions of a roadway, shall be
avoided; except where no reasonable alternative exists and the approach does
not create safety or traffic operations concern.
      13.   Approaches and driveways shall be located and designed to allow for
safe maneuvering in and around loading areas, while avoiding conflicts with
pedestrians, parking, landscaping, and buildings.
      14.   Where sidewalks or walkways occur adjacent to a roadway, driveway
aprons shall be installed between the driveway and roadway edge in conformance
with the design standards of the applicable roadway authority. The roadway
authority may require the driveway apron be installed outside the required
sidewalk or walkway surface, consistent with Americans with disabilities act
requirements, and to manage surface water runoff and protect the roadway
surface.
      15.   Where an accessible route is required pursuant to the Americans
with disabilities act, approaches and driveways shall meet accessibility
requirements where they coincide with an accessible route.
      16.   The city may require changes to the proposed configuration and
design of an approach, including the number of drive aisles or lanes,
surfacing, traffic calming features, allowable turning movements, and other
changes or mitigation, to ensure traffic safety and operations.
      17.   Where a new approach onto a state highway or a change of use
adjacent to a state highway requires ODOT approval, the applicant is
responsible for obtaining ODOT approval. The city may approve a development
conditionally, requiring the applicant first obtain required ODOT permit(s)
before commencing development.
      18.   Where an approach or driveway crosses a drainage ditch, canal,
railroad, or other feature that is under the jurisdiction of another agency,
the applicant is responsible for obtaining all required approvals and permits
from that agency prior to commencing development.
      19.   Where a proposed driveway crosses a culvert or drainage ditch, the
city may require the developer to install a culvert extending under and beyond
the edges of the driveway on both sides of it, pursuant to the design standards
of the applicable roadway authority and/or drainage district.
      20.   Except as otherwise required by the applicable roadway authority or
waived by the city manager, temporary driveways providing access to a
construction site or staging area shall be paved or graveled to prevent
tracking of mud onto adjacent paved streets.
   E.   Approach Separation From Street Intersections: Except as provided by
subsection H of this section, the following minimum distances shall be
maintained between approaches and street intersections, where distance is
measured from the edge of an approach surface to the edge of the roadway at its
ultimate designated width:
      1.   On an arterial street: One hundred feet (100'), except as required
by ODOT, pursuant to Oregon administrative rules section 734-051, for state
highways.
      2.   On a collector street: Fifty feet (50').
      3.   On a local street: Twenty feet (20').
   F.   Approach Spacing: Except as provided by subsection H of this section or
as required to maintain street operations and safety, the following minimum
distances shall be maintained between approaches, where distance is measured
from the edge of one approach to the edge of another:
      1.   On an arterial street: One hundred fifty (150) to three hundred
sixty feet (360'), based on speed limit or posted speed, as determined by a
qualified traffic engineer, except as otherwise required by ODOT for a state
highway, pursuant to Oregon administrative rules section 734-051.
      2.   On a collector street: Fifty feet (50'), except where greater
separation is required for traffic operations or safety.
      3.   On a local street: Twenty feet (20'), or the city may approve closer
spacing where necessary to provide for on street parking (e.g., between paired
driveway approaches).
   G.   Vision Clearance: No visual obstruction shall be placed in a "vision
clearance area". The minimum vision clearance area may be modified by the city
engineer or public works designee upon finding that more or less sight distance
is required (i.e., due to traffic speeds, roadway alignment, etc.). Placement
of light poles, utility poles, and tree trunks should be avoided within vision
clearance areas.
   H.   Modifications To Standards: The city engineer or public works designee
may modify the spacing standards of subsections E and F of this section where
an existing connection to a city street does not meet city standards and the
proposed development moves in the direction of code compliance. The city
engineer or public works designee may also approve a modification to the
spacing standards on city streets where mitigation measures, such as
consolidated access (removal of 1 access), joint use driveways (more than 1
property uses same access), directional limitations (e.g., one-way), turning
restrictions (e.g., right in/out only), or other mitigation alleviate all
traffic operations and safety concerns.
   I.   Joint Use Access Easement And Maintenance Agreement: Where the city
engineer or public works designee approves a joint use driveway, the property
owners shall record an easement with the deed allowing joint use or cross
access between adjacent properties. The owners of the properties agreeing to
joint use of the driveway shall record a joint maintenance agreement with the
deed defining maintenance responsibilities of property owners. The applicant
shall provide a fully executed copy of the agreement to the city manager for
city records, but the city is not responsible for maintaining the driveway or
resolving any dispute between property owners.
   J.   Maximum Driveway Length: The maximum length of a driveway, and/or the
maximum number of dwelling units or structures that may be served by a single
access point, may be limited based on applicable building and fire code
requirements; but in no case shall a private driveway be used to avoid
compliance with the city's public improvement requirements.
   K.   Graphics: The graphics are on file in the city. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-
2013)
9-3C-4: PEDESTRIAN ACCESS AND CIRCULATION:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: This section implements the city transportation
system. It is intended to provide for safe, reasonably direct, and convenient
pedestrian access and circulation.
   B.   Standards: Developments shall meet the following standards for
pedestrian access and circulation:
      1.   Continuous Walkway System: A pedestrian walkway system shall extend
throughout the development site and connect to adjacent sidewalks, if any, and
to all future phases of the development, as applicable.
      2.   Safe, Direct And Convenient: Walkways within developments shall
provide safe, reasonably direct, and convenient connections between primary
building entrances and all adjacent parking areas, recreational areas/
playgrounds, and public rights of way based on all of the following criteria:
         a.   The walkway is reasonably direct, such that it follows a route
that does not deviate unnecessarily from a straight line or it does not involve
a significant amount of out of direction travel.
         b.   The walkway is designed primarily for pedestrian safety and
convenience, meaning it is reasonably free from hazards and provides a
reasonably smooth and consistent surface and direct route of travel between
destinations. The city decision making body may require landscape buffering
between walkways and adjacent parking lots or driveways to mitigate safety
concerns.
         c.   The walkway network connects to all primary building entrances,
consistent with the building design standards of article B of this chapter and,
where required, Americans with disabilities act requirements.
      3.   Vehicle/Walkway Separation: Except as required for crosswalks, per
subsection B4 of this section, where a walkway abuts a driveway or street, it
shall be raised six inches (6") and curbed along the edge of the driveway/
street. Alternatively, the city decision making body may approve a walkway
abutting a driveway at the same grade as the driveway if the walkway is
physically separated from all vehicle maneuvering areas. An example of such
separation is a row of bollards (designed for use in parking areas) with
adequate minimum spacing between them to prevent vehicles from entering the
walkway.
      4.   Crosswalks: Where a walkway crosses a parking area or driveway
("crosswalk"), it shall be clearly marked with contrasting paving materials
(e.g., pavers, light color concrete inlay between asphalt, or similar
contrast). The crosswalk may be part of a speed table to improve driver
visibility of pedestrians. Painted or thermoplastic striping and similar types
of nonpermanent applications are discouraged, but may be approved for lesser
used crosswalks not exceeding twenty four feet (24') in length.
      5.   Walkway Width And Surface: Walkways, including accessways required
for subdivisions pursuant to chapter 4, article C of this title shall be
constructed of concrete, asphalt, brick/masonry pavers, or other durable
surface, as approved by the city engineer or public works designee and shall
not be less than six feet (6') wide in commercial zones and not less than five
feet (5') wide in residential and industrial zones. Multiuse paths (i.e.,
designed for shared use by bicyclists and pedestrians) shall be subject to
review and approval of the city engineer or public works designee and shall
conform to the transportation standards of section
9-3F-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
ARTICLE D. LANDSCAPING, FENCES AND WALLS; OUTDOOR LIGHTING
SECTION:
9-3D-1: Purpose
9-3D-2: Applicability
9-3D-3: Landscaping And Screening
9-3D-4: Fences And Walls
9-3D-5: Outdoor Lighting
9-3D-1: PURPOSE:
This article contains standards for landscaping and screening, fences,
accessory walls, and outdoor lighting. The regulations are intended to protect
public health, safety and welfare by reducing development impacts, such as
glare, noise, and visual impacts, on adjacent uses; minimizing erosion; slowing
the rate of surface water runoff, thereby reducing infrastructure costs;
buffering pedestrians from vehicle maneuvering areas; cooling buildings and
parking lots in summer months with shade; and enhancing the city's appearance.
(Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-3D-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Section
9-3D-3 of this article establishes design standards for landscaping and
screening. Projects requiring site design review or land division approval
shall meet the landscape standards of the applicable zone, including the
standards in section
9-2B-4, tables 9-2B-4D and 9-2B-4E of this title and any special use
requirements under chapter 2, article C of this title, and the requirements of
section
9-3D-3 of this article. Property owners are required to maintain landscaping
and screening pursuant to subsection 9-3D-3G of this article.
   B.   Section
9-3D-4 of this article establishes design standards for when a fence or a wall
not attached to a building is to be erected, extended, or otherwise altered; it
also applies to situations where this title requires screening or buffering
(e.g., outdoor/unenclosed storage uses). The standards of section
9-3D-4 of this article supplement the development standards in section
9-2B-4, tables 9-2B-4D and 9-2B-4E of this title and any applicable special use
requirements under chapter 2, article C of this title.
   C.   Section
9-3D-5, "Outdoor Lighting", of this article applies to all new outdoor
lighting, i.e., lighting that is installed after the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-3D-3: LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING:
   A.   General Landscape Standard: All portions of a lot not otherwise
developed with buildings, accessory structures, vehicle maneuvering areas, or
parking shall be landscaped.
   B.   Minimum Landscape Area: All lots shall conform to the minimum landscape
area standards of the applicable zoning district, as contained in section
9-2B-4, tables 9-2B-4D and 9-2B-4E of this title. The city decision making
body, consistent with the purposes in section
9-3D-1 of this article, may allow credit toward the minimum landscape area for
existing vegetation that is retained in the development.
   C.   Plant Selection: A combination of deciduous and evergreen trees,
shrubs, and ground covers shall be used for all planted areas, the selection of
which shall be based on local climate, exposure, water availability, and
drainage conditions, among other factors. When new vegetation is planted, soils
shall be amended and irrigation shall be provided, as necessary, to allow for
healthy plant growth. The selection of plants shall be based on all of the
following standards and guidelines:
      1.   Use plants that are appropriate to the local climate, exposure, and
water availability. The presence of utilities and drainage conditions shall
also be considered. The city may rely on university extension service bulletins
and other expert sources in evaluating landscape plans.
      2.   Plant species that do not require irrigation once established
(naturalized) are preferred over species that require irrigation.
      3.   Trees shall be not less than two inch (2") caliper for street trees
one and one-half inch (1.5") caliper for other trees at the time of planting.
Trees to be planted under or near power lines shall be selected so as to not
conflict with power lines at maturity.
      4.   Shrubs shall be planted from five (5) gallon containers, minimum,
where they are for required screens or buffers, and two (2) gallon containers
minimum elsewhere.
      5.   Shrubs shall be spaced in order to provide the intended screen or
canopy cover within two (2) years of planting.
      6.   All landscaped area, whether required or not, that is not planted
with trees and shrubs or covered with allowable nonplant material shall have
ground cover plants that are sized and spaced to achieve plant coverage of not
less than fifty percent (50%) at maturity. The city decision making body may
reduce this standard by fifty percent (50%) where a project proposal includes
preserving a large, mature tree that contributes positively to the landscape
design.
      7.   Bark dust, chips, aggregate, or other nonplant ground covers may be
used, but shall cover not more than fifty percent (50%) of any landscape area.
Nonplant ground covers are not a substitute for required ground cover plants.
      8.   Where stormwater retention/detention or water quality treatment
facilities are proposed, they shall be planted with water tolerant species.
      9.   Existing mature trees that can thrive in a developed area and that
do not conflict with other provisions of this title shall be retained where
specimens are in good health, have desirable aesthetic characteristics, and do
not present a hazard.
      10.   Landscape plans shall avoid conflicts between plants and buildings,
streets, walkways, utilities, and other features of the built environment.
      11.   Evergreen plants shall be used where a sight obscuring landscape
screen is required.
      12.   Deciduous trees should be used where summer shade and winter
sunlight is desirable.
      13.   Landscape plans should provide focal points within a development,
for example, by preserving large or unique trees or groves or by using
flowering plants or trees with fall color.
      14.   Landscape plans should use a combination of plants for seasonal
variation in color and yearlong interest.
      15.   Where plants are used to screen outdoor storage or mechanical
equipment, the selected plants shall have growth characteristics that are
compatible with such features.
      16.   Landscape plans shall provide for both temporary and permanent
erosion control measures, which shall include plantings, where cuts or fills,
including berms, swales, stormwater detention facilities, and similar grading,
is proposed.
      17.   When new vegetation is planted, soils shall be amended and
irrigation provided, as necessary, until the plants are naturalized and able to
grow on their own.
   D.   Commercial (C) Zone Streetscape Standard: Developers of projects within
the C zone can meet the landscape area requirement of subsection B of this
section by installing street trees in front of their project where none
currently exist or by providing landscape planters, subject to review and
approval through site design review. Credit toward meeting minimum landscape
area standards may be granted at a ratio of one to one (1:1), where one square
foot of planted area (e.g., tree well or planter surface area) receives one
square foot of credit. The city decision making body may also grant landscape
area credit by the same ratio where the developer widens the sidewalk (e.g.,
for cafe seating area) adjacent to a building entrance or creates a plaza with
pedestrian amenities pursuant to section
9-3B-5 of this chapter.
   E.   Parking Lot Landscaping: Where a new parking lot or alteration to an
existing parking lot is subject to site design review, all of the following
standards shall be met, except that the city decision making body may adjust
one or more of the standards where existing development patterns or other
physical site constraints prevent full conformance:
      1.   A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the total surface area of all
parking areas, as measured around the perimeter of all parking spaces and
maneuvering areas, shall be landscaped. Such landscaping shall consist of
canopy trees distributed throughout the parking area; or, for smaller parking
lots, trees shall be planted at the parking lot perimeter. A combination of
deciduous and evergreen trees, shrubs, and ground cover plants is required. For
parking lots of twenty (20) or more parking spaces, trees shall be retained
and/or planted to create a twenty percent (20%) or greater canopy cover over
the parking lot within five (5) years of planting. At a minimum, one tree per
twelve (12) parking spaces on average shall be planted.
      2.   Trees shall be retained and/or planted in landscape islands, with
not less than one tree for every twelve (12) parking spaces. Landscape islands
shall have an area of not less than forty eight (48) square feet and no
dimension of less than six feet (6'), to ensure adequate soil, water, and space
for healthy plant growth.
      3.   All required parking lot landscape areas not otherwise planted with
trees must contain a combination of shrubs and ground cover plants.
      4.   Wheel stops, curbs, bollards or other physical barriers are required
along the edges of all vehicle maneuvering areas to protect landscaping from
being damaged by vehicles. Trees shall be planted not less than two feet (2')
from any such barrier.
      5.   Trees planted in tree wells within sidewalks or other paved areas
shall be installed with root barriers, consistent with applicable nursery
standards.
   F.   Screening Requirements: Screening is required for outdoor storage
areas, unenclosed uses, and parking lots, and may be required in other
situations as determined by the city decision making body. Landscaping shall be
provided pursuant to the following standards:
      1.   Outdoor Storage And Unenclosed Uses: All areas of a site containing
or proposed to contain outdoor storage of goods, materials, equipment, and
vehicles (other than required parking lots and service and delivery areas, per
site design review), and areas containing junk, salvage materials, or similar
contents, shall be screened from view from adjacent rights of way and
residential uses by a sight obscuring fence, wall, landscape screen, or
combination of screening methods. See also section
9-3D-4 of this article for related fence and wall standards.
      2.   Parking Lots: The edges of parking lots shall be screened to
minimize vehicle headlights shining into adjacent rights of way and residential
yards. Parking lots abutting sidewalk or walkway shall be screened using a low
growing hedge or low garden wall to a height of three (3) to four feet (4').
      3.   Other Uses Where Screening Required: The city decision making body
may require screening in other situations as authorized by this title, such as
for outdoor storage areas, blank walls, and special uses, pursuant to chapter
2, article C of this title.
   G.   Maintenance: All landscaping shall be maintained in good condition, or
otherwise replaced by the property owner. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-3D-4: FENCES AND WALLS:
   A.   Purpose: This section provides general development standards for
fences, and walls that are not part of a building, such as screening walls and
retaining walls.
   B.   Applicability: This section applies to all fences and walls that are
not part of a building, including modifications to existing fences and walls.
The standards do not apply to retaining walls where the height of the exposed
portion of the wall (i.e., above the highest finished grade) is less than four
feet (4'). Other provisions of this title, or the requirements of the roadway
authority, may further limit allowable height, location, and/or design location
of a fence or wall.
   C.   Height: Fences and walls subject to this section shall conform to the
height standards in section
9-2B-4, tables 9-2B-4D and 9-2B-4E of this title. Additionally, all fences and
walls shall comply with the vision clearance standards of section
9-3C-3 of this chapter.
   D.   Materials:
      1.   Permitted fence and wall materials include weather treated wood;
untreated cedar and redwood; metal (e.g., chainlink, wrought iron, and similar
fences); bricks, stone, masonry block, formed in place concrete, or similar
masonry; vinyl and composite (e.g., recycled) materials designed for use as
fencing; and similar materials as determined by the city manager. In addition,
evergreen hedges are considered screening walls for the purpose of this
article, subject to site design review approval.
      2.   Prohibited fence and wall materials include straw bales, tarps,
barbed or razor wire (except in industrial zone); scrap lumber, untreated wood
(except cedar or redwood), corrugated metal, sheet metal, scrap materials;
dead, diseased, or dying plants; and materials similar to those listed herein.
   E.   Permitting: Zoning checklist review (type I review) is required prior
to installing any permanent fence or wall to ensure compliance with city
standards. The property owner should obtain a property boundary survey where
property boundaries are not otherwise identified. Where a development is
subject to land use approval through a type II or type III procedure, the city
may require installation of walls and/or fences as a condition of approval for
development, as provided by other code sections. A building permit may be
required for some fences and walls, pursuant to applicable building codes.
   F.   Maintenance: Fences and walls shall be maintained in good condition, or
otherwise replaced by the property owner. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-3D-5: OUTDOOR LIGHTING:
   A.   Purpose: This section contains regulations requiring adequate levels of
outdoor lighting while minimizing negative impacts of light spillover onto
adjacent properties and unnecessary illumination of the night sky, or light
pollution.
   B.   Applicability: All outdoor lighting shall comply with the standards of
this section.
   C.   Standards:
      1.   Light poles, except as required by a roadway authority or public
safety agency, shall not exceed a height of twenty feet (20'); pedestrian scale
lighting, such as the acorn style lighting on Main Street, is the preferred
method of illuminating walkways. The above height limitation does not apply to
flagpoles, utility poles, and streetlights.
      2.   Where a light standard is placed over a sidewalk or walkway, a
minimum vertical clearance of eight feet (8') shall be maintained.
      3.   Outdoor lighting levels shall be subject to review and approval
through site design review. As a guideline, lighting levels shall be no greater
than necessary to provide for pedestrian safety, property/business
identification, and crime prevention. See also the city of Nyssa sign code.
      4.   Except as provided for uplighting of flags and permitted building
mounted signs, all outdoor light fixtures shall be directed downward, and have
full cutoff and full shielding to preserve views of the night sky and to
minimize excessive light spillover onto adjacent properties.
      5.   Lighting shall be installed where it will not obstruct public ways,
driveways, or walkways.
      6.   Walkway lighting shall have a minimum average illumination of not
less than 0.2 foot-candle.
      7.   Active building entrances shall have a minimum average illumination
of not less than 2.0 foot-candles.
      8.   Surfaces of signs shall have an illumination level of not more than
2.0 foot-candles
      9.   Parking lots and outdoor services areas, including quick vehicle
service areas, shall have a minimum illumination of not less than 0.2 foot-
candle, and average illumination of approximately 0.8 foot-candle, and a
uniformity ratio (maximum to minimum ratio) of not more than twenty to one (20:
1).
      10.   Where illumination grid lighting plans cannot be reviewed or if
fixtures do not provide photometrics and bulbs are under two thousand (2,000)
lumens, use the following guidelines: Poles should be no greater in height than
four (4) times the distance to the property line, and maximum lumen levels
should be based on fixture height.
      11.   Where a light standard is placed within a walkway, an unobstructed
pedestrian through zone not less than forty eight inches (48") wide shall be
maintained.
      12.   Lighting subject to this section shall consist of materials
approved for outdoor use and shall be installed according to the manufacturer's
specifications.
   D.   Permitting: Where a proposed development is subject to type II or type
III review, the city decision making body may require specific lighting levels
or limit lighting as a condition of approval to protect the public health,
safety and welfare.
   E.   Maintenance: Outdoor lighting shall be maintained in good condition, or
otherwise replaced by the property owner. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
ARTICLE E. PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
9-3E-1: Purpose
9-3E-2: Applicability And General Regulations
9-3E-3: Automobile Parking
9-3E-4: Bicycle Parking
9-3E-5: Loading Areas
9-3E-1: PURPOSE:
This article contains requirements for automobile and bicycle parking. This
title is intended to be flexible in requiring adequate parking, rather than a
minimum number of parking spaces, for each use. It provides standards for the
location, size, and design of parking areas to ensure such areas can be
accessed safely and efficiently. This title also encourages nonmotorized
transportation by requiring bicycle parking for some uses. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-
2013)
9-3E-2: APPLICABILITY AND GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Where Regulations Apply: The regulations of this article apply to all
parking areas in all zones, at all times, whether parking is required by this
title or put in for the convenience of property owners or users.
   B.   Occupancy: All required parking areas must be developed in accordance
with the requirements of this title prior to occupancy of any structure on the
subject site. Where landscaping, screening or other improvements are required
pursuant to this title, all such improvements must be installed and approved by
the city manager prior to occupancy.
   C.   Calculations Of Amounts Of Required And Allowed Parking:
      1.   When computing parking spaces based on floor area, parking
structures and nonleasable floor spaces, such as storage closets, mechanical
equipment rooms, and similar spaces, are not counted.
      2.   The number of parking spaces is computed based on the primary uses
on the site except as stated in subsection C3 of this section. When there are
two (2) or more separate primary uses on a site, the minimum and maximum
parking for the site is the sum of the required or allowed parking for the
individual primary uses. For shared parking, see subsection 9-3E-3D of this
article.
      3.   When more than twenty percent (20%) of the floor area on a site is
in an accessory use, the required or allowed parking is calculated separately
for the accessory use. An example would be a ten thousand (10,000) square foot
building with a seven thousand (7,000) square foot warehouse and a three
thousand (3,000) square foot accessory retail area. The minimum and maximum
parking would be computed separately for the retail and warehouse uses.
      4.   Required parking spaces periodically used for the storage of
equipment or goods may be counted toward meeting minimum parking standards;
provided, that such storage is an allowed use under section
9-2B-3 of this title, and is permitted as a temporary use under section
9-2C-14 of this title.
   D.   Use Of Required Parking Spaces: Except as otherwise provided by this
section, required parking spaces must be available for the use of residents,
customers, or employees of the use. Fees may be charged for the use of required
parking spaces. Required parking spaces may not be assigned in any way to a use
on another site, except for shared parking pursuant to subsection 9-3E-3D of
this article.
   E.   Proximity Of Parking To Use: Required parking spaces for residential
uses must be located on the site of the use or on a parcel or tract owned in
common by all the owners of the properties that will use the parking area.
Required parking spaces for nonresidential uses must be located on the site of
the use or in a parking area that has its closest pedestrian access point
within four hundred feet (400') of the site.
   F.   Improvement Of Parking Areas: Motorized vehicle parking is allowed only
on streets with an improved shoulder of sufficient width; within garages,
carports, and other approved structures; and on driveways or parking lots that
have been developed in conformance with this title. For applicable design
standards, see article B, "Building Orientation And Design", article C, "Access
And Circulation", article D, "Landscaping, Fences And Walls; Outdoor Lighting",
and article F, "Public Facilities", of this chapter. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-3E-3: AUTOMOBILE PARKING:
   A.   Minimum Number Of Off Street Automobile Parking Spaces: Except as
provided by this subsection, or as required for Americans with disabilities act
compliance under subsection G of this section, off street parking shall be
provided pursuant to one of the following standards:
      1.   The standards in table 9-3E-3A of this section; or
      2.   Where the city manager determines that a use is not specifically
listed in table 9-3E-3A of this section but is similar to a listed use, the
parking standard for the similar use shall apply.
      TABLE 9-3E-3A
      AUTOMOBILE PARKING SPACES BY USE
Use Categories1 Minimum Parking Per Land Use2
Use Categories1                           Minimum Parking Per Land Use2
Residential categories:                    
 Household living:                        
  Single-family dwelling, including     1 space per dwelling
    manufactured homes on lots
  Duplex                                2 spaces per duplex (1 space per
                                          dwelling unit)
  Accessory dwelling (second dwelling   2 spaces total for primary dwelling
    on a single-family lot)               and accessory dwelling
 Multi-family                            1 space per dwelling unit
  Group living, such as nursing or
 convalescent homes, rest homes,         0.5 space per 4 bedrooms
  assisted living, congregate care, and
  similar special needs housing
Commercial categories:                     
 Bed and breakfast inn                   2 spaces per use, plus 1 space for
                                          each bedroom offered as lodging
 Commercial outdoor recreation           Per conditional use permit review
                                          (chapter 4, article D of this title)
 Educational services, not a school      1 space per 300 sq. ft. floor area
  (e.g., tutoring or similar services)
 Entertainment, major event              Per conditional use permit review
                                          (chapter 4, article D of this title)
                                          0.75 space per guestroom. See also,
                                          parking requirements for associated
 Hotels, motels, and similar uses        uses, such as restaurants,
                                          entertainment uses, drinking
                                          establishments, assembly facilities
 Mortuary/funeral home                   1 space per 300 floor space
 Offices:                                 
  General office                        1 space per 500 sq. ft. floor area
  Medical/dental office                 1 space per 500 sq. ft. floor area
 Outdoor recreation, commercial          Per conditional use permit review
                                          (chapter 4, article D of this title)
                                          2 spaces, excluding vehicle service/
 Quick vehicle servicing, and repairs    queuing area, or per conditional use
                                          permit review (chapter 4, article D
                                          of this title)
 Retail sales and commercial service:     
  Bank                                  1 space per 300 sq. ft. floor area
  Health clubs, gyms, continuous        1 space per 300 sq. ft.
    entertainment (e.g., bowling alleys)
  Restaurants and bars                  1 space per 200 sq. ft. floor area
                                          1 space per 400 sq. ft. floor area,
                                          except 1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. for
                                          bulk retail (e.g., nurseries, lumber
  Retail                                and construction materials,
                                          furniture, appliances, and similar
                                          sales), except auto sales parking
                                          based on showroom area only
  Theaters and cinemas                  1 per 6 seats
 Self-service storage                    2 spaces, plus adequate space for
                                          loading/unloading
 Surface parking lot, when not accessory Per conditional use permit review
  to a permitted use                      (chapter 4, article D of this title)
Industrial categories:                     
 Industrial service                      1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of floor
                                          area
                                          1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of floor
 Manufacturing and production            area; or as required by conditional
                                          use permit review (chapter 4, article
                                          D of this title)
                                          0.5 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of floor
 Warehouse and freight movement          area; or as required by conditional
                                          use permit review (chapter 4, article
                                          D of this title)
 Waste related                           Per conditional use permit review
                                          (chapter 4, article D of this title)
  Wholesale sales, e.g., building
 materials, heavy equipment,             1 space per 1,000 sq. ft.
  agricultural supplies or products, and
  similar wholesale goods
Institutional categories:                  
                                          Parking based on applicant's
 Basic utilities                         projected parking demand, subject to
                                          city approval
                                          Parking based on applicant's
                                          projected parking demand, subject to
 Community service, including government city approval, except as specifically
  offices and services                    required elsewhere in this table for
                                          individual uses (see public assembly,
                                          office, retail, housing, etc.)
 Daycare:                                 
  Family daycare                        1 space, plus required parking for
                                          dwelling
  Daycare center                        1 space per 400 sq. ft. of floor area
 Medical center/hospital, regional       1 space per 300 sq. ft. floor area
 Parks and open space                    Parking based on projected parking
                                          demand for planned uses
                                          1 space per 75 sq. ft. of public
 Public assembly                         assembly area; or as required by
                                          conditional use permit (chapter 4,
                                          article D of this title)
                                          1 space per 75 sq. ft. of main
 Religious institutions and houses of    assembly area; or as required by
  worship                                 conditional use permit (chapter 4,
                                          article D of this title)
 Schools:                                 
  Preschool through middle school       1 space per classroom
  High schools                          7 spaces per classroom
                                          1 space per 400 sq. ft. of floor area
  Colleges                              exclusive of dormitories, plus 1
                                          space per 2 dorm rooms
Other categories:                          
                                          Parking standards for accessory uses
                                          are the same as for primary uses, but
 Accessory uses                          are prorated based on the percentage
                                          of estimated overall parking demand,
                                          subject to city review and approval
 Agriculture                             None, except as required for
                                          accessory uses
                                          None, except as required by
 Radio frequency transmission facilities conditional use permit (chapter 4,
                                          article D of this title)
                                          Parking standards for temporary uses
                                          are the same as for primary uses,
 Temporary uses                          except that the city decision making
                                          body may reduce or waive certain
                                          development and designs standards for
                                          temporary uses
  Transportation facilities (operation,   None, except for park and ride
 maintenance, preservation, and          facilities; and where temporary
  construction)                           parking is required for construction
                                          staging areas
 
   Notes:
       1.    Section
9-1B-3 of this title contains examples of uses and definitions.
       2.    Fractions are rounded down to the closest whole number.
   B.   Exceptions And Reductions To Off Street Parking:
      1.   There is no minimum number of required automobile parking spaces for
uses within the commercial zone for properties fronting Main Street.
      2.   The applicant may propose a parking standard that is different than
the standard under subsection A of this section for review and action by the
city manager through a type II procedure. The applicant's proposal shall
consist of a written request, and a parking analysis prepared by a qualified
professional. The parking analysis, at a minimum, shall assess the average
parking demand and available supply for existing and proposed uses on the
subject site; opportunities for shared parking with other uses in the vicinity;
existing public parking in the vicinity; transportation options existing or
planned near the site, such as frequent bus service, car pools, or private
shuttles; and other relevant factors.
      3.   The number of required off street parking spaces may be reduced
through the provision of shared parking, pursuant to subsection D of this
section.
      4.   The city manager through a type I procedure may reduce the off
street parking standards of table 9-3E-3A of this section by one parking space
for every two (2) on street parking spaces located adjacent to the subject
site, provided the parking spaces meet the dimensional standards of subsection
E of this section.
   C.   Maximum Number Of Off Street Automobile Parking Spaces: The maximum
number of off street automobile parking spaces allowed per site equals the
minimum number of required spaces, pursuant to table 9-3E-3A of this section,
times a factor of:
      1.   1.2 spaces for uses fronting a street with adjacent on street
parking spaces; or
      2.   1.5 spaces for uses fronting no street with adjacent on street
parking; or
      3.   A factor determined pursuant to subsection B2 of this section,
parking analysis option.
   D.   Shared Parking: Required parking facilities for two (2) or more uses,
structures, or parcels of land may be satisfied by the same parking facilities
used jointly, to the extent that the owners or operators show that the need for
parking facilities does not materially overlap (e.g., uses primarily of a
daytime versus nighttime nature; weekday uses versus weekend uses); and
provided, that the right of joint use is evidenced by a recorded deed, lease,
contract, or similar written instrument establishing the joint use. Shared
parking requests shall be subject to review and approval through site plan
review.
   E.   Parking Stall Design And Minimum Dimensions: Where a new off street
parking area is proposed, or an existing off street parking area is proposed
for expansion, the entire parking area shall be improved in conformance with
this title. At a minimum, the parking spaces and drive aisles shall be paved
with asphalt, concrete, or other city approved materials, provided the
Americans with disabilities act requirements are met, and shall conform to the
minimum dimensions in table 9-3E-3E of this section. All off street parking
areas shall contain wheel stops, perimeter curbing, bollards, or other edging
as required to prevent vehicles from damaging buildings or encroaching into
walkways, landscapes, or the public right of way. Parking areas shall also
provide for surface water management, pursuant to section
9-3F-5 of this chapter.
   TABLE 9-3E-3E
   PARKING AREA MINIMUM DIMENSIONS1
 
Parking Curb   Stall Depth   Aisle Width   Bay Width     Stripe
Angle   Length Single Double One-   Two-   One-   Two-   Length
               D1     D2     Way A1 Way A2 Way B1 Way B2
90°    8'6"   18'    36'    23'    23'    59'    59'    18'
60°    10'    20'    40'    17'    18'    57'    58'    23'
45°    12'    18'6"  37'    13'    18'    50'    55'    26'6"
30°    17'    16'6"  33'    12'    18'    45'    51'    32'8"
0°     22'    8'6"   17'    12'    18'    29'    35'    8'6"
 
   Note:
       1.    See also article B, "Building Orientation And Design", of this
chapter, for parking location requirements for some types of development;
article C, "Access And Circulation", of this chapter, for driveway standards;
and article D of this chapter for requirements related to landscaping,
screening, fences, walls, and outdoor lighting.
   F.   Modifications To Parking Area And Dimensions: The dimensions in
subsection E of this section are minimum standards. The city manager or
planning commission, as applicable, through site design review may modify the
standard parking area or dimensions on evidence that a particular use will
require more or less maneuvering area. For example, the city may modify the
minimum parking stall dimensions where an attendant will be present to move
vehicles, as with valet parking. In such cases, a form of guarantee must be
filed with the city ensuring that an attendant will always be present when the
lot is in operation.
   G.   Americans With Disabilities Act: Parking shall be provided consistent
with the requirements of the Americans with disabilities act, including, but
not limited to, the minimum number of spaces for automobiles, van accessible
spaces, location of spaces relative to building entrances, accessible routes
between parking areas and building entrances, identification signs, lighting,
and other design and construction requirements.
   H.   Electric Charging Stations: Charging stations for electric vehicles are
allowed as an accessory use to parking areas developed in conformance with this
title, provided the charging station complies with applicable building codes
and any applicable state or federal requirements. Charging stations are
considered accessory to a permitted use and are not considered a quick vehicle
service use where such parking comprises less than twenty percent (20%) of all
on site parking. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-3E-4: BICYCLE PARKING:
   A.   Standards And Applicability: Except for single-family and two-family
(duplex) housing, home occupations, agriculture, and livestock uses, bicycle
parking spaces shall be provided with new development and where a change of use
requires additional automobile parking spaces, based on the minimum standards
in table 9-3E-4A of this section. Where an applicant requests a reduction to a
minimum parking standard pursuant to subsection 9-3E-3B of this article, the
city manager may modify the bicycle parking standards in table 9-3E-4A of this
section.
      TABLE 9-3E-4A
      MINIMUM REQUIRED BICYCLE PARKING SPACES
Use Minimum Number Of Spaces
Use                                    Minimum Number Of Spaces
Multi-family residential (not required 2 bike spaces per 4 dwelling units, at
for parcels with fewer than 4 dwelling least half of which shall be long term
units)                                 (covered) parking spaces
Commercial                             2 bike spaces per primary use or 1 per 5
                                       vehicle spaces, whichever is greater
Industrial                             2 bike spaces per primary use or 1 per
                                       10 vehicle spaces, whichever is greater
                                       2 bike spaces, or as required pursuant
Community service                      to chapter 4, article D, "Conditional
                                       Use Permits", of this title
Parks (active recreation areas only)   4 bike spaces
                                       2 bike spaces per classroom, at least
Schools (all types)                    half of which shall be long term
                                       (covered) parking spaces
                                       2 bike spaces per primary use or 1 per
Institutional uses and places of       10 vehicle spaces, whichever is greater,
worship                                or as required pursuant to chapter 4,
                                       article D, "Conditional Use Permits", of
                                       this title
                                       2 bike spaces per primary use or 1 per
                                       10 vehicle spaces, whichever is greater,
Other uses                             or as required pursuant to chapter 4,
                                       article D, "Conditional Use Permits", of
                                       this title
 
Note: An equal number of long term (covered) bicycle parking spaces shall be
provided.
   B.   Design:
      1.   Bicycle parking should be no farther from the main building entrance
than the distance to the closest vehicle space, or fifty feet (50'), whichever
is less.
      2.   Long term covered bicycle parking should be incorporated whenever
possible into building design, for example, in a storage room or under an eave
or other sheltering roof.
      3.   Bicycle parking shall consist of staple design steel racks or other
city approved racks, lockers, or storage lids providing a safe and secure means
of storing a bicycle.
      4.   Bicycle parking should be in a location that is illuminated at night
and visible from a street sidewalk or a building entrance, to promote security,
and not in an area where it would conflict with pedestrians or automobiles.
      5.   Areas designated for bicycle parking shall be reserved for bicycle
parking only, i.e., not other storage.
   C.   Hazards: Bicycle parking shall not impede or create a hazard to
pedestrians or vehicles, and shall be located so as to not conflict with the
vision clearance standards of section
9-3C-3 of this chapter.
   D.   Graphics: The graphics are on file in the city. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-
2013)
9-3E-5: LOADING AREAS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide adequate loading
areas for commercial and industrial uses that do not interfere with the
operation of adjacent streets.
   B.   Applicability: This section applies to uses that are expected to have
service or delivery truck visits. It applies only to uses visited by trucks
with a forty foot (40') or longer wheelbase, at a frequency of one or more
vehicles per week. The city manager or planning commission, as applicable,
shall determine through site design review the number, size and location of
required loading areas, if any.
   C.   Standard: Where an off street loading space is required, it shall be
large enough to accommodate the largest vehicle that is expected to serve the
use without obstructing vehicles or pedestrian traffic on adjacent streets and
driveways. The city decision making body may restrict the use of other public
rights of way, so applicants are advised to provide complete and accurate
information about the potential need for loading spaces.
   D.   Placement, Setbacks And Landscaping: Loading areas shall conform to the
building orientation and design standards of article B of this chapter, the
access and circulation standards of article C of this chapter, and the
landscaping and screening standards of article D of this chapter. Where parking
areas are prohibited between a building and the street, loading areas are also
prohibited.
   E.   Exceptions: The city manager or planning commission, as applicable,
through site design review, may approve a loading area adjacent to or within a
street right of way where it finds that loading and unloading operations are
short in duration (i.e., less than 1 hour), infrequent, do not obstruct traffic
during peak traffic hours, do not interfere with emergency response services,
and are acceptable to the applicable roadway authority. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-
2013)
ARTICLE F. PUBLIC FACILITIES
SECTION:
9-3F-1: Purpose And Applicability
9-3F-2: Transportation Standards
9-3F-3: Public Use Areas
9-3F-4: Sanitary Sewer And Water Service Improvements
9-3F-5: Storm Drainage; Surface Water Management Facilities
9-3F-6: Utilities
9-3F-7: Easements
9-3F-8: Construction Plan Approval
9-3F-9: Facility Installation
9-3F-10: Performance Guarantee And Warranty
9-3F-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose: The standards of this article implement the public facility
policies of the city comprehensive plan and adopted city master plans.
   B.   Applicability: This article applies to all new development, including
projects subject to land division (subdivision or partition) approval and
developments subject to site design review where public facility improvements
are required. All public facility improvements within the city shall occur in
accordance with the standards and procedures of this article. When a question
arises as to the intent or application of any standard, the city decision
making body shall interpret this title pursuant to chapter 1, article B of this
title.
   C.   Public Works Design Standards: All public facility improvements,
including, but not limited to, sanitary sewer, water, and transportation,
surface water/storm drainage, and parks projects, whether required as a
condition of development or provided voluntarily, shall conform to the "Idaho
Standards For Public Works Construction (ISPWC)", also referenced herein as
"Public Works Design Standards". Where a conflict occurs between this title and
the ISPWC, the provisions of this title shall govern.
   D.   Public Improvement Requirement: No building permit may be issued until
all required public facility improvements are in place and approved by the city
engineer or public works designee, or otherwise bonded, in conformance with the
provisions of this title and the manual. Improvements required as a condition
of development approval, when not voluntarily provided by the applicant, shall
be roughly proportional to the impact of the development on public facilities.
Findings in the development approval shall indicate how the required
improvements directly related to and are roughly proportional to the impact of
development. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-3F-2: TRANSPORTATION STANDARDS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   General Requirements: Except as provided by subsection A4 of this
section, existing substandard streets and planned streets within or abutting a
proposed development shall be improved in accordance with the standards of this
article as a condition of development approval. All street improvements,
including the extension or widening of existing streets and public accessways,
shall conform to this section, and shall be constructed consistent with the
public works design standards manual.
      2.   Dedication Of Public Right Of Way: All new streets shall be
contained within a public right of way; public accessways (e.g.,
pedestrianways) may be contained within a right of way or a public access
easement, subject to review and approval of the city decision making body.
Proposed streets are subject to city review and approval through the
subdivision process (chapter 4, article C of this title).
      3.   Traffic Impact Analyses: The following provisions establish when a
traffic impact analysis must be submitted with a development application, in
order to determine whether conditions are needed to minimize impacts to and
protect transportation facilities. This title also establishes the required
contents of a traffic impact analysis and who is qualified to prepare the
analysis. Another purpose of this subsection is to coordinate the review of
land use applications with roadway authorities and to implement the state
transportation planning rule, which requires the city to adopt a process to
apply conditions to development proposals in order to minimize impacts and
protect transportation facilities.
         a.   When Traffic Impact Analysis Required: The city or other road
authority with jurisdiction may require a traffic impact analysis (TIA) as part
of an application for development, a change in use, or a change in access. A
TIA shall be required where a change of use or a development would involve one
or more of the following:
            (1)   A change in zoning or a plan amendment designation;
            (2)   The road authority indicates in writing that the proposal may
have operational or safety concerns along its facility(ies);
            (3)   An increase in site traffic volume generation by three
hundred (300) average daily trips (ADT) or more;
            (4)   An increase in peak hour volume of a particular movement to
and from a street or highway by twenty percent (20%) or more; or
            (5)   An increase in use of adjacent streets by vehicles exceeding
the twenty thousand (20,000) pounds' gross vehicle weights by ten (10) vehicles
or more per day;
            (6)   The location of an existing or proposed approach or access
connection does not meet minimum spacing or sight distance requirements or is
located where vehicles entering or leaving the property are restricted, or such
vehicles are likely to queue or hesitate at an approach or access connection,
creating a safety hazard;
            (7)   A change in internal traffic patterns may cause safety
concerns; or
            (8)   A TIA is required by ODOT pursuant to Oregon administrative
rules section 734-051.
         b.   Traffic Impact Analysis Preparation: A professional engineer
registered in the state of Oregon, in accordance with the requirements of the
road authority, shall prepare the traffic impact analysis.
      4.   Waiver Or Deferral Of Street Improvements: The city may waive or
allow deferral of standard street improvements, including sidewalk, roadway,
bicycle lane, undergrounding of utilities, and/or landscaping, as applicable,
where the standard improvement would conflict with an adopted capital
improvement plan, the city does not have funding for its share of the project
(i.e., where the improvement would be part of a planned capital improvement
project), or the improvement would create a safety hazard. Where the city
agrees to defer a street improvement, it shall do so only where the property
owner agrees not to remonstrate against the formation of a local improvement
district in the future.
   B.   Street Location, Alignment, Extension And Grades:
      1.   All new streets, to the extent practicable, shall connect to the
existing street network and allow for the continuation of the planned street
network.
      2.   Specific street locations and alignments shall be determined in
relation to existing and planned streets, topographic conditions, public
convenience and safety, and in appropriate relation to the proposed use of the
land to be served by such streets.
      3.   Grades of streets shall conform as closely as practicable to the
original (predevelopment) topography to minimize grading.
      4.   New streets and street extensions exceeding a grade of fifteen
percent (15%) over a distance more than two hundred feet (200'), to the extent
practicable, shall be avoided. Where such grades are unavoidable, the city
decision making body may approve an exception to the two hundred foot (200')
standard and require mitigation, such as a secondary access to/egress from the
subdivision, installation of fire protection sprinkler systems in dwellings,
and/or other mitigation to protect public health and safety.
      5.   Where the locations of planned streets are shown on a local street
network plan, the development shall implement the street(s) shown on the plan.
      6.   Where required local street connections are not shown on an adopted
city street plan, or the adopted street plan does not designate future streets
with sufficient specificity, the development shall provide for the reasonable
continuation and connection of existing streets to adjacent developable
properties, conforming to the standards of this title.
      7.   Existing street ends that abut a proposed development site shall be
extended with the development, unless prevented by environmental or
topographical constraints, existing development patterns, or compliance with
other standards in this title; in such situations, the applicant must provide
evidence that the environmental or topographic constraint precludes reasonable
street connection.
      8.   Proposed streets and any street extensions required pursuant to this
section shall be located, designed and constructed to allow continuity in
street alignments and to facilitate future development of vacant or
redevelopable lands.
   C.   Rights Of Way And Street Section Widths: The standards contained in
tables 9-3F-2C1 and 9-3F-2C2 of this section are intended to provide for
streets of suitable location, width, and design to accommodate expected
vehicle, pedestrian and bicycle traffic; to afford satisfactory access to law
enforcement, fire protection, sanitation, and road maintenance equipment; and
to provide a convenient and accessible network of streets, avoiding undue
hardships to adjoining properties. Where a range of street width or improvement
options is indicated, the city decision making body shall determine
requirements based on the advice of a qualified professional and all of the
following factors:
      1.   Street classification and requirements of the roadway authority if
different than the city;
      2.   Existing and projected street operations relative to applicable
standards;
      3.   Safety of motorists, pedestrians, bicyclists, including
consideration of accident history;
      4.   Convenience and comfort for pedestrians and bicyclists;
      5.   Provision of on street parking;
      6.   Placement of utilities;
      7.   Street lighting;
      8.   Slope stability and erosion control (minimize cuts and fills);
      9.   Surface water management/storm drainage requirements;
      10.   Emergency vehicles/apparatus and emergency access/egress, including
evacuation needs;
      11.   Transitions between varying street widths (i.e., existing streets
and new streets); and
      12.   Other factors related to public health, safety, and welfare.
   TABLE 9-3F-2C1
   STREET DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS1
 
Street Standards             Construction Standards2         Overlay  Curb
Street         ROW   Surface Depth Aggregate Depth Aggregate Material Face Gutter
Classification Width Width         Size            Size
Arterial3           44' -   8"    11/2" -   2"    3/4" -    1"       6"   18"
                     52'           3"              11/2"     pavement
Collector      60'   36'     8"    11/2" -   2"    3/4" -    1"       6"   18"
                                   3"              11/2"     pavement
Local          50'   28'     6"    11/2" -   2"    3/4" -    1"       6"   18"
                                   3"              11/2"     pavement
                                                             3/4" oil
Alley          20'   18'     6"    11/2" -   11/2" 3/4" -    mat and  6"   18"
                                   3"              11/2"     3/4"
                                                             surface
 
Notes:
    1.   The expense of opening new streets shall be the sole responsibility of
the developer; however, the developer may contract with the city to rough-in
right of way for any street and to construct all or part thereof under such
terms as the city council may from time to time prescribe.
    2.    See also "Idaho Standards For Public Works Construction (ISPWC)".
Where conflicts occur between city standards and ISPWC, city standards apply.
    3.    City standards are advisory on ODOT managed roadways.
   TABLE 9-3F-2C2
   BICYCLE, PEDESTRIAN, AND ON STREET PARKING STANDARDS1
Street         Planting Strip Sidewalk Width Bicycle    On Street Parking
Classification Minimum        Minimum        Facilities Minimum
                                             Minimum
Street          Planting Strip Sidewalk Width   Bicycle        On Street
Classification  Minimum        Minimum          Facilities     Parking Minimum
                                                Minimum
Arterial1       5'             6'               6' shoulder    None
                                                bikeways
                0' (street     6' walkways 4'
Arterial - Main trees in       furnishing zone  6' shoulder    8' lanes
Street1         sidewalk tree  2' building zone bikeways
                wells)
Collector       5'             5'               Shared roadway 8' lane on 1
                                                               side
Local           5'             5'               Shared roadway 8' lanes
                               10' - 12' trail
                               with 2'
Multiuse trail  Optional       shoulders, and                 None
(no autos)      (edging)       8' minimum
                               vertical
                               clearance
Marginal access 5'             None             None           None
Alleys          0'             None             None           None
 
Note:
    1.    Unless otherwise specified, all standards apply to 2 sides of street.
   D.   Transportation Connectivity And Future Street Plans: The following
standards apply to the creation of new streets:
      1.   Intersections: Streets shall be located and designed to intersect as
nearly as possible at a right angle. Street intersections shall have a minimum
intersection angle of seventy five degrees (75o). All legs of an intersection
shall meet the above standard for at least one hundred feet (100') back from
the point of intersection. No more than two (2) streets shall intersect (i.e.,
creating a 4 legged intersection) at any one point. Street jogs and
intersection offsets of less than one hundred twenty five feet (125') are not
permitted. Intersections shall be designed to facilitate stormwater runoff into
city approved stormwater facilities.
      2.   Accessways: The city decision making body, in approving a land use
application with conditions, may require a developer to provide an accessway
where the creation of a cul-de-sac or dead end street is unavoidable and the
accessway connects the end of the street to another street, a park, or a public
accessway. Where an accessway is required, it shall be not less than ten feet
(10') wide and shall contain a minimum six foot (6') wide paved surface or
other all weather surface approved by the city engineer or public works
designee. Accessways shall be contained within a public right of way or public
access easement, as required by the city.
      3.   Connectivity To Abutting Lands And Temporary Street Ends: The street
system of a proposed subdivision shall be designed to connect to existing,
proposed, and planned streets adjacent to the subdivision. Wherever a proposed
development abuts unplatted land or a future development phase of an existing
development, street stubs shall be provided to allow access to future abutting
subdivisions and to logically extend the street system into the surrounding
area. Street ends shall contain turnarounds constructed to uniform fire code
standards, as the city deems applicable, and shall be designed to facilitate
future extension in terms of grading, width, and temporary barricades.
      4.   Street Connectivity And Formation Of Blocks: In order to promote
efficient vehicular and pedestrian circulation throughout the city,
subdivisions and site developments shall be served by an interconnected street
network, pursuant to the standards in subsections D4a through D4c of this
section (distances are measured from the edge of street rights of way). Where a
street connection cannot be made due to physical site constraints, approach
spacing/access management requirements, or similar restrictions, where
practicable, a pedestrian accessway connection shall be provided pursuant to
article C of this chapter.
         a.   Residential zones: Minimum of two hundred foot (200') block
length and maximum of six hundred foot (600') length; maximum block perimeter
of one thousand four hundred feet (1,400');
         b.   Commercial zone: Minimum of two hundred foot (200') block length
and maximum of four hundred foot (400') length; maximum block perimeter of one
thousand four hundred feet (1,400');
         c.   Industrial and other zones: Not applicable.
      5.   Cul-De-Sacs: A cul-de-sac street shall only be used where the city
manager or planning commission, as applicable, determines that environmental or
topographical constraints, existing development patterns, or compliance with
other applicable city requirements preclude a street extension. Where the city
determines that a cul-de-sac is allowed, all of the following standards shall
be met:
         a.   The cul-de-sac shall not exceed a length of four hundred feet
(400'), except where the city manager or planning commission, as applicable,
determines that topographic or other physical constraints of the site require a
longer cul- de-sac; the length of the cul-de-sac shall be measured along the
centerline of the roadway from the near side of the intersecting street to the
farthest point of the cul-de-sac;
         b.   The cul-de-sac shall terminate with a circular or hammer head
turnaround meeting the uniform fire code and the standards of table 9-3F-2C1 of
this section; and
         c.   The cul-de-sac shall provide, or not preclude the opportunity to
later install, a pedestrian and bicycle accessway between it and adjacent
developable lands. Such accessways shall conform to subsection 9-3C-3D3 of this
chapter.
      6.   Future Street Plan: Where a subdivision is proposed adjacent to
other developable land, a future street plan shall be filed by the applicant in
conjunction with an application for a subdivision in order to facilitate
orderly development of the street system. The plan shall show the pattern of
existing and proposed future streets from the boundaries of the proposed land
division and shall include other divisible parcels within six hundred feet
(600') surrounding and adjacent to the proposed subdivision. The street plan is
not binding but is intended to show the feasibility of extending streets in the
future pursuant to city standards. The plan must demonstrate, pursuant to city
standards, that the proposed development does not preclude future street
connections to adjacent development land.
      7.   Partial Street Improvements: Partial street improvements are not
permitted, except as provided by chapter 4, article C of this title.
      8.   Private Streets And Gated Subdivisions: Except where approved as
part of a master planned development pursuant to chapter 4, article H of this
title, private streets and gated drives serving more than two (2) dwellings
(i.e., where a gate limits access to a development from a public street) are
prohibited.
   E.   Engineering Design Standards: Street design and construction shall
conform to the standards of the applicable roadway authority; for city streets,
that is the Idaho standards for public works construction (ISPWC). Where a
conflict occurs between this title and the ISPWC, the provisions of this title
govern.
   F.   Fire Code Standards: Where fire code standards conflict with city
standards, the city shall consult with the fire marshal in determining
appropriate requirements; the city shall have the final determination regarding
applicable standards.
   G.   Substandard Existing Right Of Way: Where an existing right of way
adjacent to a proposed development is less than the standard width, the
planning commission may require the dedication of additional rights of way at
the time of subdivision, partition, or site plan review, pursuant to the
standards in tables 9-3F-2C1 and 9-3F-2C2 of this section.
   H.   Traffic Calming: The city may require the installation of traffic
calming features such as traffic circles, curb extensions, reduced street width
(parking on 1 side), medians with pedestrian crossing refuges, speed tables or
speed humps, and/or special paving to slow traffic in neighborhoods or
commercial areas with high pedestrian traffic.
   I.   Sidewalks, Planter Strips And Bicycle Lanes: Except where the city
decision making body grants a deferral of public improvements, pursuant to
chapter 4, article B or C of this title, sidewalks, planter strips, and bicycle
lanes shall be installed concurrent with development and/or widening of new
streets, pursuant to the requirements of this article. Maintenance of sidewalks
and planter strips in the right of way is the continuing obligation of the
adjacent property owner.
   J.   Streets Adjacent To Railroad Right Of Way: When a transportation
improvement is proposed within three hundred feet (300') of a railroad
crossing, or a modification is proposed to an existing railroad crossing, the
Oregon department of transportation and the rail service provider shall be
notified and given an opportunity to comment, in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 4 of this title. Private crossing improvements are
subject to review and licensing by the rail service provider.
   K.   Street Names: No new street name shall be used which will duplicate or
be confused with the names of existing streets in the city of Nyssa or
vicinity.
   L.   Survey Monuments: Upon completion of a street improvement and prior to
acceptance by the city, it shall be the responsibility of the developer's
registered professional land surveyor to provide certification to the city that
all boundary and interior monuments have been reestablished and protected.
   M.   Street Signs: The city, county, or state with jurisdiction shall
install all signs for traffic control and street names. The cost of signs
required for new development shall be the responsibility of the developer.
Street name signs shall be installed at all street intersections. Stop signs
and other signs may be required.
   N.   Streetlight Standards: Streetlights shall be relocated or new lights
installed, as applicable, with street improvement projects. Streetlights shall
conform to city standards, or the requirements of the roadway authority, if
different than the city.
   O.   Mailboxes: Mailboxes shall conform to the requirements of the United
States postal service.
   P.   Street Cross Sections: The final lift of asphalt or concrete pavement
shall be placed on all new constructed public roadways prior to final city
acceptance of the roadway unless otherwise approved by the city engineer or
public works designee. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-3F-3: PUBLIC USE AREAS:
   A.   Dedication Of Public Use Areas:
      1.   Where a proposed park, playground, or other public use shown in a
plan adopted by the city is located in whole or in part in a subdivision, the
city may require the dedication or reservation of this area on the final plat
for the subdivision; provided, that the impact of the development on the city
park system is roughly proportionate to the dedication or reservation being
made.
      2.   The city may purchase or accept voluntary dedication or reservation
of areas within the subdivision that are suitable for the development of parks
and other public uses; however, the city is under no obligation to accept such
areas offered for dedication or sale.
   B.   System Development Charge Credit: Dedication of land to the city for
public use areas, voluntary or otherwise, may be eligible as a credit toward
any required system development charge for parks. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-3F-4: SANITARY SEWER AND WATER SERVICE IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Sewer And Water Mains Required: All new development is required to
connect to city water and sanitary sewer systems. Sanitary sewer and water
system improvements shall be installed to serve each new development and to
connect developments to existing mains in accordance with the adopted facility
master plans and applicable public works design standards. Where the city
engineer or public works designee requires stubbing of streets to the edge of
the subdivision, sewer and water system improvements, and other utilities,
shall also be stubbed with the streets, except where alternate alignment(s) are
approved by the city.
   B.   Sewer And Water Plan Approval: Development permits for sewer and water
improvements shall not be issued until the city engineer or public works
designee has approved all sanitary sewer and water plans in conformance with
city standards.
   C.   Oversizing: The city decision making body may require as a condition of
development approval that sewer and water lines serving new development be
sized to accommodate future development within the area as projected by the
applicable facility master plans; and the city may authorize other cost
recovery or cost sharing methods as provided under state law.
   D.   Inadequate Facilities: Development permits may be restricted or
rationed by the planning commission where a deficiency exists in the existing
water or sewer system that cannot be rectified by the development and which if
not rectified will result in a threat to public health or safety, surcharging
of existing mains, or violations of state or federal standards pertaining to
operation of domestic water and sewerage treatment systems. The city decision
making body may require water booster pumps, sanitary sewer lift stations, and
other critical facilities be installed with backup power. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-
2013)
9-3F-5: STORM DRAINAGE; SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES:
   A.   General Provisions: The city may adopt and periodically update
engineering design standards and criteria for storm drainage/surface water
management facilities. The city shall issue a development permit only where
adequate provisions for stormwater runoff have been made in conformance with
such standards and any storm drainage/surface water master plan adopted by the
city.
   B.   Accommodation Of Upstream Drainage: Culverts and other drainage
facilities shall be large enough to accommodate existing and potential future
runoff from the entire upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the
development. Such facilities shall be subject to review and approval by the
city engineer.
   C.   Effect On Downstream Drainage: Where it is anticipated by the city
engineer that the additional runoff resulting from the development will
overload an existing drainage facility, the city shall withhold approval of the
development until provisions have been made for improvement of the potential
condition or until provisions have been made for storage of additional runoff
caused by the development and water quality treatment in accordance with city
standards.
   D.   Oversizing: The city may require as a condition of development approval
that sewer, water, and/or storm drainage systems serving new development be
sized to accommodate future development within the area as projected by the
applicable facility master plan; provided, that the city may grant the
developer credit toward any required system development charge for the same
pursuant to the system development charge.
   E.   Existing Watercourse: Where a watercourse, drainageway, traverses a
proposed development channel, or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater
easement or drainage right of way conforming substantially with the lines of
such watercourse and such further width as will be adequate for conveyance and
maintenance to protect the public health and safety. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-3F-6: UTILITIES:
The following standards apply to new development where extension of electric
power or communication lines is required:
   A.   General Provision: The developer of a property is responsible for
coordinating his development plan with the applicable utility providers and
paying for the extension/installation of utilities not otherwise available to
the subject property.
   B.   Underground Utilities:
      1.   General Requirements: The requirements of the utility service
provider shall be met. All utility lines in new subdivisions, including, but
not limited to, those required for electric, communication, and lighting, and
related facilities, shall be placed underground, except where the city decision
making body determines that placing utilities underground would adversely
impact adjacent land uses. The city decision making body may require screening
and buffering of aboveground facilities to protect the public health, safety or
welfare.
      2.   Subdivisions: The following additional standards apply to all new
subdivisions, in order to facilitate underground placement of utilities:
         a.   The developer shall make all necessary arrangements with the
serving utility to provide the underground services. Care shall be taken to
ensure that all aboveground equipment does not obstruct vision clearance areas
for vehicular traffic, per article C, "Access And Circulation", of this
chapter.
         b.   The city reserves the right to review and approve the location of
all surface mounted facilities.
         c.   All underground utilities installed in streets must be
constructed and approved by the applicable utility provider prior to the
surfacing of the streets.
         d.   Stubs for service connections shall be long enough to avoid
disturbing the street improvements when service connections are made.
   C.   Exception To Undergrounding Requirement: The city decision making body
may grant exceptions to the undergrounding standard where existing physical
constraints, such as geologic conditions, streams, or existing development
conditions, make underground placement impractical. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-3F-7: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Requirement; Dedication: The developer shall make arrangements with the
city and applicable utility providers for each utility franchise for the
provision and dedication of utility easements.
   B.   Standard: At a minimum, public utility easements shall be provided
within a ten foot (10') setback along all rights of way, and within a ten foot
(10') setback along rear property lines and a five foot (5') setback along side
property lines (10 feet total for 2 abutting side yards). The city engineer may
waive a utility easement standard where the future extension of utilities is
infeasible or it is unreasonable to expect a utility extension to occur.
   C.   Recordation: All easements for sewers, storm drainage and water quality
facilities, water mains, electric lines, or other utilities shall be recorded
and referenced on a survey or final plat, as applicable. See chapter 4,
articles B, site plan review, and C, land divisions, of this title. (Ord. 635-
13, 6-11-2013)
9-3F-8: CONSTRUCTION PLAN APPROVAL:
   A.   General Requirement: No development, including sanitary sewers, water,
streets, parking areas, buildings, or other development, shall be undertaken
without plans having been approved by the city, permit fees paid, and permits
issued.
   B.   Plan Submittal: At a minimum, plans shall be prepared by a professional
engineer registered in the state of Oregon, and shall include a plan drawn to a
scale of one inch equals forty feet (1" = 40'), or less, with a vicinity map,
property boundary, plan and profile of utilities, and elevations based on
topographic survey.
   C.   Fee For Review: Permit fees are required to defray the cost and
expenses incurred by the city for construction and other services in connection
with the improvement. The city may hire consultants during the review and
approval process, to include engineering, planning, legal, and administration,
and applicants are responsible to pay all necessary consulting fees associated
with the review. Permit fees are as set by city council resolution. (Ord. 635-
13, 6-11-2013)
9-3F-9: FACILITY INSTALLATION:
   A.   Conformance Required: Improvements installed by the developer either as
a requirement of these regulations or at the developer's option, shall conform
to the requirements of this article, approved construction plans, and to
improvement standards and specifications adopted by the city.
   B.   Adopted Installation Standards: The city has adopted the Idaho
standards for public works construction (ISPWC).
   C.   Commencement: Work in a public right of way shall not begin until all
applicable agency permits have been approved and issued.
   D.   Resumption: If work is discontinued for more than six (6) months, it
shall not be resumed until the city engineer or public works designee is
notified in writing and grants approval of an extension.
   E.   City Inspection: Improvements shall be constructed under the inspection
of the city engineer or public works designee. The city engineer or public
works designee may approve minor changes in typical sections and details if
unusual conditions arising during construction warrant such changes in the
public interest, except that substantive changes to the approved design shall
be subject to review under chapter 4, article E, "Modifications To Approved
Plans And Conditions", of this title. Any survey monuments that are disturbed
before all improvements are completed by the developer or subdivider shall be
replaced prior to final acceptance of the improvements.
   F.   Engineer's Certification And As Built Plans: A registered civil
engineer shall provide written certification in a form required by the city
that all improvements, workmanship, and materials are in accord with current
and standard engineering and construction practices, conform to approved plans
and conditions of approval, and are of high grade, prior to city's acceptance
of the public improvements, or any portion thereof, for operation and
maintenance. The developer's engineer shall also provide two (2) sets of as
built plans, in both hard copy and electronic format, for permanent filing with
the city. If required by the city, the developer or subdivider shall provide a
warranty bond pursuant to section
9-3F-10 of this article. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-3F-10: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE AND WARRANTY:
   A.   Performance Guarantee Required: The city, at its discretion, may
approve a final plat or building permit when it determines that at least
seventy five percent (75%) of the public improvements required for the site
development or land division, or phase thereof, are complete and the applicant
has an acceptable assurance for the balance of said improvements. The applicant
shall provide a bond issued by a surety authorized to do business in the state
of Oregon, irrevocable letter of credit from a surety or financial institution
acceptable to the city, cash, or other form of security acceptable to the city.
   B.   Determination Of Sum: The assurance of performance shall be for a sum
determined by the city engineer as required to cover the cost of the
improvements and repairs, including related engineering and incidental
expenses, plus reasonable inflationary costs. The assurance shall not be less
than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the estimated improvement costs.
   C.   Itemized Improvement Estimate: The subdivider/developer shall furnish
to the city an itemized improvement estimate, certified by a registered civil
engineer, to assist the city in calculating the amount of the performance
assurance.
   D.   Agreement: A written agreement between the city and subdivider/
developer shall be signed and recorded. The agreement shall contain, at a
minimum, all of the following:
      1.   The period within which all required improvements and repairs shall
be completed;
      2.   A provision that if work is not completed within the period
specified, the city may complete the work and recover the full cost and
expenses from the applicant;
      3.   The improvement fees and deposits that are required;
      4.   (Optional) A provision for the construction of the improvements in
stages and for the extension of time under specific conditions therein stated
in the contract.
   E.   When Subdivider/Developer Fails To Perform: In the event the
subdivider/developer fails to carry out all provisions of the agreement and the
city has unreimbursed costs or expenses resulting from such failure, the city
shall call on the bond, cash deposit or letter of credit for reimbursement.
   F.   Termination Of Performance Guarantee: The subdivider/developer shall
not cause termination of nor allow expiration of the guarantee without first
securing written authorization from the city.
   G.   Warranty Bond: A warranty bond good for two (2) years is required on
all public improvements and landscaping when installed in the public right of
way. The warranty bond shall equal fifteen percent (15%) of the total cost of
improvements and begin upon acceptance of said improvements by the city. (Ord.
635-13, 6-11-2013)
ARTICLE G. SIGNS
SECTION:
9-3G-1: Sign Standards
9-3G-1: SIGN STANDARDS:
In a C zone, signs located within one hundred feet (100') of a residential zone
shall be set back not less than ten feet (10') from the lot in the residential
zone, shall not be moving or intermittent flashing, and shall not exceed an
area of twenty five (25) square feet on each side. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
CHAPTER 4
APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURES AND APPROVAL CRITERIA
ARTICLE A. GENERAL REVIEW PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9-4A-1: Purpose And Applicability
9-4A-2: Type I Procedure (Staff Review And Zoning Checklist)
9-4A-3: Type II Procedure (Administrative Review With Notice)
9-4A-4: Type III Procedure (Quasi-Judicial Review; Public Hearing)
9-4A-5: Type IV Procedure (Legislative Review)
9-4A-6: Time Limit; Consolidated Review; City Manager's Duties
9-4A-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to establish standard decision
making procedures that will enable the city, the applicant, and the public to
reasonably review applications and participate in the local decision making
process in a timely and effective way. Table
9-4A-1 of this section provides a key for determining the review procedure and
the decision making body for particular approvals.
   B.   Applicability Of Review Procedures: All land use and development permit
applications and approvals, except building permits, shall be decided by using
the procedures contained in this article. The procedure "type" assigned to each
application governs the decision making process for that permit or approval.
There are four (4) types of permit/approval procedures as described in
subsections B1 through B4 of this section. Table
9-4A-1 of this section lists the city's land use and development approvals and
corresponding review procedure(s).
      1.   Type I Procedure (Staff Review, Zoning Checklist): Type I decisions
are made by the city manager, or his or her designee, without public notice and
without a public hearing. A type I procedure is used in applying city standards
and criteria that do not require the use of discretion (i.e., clear and
objective standards).
      2.   Type II Procedure (Administrative/Staff Review With Notice): Type II
decisions are made by the city manager with public notice and an opportunity
for appeal to the planning commission. Alternatively, the city manager may
refer a type II application to the planning commission for its review and
decision in a public meeting.
      3.   Type III Procedure (Quasi-Judicial Review, Public Hearing): Type III
decisions are made by the planning commission after a public hearing, with an
opportunity for appeal to the city council. Quasi-judicial decisions involve
discretion but implement established policy.
      4.   Type IV Procedure (Legislative Review): The type IV procedure
applies to the creation or revision, or large scale implementation, of public
policy (e.g., adoption of regulations, zone changes, annexation, and
comprehensive plan amendments). Type IV reviews are considered by the planning
commission, who makes a recommendation to city council. City council makes the
final decision on a legislative proposal through the enactment of an ordinance.
      TABLE
9-4A-1
      SUMMARY OF APPROVALS BY
      TYPE OF REVIEW PROCEDURE
Approvals1 Review Procedures Applicable Regulations
Approvals1                      Review Procedures Applicable Regulations
                                                  Applicants are required to
                                                  complete a zoning checklist
Zoning checklist review         Type I            before applying for any other
                                                  permit or approval. See
                                                  section
                                                  9-4A-2 of this article
                                                  Chapter 3, article C of this
Access to a street              Type I            title and the standards of
                                                  the applicable roadway
                                                  authority (city/county/ODOT)
Annexation                      Type IV           See Oregon Revised Statutes
                                                  222
Code interpretation             Type II or III    Section
                                                  9-1A-10 of this title
Code text amendment             Type IV           Article F of this chapter
Comprehensive plan amendment    Type IV           Article F of this chapter
Conditional use permit          Type III          Article D of this chapter
Home occupation                 No permit, except when required by article G of
                                this chapter
Legal lot determination         Type I            Chapter 1, article D of this
                                                  title
Master planned development:                       
 Concept plan                  Type III          Article H of this chapter
 Detailed plan                 Type I            Article H of this chapter
Modification to approval or     Type I, II or III Article E of this chapter
condition of approval
Nonconforming use or structure, Type I, II or III Chapter 1, article E of this
expansion of                                      title
Parking determination           Type I            Chapter 3, article E of this
                                                  title
Partition or replat of 2 - 3                      
lots:
 Preliminary plat              Type III          Article C of this chapter
 Final plat                    Type I            Article C of this chapter
Property line adjustments,      Type I            Article C of this chapter
including lot consolidations
Site design review              Type II or III    Article B of this chapter
Subdivision or replat of >3                       
lots:
 Preliminary plat              Type III          Article C of this chapter
 Final plat                    Type I            Article C of this chapter
Variance                        Type III          Article G of this chapter
Zoning district map change      Type III or IV    Article F of this chapter
 
   Note:
      1.    The applicant may be required to obtain building permits and other
approvals from other agencies, such as a road authority or natural resource
regulatory agency. The city's failure to notify the applicant of any
requirement or procedure of another agency shall not invalidate a permit or
other decision made by the city under this code.
(Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4A-2: TYPE I PROCEDURE (STAFF REVIEW AND ZONING CHECKLIST):
   A.   Type I Procedure (Staff Review): The city manager, or his or her
designee, without public notice and without a public hearing, makes ministerial
decisions through the type I procedure. Ministerial decisions are those where
city standards and criteria do not require the exercise of discretion (i.e.,
clear and objective standards).
   B.   Zoning Checklist: The city manager reviews proposals requiring a type I
review using a zoning checklist. The zoning checklist is a preliminary review
that is intended to ensure a project proposal meets the basic requirements of
chapter 2 of this title (zoning) before more detailed plans are prepared and
before the city authorizes the building official to issue a building permit.
   C.   Application Requirements:
      1.   Application Forms: Approvals requiring type I review, including
zoning checklists, shall be made on forms provided by the city.
      2.   Application Requirements: When a zoning checklist is required, it
shall:
         a.   Include the information requested on the application form;
         b.   Address the criteria in sufficient detail for review and action;
and
         c.   Be filed with the required fee. Fees are required to defray the
cost and expenses incurred by the city. Fees are as set by city council
resolution.
   D.   Requirements: The city shall not act upon an application for land use
approval and a building permit shall not be issued until the city manager has
approved a zoning checklist for the proposed project.
   E.   Criteria And Decision: The city manager's review of a zoning checklist
is intended to determine whether minimum code requirements are met and whether
any other land use permit or approval is required prior to issuance of a
building permit.
   F.   Effective Date: A zoning checklist decision is final on the date it is
signed by the city manager. It is not a land use decision as defined by Oregon
Revised Statutes 197.015, and therefore is not subject to appeal to the state
land use board of appeals. See also section
9-1A-8, "Zoning Checklists And Coordination Of Building Permits", of this
title. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4A-3: TYPE II PROCEDURE (ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW WITH NOTICE):
The city manager, or his or her designee performs administrative staff reviews
through the type II procedure. Type II decisions are made by the city manager
with public notice and an opportunity for appeal to the planning commission.
Alternatively, the city manager may refer a type II application to the planning
commission for its review and decision in a public meeting.
   A.   Preapplication And Application Requirements:
      1.   Preapplication Meeting: Prior to submitting an application for type
II review, the applicant shall meet with city staff to verify the application
requirements, criteria, and review procedure.
      2.   Application Forms: Applications for projects requiring
administrative review shall be made on forms provided by the city manager.
      3.   Submittal Information: The city manager shall advise the applicant
on application submittal requirements. At a minimum, the application shall
include all of the following information:
         a.   The information requested on the application form;
         b.   Plans and exhibits required for the specific approval(s) being
sought (for example, requirements for property line adjustments are in article
C of this chapter);
         c.   A written statement or letter explaining how the application
satisfies each and all of the relevant criteria and standards in sufficient
detail; and
         d.   Information demonstrating compliance with prior decision(s) and
conditions of approval for the subject site, as applicable; and
         e.   The required fee. Be filed with the required fee. Fees are
required to defray the cost and expenses incurred by the city. Fees are as set
by city council resolution.
   B.   Procedure:
      1.   The city manager shall mail notice of a pending type II decision to
the following individuals and agencies not less than fourteen (14) days prior
to making the type II decision.
      2.   The purpose of the administrative decision notice is to give nearby
property owners and other interested people and agencies the opportunity to
submit written comments on the application before the planning official issues
the decision. The intent is to invite people to participate early in the
decision making process. Therefore, all of the following individuals and
agencies shall be notified:
         a.   All owners of record of real property within a minimum of one
hundred feet (100') of the site;
         b.   Any person who submits a written request to receive a notice; and
         c.   Any governmental agency that is entitled to notice under an
intergovernmental agreement entered into with the city and any other affected
agencies. At a minimum, the city manager shall notify the road authority if
different than the city of Nyssa. The failure of another agency to respond with
written comments on a pending application shall not invalidate an action or
permit approval made by the city under this title.
      3.   The notice of pending administrative decision, at a minimum, shall
contain all of the following information:
         a.   The deadline for submitting written comments, which must be at
least fourteen (14) days prior to the scheduled decision date or, as
applicable, the scheduled planning commission meeting date where an application
is referred to the commission for review.
         b.   A summary of the proposal and the relevant approval criteria. The
notice must have sufficient detail to help the public identify and locate
applicable code requirements.
         c.   The address and city contact person for submitting written
comments; and the date, time and location the city manager or planning
commission, as applicable, is scheduled to make a decision on the application.
         d.   The street address or other easily understandable reference to
the location of the proposed use or development.
         e.   Disclosure statement indicating that if any person fails to
address the relevant approval criteria with enough detail, they may not be able
to appeal to the land use board of appeals or circuit court on that issue. Only
comments on the relevant approval criteria are considered relevant evidence.
         f.   Statement that all evidence relied upon by the city manager or
planning commission, as applicable, to make its decision is in the public
record and is available for public review. Copies of this evidence can be
obtained at a reasonable cost from the city.
         g.   Statement that after the comment period closes the city will
issue its decision and the decision shall be mailed to the applicant and to
anyone else who submitted written comments or who is otherwise legally entitled
to notice.
      4.   At the conclusion of the comment period, the city manager shall
review the comments received and prepare a decision notice approving, approving
with conditions, or denying the application based on the applicable code
criteria. Alternatively, the city manager may transmit all written comments
received, if any, along with a copy of the application to the planning
commission for review and decision at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
      5.   Where the city manager refers an application subject to
administrative review to the planning commission, the planning commission shall
approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application through the type II
procedure based on the applicable code criteria. The planning commission may
continue its review to the next meeting to allow the applicant time to respond
to questions, provided the commission must make a final decision within the one
hundred twenty (120) day period prescribed under state law 1  and as described
in section
9-4A-6 of this article. Alternatively, the applicant may voluntarily waive his
or her right to a final decision within the one hundred twenty (120) day time
frame and the commission may decide to accept oral and written testimony in a
public hearing review of the application, pursuant to section
9-4A-4 of this article, in which case a new public notice must be mailed to
those who received the original notice indicating the change to a quasi-
judicial (public hearing) review procedure.
      6.   Within seven (7) days of a type II (administrative) decision, the
city manager shall proceed to prepare a notice of decision and mail it to the
applicant, property owner (if different), the building official, those who
provided written comments on the proposal, and those who requested a copy of
the decision. The city manager shall cause an affidavit of mailing the notice
to be prepared and made a part of the file. The affidavit shall show the date
the notice was mailed and shall demonstrate that the notice was mailed to the
parties above and was mailed within the time required by law.
      7.   The administrative notice of decision shall contain all of the
following information:
         a.   A description of the applicant's proposal and the city's decision
on the proposal. The notice may be a summary, provided it references the
specifics of the proposal and conditions of approval in the public record;
         b.   The address or other geographic description of the property
proposed for development, including a map of the property in relation to the
surrounding area (i.e., copy of assessor's map may be used);
         c.   A statement of where the city's decision can be obtained;
         d.   The date the decision shall become final, unless appealed; and
         e.   A statement that all persons entitled to notice may appeal the
decision to city council pursuant to subsection D of this section.
   C.   Effective Date Of Decision: Unless the conditions of approval specify
otherwise, an administrative decision becomes effective twelve (12) days after
the city mails the decision notice unless the decision is appealed pursuant to
subsection D of this section.
   D.   Appeal Of Type II (Administrative) Decision: A type II administrative
decision made by the city manager may be appealed to the city planning
commission; and a type II administrative decision made by the planning
commission may be appealed to the city council, as applicable, pursuant to the
following:
      1.   Who May Appeal: The following people have legal standing to appeal a
type II administrative decision:
         a.   The applicant or owner of the subject property;
         b.   Any person who was entitled to written notice of the type II
decision;
         c.   Any other person who participated in the proceeding by submitting
written comments on the application to the city by the specified deadline.
      2.   Appeal Filing Procedure:
         a.   Notice Of Appeal: Any person with standing to appeal, as provided
in subsection D1 of this section, may appeal a type II administrative decision
by filing a notice of appeal according to the following procedures.
         b.   Time For Filing: A notice of appeal shall be filed with the city
manager within the time frame specified on the notice of decision; typically,
this will be within ten (10) days of the date the notice of decision is mailed.
         c.   Content Of Notice Of Appeal: The notice of appeal shall be
accompanied by the required filing fee and shall contain:
            (1)   An identification of the decision being appealed, including
the date of the decision;
            (2)   A statement demonstrating the person filing the notice of
appeal has standing to appeal;
            (3)   A statement explaining the specific issues being raised on
appeal; and
            (4)   If the appellant is not the applicant, a statement
demonstrating that the appeal issues were raised during the comment period.
      3.   Scope Of Appeal: The appeal of a type II administrative decision
shall be a hearing de novo either before the planning commission, where the
contested decision was made by the city manager, or before the city council,
where the planning commission made the contested decision. The appeal shall not
be limited to the application materials, evidence and other documentation, and
specific issues raised in the review leading up to the administrative decision,
but may include other relevant evidence and arguments. The hearing appeal body
may allow additional evidence, testimony or argument concerning any relevant
standard, criterion, condition, or issue.
      4.   Appeal Hearing Procedure: Hearings on appeals of type II decisions
shall follow the same procedure used for public hearings on type III reviews
under section
9-4A-4 of this article. Section
9-4A-4 of this article contains requirements for public hearing notices,
conduct of hearings, and decision making procedures. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. ORS 227.178.
9-4A-4: TYPE III PROCEDURE (QUASI-JUDICIAL REVIEW; PUBLIC HEARING):
Type III decisions are made by the planning commission after a public hearing,
with an opportunity for appeal to the city council.
   A.   Preapplication And Application Requirements:
      1.   Preapplication Meeting: Prior to submitting an application for type
III review, the applicant shall meet with city staff to verify the application
requirements, criteria, and review procedures.
      2.   Application Forms: Applications requiring quasi-judicial review
shall be made on forms provided by the city manager.
      3.   Submittal Information: The city manager shall advise the applicant
on application submittal requirements. At a minimum, the application shall
include all of the following information:
         a.   The information requested on the application form;
         b.   Plans and exhibits required for the specific approval(s) being
sought;
         c.   A written statement or letter explaining how the application
satisfies each and all of the relevant criteria and standards in sufficient
detail; and
         d.   Information demonstrating compliance with prior decision(s) and
conditions of approval for the subject site, as applicable; and
         e.   The required fee. Be filed with the required fee. Fees are
required to defray the cost and expenses incurred by the city. Fees are as set
by city council resolution.
   B.   Procedure:
      1.   Mailed And Posted Notice:
         a.   The city shall mail public notice of a public hearing on a quasi-
judicial application at least twenty (20) days before the hearing date to the
individuals and organizations listed below. The city manager shall prepare an
affidavit of notice, which shall be made a part of the file. The affidavit
shall state the date that the notice was mailed. Notice shall be mailed to:
            (1)   All owners of record of real property located within a
minimum of one hundred feet (100') of the subject site;
            (2)   Any person who submits a written request to receive a notice;
and
            (3)   Any governmental agency that is entitled to notice under an
intergovernmental agreement entered into with the city and any other affected
agencies. At a minimum, the city manager shall notify the road authority if
different than the city of Nyssa. The failure of another agency to respond with
written comments on a pending application shall not invalidate an action or
permit approval made by the city under this title.
         b.   At least fourteen (14) days before the hearing, the applicant or
applicant's representative shall post notice of the hearing on the project site
in clear view from a public right of way using a poster format prescribed by
the city manager. The applicant shall submit an affidavit of notice using a
form provided by the city, which shall be made a part of the file. The
affidavit shall state the date that the notice was posted.
      2.   Content Of Notice: Notice of a quasi-judicial hearing to be mailed
and published per subsection B1 of this section shall contain all of the
following information:
         a.   A summary of the proposal and the relevant approval criteria. The
notice must have sufficient detail to help the public identify and locate
applicable code requirements;
         b.   The date, time and location of the scheduled hearing;
         c.   The street address or other easily understandable reference to
the location of the proposed use or development;
         d.   A disclosure statement that if any person fails to address the
relevant approval criteria with enough detail, they may not be able to appeal
to the city council, land use board of appeals, or circuit court, as
applicable, on that issue. Only comments on the relevant approval criteria are
considered relevant evidence;
         e.   A statement that a copy of the application, all documents and
evidence submitted by or for the applicant, and the applicable criteria and
standards shall be available for review at the office of the city manager and
that copies shall be provided at a reasonable cost;
         f.   A statement that a copy of the city's staff report and
recommendation to the hearing body shall be available for review at no cost at
least seven (7) days before the hearing, and that a copy shall be provided on
request at a reasonable cost;
         g.   A general explanation of the requirements to submit testimony,
and the procedure for conducting public hearings; and
         h.   A statement that after the public hearing closes, the city will
issue its decision, and the decision shall be mailed to the applicant and to
anyone else who submitted written comments or who is otherwise legally entitled
to notice.
   C.   Staff Report: The city manager or his or her designee shall prepare a
staff report summarizing the project proposal and reviewing it against the
applicable approval criteria. The staff report shall contain a recommendation
of approval, denial, or approval with conditions for consideration by the
hearing body. The staff report shall be available for public review at city
hall at no cost at least seven (7) days before the hearing. Additional copies
shall be made available to the public for purchase at cost.
   D.   Conduct Of Public Hearing:
      1.   At the commencement of the hearing, the chairperson of the
commission or mayor, as applicable, or his or her designee, shall state to
those in attendance all of the following information and instructions:
         a.   The applicable approval criteria by code chapter that apply to
the application;
         b.   Testimony and evidence shall concern the approval criteria
described in the staff report, or other criteria in the comprehensive plan or
land use regulations that the person testifying believes to apply to the
decision;
         c.   Failure to raise an issue with sufficient detail to give the
hearing body and the parties an opportunity to respond to the issue may
preclude appeal to the state land use board of appeals on that issue;
         d.   At the conclusion of the initial evidentiary hearing, the hearing
body shall deliberate and make a decision based on the facts and arguments in
the public record. See subsection G, "Record Of Public Hearing", of this
section;
         e.   Any participant may ask the hearing body for an opportunity to
present additional relevant evidence or testimony that is within the scope of
the hearing; if the hearing body grants the request, it will schedule a date to
continue the hearing as provided in subsection D5 of this section, or leave the
record open for additional written evidence or testimony as provided in
subsection D6 of this section.
      2.   The public is entitled to an impartial hearing body as free from
potential conflicts of interest and prehearing ex parte (outside the hearing)
contacts as reasonably possible. Where questions related to ex parte contact
are concerned, members of the hearing body shall follow the guidance for
disclosure of ex parte contacts contained in Oregon Revised Statutes 227.180.
Where a real conflict of interest arises, that member or members or the hearing
body shall not participate in the hearing, except where state law provides
otherwise. Where the appearance of a conflict of interest is likely, that
member or members of the hearing body shall individually disclose their
relationship to the applicant in the public hearing and state whether they are
capable of rendering a fair and impartial decision. If they are unable to
render a fair and impartial decision, they shall be excused from the
proceedings.
      3.   Presenting and receiving evidence.
         a.   The hearing body may set reasonable time limits for oral
presentations and may limit or exclude cumulative, repetitious, irrelevant or
personally derogatory testimony or evidence.
         b.   No oral testimony shall be accepted after the close of the public
hearing. Written testimony may be received after the close of the public
hearing only as provided by this section.
         c.   Members of the hearing body may visit the property and the
surrounding area, and may use information obtained during the site visit to
support their decision, if the information relied upon is disclosed at the
beginning of the hearing and an opportunity is provided to dispute the
evidence.
      4.   The hearing body, in making its decision, shall consider only facts
and arguments in the public hearing record; except that it may take notice of
facts not in the hearing record (e.g., local, state, or federal regulations;
previous city decisions; case law; staff reports). Upon announcing its
intention to take notice of such facts in its deliberations, it must allow
persons who previously participated in the hearing to request the hearing
record be reopened, as necessary, to present evidence concerning the newly
presented facts.
      5.   If the hearing body decides to continue the hearing, the hearing
shall be continued to a date that is at least seven (7) days after the date of
the first evidentiary hearing (e.g., next regularly scheduled meeting). An
opportunity shall be provided at the continued hearing for persons to present
and respond to new written evidence and oral testimony. If new written evidence
is submitted at the continued hearing, any person may request, before the
conclusion of the hearing, that the record be left open for at least seven (7)
days, so that they can submit additional written evidence or arguments in
response to the new written evidence. In the interest of time, after the close
of the hearing, the hearing body may limit additional testimony to arguments
and not accept additional evidence.
      6.   If the hearing body leaves the record open for additional written
testimony, the record shall be left open for at least seven (7) days after the
hearing. Any participant may ask the hearing body in writing for an opportunity
to respond to new evidence (i.e., information not disclosed during the public
hearing) submitted when the record was left open. If such a request is filed,
the hearing body shall reopen the record, as follows:
         a.   When the record is reopened to admit new evidence or arguments
(testimony), any person may raise new issues that relate to that new evidence
or testimony;
         b.   An extension of the hearing or record granted pursuant to this
section is subject to the limitations of section
9-4A-6 of this article, Oregon Revised Statutes 227.178, "one hundred twenty
(120) day rule", unless the applicant waives his or her right to a final
decision being made within one hundred twenty (120) days of filing a complete
application; and
         c.   If requested by the applicant, the hearing body shall grant the
applicant at least seven (7) days after the record is closed to all other
persons to submit final written arguments, but not evidence, provided the
applicant may expressly waive this right.
      7.   The notice of quasi-judicial decision shall contain all of the
following information:
         a.   A description of the applicant's proposal and the city's decision
on the proposal. The notice may be a summary, provided it references the
specifics of the proposal and conditions of approval in the public record;
         b.   The address or other geographic description of the property
proposed for development, including a map of the property in relation to the
surrounding area (i.e., copy of assessor's map may be used);
         c.   A statement of where the city's decision can be obtained;
         d.   The date the decision shall become final, unless appealed; and
         e.   A statement that all persons entitled to notice may appeal the
planning commission's decision to city council pursuant to subsection F of this
section, or may appeal the city council's decision to the state land use board
of appeals, as applicable.
   E.   Effective Date Of Decision: Unless the conditions of approval specify
otherwise, a quasi-judicial decision becomes effective ten (10) days after the
city mails the decision notice unless the decision is appealed pursuant to
subsection F of this section.
   F.   Appeal Of Planning Commission Decision: The planning commission's
decision may be appealed to the city council as follows:
      1.   Who May Appeal: The following people have legal standing to appeal:
         a.   The applicant or owner of the subject property; and
         b.   Any person who testified orally or in writing during planning
commission hearing before the close of the public record.
      2.   Appeal Filing Procedure:
         a.   Notice Of Appeal: Any person with standing to appeal, as provided
in subsection F1 of this section, may appeal a type III quasi-judicial decision
by filing a notice of appeal according to the following procedures.
         b.   Time For Filing: A notice of appeal shall be filed with the city
manager within the time frame specified on the notice of decision; typically,
this will be within ten (10) days of the date the notice of decision is mailed.
         c.   Content Of Notice Of Appeal: The notice of appeal shall be
accompanied by the required filing fee and shall contain:
            (1)   An identification of the decision being appealed, including
the date of the decision;
            (2)   A statement demonstrating the person filing the notice of
appeal has standing to appeal;
            (3)   A statement explaining the specific issues being raised on
appeal; and
            (4)   If the appellant is not the applicant, a statement
demonstrating that the appeal issues were raised during the comment period.
      3.   Scope Of Appeal: The appeal of a type III quasi-judicial decision
shall be a hearing de novo before the city council. The appeal shall not be
limited to the application materials, evidence and other documentation, and
specific issues raised in the review leading up to the quasi-judicial decision,
but may include other relevant evidence and arguments. The hearing appeal body
may allow additional evidence, testimony or argument concerning any applicable
standard, criterion, condition, or issue.
   G.   Record Of Public Hearing:
      1.   The official public hearing record shall include all of the
following information:
         a.   All materials considered by the hearing body;
         b.   All materials submitted by the city manager to the hearing body
regarding the application;
         c.   The minutes of the hearing;
         d.   The final written decision; and
         e.   Copies of all notices given as required by this article, and
correspondence regarding the application that the city mailed or received.
      2.   The meeting minutes shall be filed in hard copy form with the city
manager. The minutes and other evidence presented as a part of the hearing
shall be part of the record.
      3.   All exhibits received and displayed shall be marked to provide
identification and shall be part of the record.
   H.   Effective Date And Appeals To State Land Use Board Of Appeals: A quasi-
judicial decision or appeal decision, as applicable, is effective the date the
city mails the decision notice. Appeals of city council decisions under this
article shall be filed with the state land use board of appeals pursuant to
Oregon Revised Statutes 197.805 through 197.860. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4A-5: TYPE IV PROCEDURE (LEGISLATIVE REVIEW):
   A.   Timing Of Requests: The city council may establish a schedule for when
it will accept legislative code amendment or plan amendment requests, or the
city council may initiate its own legislative proposals at any time.
Legislative requests are not subject to the one hundred twenty (120) day review
period under Oregon Revised Statutes 227.178.
   B.   Application Requirements:
      1.   Application Forms: Legislative applications shall be made on forms
provided by the city manager.
      2.   Submittal Information: The application shall contain all of the
following information:
         a.   The information requested on the application form;
         b.   A map and/or plan addressing the appropriate criteria and
standards in sufficient detail for review and decision (as applicable);
         c.   The required fee, except when city initiates the request; and
         d.   One copy of a letter or narrative statement that explains how the
application satisfies each and all of the relevant approval criteria and
standards.
   C.   Procedure: Hearings on legislative land use requests are conducted
similar to city council hearings on other legislative proposals, except the
notification procedure for legislative land use requests must conform to state
land use laws 1 , as follows:
      1.   The city manager shall notify in writing the Oregon department of
land conservation and development (DLCD) of legislative amendments (zone
change, rezoning with annexation, or comprehensive plan amendment) at least
thirty five (35) days before the first public hearing at which public testimony
or new evidence will be received. The notice shall include a DLCD certificate
of mailing.
      2.   At least twenty (20) days, but not more than forty (40) days, before
the date of the first hearing on an ordinance that proposes to amend the
comprehensive plan or any element thereof, or to adopt an ordinance for any
zone change, a notice shall be prepared in conformance with Oregon Revised
Statutes 227.175 and mailed to:
         a.   Each owner whose property would be directly affected by the
proposal (e.g., rezoning or a change from 1 comprehensive plan land use
designation to another). See also Oregon Revised Statutes 227.186 for
instructions;
         b.   Any affected governmental agency;
         c.   Any person who requests notice in writing; and
         d.   For a zone change affecting a manufactured home or mobile home
park, all mailing addresses within the park, in accordance with Oregon Revised
Statutes 227.175.
      3.   At least ten (10) days before the scheduled city council public
hearing date, public notice shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city.
      4.   For each mailing and publication of notice, the city manager shall
keep an affidavit of mailing/publication in the record.
   D.   Final Decision And Effective Date: A legislative land use decision, if
approved, shall take effect and shall become final as specified in the enacting
ordinance, or if not approved, upon mailing of the notice of decision to the
applicant. Notice of a legislative land use decision shall be mailed to the
applicant, all participants of record, and the department of land conservation
and development within twenty (20) business days after the city council
decision is filed with the city manager. The city shall also provide notice to
all persons as required by other applicable laws. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. ORS 227.175.
9-4A-6: TIME LIMIT; CONSOLIDATED REVIEW; CITY MANAGER'S DUTIES:
   A.   Time Limit; One Hundred Twenty Day Rule: The city shall take final
action on administrative and quasi-judicial land use applications, pursuant to
this article, including resolution of all appeals, within one hundred twenty
(120) days from the date the city manager deems the application complete for
purposes of processing, unless the applicant requests an extension in writing.
Any exceptions to this rule shall conform to the provisions of Oregon Revised
Statutes 227.178. (Note: The 120 day rule does not apply to legislative land
use decisions.)
   B.   Time Periods: In computing time periods prescribed or allowed by this
article, the day of the act or event from which the designated period of time
begins shall not be included. The last day of the period shall be included,
unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, in which case the period
runs until the end of the next day that is not on a weekend or legal holiday.
   C.   Consolidated Review Of Applications: When an applicant applies for more
than one type of land use or development permit for the same one or more
contiguous parcels of land, the proceedings shall be consolidated for review
and decision. When proceedings are consolidated, required notices may be
consolidated, provided the notice shall identify each application to be
decided. When more than one application is reviewed in a hearing, separate
findings and decisions shall be made on each application.
   D.   City Manager's Duties: The city manager, or his or her designee, shall
perform all of the following duties with regard to administration of this
title:
      1.   Prepare application forms based on the provisions of this title and
applicable state law;
      2.   Prepare required notices, and process applications for review and
action;
      3.   Assist planning commission and city council in administering the
hearings process;
      4.   Answer questions from the public regarding the city's land use
regulations;
      5.   Prepare staff reports summarizing pending applications, including
applicable decision criteria;
      6.   Prepare findings consistent with city decisions on land use and
development applications;
      7.   Prepare notices of final decisions, file the notices in the city's
records and mail a copy of the notices to all parties entitled to notice under
this title; and
      8.   Maintain and preserve the file and public record for each
application. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
ARTICLE B. SITE DESIGN REVIEW
SECTION:
9-4B-1: Purpose
9-4B-2: Applicability
9-4B-3: Review Procedure
9-4B-4: Application Submission Requirements
9-4B-5: Approval Criteria
9-4B-6: Assurances
9-4B-7: Compliance With Conditions; Modifications; Permit Expiration
9-4B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to advance all of the following objectives in
the public interest:
   A.   Carry out the development pattern and plan of the city and its
comprehensive plan policies through efficient and effective review of site
development proposals;
   B.   Promote the public health, safety and general welfare;
   C.   Provide adequate light and air, prevent overcrowding of land, and
provide for adequate transportation, water supply, sewage, fire protection,
pollution control, surface water management, and protection against natural
hazards; and
   D.   Encourage efficient use of land resources and public services, and the
provision of transportation options. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4B-2: APPLICABILITY:
Site design review approval is required for new development. Site design review
approval is also required to expand a nonconforming use or development. Except
as specified by a condition of approval on a prior city decision, or as
required for uses subject to conditional use permit approval, site design
review is not required for the following:
   A.   Change in occupancy from one type of land use to a different land use
resulting in no increase in vehicular traffic or development.
   B.   Single-family detached dwelling (including manufactured home).
   C.   A single duplex.
   D.   Building addition of up to five hundred (500) square feet or ten
percent (10%), whichever is greater.
   E.   Home occupation, except for uses requiring a conditional use permit.
   F.   Development and land uses that are already approved as part of a site
design review or conditional use permit application, provided modifications to
such plans may require site design review, pursuant to article G of this
chapter.
   G.   Public improvements required by city standards or as stipulated by a
condition of land use approval (e.g., transportation facilities and
improvements, parks, trails, utilities, and similar improvements), as
determined by the city manager, except where a condition of approval requires
site design review.
   H.   Regular maintenance, repair and replacement of materials (e.g., roof,
siding, awnings, etc.), parking resurfacing and similar maintenance and repair
shall be exempt from review. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4B-3: REVIEW PROCEDURE:
Site design review shall be conducted using the type II procedure in section
9-4A-3 of this chapter, except that proposals exceeding the thresholds below
shall be reviewed using the type III procedure in section
9-4A-4 of this chapter:
   A.   The proposed use's estimated vehicle trip generation exceeds one
hundred (100) average daily trips, based on the latest edition of the
"Institute Of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Manual". This is the equivalent of
approximately ten (10) dwelling units; or
   B.   The use exceeds five thousand (5,000) square feet of gross leasable
floor area; or the project involves more than one acre total site area; or
   C.   The proposal involves a conditional use (new or expanded); or
   D.   The proposal involves a variance under article G of this chapter; or
   E.   The proposal involves expansion of a nonconforming use; or
   F.   The city manager determines that, due to the nature of the proposal, a
public hearing is the most effective way to solicit public input in reviewing
the application. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4B-4: APPLICATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS:
All of the following information is required for site design review application
submittal, except where the city manager determines that some information is
not pertinent and therefore is not required.
   A.   General Submission Requirements:
      1.   Information: Information required for type II or type III review, as
applicable (see article A of this chapter); and
      2.   Public Facilities And Services Impact Study: The impact study shall
quantify and assess the effect of the development on public facilities and
services. The city shall advise as to the scope of the study. The study shall
address, at a minimum, the transportation system, including required
improvements for vehicles and pedestrians; the drainage system; the parks
system; water system; and sewer system. For each system and type of impact, the
study shall propose improvements necessary to meet city requirements. The city
may require a traffic impact analysis pursuant to subsection 9-3F-2A3 of this
title.
   B.   Site Design Review Information: In addition to the general submission
requirements, an applicant for site design review shall provide the following
information, as deemed applicable by the city manager. The city manager may
request any information that he or she needs to review the proposal and prepare
a complete staff report and recommendation to the approval body:
      1.   Site Analysis Map: The site analysis map shall contain the following
information, as the city manager deems applicable:
         a.   The applicant's entire property and the surrounding property to a
distance sufficient to determine the location of the development in the city,
and the relationship between the proposed development site and adjacent
property and development. The property boundaries, dimensions and gross area
shall be identified.
         b.   Topographic contour lines at two foot (2') intervals for slopes,
except where the city engineer or public works designee determines that larger
intervals are acceptable.
         c.   The location and width of all public and private streets, drives,
sidewalks, pathways, rights of way, and easements on the site and adjoining the
site.
         d.   Potential natural hazard areas, including, as applicable, the
base flood elevation identified on FEMA flood insurance rate maps or as
otherwise determined through site specific survey, areas subject to high water
table, and areas designated by the city, county, or state as having a potential
for geologic hazards.
         e.   Areas subject to overlay zones.
         f.   Site features, including existing structures, pavement, large
rock outcroppings, areas having unique views, and drainageways, canals and
ditches.
         g.   The location, size and species of trees and other vegetation
(outside proposed building envelope) having a caliper (diameter) of six inches
(6") greater at four feet (4') above grade.
         h.   North arrow, scale, names and addresses of all persons listed as
owners of the subject property on the most recently recorded deed.
         i.   Name and address of project designer, engineer, surveyor, and/or
planner, if applicable.
      2.   Proposed Site Plan: The site plan shall contain the following
information:
         a.   The proposed development site, including boundaries, dimensions,
and gross area.
         b.   Features identified on the existing site analysis maps that are
proposed to remain on the site.
         c.   Features identified on the existing site map, if any, which are
proposed to be removed or modified by the development.
         d.   The location and dimensions of all proposed public and private
streets, drives, rights of way, and easements.
         e.   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed
structures, utilities, pavement and other improvements on the site. Setback
dimensions for all existing and proposed buildings shall be provided on the
site plan.
         f.   The location and dimensions of entrances and exits to the site
for vehicular, pedestrian, and bicycle access.
         g.   The location and dimensions of all parking and vehicle
circulation areas (show striping for parking stalls and wheel stops).
         h.   Pedestrian and bicycle circulation areas, including sidewalks,
internal pathways, pathway connections to adjacent properties, and any bicycle
lanes or trails.
         i.   Loading and service areas for waste disposal, loading and
delivery.
         j.   Outdoor recreation spaces, common areas, plazas, outdoor seating,
street furniture, and similar improvements.
         k.   Location, type, and height of outdoor lighting.
         l.   Location of mailboxes, if known.
         m.   Name and address of project designer, if applicable.
         n.   Locations of bus stops and other public or private transportation
facilities.
         o.   Locations, sizes, and types of signs.
      3.   Architectural Drawings: Architectural drawings, as applicable:
         a.   Building elevations with dimensions.
         b.   Building materials, colors and type.
         c.   Name and contact information of the architect or designer.
      4.   Preliminary Grading Plan: A preliminary grading plan prepared by a
civil engineer registered in the state of Oregon shall be required for
development sites one-half (1/2) acre or larger, or where otherwise required by
the city. The preliminary grading plan shall show the location and extent to
which grading will take place, indicating general changes to contour lines,
slope ratios, slope stabilization proposals, and location and height of
retaining walls, if proposed. Surface water detention and treatment plans may
also be required, in accordance with section
9-3F-5 of this title.
      5.   Landscape Plan: Where a landscape plan is required, it shall show
the following, pursuant to chapter 3, article D of this title:
         a.   The location and height of existing and proposed fences,
buffering or screening materials.
         b.   The location of existing and proposed terraces, retaining walls,
decks, patios, shelters, and play areas.
         c.   The location, size, and species of the existing and proposed
plant materials (at time of planting).
         d.   Existing and proposed building and pavement outlines.
         e.   Specifications for soil at time of planting, irrigation if
plantings are not drought tolerant (may be automatic or other approved method
of irrigation) and anticipated planting schedule.
         f.   Other information as deemed appropriate by the city manager. An
arborist's report may be required for sites with mature trees that are to be
retained and protected.
      6.   Deed Restrictions: Copies of all existing and proposed restrictions
or covenants, including those for roadway access control.
      7.   Narrative: Letter or narrative report documenting compliance with
the applicable approval criteria contained in section
9-4B-5 of this article.
      8.   Traffic Impact Analysis: When required by subsection 9-3F-2A3 of
this title.
      9.   Other Information: Other information determined by the city manager.
The city may require studies or exhibits prepared by qualified professionals to
address specific site features or project impacts (e.g., traffic, noise,
environmental features, natural hazards, etc.), as necessary to determine a
proposal's conformance with this title. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4B-5: APPROVAL CRITERIA:
An application for site design review shall be approved if the proposal meets
all of the following criteria. The city decision making body may, in approving
the application, impose reasonable conditions of approval, consistent with the
applicable criteria.
   A.   The application is complete, in accordance with section
9-4B-4 of this article.
   B.   The application complies with all of the applicable provisions of the
underlying land use district (chapter 2 of this title), including, but not
limited to: building and yard setbacks, lot area and dimensions, density and
floor area, lot coverage, building height, building orientation, architecture,
and other applicable standards.
   C.   The proposal includes required upgrades, if any, to existing
development that does not comply with the applicable land use district
standards, pursuant to chapter 1, article E, "Nonconforming Situations", of
this title.
   D.   The proposal complies with all of the development and design standards
of chapter 3 of this title, as applicable, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Chapter 3, article C, "Access And Circulation", of this title;
      2.   Chapter 3, article D, "Landscaping, Fences And Walls; Outdoor
Lighting", of this title;
      3.   Chapter 3, article E, "Parking And Loading", of this title;
      4.   Chapter 3, article F, "Public Facilities", of this title; and
      5.   Chapter 3, article G, "Signs", of this title.
   E.   For nonresidential uses, all adverse impacts to adjacent properties,
such as light, glare, noise, odor, vibration, smoke, dust, or visual impact,
are avoided; or where impacts cannot be avoided, they are minimized.
   F.   The proposal meets all existing conditions of approval for the site or
use, as required by prior land use decision(s), as applicable.
Note: Compliance with other city codes and requirements, though not applicable
land use criteria, may be required prior to issuance of building permits. (Ord.
635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4B-6: ASSURANCES:
Public improvement required as part of a site design review approval shall be
subject to the performance guarantee and warranty bond provisions of section
9-3F-10 of this title, as applicable. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4B-7: COMPLIANCE WITH CONDITIONS; MODIFICATIONS; PERMIT EXPIRATION:
Development shall not commence until the applicant has received all applicable
land use and development approvals. Construction of public improvements shall
not commence until the city has approved all required public improvement plans
(e.g., utilities, streets, public land dedication, etc.). The city may require
bonding or other assurances for improvements. Site design review approvals are
subject to all of the following standards and limitations:
   A.   Approval Period: Site design review approvals shall be effective for a
period of one year from the date of approval. The approval shall lapse if:
      1.   A public improvement plan or building permit application for the
project has not been submitted within one year of approval; or
      2.   Construction on the site is in violation of the approved plan.
   B.   Extension: The city manager, upon written request by the applicant, may
grant a written extension of the approval period not to exceed one year;
provided, that:
      1.   No changes are made on the original approved plan;
      2.   The applicant can show intent of initiating construction on the site
within the one year extension period;
      3.   There have been no changes to the applicable code provisions on
which the approval was based. If there have been changes to the applicable code
provisions and the subject plan does not comply with those changes, then the
extension shall not be granted; in this case, a new site design review shall be
required; and
      4.   The applicant demonstrates that failure to obtain building permits
and substantially begin construction within one year of site design approval
was beyond the applicant's control.
   C.   Modifications To Approved Plans And Developments: Modifications to
approved plans are subject to city review and approval under article E of this
chapter. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
ARTICLE C. LAND DIVISIONS AND PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENTS
SECTION:
9-4C-1: Purpose
9-4C-2: General Requirements
9-4C-3: Preliminary Plat Approval Process
9-4C-4: Preliminary Plat Submission Requirements
9-4C-5: Preliminary Plat Approval Criteria
9-4C-6: Land Division; Related Variances
9-4C-7: Final Plat Submission Requirements And Approval Criteria
9-4C-8: Filing And Recording
9-4C-9: Replatting And Vacation Of Plats
9-4C-10: Preplanning For Annexations
9-4C-11: Property Line Adjustments
9-4C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to implement the objectives in the following
subsections:
   A.   Provide rules, regulations and standards governing the approval of
subdivisions, partitions and property line adjustments as follows:
      1.   Subdivisions are the creation of four (4) or more lots from one
parent lot, parcel or tract, within one calendar year.
      2.   Partitions are the creation of three (3) or fewer lots from one
parent lot, parcel, or tract within one calendar year.
      3.   Property line adjustments are modifications to lot lines or parcel
boundaries that do not result in the creation of new lots (includes
consolidation of lots).
   B.   Carry out the city's development pattern, as envisioned by the city's
comprehensive plan.
   C.   Encourage efficient use of land resources and public services, and to
provide transportation options.
   D.   Promote the public health, safety and general welfare through orderly
and efficient urbanization.
   E.   Provide adequate light and air, prevent overcrowding of land, and
provide for adequate transportation, water supply, sewage, fire protection,
pollution control, surface water management, and protection against natural
hazards. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4C-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Subdivision And Partition Approval Through Two Step Process:
Applications for subdivision or partition approval shall be processed by means
of a preliminary plat evaluation and a final plat evaluation, according to the
following two (2) steps:
      1.   The preliminary plat must be approved before the final plat can be
submitted for approval consideration; and
      2.   The final plat must demonstrate compliance with all conditions of
approval of the preliminary plat.
Note: Property line adjustments and lot consolidation requests (i.e., no new
lot is created) are subject to section
9-4C-11 of this article; they are not subject to sections
9-4C-2 through
9-4C-9 of this article.
   B.   Compliance With Oregon Revised Statutes 92: All subdivision and
partition proposals shall conform to state regulations in Oregon Revised
Statutes 92, subdivisions and partitions.
   C.   Future Redivision Plan: When subdividing or partitioning tracts into
large lots (i.e., greater than 3 times or 300 percent of the minimum lot size
allowed by the underlying land use district), the lots shall be of such size,
shape, and orientation as to facilitate future redivision and extension of
streets and utilities. The applicant shall submit a future redivision plan, or
shadow plan, indicating how redivision of oversized lots and extension of
planned public facilities to adjacent parcels can occur in the future.
   D.   Adequate Utilities: All lots created through land division shall have
adequate public utilities and facilities such as streets, water, sewer, gas,
and electrical systems, pursuant to chapter 3, article F of this title. These
systems shall be located and constructed underground where feasible.
   E.   Adequate Drainage: All subdivision and partition proposals shall have
adequate surface water drainage facilities that reduce exposure to flood damage
and improve water quality. Water quality or quantity control improvements may
be required, pursuant to chapter 3, article F of this title.
   F.   Adequate Access: All lots created or reconfigured shall have adequate
vehicle access and parking, as may be required, pursuant to chapter 3, article
C of this title. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4C-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL PROCESS:
   A.   Review Of Preliminary Plat: Preliminary plats shall be processed using
the type III procedure under section
9-4A-4 of this chapter. All preliminary plats, including partitions and
subdivisions, are subject to the approval criteria in section
9-4C-5 of this article.
   B.   Preliminary Plat Approval Period: Preliminary plat approval shall be
effective for a period of two (2) years from the date of approval. The
preliminary plat shall lapse if a final plat has not been submitted or other
assurance provided, pursuant to section
9-4C-7 of this article, within the two (2) year period. The planning commission
may approve phased subdivisions, pursuant to subsection D of this section, with
an overall time frame of more than two (2) years between preliminary and final
plat approvals.
   C.   Modifications And Extensions: The applicant may request changes to the
approved preliminary plat or conditions of approval following the procedures
and criteria provided in article E of this chapter. The planning commission
may, upon written request by the applicant and payment of the required fee,
grant written extensions of the approval period not to exceed one year per
extension; provided, that all of the following criteria are met:
      1.   Any changes to the preliminary plat follow the procedures in article
E of this chapter;
      2.   The applicant has submitted written intent to file a final plat
within the one year extension period;
      3.   An extension of time will not prevent the lawful development of
abutting properties;
      4.   There have been no changes to the applicable code provisions on
which the approval was based. If such changes have occurred, a new preliminary
plat application shall be required; and
      5.   The extension request is made before expiration of the original
approved plan.
   D.   Phased Subdivision: The planning commission may approve plans for
phasing a subdivision, and changes to approved phasing plans, provided
applicant's proposal meets all of the following criteria:
      1.   In no case shall the construction time period (i.e., for required
public improvements, utilities, streets) for the first subdivision phase be
more than one year;
      2.   Public facilities shall be constructed in conjunction with or prior
to each phase;
      3.   The phased development shall not result in requiring the city or a
third party (e.g., owners of lots) to construct public facilities that are
required as part of the approved development proposal;
      4.   The proposed phasing schedule shall be reviewed with the preliminary
subdivision plat application; and
      5.   Planning commission approval is required for modifications to
phasing plans. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4C-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS:
Applications for preliminary plat approval shall contain all of the following
information:
   A.   General Submission Requirements:
      1.   Information: Information required for a type III review (see section
9-4A-4 of this chapter); and
      2.   Public Facilities And Services Impact Study: The impact study shall
quantify and assess the effect of the development on public facilities and
services. The city shall advise as to the scope of the study, which shall
address, at a minimum, the transportation system, including required
improvements for vehicles and pedestrians; the drainage system; the parks
system (for subdivisions and planned unit developments of 20 or more dwelling
units); water system; and sewer system. For each system and type of impact, the
study shall propose improvements necessary to meet city standards under adopted
ordinances and facility master plans. The city may require a traffic impact
analysis pursuant to subsection 9-3F-2A3 of this title.
   B.   Preliminary Plat Information: In addition to the general information
described in subsection A of this section, the preliminary plat application
shall consist of drawings and supplementary written material (i.e., on forms
and/or in a written narrative) adequate to provide the following information,
in quantities determined by city manager:
      1.   General Information:
         a.   Name of subdivision (partitions are named by year and file
number). This name shall not duplicate the name of another land division in
Malheur County (check with county surveyor);
         b.   Date, north arrow, and scale of drawing;
         c.   Location of the development sufficient to define its location in
the city, boundaries, and a legal description of the site;
         d.   Zoning of parcel to be divided, including any overlay zones; and
         e.   A title block including the names, addresses and telephone
numbers of the owners of the subject property and, as applicable, the name of
the engineer and surveyor, and the date of the survey; and
         f.   Identification of the drawing as a "preliminary plat".
      2.   Existing Conditions: Except where the city manager deems certain
information is not relevant, applications for preliminary plat approval shall
contain all of the following information on existing conditions of the site:
         a.   Streets: Location, name, and present width of all streets, alleys
and rights of way on and abutting the site;
         b.   Easements: Width, location and purpose of all existing easements
of record on and abutting the site;
         c.   Utilities: Location and identity of all utilities on and abutting
the site. If water mains and sewers are not on or abutting the site, indicate
the direction and distance to the nearest one and show how utilities will be
brought to standards;
         d.   Ground Elevations: Ground elevations shown by contour lines at
two foot (2') vertical interval. Such ground elevations shall be related to
some established benchmark or other datum approved by the county surveyor; the
planning commission may waive this standard for partitions when grades, on
average, are less than six percent (6%);
         e.   Benchmark: The location and elevation of the closest benchmark(s)
within or adjacent to the site (i.e., for surveying purposes);
         f.   Base Flood Elevation: The base flood elevation, per FEMA flood
insurance rate maps, as applicable;
         g.   North Arrow And Scale: North arrow and scale; and
         h.   Other Information: Other information, as deemed necessary by the
city manager for review of the application. The city may require studies or
exhibits prepared by qualified professionals to address specific site features
and code requirements.
      3.   Proposed Development: Except where the city manager deems certain
information is not relevant, applications for preliminary plat approval shall
contain all of the following information on the proposed development:
         a.   Proposed Lots, Streets, Etc.: Proposed lots, streets, tracts,
open space and parkland (if any); location, names, right of way dimensions,
approximate radius of street curves; and approximate finished street centerline
grades. All streets and tracts that are being held for private use and all
reservations and restrictions relating to such private tracts shall be
identified;
         b.   Easements: Location, width and purpose of all proposed easements;
         c.   Lots And Private Tracts: Lots and private tracts (e.g., private
open space, common area, or street); approximate dimensions, area calculation
(e.g., in square feet), and identification numbers for all proposed lots and
tracts;
         d.   Proposed Uses Of Property: Proposed uses of the property,
including all areas proposed to be dedicated as public right of way or reserved
as open space for the purpose of surface water management, recreation, or other
use;
         e.   Proposed Public Street Improvements: Proposed public street
improvements, pursuant to chapter 3, article F of this title;
         f.   Slopes: On slopes exceeding an average grade of ten percent
(10%), as determined by the city engineer, the preliminary location of
development on lots (e.g., building envelopes), demonstrating that future
development can meet minimum required setbacks and applicable engineering
design standards;
         g.   Extending Utilities: Preliminary design for extending city water
and sewer service to each lot, per chapter 3, article F of this title;
         h.   Stormwater Drainage: Proposed method of stormwater drainage and
treatment, if required, pursuant to chapter 3, article F of this title;
         i.   Other Utilities: The approximate location and identity of other
utilities, including the locations of street lighting fixtures, as applicable;
         j.   Overlay Zones Compliance: Evidence of compliance with applicable
overlay zones, including, but not limited to, city floodplain overlay; and
         k.   Proposed New Street Connections: Evidence of contact with the
applicable road authority for proposed new street connections. (Ord. 635-13, 6-
11-2013)
9-4C-5: PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL CRITERIA:
   A.   Approval Criteria: The planning commission may approve, approve with
conditions or deny a preliminary plat. The planning commission decision shall
be based on findings of compliance with all of the following approval criteria:
      1.   The land division application shall conform to the requirements of
this article.
      2.   All proposed lots, blocks, and proposed land uses shall conform to
the applicable provisions of chapter 2 of this title (zoning), except as
modified under subsection B of this section.
      3.   Access to individual lots, and public improvements necessary to
serve the development, including, but not limited to, water, sewer and streets,
shall conform to chapter 3, "Community Design Standards", of this title.
      4.   The proposed plat name is not already recorded for another
subdivision, and satisfies the provisions of Oregon Revised Statutes 92.
      5.   The proposed streets, utilities, and surface water drainage
facilities conform to city adopted master plans and applicable engineering
standards, and allow for transitions to existing and potential future
development on adjacent lands. The preliminary plat shall identify all proposed
public improvements and dedications.
      6.   All proposed private common areas and improvements, if any, are
identified on the preliminary plat and maintenance of such areas is assured
through appropriate legal instrument.
      7.   Evidence that any required state and federal permits, as applicable,
have been obtained or can reasonably be obtained prior to development.
      8.   Evidence that improvements or conditions required by the city, road
authority, Malheur County, special districts, utilities, and/or other service
providers, as applicable to the project, have been or can be met.
   B.   Lot Size Averaging: To allow flexibility in subdivision design and to
address physical constraints, such as topography, existing development,
significant trees and other natural and built features, the approval body may
grant a ten percent (10%) modification to the lot area and/or lot dimension
(width/depth) standards in chapter 2, article C of this title; provided, that
the overall density of the subdivision does not exceed the allowable density of
the district and the approval body finds that all of the following are met:
      1.   Granting the modification is necessary to achieve planned housing
densities, as allowed by the underlying zone, or to improve development
compatibility with natural features or adjacent land uses.
      2.   Where a proposed subdivision would abut an existing subdivision with
standard, or larger, sized lots, the perimeter of the proposed subdivision
shall contain standard, or larger, sized lots; except that this provision does
not apply where the existing lots are larger than twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet.
      3.   The planning commission may require screening, buffering, or other
transitions in site design where substandard lots are proposed to abut
standard, or larger, sized lots.
   C.   Emergency Vehicle Access: A drive serving more than one lot shall have
a reciprocal access and maintenance easement recorded for all lots it serves.
No fence, structure or other obstacle shall be placed within the drive area.
Where required, emergency vehicle apparatus lanes, including any required
turnaround, shall conform to applicable building and fire code requirements.
Fire sprinklers may also be required for buildings that cannot be fully served
by fire hydrants (i.e., due to distance from hydrant or insufficient fire
flow).
   D.   Maximum Drive Lane Length: The maximum length of a drive serving more
than one dwelling is subject to requirements of the uniform fire code, but in
no case shall it exceed four hundred feet (400').
   E.   Conditions Of Approval: The planning commission may attach such
conditions as are necessary to carry out provisions of this title, and other
applicable ordinances and regulations. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4C-6: LAND DIVISION; RELATED VARIANCES:
Variances shall be processed in accordance with article G of this chapter.
Applications for variances shall be submitted at the same time an application
for land division or lot line adjustment is submitted; when practical, the
applications shall be reviewed concurrently. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4C-7: FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS AND APPROVAL CRITERIA:
Final plats require review and approval by the planning commission prior to
recording with Malheur County. The final plat submission requirements, approval
criteria, and procedure are as follows:
   A.   Submission Requirements: The applicant shall submit the final plat
within two (2) years of the approval of the preliminary plat as provided by
section
9-4C-5 of this article. The format of the plat shall conform to Oregon Revised
Statutes 92.
   B.   Approval Process And Criteria: By means of a type II review, the
planning commission shall review and approve or deny the final plat application
based on findings of compliance or noncompliance with all of the following
criteria:
      1.   The final plat is consistent in design (e.g., number, area,
dimensions of lots, easements, tracts, right of way) with the approved
preliminary plat, and all conditions of approval have been satisfied;
      2.   All public improvements required by the preliminary plat have been
installed and approved by the city or applicable service provider if different
than the city of Nyssa (e.g., road authority), or otherwise bonded in
conformance with section
9-3F-10 of this title;
      3.   The streets and roads for public use are dedicated without
reservation or restriction other than reversionary rights upon vacation of any
such street or road and easements for public utilities;
      4.   All required streets, accessways, roads, easements, and other
dedications or reservations are shown on the plat;
      5.   The plat and deed contain a dedication to the public of all public
improvements, including, but not limited to, streets, public pathways and
trails, access reserve strips, parks, and water and sewer facilities, as
applicable;
      6.   As applicable, the applicant has furnished acceptable copies of
covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs); easements, maintenance
agreements (e.g., for access, common areas, parking, etc.); and other documents
pertaining to common improvements recorded and referenced on the plat;
      7.   Verification by the city that water and sanitary sewer service is
available to every lot depicted on the plat; and
      8.   The plat contains an affidavit by the surveyor who surveyed the
land, represented on the plat to the effect the land was correctly surveyed and
marked with proper monuments as provided by Oregon Revised Statutes 92,
indicating the initial point of the survey, and giving the dimensions and kind
of such monument and its reference to some corner approved by the Malheur
County surveyor for purposes of identifying its location. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-
2013)
9-4C-8: FILING AND RECORDING:
A new lot is not a legal lot for purposes of ownership (title), sale, lease, or
development/land use until a final plat is recorded for the subdivision or
partition containing the lot is recorded. Requests to validate an existing lot
created through means other than a final plat ("lot of record") shall follow
the procedures set forth in Oregon Revised Statutes 92.010 to 92.190. The final
plat filing and recording requirements are as follows:
   A.   Filing Plat With County: Within sixty (60) days of the city approval of
the final plat, the applicant shall submit the final plat to Malheur County for
signatures of county officials as required by Oregon Revised Statutes 92.
   B.   Proof Of Recording: Upon final recording with the county, the applicant
shall submit to the city a mylar copy and three (3) paper copies of all sheets
of the recorded final plat. This shall occur prior to the issuance of building
permits for the newly created lots.
   C.   Prerequisites To Recording Plat:
      1.   No plat shall be recorded unless all ad valorem taxes and all
special assessments, fees, or other charges required by law to be placed on the
tax roll have been paid in the manner provided by Oregon Revised Statutes 92.
      2.   No plat shall be recorded until the county surveyor approves it in
the manner provided by Oregon Revised Statutes 92. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4C-9: REPLATTING AND VACATION OF PLATS:
Any plat or portion thereof may be replatted or vacated upon receiving an
application signed by all of the owners as appearing on the deed. Except as
required for street vacations, the same procedure and standards that apply to
the creation of a plat (preliminary plat followed by final plat) shall be used
to replat or vacate a plat. Street vacations are subject to Oregon Revised
Statutes 271. A replat or vacation application may be denied if it abridges or
destroys any public right in any of its public uses, improvements, streets or
alleys; or if it fails to meet any applicable city standards. (Ord. 635-13, 6-
11-2013)
9-4C-10: PREPLANNING FOR ANNEXATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: This section requires the preplanning of areas to be annexed
to the city, in conjunction with the application of city zoning to those areas.
The purpose of this section is to avoid piecemeal development and to ensure the
formation of complete neighborhoods with adequate public facilities.
   B.   Applicability: This section applies to proposed annexations of more
than five (5) acres; it applies even where no development or subdivision is
proposed.
   C.   Area Plan Required: Where an application/petition for annexation and
rezoning is subject to this section, the applicant/petitioner shall submit a
conceptual master plan illustrating the types and location of planned streets,
utility corridors, parks, open spaces, and land uses for the ultimate build-out
of the subject property. The plan shall demonstrate how future development,
including any proposed phasing, meets the guidelines under subsection D of this
section.
   D.   Criteria: The conceptual plan required under subsection C of this
section is not required to be engineered but shall have a sufficient level of
detail so that city officials can determine that it meets the following
guidelines:
      1.   Streets are interconnected to the extent practicable; blocks are
walkable in scale (generally not more than 600 feet in length), except where
topography, existing development, or other physical features require longer
blocks, which case pedestrian accessways must connect through long blocks;
      2.   Water, sewer and storm drainage facilities logically extend to serve
the site at build-out, consistent with adopted public facility plans. Where a
public facility plan identifies a need for new capacity related improvements
(e.g., water storage, sewage treatment, pump stations, etc.) in the future, the
plan must describe conceptually how such improvements can be accommodated;
      3.   Overall, the plan is capable of achieving a housing density that is
within eighty (80) to one hundred percent (100%) of planned densities,
consistent with the comprehensive plan and development code; and
      4.   The plan reserves land needed for public use (e.g., schools, parks,
fire stations, and other facilities), in accordance with the comprehensive plan
and to the extent allowed under applicable law.
   E.   Implementation: The city will review the conceptual master plan
required by this section and provide input to the applicant during the
annexation process. The city may also refer the plan to outside agencies with
jurisdiction for their input. The master plan is not binding but the applicant
is encouraged to refine the plan based on the city input before submitting a
development application for the subject property. The applicant is also
encouraged to contact adjacent property owners and solicit their input prior to
submitting a development application. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4C-11: PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENTS:
A property line adjustment is the modification of lot boundary when no lot is
created. The city manager reviews applications for property line adjustments
pursuant to the type I procedure under section
9-4A-2 of this chapter. The application submission and approval process for
property line adjustments is as follows:
   A.   Submission Requirements: All applications for property line adjustment
shall be made on forms provided by the city and shall include information
required for a type I review, pursuant to section
9-4A-2 of this chapter. The application shall include a preliminary lot line
map drawn to scale identifying all existing and proposed lot lines and
dimensions; footprints and dimensions of existing structures (including
accessory structures); location and dimensions of driveways and public and
private streets within or abutting the subject lots; location of lands subject
to the city floodplain overlay; existing fences and walls; and any other
information deemed necessary by the planning commission for ensuring compliance
with city codes. The application shall be signed by all of the owners as
appearing on the deeds of the subject lots.
   B.   Approval Criteria: The city manager shall approve or deny a request for
a property line adjustment in writing based on all of the following criteria:
      1.   Parcel Creation: No additional parcel or lot is created by the lot
line adjustment;
      2.   Lot Standards: All lots and parcels conform to the applicable lot
standards of the zoning district (chapter 2 of this title) including lot area,
dimensions, setbacks, and coverage. As applicable, all lots and parcels shall
conform with the city floodplain overlay; and
      3.   Access And Road Authority Standards: All lots and parcels conform to
the standards or requirements of chapter 3, article C, "Access And
Circulation", of this title, and all applicable road authority requirements are
met. If a lot is nonconforming to any city or road authority standard, it shall
not be made less conforming by the property line adjustment.
   C.   Recording Property Line Adjustments:
      1.   Recording: Upon the city's approval of the proposed property line
adjustment, the applicant shall record the property line adjustment documents
with Malheur County within sixty (60) days of approval (or the decision
expires), and submit a copy of the recorded map to the city, to be filed with
the approved application.
      2.   Time Limit: The applicant shall submit a copy of the recorded
property line adjustment survey map to the city within fifteen (15) days of
recording and prior to any application being filed for a building permit on the
reconfigured lots. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
ARTICLE D. CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
9-4D-1: Purpose
9-4D-2: Approvals Process
9-4D-3: Application Submission Requirements
9-4D-4: Criteria, Standards And Conditions Of Approval
9-4D-1: PURPOSE:
There are certain uses, which, due to the nature of their impacts on
surrounding land uses and public facilities, require a case by case review and
analysis. Conditional uses are identified in chapter 2, article B, "Zoning
District Regulations", of this title. The purpose of this article is to provide
procedures and standards for permitting conditional uses. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-
2013)
9-4D-2: APPROVALS PROCESS:
The planning commission using a type III procedure, per section
9-4A-4 of this chapter, reviews conditional use applications. The planning
commission may require annual, or less frequent, renewal of conditional use
permits. Modifications to conditional use permits are subject to article E,
"Modifications To Approved Plans And Conditions", of this chapter. (Ord. 635-
13, 6-11-2013)
9-4D-3: APPLICATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to the submission requirements for a type III review under section
9-4A-4 of this chapter, applications for conditional use permits shall include
a description of existing conditions, a site plan, and information on any
existing and any proposed restrictions or covenants. (For a more detailed
description of each item, please refer to section
9-4B-4 of this chapter, site design review application submission
requirements.) An application for a conditional use permit shall also contain a
narrative report or letter responding to the applicable approval criteria in
section
9-4D-4 of this article. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4D-4: CRITERIA, STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
The planning commission shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny an
application for a conditional use, including requests to enlarge or alter a
conditional use, based on findings of fact with respect to all of the criteria
and standards in subsections A and B of this section, as follows.
   A.   Use Criteria:
      1.   The site size, dimensions, location, topography and access are
adequate for the needs of the proposed use, considering the proposed building
mass, parking, traffic, noise, vibration, exhaust/emissions, light, glare,
erosion, odor, dust, visibility, safety, and aesthetic considerations.
      2.   The negative impacts of the proposed use, if any, on adjacent
properties and on the public can be mitigated through application of other code
standards, or other reasonable conditions of approval.
      3.   All required public facilities, including water, sanitary sewer, and
streets, have adequate capacity or are to be improved to serve the proposal,
consistent with city standards.
      4.   A conditional use permit shall not allow a use that is prohibited or
not expressly allowed under chapter 2 of this title; nor shall a conditional
use permit grant a variance without a variance application being reviewed with
the conditional use application.
   B.   Conditions Of Approval: The city may impose conditions that are found
necessary to ensure that the use is compatible with other uses in the vicinity,
and that the negative impact of the proposed use on the surrounding uses and
public facilities is minimized. These conditions include, but are not limited
to, one or more of the following:
      1.   Limiting the hours, days, place and/or manner of operation;
      2.   Requiring site or architectural design features which minimize
environmental impacts such as noise, vibration, exhaust/emissions, light,
glare, erosion, odor and/or dust;
      3.   Requiring larger setback areas, lot area, and/or lot depth or width;
      4.   Limiting the building or structure height, size, lot coverage, and/
or location on the site;
      5.   Designating the size, number, location and/or design of vehicle
access points or parking and loading areas;
      6.   Requiring street right of way to be dedicated and street
improvements made, or the installation of pathways or sidewalks, as applicable;
      7.   Requiring landscaping, screening, drainage, water quality
facilities, and/or improvement of parking and loading areas;
      8.   Limiting the number, size, location, height and/or lighting of
signs;
      9.   Limiting or setting standards for the location, type, design, and/or
intensity of outdoor lighting;
      10.   Requiring berms, screening or landscaping and the establishment of
standards for their installation and maintenance;
      11.   Requiring and designating the size, height, location and/or
materials for fences;
      12.   Requiring the protection and preservation of existing trees, soils,
vegetation, watercourses, habitat areas, drainage areas, historic resources,
cultural resources, and/or sensitive lands;
      13.   Requiring improvements to water, sanitary sewer, or storm drainage
systems, in conformance with city standards; and
      14.   The planning commission may require review renewal of conditional
use permits annually or in accordance with another timetable as approved
pursuant to this article. Where applicable, the timetable shall provide for
periodic review and renewal, or expiration, of the conditional use permit to
ensure compliance with conditions of approval; such period review shall occur
through a type III review procedure, except where the planning commission
delegates authority to the city manager to issue renewals, who shall do so
through a type I or type II procedure, as applicable. (See article A of this
chapter for review procedures.) (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
ARTICLE E. MODIFICATIONS TO APPROVED PLANS AND CONDITIONS
SECTION:
9-4E-1: Purpose
9-4E-2: Applicability
9-4E-3: Major Modifications
9-4E-4: Minor Modifications
9-4E-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide an efficient process for modifying
land use decisions and approved development plans, in recognition of the cost
and complexity of land development and the need to conserve city resources.
(Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4E-2: APPLICABILITY:
This article applies when an applicant proposes to modify an approved
application or condition of approval. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4E-3: MAJOR MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Major Modification: The planning commission reviews applications for
major modifications through the quasi- judicial procedure under section
9-4A-4 of this chapter. Any one of the following changes constitutes a major
modification:
      1.   A change in land use, from a less intensive use to a more intensive
use, as evidenced by parking, paved area, estimated increase in automobile or
truck trips (peak and/or average daily trips), an increase in hours of
operation, an increased demand for parking, additional paved area, or similar
factors, where the increase is twenty percent (20%) or more, provided the
standards of chapters 2 and 3 of this title are met; or
      2.   An increase in floor area to a commercial or industrial development,
or an increase in the number of dwelling units in a multi-family development,
by twenty percent (20%) or more, provided the standards of chapters 2 and 3 of
this title are met; or
      3.   A reduction in required setbacks, or an increase in lot coverage, by
twenty percent (20%) or more, provided the standards of chapters 2 and 3 of
this title are met; or
      4.   A change in the type and/or location of vehicle access points or
approaches, driveways, or parking areas affecting off site traffic when roadway
authority determines the change could cause a significant adverse impact on
traffic operations or safety (i.e., requiring mitigation); or
      5.   A reduction to screening, or a reduction to the area reserved for
common open space or landscaping by twenty percent (20%) or more; or
      6.   Change to a condition of approval, or a change similar to
subsections A1 through A5 of this section, that could have a detrimental impact
on adjoining properties. The city manager shall have discretion in determining
detrimental impacts triggering a major modification; or
      7.   Other changes similar to those in subsections A1 through A6 of this
section, in scale, magnitude, or impact to adjacent properties, as determined
by the city manager.
   B.   Major Modification Applications; Approval Criteria: Requests for major
modifications shall conform to all of the following procedures and criteria:
      1.   The applicant shall submit an application form, filing fee, a letter
describing the modification, and a site plan using the same plan format as in
the original approval. The city may require other relevant information, as
necessary, in evaluating the request;
      2.   The application shall be subject to the same approval criteria used
for the initial project approval; except that a modification adding a
conditional use to a project approved without a conditional use shall require
findings in conformance with article D of this chapter;
      3.   The scope of review shall be limited to the modification request.
For example, a request to modify a commercial development's parking lot shall
require site design review only for the proposed parking lot and any changes to
associated access, circulation, etc. Notice shall be provided in accordance
with article A of this chapter; and
      4.   The planning commission shall approve, deny, or approve with
conditions an application for major modification based on written findings on
the applicable code criteria (e.g., subdivision, site design review,
conditional use, etc.). (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4E-4: MINOR MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Minor Modification: The city manager through a type I or II procedure,
depending on whether the proposal involves the exercise of discretion, shall
review proposals for minor modifications. Minor modifications include technical
corrections to comply with codes and regulations, and changes that fall below
the thresholds in section
9-4E-3 of this article, as determined by the city manager. Administrative land
use review, pursuant to section
9-4A-3 of this chapter. A minor modification is a change to an approved plan or
condition of approval that does not meet any of the thresholds for a major
modification listed in subsection 9-4E-3A of this article.
   B.   Minor Modification Applications; Approval Criteria: An application for
minor modification shall include an application form, filing fee, a letter
describing the modification, and a site plan using the same plan format as in
the original approval. The city manager may require other relevant information,
as necessary, in evaluating the request.
   C.   Minor Modification Approval Criteria: The planning commission shall
approve, deny, or approve with conditions an application for minor modification
based on findings of compliance or noncompliance with the applicable
requirements of the development code and the conditions of approval on the
original decision. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
ARTICLE F. AMENDMENTS TO ZONING MAP OR CODE
SECTION:
9-4F-1: Purpose
9-4F-2: Procedure
9-4F-3: Criteria
9-4F-4: Record Of Amendments
9-4F-5: Review Of Plan And Zoning Changes For Effect On Transportation
Facilities
9-4F-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide standards and procedures for
legislative and quasi-judicial amendments to this title and zoning map.
Amendments may be necessary from time to time to reflect changing community
conditions, to correct mistakes, or to address changes in the law. (Ord. 635-
13, 6-11-2013)
9-4F-2: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Except for corrections, amendments to development code text are
legislative.
   B.   Amendments to the zoning map that affect more than one parcel, or more
than one-half (1/2) acre, whichever is greater, are reviewed through a type IV
legislative process. See section
9-4A-5 of this chapter.
   C.   Amendments to the zoning map that require an amendment to the
comprehensive plan are reviewed through a type IV legislative process. See
section
9-4A-5 of this chapter.
   D.   Amendments that do not meet the criteria under subsection A, B, or C of
this section may be processed through the type III procedure as quasi-judicial
amendments. See section
9-4A-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4F-3: CRITERIA:
Planning commission review and recommendation, and city council approval, of an
ordinance amending the zoning map, development code or comprehensive plan shall
be based on all of the following criteria:
   A.   If the proposal involves an amendment to the comprehensive plan, the
amendment must be consistent with the statewide planning goals and relevant
Oregon administrative rules;
   B.   The proposal must be consistent with the comprehensive plan. (The
comprehensive plan may be amended concurrently with proposed changes in
zoning.);
   C.   The city council must find the proposal to be in the public interest
with regard to community conditions; the proposal either responds to changes in
the community, or it corrects a mistake or inconsistency in the subject plan or
code; and
   D.   The amendment must conform to the transportation planning rule
provisions under section
9-4F-5 of this article. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4F-4: RECORD OF AMENDMENTS:
The city manager shall maintain a record of amendments to the text of this
title and the zoning map in a format convenient for public use. In the case of
a map amendment, the map shall be made part of the ordinance. (Ord. 635-13, 6-
11-2013)
9-4F-5: REVIEW OF PLAN AND ZONING CHANGES FOR EFFECT ON TRANSPORTATION
FACILITIES:
Proposals to amend the comprehensive plan or zoning map shall be reviewed to
determine whether they significantly affect a transportation facility pursuant
to Oregon administrative rules section 660-012-0060 (transportation planning
rule - TPR). Where the city, in consultation with the applicable roadway
authority, finds that a proposed amendment would have a significant effect on a
transportation facility, the city shall work with the roadway authority and
applicant to modify the request or mitigate the impacts in accordance with the
TPR and applicable law. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
ARTICLE G. VARIANCES
SECTION:
9-4G-1: Purpose
9-4G-2: Intent And Applicability
9-4G-3: Approval Criteria
9-4G-4: Expiration
9-4G-1: PURPOSE:
This article provides standards and procedures for variances. (Ord. 635-13, 6-
11-2013)
9-4G-2: INTENT AND APPLICABILITY:
Variances are intended to provide relief to a code standard where, due to the
physical characteristics of the site, the code prevents reasonable development
in compliance with a code standard. The variance review procedure is intended
to ensure that the resulting development is compatible with adjacent properties
and is consistent with the intent of this title. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4G-3: APPROVAL CRITERIA:
The planning commission, through a type III procedure, may approve a variance
upon finding that it meets all of the following criteria:
   A.   The variance is necessary because the subject code provision does not
account for special or unique physical circumstances of the subject site,
existing development patterns, or adjacent land uses. A legal lot determination
may be sufficient evidence of a hardship for purposes of approving a variance;
   B.   The variance is the minimum necessary to address the special or unique
physical circumstances related to the subject site;
   C.   The need for the variance is not self-imposed by the applicant or
property owner. (For example, the variance request does not arise as a result
of a property line adjustment or land division approval previously granted to
the applicant.);
   D.   The variance does not conflict with other applicable city policies or
other applicable regulations;
   E.   The variance will result in no foreseeable harm to adjacent property
owners or the public; and
   F.   All applicable building code requirements and engineering design
standards shall be met. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4G-4: EXPIRATION:
Variance approvals shall expire if not acted upon by the property owner within
one year of the city approving the variance; except the city manager may extend
a variance approval, where the owner has applied for a building permit or final
plat, has made site improvements consistent with a city approved development
plan or permit, or provides other evidence of working in good faith toward
completing the project, and accordingly submits a written request to extend the
approval to the city manager prior to the variance expiring. (Ord. 635-13, 6-
11-2013)
ARTICLE H. MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
9-4H-1: Purpose
9-4H-2: Applicability
9-4H-3: Review And Approvals Process
9-4H-4: Modifications To Development Standards
9-4H-5: Concept Plan Submission
9-4H-6: Concept Plan Approval Criteria
9-4H-7: Concept Plan And Expiration
9-4H-8: Detailed Development Plan Submission
9-4H-9: Detailed Development Plan Criteria
9-4H-10: Subsequent Development Reviews
9-4H-1: PURPOSE:
The purposes of this article are to:
   A.   Implement the comprehensive plan by providing a means for master
planning large development sites, as an alternative to piecemeal subdivision
developments.
   B.   Encourage innovative neighborhood design with a variety of housing,
open space, pathways, and other amenities.
   C.   Encourage housing options for a range of household sizes and incomes.
(Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4H-2: APPLICABILITY:
The master planned development designation may be applied over any of the
city's residential zoning districts. It is an option available to developers of
land. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4H-3: REVIEW AND APPROVALS PROCESS:
   A.   Review Steps: There are three (3) required steps to master planned
development approval, which may be completed individually or combined for
concurrent review:
      1.   Application for master planned development concept plan approval;
      2.   Application for detailed development plan approval, which may
include a preliminary subdivision plan; and
      3.   Application(s) for final development plan (e.g., final plat and/or
site design review) approval.
   B.   Approval Process:
      1.   The master planned development concept plan shall be reviewed
pursuant to the type III procedure in section
9-4A-4 of this chapter, the submission requirements in section
9-4H-5 of this article and the approval criteria in section
9-4H-6 of this article.
      2.   The detailed development plan and preliminary subdivision plan shall
be reviewed using the type II procedure in section
9-4A-3 of this chapter to ensure substantial compliance with the approved
concept plan.
      3.   Site design review applications for approved planned developments
shall be reviewed using a type II procedure in section
9-4A-3 of this chapter to ensure substantial compliance with the approved
concept plan.
      4.   Subsections B1 through B3 of this section may be combined in any
manner, so long as the decision making sequence follows the above order.
Notification and hearings may be combined. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4H-4: MODIFICATIONS TO DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The standards of chapters 2 and 3 of this title may be modified through the
master plan development process without the need for variance under article G
of this chapter. In evaluating this criterion, the city decision making body
shall consider whether the proposal, on balance, exceeds the city's minimum
requirements and provides greater community benefits than would otherwise occur
under the base development code requirements. In evaluating community benefits,
the city decision making body shall apply the following criteria; the city may
deny an application for master planned development concept plan approval that
does not meet all of the following criteria:
   A.   Comprehensive Plan: The modification does not conflict with the
comprehensive plan. A master planned development may exceed the maximum
residential density (minimum lot size) permitted by the underlying zone;
provided, that the overall density of the project (average of total dwelling
units per acre) is not greater than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the
density permitted by the underlying zone.
   B.   Purpose And Intent Of Development Code: The modification equally or
better meets the purpose and intent of the development code section(s) to be
modified, as compared to a project that strictly conforms to code standards.
   C.   Public Benefit: The modification provides a net benefit to the public
by one or more of the following:
      1.   Greater variety of housing types or lot sizes than would be achieved
under the base development code standards;
      2.   More open space or more usable open space than would be required
under the base development code standards;
      3.   Greater protection of natural features than would be required under
the base development code standards;
      4.   Avoidance of natural hazards (e.g., geological hazards, river
resources, or flood hazards);
      5.   Improved transportation connectivity, such as the provision of
pathways and/or other transportation facilities, that would not otherwise be
provided pursuant to base development code requirements.
   D.   Public Works Design Standards: Modifications to the city public works
design standards require separate variance to such standards approved by the
city engineer or public works designee. The city may grant such variances
concurrently with the master planned development. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4H-5: CONCEPT PLAN SUBMISSION:
   A.   General Submission Requirements: An application for a concept
development plan shall follow the submission requirements for a type III review
under section
9-4A-4 of this chapter, and shall include all of the following:
      1.   A statement of planning objectives to be achieved by the master
planned development through the particular approach proposed by the applicant.
This statement should include a description of the character of the proposed
development and the rationale behind the assumptions and choices made by the
applicant;
      2.   A development schedule indicating the approximate dates when
construction of the project and its various phases, if any, including public
facilities, are expected to be initiated and completed;
      3.   A statement of the applicant's intentions with regard to the future
selling or leasing of all or portions of the planned development;
      4.   Narrative report or letter documenting compliance with the
applicable approval criteria contained in section
9-4H-6 of this article;
      5.   Maintenance plan for any common areas or lands not dedicated to a
public agency or owned in fee simple; and
      6.   Additional reports or studies prepared by qualified professionals,
as required by the city manager determine potential project impacts and
mitigation, if any, related to: transportation; public facilities; geologic or
other hazards; architecture; noise, light, solar access, air quality, or
similar concerns; and natural features.
   B.   Additional Information: In addition to the general information
described in subsection A of this section, the concept plan, data, and
narrative shall include all of the following exhibits and information:
      1.   Existing conditions map, as defined in section
9-4B-4 of this chapter, site design review application submission requirements;
      2.   Conceptual site plan (e.g., general land use, building envelopes,
circulation, open space, utility connections, and other information necessary
to convey the concept plan);
      3.   Grading concept (for hillside or sloping properties, or where
extensive grading is anticipated);
      4.   Landscape concept (e.g., shows retention of existing vegetation and
general planting areas);
      5.   Architectural concept (e.g., plans illustrate architectural styles,
building heights, and general materials);
      6.   Sign concept plan (e.g., locations, general size, style and
materials of signs), as applicable; and
      7.   Copy of all existing covenants and restrictions, and general
description of proposed restrictions or covenants (e.g., for common areas,
access, parking, etc.). (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4H-6: CONCEPT PLAN APPROVAL CRITERIA:
The city, in approving or approving with conditions a concept plan, shall make
findings that all of the following criteria are met. The city must deny an
application where not all of the criteria are met.
   A.   Comprehensive Plan: The proposal conforms to the comprehensive plan.
   B.   Land Division: Except as may be modified under section
9-4H-4 of this article, all of the requirements for land divisions under
article C of this chapter are met.
   C.   Standards: Except as may be modified under section
9-4H-4 of this article, all of the requirements of chapters 2 and 3 of this
title are met.
   D.   Open Space: Master plans shall contain a minimum of twenty percent
(20%) open space, which may be public, private, or a combination of public and
private open space. Such open space shall be integral to the master plan and
connect to a majority of the proposed residential lots. Plans shall provide
space for both active and passive recreational uses, and may include, but are
not limited to: neighborhood parks, pathways/trails, natural areas, plazas, and
play fields. Open space areas shall be shown on the final plan and recorded
with the final plat or separate instrument; and the open space shall be
conveyed in accordance with one of the following methods:
      1.   By dedication to the city as publicly owned and maintained open
space. Open space proposed for dedication to the city must be acceptable to the
planning commission with regard to the size, shape, location, improvement,
environmental condition (i.e., the applicant may be required to provide an
environmental assessment), and approved by city council based on budgetary,
maintenance, and liability considerations; or
      2.   By leasing or conveying title (including beneficial ownership) to a
corporation, homeowners' association or other legal entity. The terms of such
lease or other instrument of conveyance must include provisions for maintenance
and property tax payment acceptable to the city. The city, through conditions
of approval, may also require public access be provided, i.e., where the open
space is deemed necessary, based on impacts of the development, to meet public
recreational needs pursuant to the comprehensive plan.
   E.   Modifications To Standards: Modifications to code standards must
conform to the criteria in section
9-4H-4 of this article. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4H-7: CONCEPT PLAN AND EXPIRATION:
   A.   Filing: Upon approval of a concept plan, the approved plan, including
any conditions of approval, shall be binding on future uses and development of
the property, except where an approval expires.
   B.   Expiration: Except as provided by subsection C of this section, a
concept plan shall become void three (3) years after the date of approval if
the applicant, or successor, has not filed with the city an application for
detailed development plan and final plat approval in conformance with sections
9-4H-8 and
9-4H-9 of this article.
   C.   Extension: The city may grant extensions of the concept plan approval
period, not to exceed one year per extension; provided, that the extension
request is made before expiration of the MPD approval, the applicant can show
intent of applying for detailed development plan review within the one year
extension period, and there have been no substantive changes to the applicable
comprehensive plan policies and ordinance provisions on which the approval was
based. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4H-8: DETAILED DEVELOPMENT PLAN SUBMISSION:
Detailed development plan submittal requirements are determined based on the
conditions of approval for the concept plan. At a minimum, the detailed
development plan submittal shall meet the minimum requirements for final plat
submission under article C of this chapter, and shall contain information
demonstrating compliance with the concept plan. The detailed development plan
and preliminary subdivision plan shall be reviewed using the type II procedure
in section
9-4A-3 of this chapter to ensure substantial conformance to the approved
concept plan. Where the proposal is for a multi-family development, site design
review is required, pursuant to article B, "Site Design Review", of this
chapter, on detailed development plans shall be processed through the type II
procedure. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4H-9: DETAILED DEVELOPMENT PLAN CRITERIA:
Approval of the detailed development plan shall be based upon a finding that
the final plan substantially conforms to the concept plan, including any
concept plan conditions of approval. Minor changes to the approved concept plan
may be approved with the detailed plan where the city manager finds that: The
modification is necessary to correct an error, or to address changes in
circumstances beyond the applicant's control that have occurred since the date
of project approval. Other changes must be reviewed as major modifications
under article E of this chapter. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
9-4H-10: SUBSEQUENT DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS:
Notwithstanding the provisions of section
9-4B-3 of this chapter, where the city has previously approved a development
project in concept as part of a master planned development approval, as
determined by the city manager, subsequent land use applications for the same
project may be processed through a type I review. (Ord. 635-13, 6-11-2013)
TITLE 10
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND METHODS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Statutory Authorization
10-1-2: Findings Of Fact
10-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
10-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
10-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The State of Oregon has in Oregon Revised Statutes 203.305 delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt floodplain management
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the City of Nyssa does ordain as follows. (Ord.
666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City of Nyssa are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses may be caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in special flood hazard areas which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored, cause damage in other areas. Uses
that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated, or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to flood loss. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this title to promote public health, safety, and general
welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flooding in flood
hazard areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone and sewer lines; and streets and bridges located
in special flood hazard areas;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood hazard areas so as to minimize blight areas caused by
flooding;
   G.   Notify potential buyers that the property is in a special flood hazard
area;
   H.   Notify those who occupy special flood hazard areas that they assume
responsibility for their actions; and
   I.   Participate in and maintain eligibility for flood insurance and
disaster relief. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this title includes methods and provisions
for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting development which is dangerous to health,
safety, and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in
damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Requiring that development vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which heip accommodate or channel flood waters;
   D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or may increase flood hazards in other areas.
(Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage.
APPEAL:        A request for a review of the interpretation of any provision of this title or a
               request for a variance.
               A designated Zone AO, AH, AR/AO or AR/AH on a community's flood insurance rate map
AREA OF        (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of flooding to an average
SHALLOW        depth of one to three feet (1' - 3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist,
FLOODING:      where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident.
               Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
               The land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent (1%) or
AREA OF        greater chance of flooding in any given year, it is shown on the flood insurance
SPECIAL FLOOD  rate map (FIRM) as Zone A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR. "Special flood hazard area"
HAZARD:        is synonymous in meaning and definition with the phrase "area of special flood
               hazard."
BASE FLOOD:    The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
               year.
BASE FLOOD
ELEVATION      The elevation to which floodwater is anticipated to rise during the base flood.
(BFE):
BASEMENT:      Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all
               sides.
               Means an enclosed area below the base flood elevation in which the interior grade is
BELOW-GRADE    not more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent exterior grade and the height,
CRAWLSPACE:    measured from the interior grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace
               foundation, does not exceed four feet (4') at any point.
BUILDING:      See "Structure."
               Means a facility for which even a slight change of flooding might be too great.
CRITICAL       Critical facilities include, but are not limited to, schools, nursing homes,
FACILITY:      hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, installations which
               produce, use, or store hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
               Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not
DEVELOPMENT:   limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
               paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.
ELEVATED       Means for insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
BUILDING:      floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, post, piers,
               pilings, or columns.
               (a)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
               normally dry land areas from:
                  (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
                  (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
               source.
                  (3)   Mudslides (i.e. mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
               defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid and
FLOOD OR       flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by
FLOODING:      a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
               (b)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of
               water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water
               exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water
               level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an
               unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by
               some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding as defined
               in paragraph (a)(1) of this definition.
FLOOD          An examination, evaluation and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate,
ELEVATION      corresponding water surface elevations, or an examination, evaluation and
STUDY:         determination of mudslide (i.e. mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
FLOOD          The official map of a community, on which the Federal Insurance Administrator has
INSURANCE RATE delineated both the special hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
MAP (FIRM):    the community. A FIRM that has been made available digitally is called a digital
               flood insurance rate map (DFIRM).
FLOOD
INSURANCE      See "flood elevation study."
STUDY (FIS):
               Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or adjustments
FLOOD          to structures which reduce or eliminate risk of flood damage to real estate or
PROOFING:      improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures, and their
               contents.
FLOODPLAIN OR  Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source. See "flood or
FLOOD PRONE    flooding."
AREA:
FLOODPLAIN     The community official designated by title to administer and enforce the floodplain
ADMINISTRATOR: management regulations.
FLOODPLAIN     The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
MANAGEMENT:    reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans,
               flood control works, and floodplain management regulations.
               Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
FLOODPLAIN     special purpose ordinances (such as floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and
MANAGEMENT     erosion control ordinance) and other application of police power. The term describes
REGULATIONS:   such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
               for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
               The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be
FLOODWAY:      reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the
               water surface elevation more than a designated height. Also referred to as
               "Regulatory Floodway."
               A use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or carried out
FUNCTIONALLY   in close proximity to water. The term includes only docking facilities, port
DEPENDENT USE: facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
               and ship building and ship repair facilities, and does not include long term storage
               or related manufacturing facilities.
               The Oregon Department of Environmental Quality defines hazardous materials to
               include any of the following:
               (a)   Hazardous waste as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 466.005;
               (b)   Radioactive waste as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 469.300, radioactive
               material identified by the Energy Facility Siting Council under Oregon Revised
               Statutes 469.605 and radioactive substances defined in Oregon Revised Statutes
               453.005;
               (c)   Communicable disease agents as regulated by the Health Division under Oregon
HAZARDOUS      Revised Statutes Chapter 431 and 433.010 to 433.045 and 433.106 to 433.990;
MATERIAL:      (d)   Hazardous substances designated by the United States Environmental Protection
               Agency (EPA) under section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, P.L. 92-
               500, as amended;
               (e)   Substances listed by the United States EPA in section 40 of the Code of
               Federal Regulations, Part 302, Table 302.4 (list of Hazardous Substances and
               Reportable Quantities) and amendments;
               (f)   Material regulated as a chemical agent under Oregon Revised Statutes 465.550;
               (g)   Material used as a weapon of mass destruction, or biological weapon;
               (h)   Pesticide residue;
               (i)   Dry cleaning solvent as defined by Oregon Revised Statutes 4610-5-1-200(9).
HIGHEST        The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction next to
ADJACENT       the proposed walls of a structure.
GRADE:
               Any structure that is:
               1.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
               maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the
               Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the
               National Register;
               2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
               contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a
               district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered
HISTORIC       historic district;
STRUCTURE:     3.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with
               historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of
               Interior; or
               4.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities with
               historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
                  a.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior;
               or
                  b.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
               programs.
               An official FEMA determination, by letter, to amend or revise effective flood
               insurance rate maps and flood insurance studies. The following are categories of
               LOMCs:
               (a)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (CLOMA): A CLOMA is FEMA's comment on a
               proposed structure or group of structures that would, upon construction, be located
               on existing natural ground above the base (one- percent-annual-chance) flood
               elevation on a portion of a legally defined parcel of land that is partially
               inundated by the base flood.
               (b)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A CLOMR is FEMA's comment on a
               proposed project that would, upon construction, affect the hydrologic or hydraulic
               characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the modification of the
               existing regulatory floodway, the effective base flood elevations, or the special
               flood hazard area.
               (c)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (CLOMR-F): A CLOMR-F is
               FEMA's comment on a proposed project that would, upon construction, result in a
               modification of the special flood hazard area through the placement of fill outside
               the existing regulatory floodway.
               (d)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): An official amendment, by letter, to the flood
LETTER OF MAP  insurance rate maps (FIRMs) based on technical data showing that an existing
CHANGE (LOMC): structure, parcel of land or portion of a parcel of land that is naturally high
               ground, (i.e. has not been elevated by fill) above the base flood, that was
               inadvertently included in the special flood hazard area.
               (e)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): A LOMR is FEMA's modification to an effective
               flood insurance rate map (FIRM), or flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM), or both.
               LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that affect the
               hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the
               modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective base flood
               elevations, or the SFHA. The LMOR officially revises the FIRM or FBFM, and sometimes
               the flood insurance study (FIS) report, and, when appropriate, includes a
               description of the modifications. The LOMR is generally accompanied by an annotated
               copy of the affected portions of the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
               (f)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F): A LOMR-F is FEMA's modification
               of the special flood hazard area shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) based
               on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
               (g)   PMR: A PMR is FEMA's physical revision and republication of an effective flood
               insurance rate map (FIRM) or flood insurance study (FIS) report. PMRs are generally
               based on physical measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics
               of a flooding source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory
               floodway, the effective base flood elevations, or the special flood hazard area.
               The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished or
               flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
LOWEST FLOOR:  storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest
               floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in
               violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this title.
               A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent
MANUFACTURED   chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when attached
DWELLING:      to the required utilities. The term "manufactured dwelling" does not include a
               "recreational vehicle" and is synonymous with "manufactured home."
MANUFACTURED
DWELLING PARK  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more manufactured
OR             dwelling lots for rent or sale.
SUBDIVISION:
MEAN SEA       For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the National Geodetic Vertical
LEVEL:         Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base flood elevations shown on a
               community's flood insurance rate map are referenced.
               For floodplain management purposes, "new construction" means structures for which
NEW            the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
CONSTRUCTION:  management regulations adopted by the City of Nyssa and includes any subsequent
               improvements to such structures.
               A vehicle which is:
               (a)   Built on a single chassis;
               (b)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
RECREATIONAL   projection;
VEHICLE:       (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
               and
               (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
               quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY     See "floodway."
FLOODWAY:
SHEET FLOW     See "area of shallow flooding."
AREA:
SPECIAL FLOOD  See "area of special flood hazard."
HAZARD AREA:
               Includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued,
               provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
               addition, placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days
               from the date of the permit. The actual start means either the first placement of
               permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
               footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond
               the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured dwelling on a
START OF       foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
CONSTRUCTION:  clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/
               or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
               foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation
               on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
               dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the
               actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
               or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
               external dimensions of the building.</TCE>
               For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building, including a gas or
STRUCTURE:     liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured
               dwelling.
SUBSTANTIAL    Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
DAMAGE:        structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%)
               of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
               Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure,
               the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
               structure before the "start of construction" of the improvement. This term includes
               structures which have incurred "substantial damage," regardless of the actual repair
SUBSTANTIAL    work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
IMPROVEMENT:   1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
               state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
               identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
               necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
               2.   Any alteration of a "historic structure," provided that the alteration will not
               preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure."
VARIANCE:      A grant of relief by the City of Nyssa from the terms of a floodplain management
               regulation.
               The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
               community's floodplain management regulations. A structure or other development
VIOLATION:     without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of
               compliance required in this title is presumed to be in violation until such time as
               that documentation is provided.
WATER          A structure for commerce or industry which cannot exist in any other location and is
DEPENDENT:     dependent on the water by reason of intrinsic nature of its operations.
WATER SURFACE  The height, in relation to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, or
ELEVATION:     other datum, of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of
               coastal or riverine areas. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
 
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Lands To Which This Title Applies
10-3-2: Basis For Establishing The Special Flood Hazard Areas
10-3-3: Coordination With State Of Oregon Specialty Codes
10-3-4: Compliance And Penalties For Noncompliance
10-3-4-1: Compliance
10-3-4-2: Penalties For Noncompliance
10-3-5: Abrogation And Severability
10-3-5-1: Abrogation
10-3-5-2: Severability
10-3-6: Interpretation
10-3-7: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-3-7-1: Warning
10-3-7-2: Disclaimer Of Liability
10-3-1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS TITLE APPLIES:
This title shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction of the City of Nyssa. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-3-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
The special flood hazard areas identified by the Federal Insurance
Administrator on Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) PANEL(S) 410151B dated
September 29,1986 are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this title. The FIRM panels are on file at the City of Nyssa municipal offices,
301 Main St, Nyssa, Oregon 97913. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-3-3: COORDINATION WITH STATE OF OREGON SPECIALTY CODES:
Pursuant to the requirement established in Oregon Revised Statutes 455 that the
City of Nyssa administers and enforces the State of Oregon Specialty Codes, the
City of Nyssa does hereby acknowledge that the Oregon Specialty Codes contain
certain provisions that apply to the design and construction of buildings and
structures located in special flood hazard areas. Therefore, this title is
intended to be administered and enforced in conjunction with the Oregon
Specialty Codes. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-3-4: COMPLIANCE AND PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
10-3-4-1: COMPLIANCE:
All development within special flood hazard areas is subject to the terms of
this title and required to comply with its provisions and all other applicable
regulations. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-3-4-2: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this title and
other applicable regulations. Violations of the provisions of this title by
failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor with a potential fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
a day to a maximum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for any person found
guilty of violating this title. Nothing contained herein shall prevent the City
of Nyssa from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-3-5: ABROGATION AND SEVERABILITY:
10-3-5-1: ABROGATION:
This title is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this title and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 666-20,
10-13-2020)
10-3-5-2: SEVERABILITY:
This title and the various parts thereof are hereby declared to be severable.
If any section clause, sentence, or phrase of this title is held to be invalid
or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said holding
shall in no way effect the validity of the remaining portions of this title.
(Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-3-6: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this title, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-3-7: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
10-3-7-1: WARNING:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This title does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. (Ord. 666-20,
10-13-2020)
10-3-7-2: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
This title shall not create liability on the part of City of Nyssa, any officer
or employee or consultant thereof, or the Federal Insurance Administrator for
any flood damages that result from reliance on this title or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-4-1: Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
10-4-2: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
10-4-2-1: Permit Review
10-4-2-2: Information To Be Obtained And Maintained
10-4-2-3: Requirement To Notify Other Entities And Submit New Technical Data
10-4-2-3-1: Community Boundary Alterations
10-4-2-3-2: Watercourse Alterations
10-4-2-3-3: Requirement To Submit New Technical Data
10-4-2-4: Substantial Improvement And Substantial Damage Assessments And
Determinations
10-4-2-5: Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries
10-4-3: Establishment Of Development Permit
10-4-3-1: Floodplain Development Permit Required
10-4-3-2: Application For Development Permit
10-4-4: Variance Procedure
10-4-4-1: Conditions For Variances
10-4-4-2: Variance Notification
10-4-1: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The City of Nyssa City Manager and their designee are hereby appointed to
administer, implement, and enforce this title by granting or denying
development permits in accordance with its provisions. The Floodplain
Administrator may delegate authority to implement these provisions. (Ord. 666-
20, 10-13-2020)
10-4-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties of the Floodplain Administrator, or their designee, shall include, but
not be limited to, the provisions of sections
10-4-2-1 through 10-4-2-3-5. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-4-2-1: PERMIT REVIEW:
Review all development permits to determine that:
   A.   The permit requirements of this title have been satisfied;
   B.   All other required local, state, and federal permits have been obtained
and approved;
   C.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed development
is located in a floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that the floodway
provisions of this title in section
10-5-2-4 are met;
   D.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed development
is located in an area where base flood elevation (BFE) data is available either
through the flood insurance study (FIS) or from another authoritative source.
If BFE data is not available then ensure compliance with the provisions of
section
10-5-1-7;
   E.   Provide to building officials the base flood elevation (BFE) plus one
foot (1') above the base flood elevation (BFE) applicable to any building
requiring a development permit.
   F.   Review all development permit applications to determine if the proposed
development qualifies as a substantial improvement as defined in section
10-2-1.
   G.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed development
activity is a watercourse alteration. If a watercourse alteration is proposed,
ensure compliance with the provisions in section
10-5-1-1.
   H.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed development
activity includes the placement of fill or excavation. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-
2020)
10-4-2-2: INFORMATION TO BE OBTAINED AND MAINTAINED:
The following information shall be obtained and maintained and shall be made
available for public inspection as needed.
   A.   Obtain, record, and maintain the actual elevation (in relation to mean
sea level) of the lowest floor (including basements) and all attendant
utilities of all new or substantially improved structures where base flood
elevation (BFE) data is provided through the flood insurance study (FIS), flood
insurance rate map (FIRM), or obtained in accordance with section
10-5-1-7.
   B.   Obtain and record the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
natural grade of the building site for a structure prior to the start of
construction and the placement of any fill and ensure that the requirements of
sections
10-5-2-4,
10-4-2-1B are adhered to.
   C.   Upon placement of the lowest floor of a structure (including basement)
but prior to further vertical construction, obtain documentation, prepared and
sealed by a professional licensed surveyor or engineer, certifying the
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including
basement).
   D.   Where base flood elevation data are utilized, obtain as-built
certification of the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
floor (including basement) prepared and sealed by a professional licensed
surveyor or engineer, prior to the final inspection.
   E.   Maintain all elevation certificates (EC) submitted to City of Nyssa;
   F.   Obtain, record, and maintain the elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structure and all attendant utilities were floodproofed for
all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures where allowed under
this title and where base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided through the
FIS, FIRM, or obtained in accordance with section
10-5-1-7.
   G.   Maintain all floodproofing certificates required under this title.
   H.   Record and maintain all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
   I.   Obtain and maintain all hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed as
required under section
10-5-2-4.
   J.   Record and maintain all substantial improvement and substantial damage
calculations and determinations as required under section
10-4-2-4.
   K.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the provisions
of this title. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-4-2-3: REQUIREMENT TO NOTIFY OTHER ENTITIES AND SUBMIT NEW TECHNICAL DATA:
10-4-2-3-1: COMMUNITY BOUNDARY ALTERATIONS:
The Floodplain Administrator shall notify the Federal Insurance Administrator
in writing whenever the boundaries of the community have been modified by
annexation or the community has otherwise assumed authority or no longer has
authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for a
particular area, to ensure that all flood hazard boundary maps (FHBM) and flood
insurance rate maps (FIRM) accurately represent the community's boundaries.
Include within such notification a copy of a map of the community suitable for
reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new area for
which the community has assumed or relinquished floodplain management
regulatory authority. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-4-2-3-2: WATERCOURSE ALTERATIONS:
Notify adjacent communities, the Department of Land Conservation and
Development, and other appropriate state and federal agencies, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal insurance Administration. This notification shall
be provided by the applicant to the Federal Insurance Administration as a
letter of map revision (LOMR) along with either:
   A.   A proposed maintenance plan to assure the flood carrying capacity
within the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse is maintained; or
   B.   Certification by a registered professional engineer that the project
has been designed to retain its flood carrying capacity without periodic
maintenance.
The applicant shall be required to submit a conditional letter of map revision
(CLOMR) when required under section
10-4-2-3-3. Ensure compliance with all applicable requirements in sections
10-4-2-3-3 and
10-5-1-1. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-4-2-3-3: REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT NEW TECHNICAL DATA:
A community's base flood elevations may increase or decrease resulting from
physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as practicable, but not
later than six (6) months after the date such information becomes available, a
community shall notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of the changes by
submitting technical or scientific data in accordance with Section 44 of the
Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), subsection 65.3. The community may require
the applicant to submit such data and review fees required for compliance with
this section through the applicable FEMA letter of map change (LOMC) process.
The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of map revision
prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
   A.   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood elevation;
and
   B.   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation by more
than one foot (1') in areas where FEMA has provided base flood elevations but
no floodway.
An applicant shall notify FEMA within six (6) months of project completion when
an applicant has obtained a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) from
FEMA. This notification to FEMA shall be provided as a letter of map revision
(LOMR).
The applicant shall be responsible for preparing all technical data to support
CLOMR/LOMR applications and paying any processing or application fees
associated with the CLOMR/LOMR.
The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign the community
acknowledgment form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application, until the
applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met the requirements of
this code and all applicable state and federal laws. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-4-2-4: SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT AND SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS AND
DETERMINATIONS:
Conduct substantial improvement (SI) (as defined in section
10-2-1) reviews for all structural development proposal applications and
maintain a record of SI calculations within permit files in accordance with
section
10-4-2-2. Conduct substantial damage (SD) (as defined in section
10-2-1) assessments when structures are damaged due to a natural hazard event
or other causes. Make SD determinations whenever structures within the special
flood hazard area (as established in section
10-3-2) are damaged to the extent that the cost of restoring the structure to
its before damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-
2020)
10-4-2-5: INTERPRETATION OF FIRM BOUNDARIES:
Make interpretations where needed, as to exact location of the boundaries of
the special flood hazard areas (for example, where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions). The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation. Such appeals shall be granted consistent with the
standards of section 60.6 of the Rules and Regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program (44 CFR 59-76). (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-4-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
10-4-3-1: FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED:
A development permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area horizontally within the special flood hazard area
established in section
10-3-2. The development permit shall be required for all structures, including
manufactured dwellings, and for all other development, as defined in section
10-2-1, including fill and other development activities. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-
2020)
10-4-3-2: APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
Application for a development permit may be made on forms furnished by the
Floodplain Administrator and may include, but not be limited to, plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically the following information is required:
   A.   In riverine flood zones, the proposed elevation (in relation to mean
sea level), of the lowest floor (including basement) and all attendant
utilities of all new and substantially improved structures; in accordance with
the requirements of section
10-4-2-2.
   B.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure will be floodproofed.
   C.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
licensed in the State of Oregon that the floodproofing methods proposed for any
non- residential structure meet the floodproofing criteria for non-residential
structures in section
10-5-2-3-3.
   D.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated.
   E.   Base flood elevation data for subdivision proposals or other
development when required per sections
10-4-2-1 and
10-5-1-6.
   F.   Substantial improvement calculation for any improvement, addition,
reconstruction, renovation, or rehabilitation of an existing structure.
   G.   The amount and location of any fill or excavation activities proposed.
(Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-4-4: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
The issuance of a variance is for floodplain management purposes only. Flood
insurance premium rates are determined by federal statute according to
actuarial risk and will not be modified by the granting of a variance. (Ord.
666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-4-4-1: CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES:
   A.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one half (0.5) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, in conformance with the provisions of division C and E,
and
10-4-4-2. As the lot size increases beyond one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing a variance increases,
   B.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   C.   Variances shall not be issued within any floodway if any increase in
flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   D.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant;
      3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   E.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   F.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that the criteria of divisions B through
E are met, and the structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-4-4-2: VARIANCE NOTIFICATION:
Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice that
the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base flood
elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance and that
such construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and
property. Such notification and a record of all variance actions, including
justification for their issuance shall be maintained in accordance with section
10-4-2-2. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
CHAPTER 5
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
10-5-1: General Standards
10-5-1-1: Alteration Of Watercourses
10-5-1-2: Anchoring
10-5-1-3: Construction Materials And Methods
10-5-1-4: Utilities And Equipment
10-5-1-4-1: Water Supply, Sanitary Sewer, And On-Site Waste Disposal Systems
10-5-1-4-2: Electrical, Mechanical, Plumbing, And Other Equipment
10-5-1-5: Tanks
10-5-1-6: Subdivision Proposals And Other Proposed Developments
10-5-1-7: Use Of Other Base Flood Data
10-5-1-8: Structures Located In Multiple Or Partial Flood Zones
10-5-1-9: Critical Facilities
10-5-2: Specific Standards For Riverine (Including All Non- Coastal) Flood
Zones
10-5-2-1: Flood Openings
10-5-2-2: Garages
10-5-2-3: For Riverine (Non-Coastal) Special Flood Hazard Areas With Base Flood
Elevations
10-5-2-3-1: Before Regulatory Floodway
10-5-2-3-2: Residential Construction
10-5-2-3-3: Non-Residential Construction
10-5-2-3-4: Manufactured Dwellings
10-5-2-3-5: Recreational Vehicles
10-5-2-3-6: Appurtenant (Accessory) Structures
10-5-2-3-7: Below-Grade Crawlspaces
10-5-2-4: Floodways
10-5-2-5: Standards For Shallow Flooding Areas
10-5-2-5-1: Standards For AH Zones
10-5-2-5-2: Standards For AO Zones
10-5-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all special flood hazard areas, the following standards shall be adhered to.
(Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-1-1: ALTERATION OF WATERCOURSES:
Require that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse is maintained. Require that maintenance is provided
within the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse to ensure that the
flood carrying capacity is not diminished. Require compliance with sections
10-4-2-3-2 and
10-4-2-3-3. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-1-2: ANCHORING:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   B.   All manufactured dwellings shall be anchored per section
10-5-2-3-4. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-1-3: CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND METHODS:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   B.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
using methods and practices that minimize flood damage. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-
2020)
10-5-1-4: UTILITIES AND EQUIPMENT:
10-5-1-4-1: WATER SUPPLY, SANITARY SEWER, AND ON-SITE WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   B.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   C.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding consistent with the Oregon
Department of Environmental Quality. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-1-4-2: ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, PLUMBING, AND OTHER EQUIPMENT:
Electrical, heating, ventilating, air-conditioning, plumbing, duct systems, and
other equipment and service facilities shall be elevated at or above one foot
(1') above the base flood level or shall be designed and installed to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components and to resist
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and stresses, including the effects of
buoyancy, during conditions of flooding. In addition, electrical, heating,
ventilating, air-conditioning, plumbing, duct systems, and other equipment and
service facilities shall:
   A.   If replaced as part of a substantial improvement shall meet all the
requirements of this section. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-1-5: TANKS:
   A.   Underground tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and
lateral movement under conditions of the base flood.
   B.   Above-ground tanks shall be installed at or above one foot (1') above
the base flood level or shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement under conditions of the base flood. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-1-6: SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS AND OTHER PROPOSED DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   All new subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments
(including proposals for manufactured dwelling parks and subdivisions) greater
than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is the lesser, shall include
within such proposals, base flood elevation data.
   B.   All new subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments
(including proposals for manufactured dwelling parks and subdivisions) shall:
      1.   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      2.   Have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage.
      3.   Have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-1-7: USE OF OTHER BASE FLOOD DATA:
When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with section
10-3-2 the local floodplain administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data available from a federal, state, or other
source, in order to administer chapter 10-5. All new subdivision proposals and
other proposed new developments (including proposals for manufactured dwelling
parks and subdivisions) must meet the requirements of section
10-5-1-6.
Base flood elevations shall be determined for development proposals that are
five (5) acres or more in size or are fifty (50) lots or more, whichever is
lesser in any A zone that does not have an established base flood elevation.
Development proposals located within a riverine unnumbered A Zone shall be
reasonably safe from flooding; the test of reasonableness includes use of
historical data, high water marks, FEMA provided base level engineering data,
and photographs of past flooding, etc. where available including site specific
engineering studies. Failure to elevate at least two feet (2') above grade in
these zones may result in higher insurance rates. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-1-8: STRUCTURES LOCATED IN MULTIPLE OR PARTIAL FLOOD ZONES:
In coordination with the State of Oregon Specialty Codes:
   A.   When a structure is located in multiple flood zones on the community's
flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) the provisions for the more restrictive flood
zone shall apply.
   B.   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-1-9: CRITICAL FACILITIES:
Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the special flood hazard area. Construction of
new critical facilities shall be permissible within the SFHA only if no
feasible alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within
the SFHA shall have the lowest floor elevated three feet (3') above the base
flood elevation (BFE) or to the height of the five hundred (500) year flood,
whichever is higher. Access to and from the critical facility shall also be
protected to the height utilized above. Floodproofing and sealing measures must
be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released
into floodwaters. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE (INCLUDING ALL NON-COASTAL) FLOOD
ZONES:
These specific standards shall apply to all new construction and substantial
improvements in addition to the general standards contained in section
10-5-1 of this title. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-2-1: FLOOD OPENINGS:
All new construction and substantial improvements with fully enclosed areas
below the lowest floor (excluding basements) are subject to the following
requirements. Enclosed areas below the base flood elevation, including
crawlspaces shall:
   A.   Be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters;
   B.   Be used solely for parking, storage, or building access; and
   C.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet
or exceed all of the following minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings;
      2.   The total net area of non-engineered openings shall be not less than
one (1) square inch for each square foot of enclosed area, where the enclosed
area is measured on the exterior of the enclosure walls;
      3.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade;
      4.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they shall allow the automatic flow of
floodwater into and out of the enclosed areas and shall be accounted for in the
determination of the net open area; and
      5.   All additional higher standards for flood openings in the State of
Oregon Residential Specialty Codes Section R322.2.2 shall be complied with when
applicable. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-2-2: GARAGES:
   A.   Attached garages may be constructed with the garage floor slab below
the base flood elevation (BFE) in riverine flood zones, if the following
requirements are met:
      1.   If located within a floodway the proposed garage must comply with
the requirements of section
10-5-2-4;
      2.   The floors are at or above grade on not less than one side;
      3.   The garage is used solely for parking, building access, and/or
storage;
      4.   The garage is constructed with flood openings in compliance with
section
10-5-1 to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for
the automatic entry and exit of floodwater;
      5.   The portions of the garage constructed below the BFE are constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
      6.   The garage is constructed in compliance with the standards in
section
10-5-1-1; and
      7.   The garage is constructed with electrical, and other service
facilities located and installed so as to prevent water from entering or
accumulating within the components during conditions of the base flood.
   B.   Detached garages must be constructed in compliance with the standards
for appurtenant structures in section
10-5-2-3-6 or non-residential structures in section
10-5-2-3-3 depending on the square footage of the garage. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-
2020)
10-5-2-3: FOR RIVERINE (NON-COASTAL) SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS WITH BASE FLOOD
ELEVATIONS:
In addition to the general standards listed in section
10-5-1 the following specific standards shall apply in riverine (non-coastal)
special flood hazard areas with base flood elevations (BFE): Zones A1-A30, AH,
and AE. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-2-3-1: BEFORE REGULATORY FLOODWAY:
In areas where a regulatory floodway has not been designated, no new
construction, substantial improvement, or other development (including fill)
shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and AE on the community's flood insurance
rate map (FIRM), unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot (1') at any point within the community. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-
2020)
10-5-2-3-2: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at or above
one foot (1') above the base flood elevation (BFE).
   B.   Enclosed areas below the lowest floor shall comply with the flood
opening requirements in section
10-5-2-1. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-2-3-3: NON-RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or other non-residential structure shall:
      1.   Have the lowest floor, including basement elevated at or above one
foot (1') above the base flood elevation (BFE);
      Or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
      2.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      3.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      4.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this section based on their
development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and plans.
Such certifications shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set
forth section
10-4-2-2.
   B.   Non-residential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed, shall
comply with the standards for enclosed areas below the lowest floor in section
10-5-2-1.
   C.   Applicants floodproofing non-residential buildings shall be notified
that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot (1')
below the floodproofed level (e.g. a building floodproofed to the base flood
level will be rated as one foot (1') below). (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-2-3-4: MANUFACTURED DWELLINGS:
   A.   New or substantially improved manufactured dwellings supported on solid
foundation walls shall be constructed with flood openings that comply with
section
10-5-2-1;
   B.   The bottom of the longitudinal chassis frame beam shall be at or above
base flood elevation;
   C.   New or substantially improved manufactured dwellings shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement during the base flood.
Anchoring methods may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or
frame ties to ground anchors (Reference FEMA's "Manufactured Home Installation
in Flood Hazard Areas" guidebook for additional techniques); and
   D.   Electrical crossover connections shall be a minimum of twelve inches
(12") above base flood elevation (BFE). (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-2-3-5: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
Recreational vehicles placed on sites are required to:
   A.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days; and
   B.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and has no permanently attached additions; or
   C.   Meet the requirements of section
10-5-2-3-4, including the anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured
dwellings. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-2-3-6: APPURTENANT (ACCESSORY) STRUCTURES:
Relief from elevation or floodproofing requirements for residential and non-
residential structures in riverine (non-coastal) flood zones may be granted for
appurtenant structures that meet the following requirements:
   A.   Appurtenant structures located partially or entirely within the
floodway must comply with requirements for development within a floodway found
in section
10-5-2-4.
   B.   Appurtenant structures must only be used for parking, access, and/or
storage and shall not be used for human habitation.
   C.   In compliance with State of Oregon Specialty Codes, appurtenant
structures on properties that are zoned residential are limited to one-story
structures less than two hundred (200) square feet, or four hundred (400)
square feet if the property is greater than two (2) acres in area and the
proposed appurtenant structure will be located a minimum of twenty feet (20')
from all property lines. Appurtenant structures on properties that are zoned as
non-residential are limited in size to one hundred twenty (120) square feet.
   D.   The portions of the appurtenant structure located below the base flood
elevation must be built using flood resistant materials.
   E.   The appurtenant structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the base flood.
   F.   The appurtenant structure must be designed and constructed to equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls and comply with the requirements for
flood openings in section
10-5-2-1.
   G.   Appurtenant structures shall be located and constructed to have low
damage potential.
   H.   Appurtenant structures shall not be used to store toxic material, oil,
or gasoline, or any priority persistent pollutant identified by the Oregon
Department of Environmental Quality unless confined in a tank installed in
compliance with section
10-5-1-5.
   I.   Appurtenant structures shall be constructed with electrical,
mechanical, and other service facilities located and installed so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
the base flood. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-2-3-7: BELOW-GRADE CRAWLSPACES:
   A.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Hydrostatic loads and the effects of buoyancy can usually be addressed through
the required flood openings stated in section
10-5-2-1. Because of hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace construction is not allowed
in areas with flood velocities greater than five feet (5') per second unless
the design is reviewed by a qualified design professional, such as a registered
architect or professional engineer. Other types of foundations are recommended
for these areas.
   B.   The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the base flood elevation (BFE)
and, as such, must have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by
allowing the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. The bottom of each flood
vent opening can be no more than one foot (1') above the lowest adjacent
exterior grade.
   C.   Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation
walls of the crawlspace used to elevate the building, but also any joists,
insulation, or other materials that extend below the BFE. The recommended
construction practice is to elevate the bottom of joists and all insulation
above BFE.
   D.   Any building utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated
above BFE or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within the
system components during flood conditions. Ductwork, in particular, must either
be placed above the BFE or sealed from floodwaters.
   E.   The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be more than
two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent exterior grade.
   F.   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall must not
exceed four feet (4') at any point. The height limitation is the maximum
allowable unsupported wall height according to the engineering analyses and
building code requirements for flood hazard areas.
   G.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters from
the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained within
a reasonable time after a flood event. The type of drainage system will vary
because of the site gradient and other drainage characteristics, such as soil
types. Possible options include natural drainage through porous, well-drained
soils and drainage systems such as perforated pipes, drainage tiles or gravel
or crushed stone drainage by gravity or mechanical means.
   H.   The velocity of floodwaters at the site shall not exceed five feet (5')
per second for any crawlspace. For velocities in excess of five feet (5') per
second, other foundation types should be used. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-2-4: FLOODWAYS:
Located within the special flood hazard areas established in section
10-3-2 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of the floodwaters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions apply:
   A.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development within the adopted regulatory floodway
unless:
      1.   Certification by a registered professional civil engineer is
provided demonstrating through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in
accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment
shall not result in any increase in flood levels within the community during
the occurrence of the base flood discharge; or
      2.   A community may permit encroachments within the adopted regulatory
floodway that would result in an increase in base flood elevations, provided
that a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) is applied for and approved
by the Federal Insurance Administrator, and the requirements for such revision
as established under Volume 44 of the Code of Federal Regulations, section 610-
5-1-12 are fulfilled.
      If an encroachment proposal resulting in an increase in base flood
elevation meets the following criteria:
         a.   Is for the purpose of fish enhancement;
         b.   Does not involve the placement of any structures (as defined in
section
10-2-1) within the floodway;
         c.   Has a feasibility analysis completed documenting that fish
enhancement will be achieved through the proposed project;
         d.   Has a maintenance plan in place to ensure that the stream
carrying capacity is not impacted by the fish enhancement project;
         e.   Has approval by the National Marine Fisheries Service, the State
of Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, or the equivalent federal or state
agency; and
         f.   Has evidence to support that no existing structures will be
negatively impacted by the proposed activity.
      Then an approved CLOMR or may be required prior to approval of a
floodplain permit.
   B.   If the requirements of section
10-5-2-4A are satisfied, all new construction, substantial improvements, and
other development shall comply with all other applicable flood hazard reduction
provisions of section
10-5-1. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-2-5: STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING AREAS:
Shallow flooding areas appear on FIRMs as AO zones with depth designations or
as AH zones with base flood elevations. For AO zones the base flood depths
range from one foot (1') to three feet (3') above ground where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, or where the path of flooding is unpredictable
and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is usually characterized
as sheet flow.
For both AO and AH zones, adequate drainage paths are required around
structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-2-5-1: STANDARDS FOR AH ZONES:
Development within AH zones must comply with the standards in sections
10-5-1,
10-5-2, and
10-5-2-5. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
10-5-2-5-2: STANDARDS FOR AO ZONES:
In AO zones, the following provisions apply in addition to the requirements in
sections
10-5-1 and
10-5-2-5:
   A.   New construction and substantial improvement of residential structures
and manufactured dwellings within AO zones shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated above the highest grade adjacent to the building,
to or above one foot (1') above the specified depth on the flood insurance rate
maps (FIRM) (at least two feet (2') if no depth number is specified). For
manufactured dwellings the lowest floor is considered to be the bottom of the
longitudinal chassis frame beam.
   B.   New construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures within AO zones shall either:
      1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade of the building site, to or above one foot (1') above
the depth number specified on the flood insurance rate maps (FIRMS) (at least
two feet (2') if no depth number is specified); or
      2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
completely floodproofed to or above one foot (1') above the depth number
specified on the FIRM at a minimum of two feet (2') above the highest adjacent
grade if no depth number is specified, so that any space below that level is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy, if this method is used, compliance
shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as stated
in section
10-5-2-3-3-A4.
   C.   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within AO zones on the
community's flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) shall either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days, and
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions; or
      3.   Meet the elevation requirements of section
10-5-2-5-2A, and the anchoring and other requirements for manufactured
dwellings of section
10-5-2-3-4.
   D.   In AO zones, new and substantially improved appurtenant structures must
comply with the standards in section
10-5-2-3-6.
   E.   In AO zones, enclosed areas beneath elevated structures shall comply
with the requirements in section
10-5-2-1. (Ord. 666-20, 10-13-2020)
TITLE 11
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
11-1-1: Codes Adopted
11-1-2: City Code Administration And Fees
11-1-3: Violations And Penalties
11-1-4: Confiscation
11-1-5: Additional Remedies
11-1-6: Severability
11-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
The City adopts and elects to enforce the Oregon State Building Code, including
the following Specialty Codes as amended from time to time:
   A.   Structural Specialty Code and all supplemental amendments thereto;
   B.   Mechanical Specialty Code and all supplemental amendments thereto;
   C.   Plumbing Specialty Code and all supplemental amendments thereto;
   D.   Electrical Specialty Code and all supplemental amendments thereto;
   E.   Residential Specialty Code and all supplemental amendments thereto;
   F.   Manufactured Dwelling Installation Specialty Code and all supplemental
amendments thereto;
   G.   Oregon Manufactured Dwelling and Park Specialty Code and all
supplemental amendments thereto. (Ord. 659-18, 10-9-2018)
11-1-2: CITY CODE ADMINISTRATION AND FEES:
The City shall provide for the administration of a plan checking, permit, and
inspection program for structural and mechanical work. This City program is
applicable to public buildings, including State buildings, as well as private
buildings. Fees for enforcement of the codes identified in section
11-1-1 of this chapter are as set by resolution of the Nyssa City Council.
(Ord. 659-18, 10-9-2018)
11-1-3: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or structure in the City, or cause
the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter.
   B.   A violation of a provision of this chapter shall be punishable by a
fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation.
   C.   Every full business day during which an activity continues to be
conducted in violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate
violation.
   D.   Any of the unlawful acts specified in this section shall constitute a
nuisance, which may be abated as provided by this Code, or as otherwise
provided by law. (Ord. 659-18, 10-9-2018)
11-1-4: CONFISCATION:
Any building or structure erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired,
moved, improved, removed, converted, demolished, equipped, used, occupied or
maintained in violation of this chapter may be confiscated by the City and,
upon conviction, may be disposed of as provided by applicable State law or City
ordinance. (Ord. 659-18, 10-9-2018)
11-1-5: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
   A.   In addition to the penalties provided in section
11-1-3 of this chapter, the City may sue in a court of competent jurisdiction
to obtain a judgment for a fee due under this chapter and enforce collection of
the judgment by execution.
   B.   The City may seek an injunction to prohibit a person from erecting,
constructing, enlarging, altering, repairing, moving, improving, removing,
converting, demolishing, equipping, using, occupying or maintaining any
building or structure without complying with this chapter.
   C.   In an action authorized by this section, if the City prevails, it shall
recover reasonable attorney's fees to be set by the court in addition to its
costs and disbursements. These fees are recoverable at all levels of trial and
appeal.
   D.   Whenever a fee required by this chapter is not paid when due, the City
Recorder shall add as a penalty to the fee an amount equal to nine percent (9%)
of the fee for each month or part thereof during which the fee and accumulated
penalty amounts remain unpaid. The total amount of penalties shall not exceed
one hundred percent (100%) of the original fee. (Ord. 659-18, 10-9-2018)
11-1-6: SEVERABILITY:
The sections of this chapter are severable. The invalidity of a section shall
not affect the validity of the remaining sections. (Ord. 659-18, 10-9-2018)
CHAPTER 2
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
11-2-1: Adopted
11-2-2: Amendments
11-2-1: ADOPTED:
The City hereby adopts the Property Maintenance Code. (Ord. 660-18, 10-9-2018)
11-2-2: AMENDMENTS:
    CHAPTER 1
SCOPE AND APPLICATION
PART 1 - SCOPE AND APPLICATION
   SECTION 101 GENERAL
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the International Property
Maintenance Code of City of Nyssa, hereinafter referred to as "this code" or
"IPMC".
101.2 Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to all existing
residential and nonresidential structures and all existing premises and
constitute minimum requirements and standards for premises, structures,
equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating, sanitation,
protection from the elements, a reasonable level of safety from fire and other
hazards, and for a reasonable level of sanitary maintenance; the responsibility
of owners, an owner's authorized agent, operators and occupants; the existing
structures and premises and for administration, enforcement and penalties.
101.3 Exclusions. Nothing in this code shall supersede nor affect the
application of the provisions of the Oregon Residential Landlord and Tenant
law, ORS Chapter 90, as it may from time to time be amended. This ordinance
does not authorize enforcement or application of ORS Chapter 90.
101.4 Abatement Remedies. Violation of this code may be abated by City pursuant
to, but not limited to the remedies set out in this Ordinance and other
applicable ordinances, as well as the provisions of Oregon law, including, but
not limited to ORS 18.995 and 105.445, as all of those provisions may be
amended from time to time.
101.5 Intent. This code shall be construed to secure its expressed intent,
which is to ensure public health, safety and welfare insofar as they are
affected by the continued maintenance of structures and premises. Existing
structures and premises that do not comply with these provisions shall be
altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health and safety as required
herein.
101.6 Severability. If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this code is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
   SECTION 102 APPLICABILITY
102.1 General. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a
specific requirement, the specific requirement shall govern. Where differences
occur between provisions of this code and the referenced standards, the
provisions of this code shall apply. Where, in a specific case, different
sections of this code specify different requirements, the most restrictive
shall govern.
102.2 Maintenance. Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards required by this
code or a previous regulation or code under which the structure or premises was
constructed, altered or repaired shall be maintained in good working order. An
owner, owner's authorized agent, operator or occupant shall not cause any
service, facility, equipment or utility that is required under this section to
be removed from, shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling,
except for such temporary interruption as necessary while repairs or
alterations are in progress. The requirements of this code are not intended to
provide the basis for removal or abrogation of fire protection and safety
systems and devices in existing structures. Except as otherwise specified
herein, the owner or the owner's authorized agent shall be responsible for the
maintenance of buildings, structures and premises.
102.3 Application of other codes. Repairs, additions or alterations to
structure, changes of occupancy and all other work regulated by the IPMC shall
be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of the Oregon State
Building Code and all Specialty Codes contained therein. Nothing in this code
shall be construed to cancel, modify or set aside any provision of State law
and administrative rules, or the Nyssa Development Code.
102.4 Existing remedies. The provisions in this code shall not be construed to
abolish or impair existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its officers or
agencies relating to the removal or demolition of any structure that is
dangerous, unsafe and insanitary.
102.5 Conflicts. Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code and the
referenced standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
102.6 Provisions in referenced codes and standards. Where the extent of the
reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is
within the scope of this code, the provisions of this code, as applicable,
shall take precedence over the provisions in the referenced code or standard.
102.7 Requirements not covered by code. Requirements necessary for the
strength, stability or proper operation of an existing fixture, structure or
equipment, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not
specifically covered by this code, shall be determined by the code official.
102.8 Application of references. References to chapter or section numbers, or
to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall be construed to
refer to such chapter, section or provision of this code.
102.9 Other laws. The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify
any provisions of local, state or federal law.
PART 2 - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
   SECTION 103
   RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PROPERTY MAINTENANCE INSPECTION
103.1 General. Property maintenance inspection is hereby the responsibility of
the City Manager or a person appointed by the City Manager. The executive
official in charge thereof shall be known as the code official.
103.2 Appointment. The code official shall be the City Manager or the person
appointed by the City Manager.
103.3 The code official shall have the authority to delegate powers to other
city personnel.
103.4 Liability. The provisions and protections of the Oregon Tort claims Act,
ORS 30.265 et.seq. shall apply to all city officials, agents and employees
charged with the enforcement of the IPMC. The IPMC shall not be construed to
relieve from or lessen the responsibility of any non-city agent or employees,
including, but not limited to any owner, owner's agent, builder, contractor,
agent or employee of any builder or contractor, or any person owning, operating
or controlling any building, structure or premises, for any damages to persons
or property caused by defects or violations of this code, nor shall the code
enforcement agency or the city be held as assuming any such liability by reason
of the inspections authorized by this code or any permits or certificates
issued under this code.
103.5 Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the code official
and its delegates in carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be
included in the City Administrative Fee Schedule. Fees imposed hereunder may
become a lien against property in accordance with the notice and perfection
requirements proscribed in Section 107.
   SECTION 104
   DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE CODE OFFICIAL
104.1 General. The code official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce
the provisions of this code. The code official shall have the authority to
render interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and procedures in
order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations,
policies and procedures shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of
this code. Such policies and procedures shall not have the effect of waiving
requirements specifically provided for in this code.
104.2 Inspections. The code official shall make all of the required inspections
or shall accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or individuals.
Reports of such inspections shall be in writing and be certified by a
responsible officer of such approved agency or by the responsible individual.
The code official is authorized to engage such expert opinion as deemed
necessary to report on unusual technical issues that arise, subject to the
approval of the appointing authority.
104.3 Right of entry. Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce
the provisions of this code, or whenever the code official has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in a structure or upon a premises a condition in
violation of this code, the code official is authorized to enter the structure
or premises at reasonable times to inspect or perform the duties imposed by
this code, provided that if such structure or premises is occupied the code
official shall present credentials to the occupant and request entry. If such
structure or premises is unoccupied, the code official shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner, owner's authorized agent or other person
having charge or control of the structure or premises and request entry. If
entry is refused, the code official shall have recourse to the remedies
provided by law to secure entry.
104.3.1 Inspection warrant. The building official may apply to any court of
jurisdiction for an Inspection Warrant when there is reasonable cause to
believe that there exists a premises or condition which is in violation of this
code.
104.4 Identification. The code official shall carry proper identification when
inspecting structures or premises in the performance of duties under this code.
104.5 Notices and orders. The code official shall issue all necessary notices
or orders to ensure compliance with this code.
104.6 Department records. The code official shall keep official records of all
business and activities of the department specified in the provisions of this
code. Such records shall be retained in the official records for the period
required for retention of public records.
104.7 Definition of term "shall" for code official. When the phrase "the code
official shall" is used, it refers to the Manager's discretionary option,
rather than a mandatory obligation, to choose the course of action that would
be appropriate when a violation of the code is found. The phrase "Code official
shall" does not impose on the City a mandatory duty to implement particular
enforcement procedures.
   SECTION 105
   APPROVAL
105.1 Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in
carrying out the provisions of this code, the code official shall have the
authority to grant modifications for individual cases upon application of the
owner or owner's authorized agent, provided that the code official shall first
find that special individual reason makes the strict letter of this code
impractical, the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of
this code and that such modification does not lessen health, life and fire
safety requirements. The details of action granting modifications shall be
recorded and entered in the department files.
105.2 Required testing. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance
with the provisions of this code or evidence that a material or method does not
conform to the requirements of this code, or in order to substantiate claims
for alternative materials or methods, the code official shall have the
authority to require tests to be made as evidence of compliance without expense
to the jurisdiction.
105.2.1 Test methods. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by
other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized and accepted test
methods, the code official shall be permitted to approve appropriate testing
procedures performed by an approved agency.
105.2.2 Test reports. Reports of tests shall be retained by the code official
for the period required for retention of public records.
105.5 Approved materials and equipment. Materials, equipment and devices
approved by the code official shall be constructed and installed in accordance
with such approval.
105.6 Research reports. Supporting data, where necessary to assist in the
approval of materials or assemblies not specifically provided for in this code,
shall consist of valid research reports from approved sources.
   SECTION 106
   VIOLATIONS
106.1 Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to
be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this code.
106.2 Notice of violation. Upon determination by the code official or designee,
the code official shall serve a notice of violation or order in accordance with
Section 107.
106.3 Prosecution of violation. The code official or designee may institute the
appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such
violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy
of the structure in violation of the provisions of this code or of the order or
direction made pursuant thereto. Any action taken by the authority having
jurisdiction on such premises shall be charged against the real estate upon
which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
106.4 Violation penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision of this
code, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, may
be cited for violation of this Ordinance in Malheur County Justice Court as a
violation and not as a crime, punishable by a fine not to exceed One Thousand
and no/100 Dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation, without right to jury trial
or court appointed counsel.
106.4.1 Separate violation. Each day that a violation continues after due
notice has been served shall be deemed a separate violation.
106.4.2 Postponement. The court may not continue or postpone a proceeding and
determination of the allegation of violation of this ordinance for the purpose
of allowing compliance or to allow the accused to remediate the alleged
violation. Unless the court finds just cause other than request for
remediation, the court must adjudicate any allegation of violation of this
Ordinance within 90 days of the date of the alleged violation.
106.4.3 Individuals and entities. An individual person and other entities may
be deemed to be in violation of this ordinance. In the event that the party
acting in violation of this ordinance is any entity, the entity shall be
subject to fine, abatement or other penalties allowed by this ordinance and by
law. In such case where an entity is the offending party, a citation may be
served upon the entity by serving an owner, officer, a person in charge of the
premises, or any person designated or firm designated as an official or agent
of the entity. The entity shall be named on the citations. The citation shall
require appearance by representative of the entity at the time indicated on the
citation. In the event that a representative fails to appear as required by the
citation the city attorney may seek appropriate remedies for the failure to
appear and default against the officers and owners of the entity. For
application of this section, the terms "entity" shall also include
corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies or partnership,
associations, sole proprietorships and other forms of entities.
106.5 Abatement of violation. The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed
shall not preclude the legal officer of the jurisdiction from instituting
appropriate action to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to prevent
illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop an illegal
act, conduct, business or utilization of the building, structure or premises.
   SECTION 107
   NOTICES, ORDERS AND LIENS
107.1 Notice to person responsible. Whenever the code official determines that
there has been a violation of this code or has grounds to believe that a
violation has occurred, notice shall be given to the person responsible for the
violation or to the owner or person in charge of the premises.
107.2 Form. Such notice shall contain the following:
A description of the real estate sufficient for identification.
A description of the violation.
A statement that unless such violation is removed the City may abate the
condition and the cost of abatement may become a lien against the property.
A statement that the owner or person in charge of the property may protest the
abatement by giving notice to the City Manager within three business days from
the date of the notice.
107.3 Method of Service. The City shall cause the notice to be posted at or
upon the premises where the violation exists, directing the owner or person in
charge of the property to abate the nuisance. The City shall also cause a copy
or such notice to be sent by first class mail to the owner, entity or person in
charge of the premises at the last known address of any such person. If such
address is not known the notice may be mailed to the address shown for
notification in the tax records of the Malheur County Assessor. The person
posting and mailing the notice shall file a certificate of mailing or posting,
a copy of which shall be maintained by the City. An error in the name or
address or any owner, interest holder, or person in charge of the premises
shall not make the notice void and in such case shall make the posted notice
sufficient.
107.4 Unauthorized tampering. Signs, tags or seals posted or affixed by the
code official shall not be mutilated, destroyed or tampered with, or removed
without authorization from the code official.
107.5 Penalties. Penalties for non-compliance with orders and notices shall be
as set forth in Section 106.4.
107.6 Transfer of ownership. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling
unit or structure who has received a compliance order or upon whom a notice of
violation has been served to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise
dispose of such dwelling unit or structure to another until the provisions of
the compliance order or notice of violation have been complied with, or until
such owner or the owner's authorized agent shall first furnish the grantee,
transferee, mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice
of violation issued by the code official and shall furnish to the code official
a signed and notarized statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or
lessee, acknowledging the receipt of such compliance order or notice of
violation and fully accepting the responsibility without condition for making
the corrections or repairs required by such compliance order or notice of
violation.
107.7 Liens. A premises, structure or specific condition of property which
violates this code may be abated by City by any legal method for abatement.
Costs and expenses incurred by City in abatement of nuisance, including
administrative, attorney's and other fees, may be assessed as a lien against
the property, real and personal.
107.7.1 Lien requirements. To impose a lien the City must do the following:
   A.   The City Recorder, by return receipt requested mail, postage prepaid,
shall forward a notice to the owner or person in charge of the property. If
ownership or owner address is unknown the notice may be mailed to the address
shown for notification in the tax records of the Malheur County Assessor. The
notice shall include:
            (1)   The total amount of the costs, expenses, administrative,
legal and other fees for the abatement incurred by the City.
            (2)   That the amount as indicated will be assessed to, and become
a lien against the property unless paid within 30 days from the date of the
notice.
   B.   The City Council, in the regular course of business shall hear and
determine any objections to the costs to be assessed.
   C.   If the costs of the abatement are not paid within 30 days from the date
of the notice, an assessment of the costs as stated or as determined by the
City Council shall be made by resolution and shall be entered in the docket of
City liens. Upon such entry, the total cost of abatement shall be a lien upon
the property from which, or adjacent to which, the nuisance was removed or
abated.
   D.   The lien shall be enforced in any legal manner of enforcement or
foreclosure as liens, and shall bear interest at the rate of 6 percent a year.
Interest shall begin upon the entry of the lien in the lien docket.
   E.   An error in the name of the owner or person in charge of the property
shall not void the assessment nor will a failure to receive the notice of the
proposed assessment render the assessment void, but it shall remain a valid
lien against the property.
   SECTION 108
   UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT
108.1 General. When a structure or equipment is found by the code official to
be unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for human occupancy, or is found
unlawful, such structure shall be condemned pursuant to the provisions of this
code.
108.1.1 Unsafe structures. An unsafe structure is one that is found to be
dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the
occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or
warn occupants in the event of fire, or because such structure contains unsafe
equipment or is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of
such faulty construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete
collapse is possible.
108.1.2 Unsafe equipment. Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating
equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable
liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or within the structure
that is in such disrepair or condition that such equipment is a hazard to life,
health, property or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or
structure.
108.1.3 Structure unfit for human occupancy. A structure is unfit for human
occupancy whenever the code official finds that such structure is unsafe,
unlawful or, because of the degree to which the structure is in disrepair or
lacks maintenance, is insanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and
contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating
facilities or other essential equipment required by this code, or because the
location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the
structure or to the public.
108.1.4 Unlawful structure. An unlawful structure is one found in whole or in
part to be occupied by more persons than permitted under this code, or was
erected, altered or occupied contrary to law.
108.1.5 Dangerous structure or premises. For the purpose of this code, any
structure or premises that has any or all of the conditions or defects
described as follows shall be considered to be dangerous:
      1.   Any door, aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or other means of egress
that does not conform to the approved building or fire code of the jurisdiction
as related to the requirements for existing buildings.
      2.   The walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or
other means of egress is so warped, worn loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of egress.
      3.   Any portion of a building, structure or appurtenance that has been
damaged by fire, earthquake, wind, flood, deterioration, neglect, abandonment,
vandalism or by any other cause to such an extent that it is likely to
partially or completely collapse, or to become detached or dislodged.
      4.   Any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof that is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting natural or artificial loads of one and one-half the
original designed value.
      5.   The building or structure, or part of the building or structure,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, the removal
or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or for any
other reason, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some portion of
the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is likely to fail
or give way.
      6.   The building or structure, or any portion thereof, is clearly unsafe
for its use and occupancy.
      7.   The building or structure is neglected, damaged, dilapidated,
unsecured or abandoned so as to become an attractive nuisance to children who
might play in the building or structure to their danger, becomes a harbor for
vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or enables persons to resort to the
building or structure for committing a nuisance or an unlawful act.
      8.   Any building or structure has been constructed, exists or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to such building or structure provided by the approved building or fire code of
the jurisdiction, or of any law or ordinance to such an extent as to present
either a substantial risk of fire, building collapse or any other threat to
life and safety.
      9.   A building or structure, used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay, damage,
faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, ventilation, mechanical
or plumbing system, or otherwise, is determined by the code official to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is likely to
cause sickness or disease.
      10.   Any building or structure, because of a lack of sufficient or
proper fire-resistance-rated construction, fire protection systems, electrical
system, fuel connections, mechanical system, plumbing system or other cause, is
determined by the code official to be a threat to life or health.
      11.   Any portion of a building remains on a site after the demolition or
destruction of the building or structure or whenever any building or structure
is abandoned so as to constitute such building or portion thereof as an
attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.
108.2 Closing of vacant structures. If the structure is vacant and unfit for
human habitation and occupancy, and is not in danger of structural collapse,
the code official is authorized to post a placard of condemnation on the
premises and order the structure closed up so as not to be an attractive
nuisance. Upon failure of the owner or owner's authorized agent to close up the
premises within the time specified in the order, the code official shall cause
the premises to be closed and secured through any available public agency or by
contract or arrangement by private persons and the cost thereof shall be
charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall
be a lien upon such real estate and shall be collected by any other legal
resource.
108.2.1 Authority to disconnect service utilities. The code official shall have
the authority to authorize disconnection of utility service to the building,
structure or system regulated by this code and the referenced codes and
standards set forth in Section 102.6 in case of emergency where necessary to
eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property or where such utility
connection has been made without approval. The code official shall notify the
serving utility and, whenever possible, the owner or owner's authorized agent
and occupant of the building, structure or service system of the decision to
disconnect prior to taking such action. If not notified prior to disconnection
the owner, owner's authorized agent or occupant of the building structure or
service system shall be notified in writing as soon as practical thereafter.
108.3 Notice. Whenever the code official has condemned a structure or equipment
under the provisions of this section, notice shall be posted in a conspicuous
place in or about the structure affected by such notice and served on the
owner, owner's authorized agent or the person or persons responsible for the
structure or equipment in accordance with Section 107.3. If the notice pertains
to equipment, it shall be placed on the condemned equipment. The notice shall
be in the form prescribed in Section 107.2.
108.4 Placarding. Upon failure of the owner, owner's authorized agent or person
responsible to comply with the notice provisions within the time given, the
code official shall post on the premises or on defective equipment a placard
bearing the word "Condemned" and a statement of the penalties provided for
occupying the premises, operating the equipment or removing the placard.
108.4.1 Placard removal. The code official shall remove the condemnation
placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and
placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces or
removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the code official shall
be subject to the penalties provided by this code.
108.5 Prohibited occupancy. Any occupied structure condemned and placarded by
the code official shall be vacated as ordered by the code official. Any person
who shall occupy some placarded premises or shall operate placarded equipment,
and any owner, owner's authorized agent or person responsible for the premises
who shall let anyone occupy some placarded premises or operate placarded
equipment shall be liable for the penalties provided by this code.
108.6 Abatement methods. The owner, owner's authorized agent, operator or
occupant of a building, premises or equipment deemed unsafe by the code
official shall abate or cause to be abated or corrected such unsafe conditions
either by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or other approved corrective
action.
108.7 Record. The code official shall cause a report to be filed on an unsafe
condition. The report shall state the occupancy of the structure and the nature
of the unsafe condition.
   SECTION 109
   EMERGENCY MEASURES
109.1 Imminent danger. When, in the opinion of the code official, there is
imminent danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure that
endangers life, or when any structure or part of a structure has fallen and
life is endangered by the occupation of the structure, or when there is actual
or potential danger to the building occupants or those in the proximity of any
structure because of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors or the presence of
toxic fumes, gases or materials, or operation of defective or dangerous
equipment, the code official is hereby authorized and empowered to order and
require the occupants to vacate the premises forthwith. The code official shall
cause to be posted at each entrance to such structure a notice reading as
follows: "This Structure Is Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the
Code Official." It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such structure
except for the purpose of securing the structure, making the required repairs,
removing the hazardous condition or of demolishing the same.
109.2 Temporary safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of this code,
whenever, in the opinion of the code official, there is imminent danger due to
an unsafe condition, the code official shall order the necessary work to be
done, including the boarding up of openings, to render such structure
temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein described has been
instituted; and shall cause such other action to be taken as the code official
deems necessary to meet such emergency.
109.3 Closing streets. When necessary for public safety, the code official
shall temporarily close structures and close, or order the authority having
jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways and places adjacent to
unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being utilized.
109.4 Emergency repairs. For the purposes of this section, the code official
shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the required work as
expeditiously as possible.
109.5 Costs of emergency repairs. Costs incurred in the performance of
emergency work shall be invoiced to the owner and, if not paid, shall become a
lien.
109.6 Hearing. Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply with
such order forthwith. Any affected person thereafter, may appeal in the manner
described in Section 111.
   SECTION 110
   DEMOLITION
110.1 General. The code official shall order the owner or owner's authorized
agent of any premises upon which is located any structure, which in the code
official's or owner's authorized agent judgment after review is so deteriorated
or dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe,
insanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation or occupancy, and such that
it is unreasonable to repair the structure, to demolish and remove such
structure; or if such structure is capable of being made safe by repairs, to
repair and make safe and sanitary, or to board up and hold for future repair or
to demolish and remove at the owner's option; or where there has been a
cessation of normal construction of any structure for a period of more than six
months, the code official shall order the owner or owner's authorized agent to
demolish and remove such structure, or board up until future repair. Boarding
the building up for future repair shall not extend beyond six months, unless
approved by the building official.
110.2 Notices and orders. Notices and orders shall comply with Section 107.
110.3 Failure to comply. If the owner of a premises or owner's authorized agent
fails to comply with a demolition order within the time prescribed, the code
official shall cause the structure to be demolished and removed, either through
an available public agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons,
and the cost of such demolition and removal shall be charged against the real
estate upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real
estate.
110.4 Salvage materials. Where any structure has been ordered demolished and
removed, the governing body or other designated officer under said contract or
arrangement aforesaid shall have the right to sell the salvage and valuable
materials. The net proceeds of such sale, after deducting the expenses of such
demolition and removal, shall be promptly remitted with a report of such sale
or transaction, including the items of expense and the amounts deducted, for
the person who is entitled thereto, subject to any order of a court. If such a
surplus does not remain to be turned over, the report shall so state.
   SECTION 111
   MEANS OF APPEAL
111.1 Application for appeal. Any person affected by a decision of the code
official or a notice for order issued under this code shall have the right to
appeal to the City Council, provided that a written application for appeal is
filed within 20 days after the day of the decision, notice or order was served.
An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of
this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly
interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or the
requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means.
111.2 Notice of meeting. The City Council shall meet upon notice from the
Mayor, within 20 days of the filing of an appeal, or at a stated periodic
monthly City Council meeting.
111.3 Open hearing. All hearings before the City Council shall be open to the
public. The appellant, the appellant's representative, the code official and
any person whose interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be
heard.
111.4 Postponed hearing. When a quorum of the City Council is not present to
hear an appeal, either the appellant or the appellant's representative, or the
code official shall have the right to request a postponement of the hearing.
111.5 Decision. The Council shall modify or reverse the decision of the code
official only by a concurring vote of a majority of the quorum present at the
hearing.
111.5.1 Records and copies. The decision of the Council shall be recorded in
writing. Copies shall be furnished to the appellant and to the code official.
111.5.2 Administration. The code official shall take immediate action in
accordance with the decision of the City Council.
111.5.3 Court review. Any person, whether or not a previous party of the
appeal, shall have the right to apply to the appropriate court for a writ of
certiorari to correct errors of law. Application for review shall be made in
the manner and time required by law following the filing of the decision with
the City Recorder.
111.6 Stays of enforcement. Appeals of notice and orders (other than Imminent
Danger notices) shall stay the enforcement of the notice and order until the
appeal is heard by the City Council.
   SECTION 112
   STOP WORK ORDER
112.1 Authority. Whenever the code official finds any work regulated by this or
any City of Nyssa code, including permitting requirements, being performed in a
manner contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe
manner, the code official is authorized to issue a stop work order.
112.2 Issuance. A stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the
owner of the property, to the owner's authorized agent, or to the person doing
the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately
cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order and the
conditions under which the cited work is authorized to resume.
112.3 Emergencies. Where an emergency exists, the code official shall not be
required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
112.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be considered to be
committing a violation and will be subject to penalties as set out in Section
106.
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
   SECTION 201
   GENERAL
201.1 Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall, for
the purposes of this code, have the meanings shown in this chapter.
201.2 Interchangeability. Words stated in the present tense include the future;
words stated in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the
singular number includes the plural and the plural, the singular.
201.3 Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this code
and are defined in the Oregon Specialty Codes (Oregon Structural Specialty
Code, ORS Chapter 455 and Oregon Fire code, ORS Chapter 476), such terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them as stated in those codes.
201.4 Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined in the IPMC and are
defined in the Oregon Specialty Codes, such terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as stated in that code.
201.5 Parts. Whenever the words "dwelling unit," "dwelling," "premises,"
"building," "rooming house," "rooming unit," "housekeeping unit" or "story" are
stated in this code, they shall be construed as though they were followed by
the words "or any part thereof."
   SECTION 202
   GENERAL DEFINITIONS
ANCHORED. Secured in a manner that provides positive connection.
APPROVED. Acceptable to the code official.
ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE. A condition that can attract children and be detrimental
to the health or safety of entrants, or the public transients, or feral
animals, whether in a building, on the premises of a building or upon an
unoccupied lot. This includes, but is not limited to: abandoned buildings,
abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations, abandoned freezers or
refrigerators with self-latching doors, motor vehicles, structurally unsound
fences or structures, lumber, trash, fences, debris, or water feature.
BASEMENT. That portion of a building that is partly or completely below grade.
BATHROOM. A room containing plumbing fixtures including a bathtub or shower.
BEDROOM. Any room or space used or intended to be used for sleeping purposes in
either a dwelling or sleeping unit.
BOARDED BUILDING. An unoccupied or derelict building that has been secured
against entry by material such as plywood, boards or other similar material
placed over openings that are designed for and/or are required for windows and
doors, and which is visible off the premises and is not both lawful and
customary to install on an occupied structure.
BUILDING. Any structure occupied or intended for any occupancy.
CITY. City of Nyssa, Oregon, a municipal corporation.
CODE OFFICIAL. The official who is charged with the administration and
enforcement of this code, or any duly authorized representative.
CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for occupancy.
COST OF SUCH DEMOLITION OR EMERGENCY REPAIRS. The costs shall include the
actual costs of the demolition or repair of the structure less revenues
obtained if salvage was conducted prior to demolition or repair. Costs shall
include, but not be limited to, expenses incurred or necessitated related to
demolition or emergency repairs, such as asbestos survey and abatement if
necessary; costs of inspectors, testing agencies or experts retained relative
to the demolition or emergency repairs; costs of testing; surveys for other
materials that are controlled or regulated from being dumped in a landfill;
title searches; mailing(s); postings; recording; and attorney fees expended for
recovering of the cost of emergency repairs or to obtain or enforce an order of
demolition made by a code official, the governing body or board of appeals.
DERELICT STRUCTURE. Any structure that meets any one of the following:
      1.   Unoccupied and unsecured.
      2.   Partially constructed without an active building permit.
      3.   Maintained in a condition that is an imminent threat to public
health and safety.
      4.   Foreclosed residential property, as defined in ORS Chapter 317.
DETACHED. When a structural element is physically disconnected from another and
that connection is necessary to provide a positive connection.
DETERIORATION. A lowering in quality of the condition or appearance of a
building, structure or parts thereof, characterized by holes, breaks, rot,
crumbling, cracking, peeling, rusting, or any other evidence of physical decay,
neglect, excessive use, or lack of maintenance.
DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities
for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
EASEMENT. That portion of land or property reserved for present or future use
by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner(s) of the property. The
easement shall be permitted to be for use under, on or above said lot or lots.
EQUIPMENT SUPPORT. Those structural members or assemblies of members or
manufactured elements, including braces, frames, lugs, snuggers, hangers or
saddles, that transmit gravity load, lateral load and operating load between
the equipment and the structure.
EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining property
under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
GARBAGE. The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
GUARD. A building component or a system of building components located at or
near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the possibility
of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or cooking.
Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces, and similar
areas are not considered habitable spaces.
HISTORIC BUILDING. Any building or structure that is one or more of the
following:
      1.   Listed or certified as eligible for listing, by the State Historic
Preservation Officer or the Keeper of the National Register of Historic Places,
in the National Register of Historic Places.
      2.   Designated as historic under an applicable state or local law.
      3.   Certified as a contributing resource within a National Register or
state or locally designated historic district.
HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable space
equipped and intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating that
does not contain, within such a unit, a toilet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
IMMINENT DANGER. A condition that could cause serious or life- threatening
injury or death at any time.
INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or premises of
insects, rodents, vermin or other pests.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that cannot be driven upon the public
streets for reason including but not limited to being unlicensed, wrecked,
abandoned, in a state of disrepair, or incapable of being moved under its own
power.
LABELED. Equipment, materials or products to which have been affixed a label,
seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally recognized testing
laboratory, approved agency or other organization concerned with product
evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the production of the above-
labeled items and whose labeling indicates either that the equipment, material
or product meets identified standards or has been tested and found suitable for
a specified purpose.
LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit, provide or offer possession or occupancy
of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premises or structure by
a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof, pursuant to a
written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to a recorded or
unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
MANAGER. The City Manager or appointed representative(s) who are responsible
for supervising, administrating and enforcing all aspects of this code.
NEGLECT. The lack of proper maintenance for a building or structure.
OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is utilized or
occupied.
OCCUPANT. Any individual living or sleeping in a building, or having possession
of a space within a building.
OPENABLE AREA. That part of a window, skylight or door which is available for
unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or premises
that is let or offered for occupancy.
OWNER.
      1.   Any holder of fee title to the property, except the seller on a land
sale contract that has not been foreclosed;
      2.   A person who is the purchaser of the property on a land sale
contract and who has a current right to possession of the property;
      3.   A person who is obligated on a mortgage loan or trust deed loan
secured by the property and has a current right to possession of the property;
      4.   A person who has been awarded a Judgment of Foreclosure on any land
sale contract, mortgage, trust deed or lien applicable to the property and has
purchased the property at the foreclosure sale; and
      5.   Any successor in interest to any of the persons described in
subsection (2) through (4) who has a current right to possession of the
property.
PARTIALLY CONSTRUCTED. An occupied or vacant structure, or portion thereof,
that has been left in a state of partial construction for more than six months
or after the expiration of any building permit, or that has not had a required
permit inspection within any six-month period.
PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting as a
unit.
PEST ELIMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that serve as their food or water; by other approved pest elimination
methods.
PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way, including any
structures thereon.
PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley or other parcel of land that: is open to the
outside air; leads to a street; has been deeded, dedicated or otherwise
permanently appropriated to the public for public use; and has a clear width
and height of not less than 10 feet (3048 mm).
RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM. Systems which produce energy from sources that do not
use up finite natural resources. Examples include, but are not limited to,
solar, wind, biomass, geothermal and micro-hydro systems.
ROOMING HOUSE. A building arranged or occupied for lodging, with or without
meals, for compensation and not occupied as a one- or two-family dwelling.
ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; the
term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
SLEEPING UNIT. A room or space in which people sleep, which can also include
permanent provisions for living, eating and either sanitation or kitchen
facilities, but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a
dwelling unit are not sleeping units.
STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE. An offense in which the prosecution in a legal
proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case. It
is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was prohibited,
or failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to do.
STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed.
TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the legal
owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
TOILET ROOM. A room containing a water closet or urinal but not a bathtub or
shower.
ULTIMATE DEFORMATION. The deformation at which failure occurs and that shall be
deemed to occur if the sustainable load reduces to 80 percent or less of the
maximum strength.
UNOCCUPIED. Vacant or not being used for a lawful occupancy.
VENTILATION. The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or
unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
WORKMANLIKE. Executed in a skilled manner; e.g., generally plumb, level,
square, in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work.
YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure.
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
   SECTION 301 GENERAL
301.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum conditions
and the responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures, equipment
and exterior property.
301.2 Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall maintain the structures
and exterior property in compliance with these requirements, except as
otherwise provided for in this code. A person shall not occupy as owner-
occupant or permit another person to occupy premises that are not in a sanitary
and safe condition and that do not comply with the requirements of this
chapter. Structures, which are occupied or intended for tenant occupation that
are sanitary and safe, are subject to regulation, enforcement and remedy as
provided in ORS Ch 90 (Landlord/Tenant). Pursuant to 104.1, code officers may
determine that this code shall not apply to particular Landlord/Tenant
complaints, which ORS Ch. 90 addresses remedy.
301.3 Vacant structures and land. Vacant structures and premises thereof or
vacant land shall be maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary condition
as provided herein so as not to cause a blighting problem or adversely affect
the public health or safety.
   SECTION 302
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS
302.1 Sanitation. Exterior property and premises shall be maintained in a
clean, safe and sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of the
exterior property that such occupant occupies or controls in a clean and
sanitary condition.
302.2 Grading and drainage. Premises shall be graded and maintained to prevent
the erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon,
or within any structure located thereon.
Exception: Approved retention areas and reservoirs.
302.3 Sidewalks and driveways. Sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways, parking
spaces and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair, and
maintained free from hazardous conditions.
302.4 Weeds. Premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from weeds
and excessive plant growth as provided in City Code
4-1-4, as it may from time to time be amended.
302.5 Rodent harborage. Structures and exterior property shall be kept free
from rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they shall be
promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to human
health. After pest elimination, proper precautions shall be taken to eliminate
rodent harborage and prevent reinfestation.
302.6 Exhaust vents. Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not
discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous
or particulate wastes directly on abutting or adjacent public or private
property or that of another tenant.
302.7 Accessory structures. Accessory structures, including detached garages,
fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in good repair.
302.8 Motor vehicles. Except as provided for in other regulations, inoperative
or unlicensed motor vehicles shall not be parked, kept or stored on any
premises unless they are not visible from public view. Painting of vehicles is
prohibited unless conducted inside a spray booth.
Exception: A vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major overhaul,
including body work, provided that such work is performed inside a structure or
similarly enclosed area designed and approved for such purposes.
   SECTION 303
   SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS
303.1 Swimming pools. Swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition, and in good repair.
303.2 Enclosures. Private swimming pools, hot tubs and spas, containing water
more than 24 inches (610 mm) in depth shall be completely surrounded by a fence
or barrier not less than 48 inches (1219 mm) in height above the finished
ground level measured on the side of the barrier away from the pool. Gates and
doors in such barriers shall be self-closing and self-latching. Where the self-
latching device is less than 54 inches (1372 mm) above the bottom of the gate,
the release mechanism shall be located on the pool side of the gate. Self-
closing and self- latching gates shall be maintained such that the gate will
positively close and latch when released from an open position of 6 inches (152
mm) from the gatepost. An existing pool enclosure shall not be removed,
replaced or changed in a manner that reduces its effectiveness as a safety
barrier.
Exception: Spas or hot tubs with a safety cover that complies with ASTM F1346
shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
   SECTION 304
   EXTERIOR STRUCTURE
304.1 General. The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good repair,
structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the public
health, safety or welfare.
304.1.1 Unsafe conditions. The following conditions shall be determined as
unsafe and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with the Oregon State
Building Code as it may from time to time be amended:
      1.   The nominal strength of any structural member is exceeded by nominal
loads, the load effects or the required strength.
      2.   The anchorage of the floor or roof to walls or columns, and of walls
and columns to foundations is not capable of resisting all nominal loads or
load effects.
      3.   Structures or components thereof that have reached their limit
state.
      4.   Siding and masonry joints including joints between the building
envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors and skylights are not maintained,
weather resistant or water tight.
      5.   Structural members that have evidence of deterioration or that are
not capable of safely supporting all nominal loads and load effects.
      6.   Foundation systems that are not firmly supported by footings, are
not plumb and free from open cracks and breaks, are not properly anchored or
are not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects.
      7.   Exterior walls that are not anchored to supporting and supported
elements or are not plumb and free of holes, cracks or breaks and loose or
rotting materials, are not properly anchored or are not capable of supporting
all nominal loads and resisting all load effects.
      8.   Roofing or roofing components that have defects that admit rain,
roof surfaces with inadequate drainage, or any portion of the roof framing that
is not in good repair with signs of deterioration, fatigue or without proper
anchorage and incapable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects.
      9.   Flooring and flooring components with defects that affect
serviceability or flooring components that show signs of deterioration or
fatigue, are not properly anchored or are incapable of supporting all nominal
loads and resisting all load effects.
      10.   Veneer, cornices, belt courses, corbels, trim, wall facings and
similar decorative features not properly anchored or that are anchored with
connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects.
      11.   Overhang extensions or projections including, but not limited to,
trash chutes, canopies, marquees, signs, awnings, fire escapes, standpipes and
exhaust ducts not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections not
capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects.
      12.   Exterior stairs, decks, porches, balconies and all similar
appurtenances attached thereto, including guards and handrails, are not
structurally sound, not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections
not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects.
      13.   Chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks and similar appurtenances not
structurally sound or not properly anchored, or that are anchored with
connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects.
Exceptions:
      1.   Where substantiated otherwise by an approved method.
      2.   Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted where approved by
the code official.
304.2 Protective treatment. Exterior surfaces, including but not limited to,
doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks and
fences, shall be maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other
than decay-resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by
painting or other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking and
chipped paint shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted. Siding and masonry
joints, as well as those between the building envelope and the perimeter of
windows, doors and skylights, shall be maintained weather resistant and water
tight. Metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion shall be coated to inhibit
such rust and corrosion, and surfaces with rust or corrosion shall be
stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust and corrosion. Oxidation stains
shall be removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for stabilization by
oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
304.3 Premises identification. Each structure to which a street number has been
assigned shall have such number displayed in a position easily observed and
readable from the public right-of- way as required by the Oregon Fire Code, and
maintained.
304.4 Structural members. Structural members shall be maintained free from
deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead and
live loads.
304.5 Foundation walls. Foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and free
from open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to
prevent the entry of rodents and other pests.
304.6 Exterior walls. Exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks, and
loose or rotting materials; and maintained weatherproof and properly surface
coated where required to prevent deterioration.
304.7 Roofs and drainage. The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and not
have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure.
Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free
from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates
a public nuisance.
304.8 Decorative features. Cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta trim,
wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good repair
with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
304.9 Overhang extensions. Overhang extensions including, but not limited to,
canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes and exhaust
ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored so as to be
kept in a sound condition. Where required, all exposed surfaces of metal or
wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic
application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar surface
treatment.
304.10 Stairways, decks, porches and balconies. Every exterior stairway, deck,
porch and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be maintained
structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and capable of
supporting the imposed loads.
304.11 Chimneys and towers. Chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and similar
appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in good
repair. Exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the elements
and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating materials,
such as paint or similar surface treatment.
304.12 Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly fastened
and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be maintained in
good condition.
304.13 Window, skylight and door frames. Every window, skylight, door and frame
shall be kept in sound condition, good repair and weather tight.
304.13.1 Glazing. Glazing materials shall be maintained free from cracks and
holes.
304.13.2 Openable windows. Every window, other than a fixed window, shall be
easily openable and capable of being held in position by window hardware.
Exception: Screens shall not be required where other approved means, such as
air curtains or insect repellent fans, are employed.
304.14 Doors. Exterior doors, door assemblies, operator systems if provided,
and hardware shall be maintained in good condition. Locks at all entrances to
dwelling units and sleeping units shall tightly secure the door. Locks on means
of egress doors shall be in accordance with Section 702.3.
304.15 Basement hatchways. Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water.
304.16 Guards for basement windows. Every basement window that is openable
shall be supplied with rodent shields, storm windows or other approved
protection against the entry of rodents.
304.17 Building security. Doors, windows or hatchways for dwelling units, room
units or housekeeping units shall be provided with devices designed to provide
security for the occupants and property within.
304.17.1 Doors. Doors providing access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit or
housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let shall be equipped with a
deadbolt lock designed to be readily openable from the side from which egress
is to be made without the need for keys, special knowledge or effort and shall
have a minimum lock throw of 1 inch (25 mm). Such deadbolt locks shall be
installed according to the manufacturer's specifications and maintained in good
working order. For the purpose of this section, a sliding bolt shall not be
considered an acceptable deadbolt lock.
304.17.2 Windows. Operable windows located in whole or in part within 6 feet
(1828 mm) above ground level or a walking surface below that provide access to
a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or
let shall be equipped with a window sash locking device.
304.17.3 Basement hatchways. Basement hatchways that provide access to a
dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let
shall be equipped with devices that secure the units from unauthorized entry.
304.18 Gates. Exterior gates, gate assemblies, operator systems if provided,
and hardware shall be maintained in good condition. Latches at all entrances
shall tightly secure the gates.
   SECTION 305
   INTERIOR STRUCTURE
305.1 General. The interior of a structure and equipment therein shall be
maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition.
Occupants shall keep that part of the structure that they occupy or control in
a clean and sanitary condition. If applicable, ORS Chapter 90 shall regulate
all structures used as or intended for tenancy.
305.1.1 Unsafe conditions. The following conditions shall be determined as
unsafe and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with this code.
      1.   The nominal strength of any structural member is exceeded by nominal
loads, the load effects or the required strength.
      2.   The anchorage of the floor or roof to walls or columns, and of walls
and columns to foundations is not capable of resisting all nominal loads or
load effects.
      3.   Structures or components thereof that have reached their limit
state.
      4.   Structural members are incapable of supporting nominal loads and
load effects.
      5.   Stairs, landings, balconies and all similar walking surfaces,
including guards and handrails, are not structurally sound, not properly
anchored or are anchored with connections not capable of supporting all nominal
loads and resisting all load effects.
      6.   Foundation systems that are not firmly supported by footings are not
plumb and free from open cracks and breaks, are not properly anchored or are
not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects.
Exceptions:
      1.   Where substantiated otherwise by an approved method.
      2.   Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted where approved by
the code official.
305.2 Structural members. Structural members shall be maintained structurally
sound, and be capable of supporting the imposed loads.
305.3 Interior surfaces. Interior surfaces, including windows and doors, shall
be maintained in good, clean and sanitary condition. Peeling, chipping, flaking
or abraded paint shall be repaired, removed or covered. Cracked or loose
plaster, decayed wood and other defective surface conditions shall be
corrected.
305.4 Stairs and walking surfaces. Every stair, ramp, landing, balcony, porch,
deck or other walking surface shall be maintained in sound condition and good
repair.
305.5 Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly fastened
and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be maintained in
good condition.
305.6 Interior doors. Every interior door shall fit reasonably well within its
frame and shall be capable of being opened and closed by being properly and
securely attached to jambs, headers or tracks as intended by the manufacturer
of the attachment hardware.
   SECTION 306
   COMPONENT SERVICEABILITY
306.1 General. The components of a structure and equipment therein shall be
maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition. If
applicable, ORS Chapter 90 shall regulate all structures used as or intended
for tenancy.
306.1.1 Unsafe conditions. Where any of the following conditions cause the
component or system to be beyond its limit state, the component or system shall
be determined as unsafe and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with the
Oregon State Building Code:
      1.   Soils that have been subjected to any of the following conditions:
1.1. Collapse of footing or foundation system.
1.2. Damage to footing, foundation, concrete or other structural element due to
soil expansion.
1.3. Adverse effects to the design strength of footing, foundation, concrete or
other structural element due to a chemical reaction from the soil.
1.4. Inadequate soil as determined by a geotechnical investigation.
1.5. Where the allowable bearing capacity of the soil is in doubt.
1.6. Adverse effects to the footing, foundation, concrete or other structural
element due to the ground water table.
      2.   Concrete that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
2.1. Deterioration.
2.2. Ultimate deformation.
2.3. Fractures.
2.4. Fissures.
2.5. Spalling.
2.6. Exposed reinforcement.
2.7. Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
      3.   Aluminum that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
3.1. Deterioration.
3.2. Corrosion.
3.3. Elastic deformation.
3.4. Ultimate deformation.
3.5. Stress or strain cracks.
3.6. Joint fatigue.
3.7. Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
      4.   Masonry that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
4.1. Deterioration.
4.2. Ultimate deformation.
4.3. Fractures in masonry or mortar joints.
4.4. Fissures in masonry or mortar joints.
4.5. Spalling.
4.6. Exposed reinforcement.
4.7. Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
      5.   Steel that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
5.1. Deterioration.
5.2. Elastic deformation.
5.3. Ultimate deformation.
5.4. Metal fatigue.
5.5. Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
      6.   Wood that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
6.1. Ultimate deformation.
6.2. Deterioration.
6.3. Damage from insects, rodents and other vermin.
6.4. Fire damage beyond charring.
6.5. Significant splits and checks.
6.6. Horizontal shear cracks.
6.7. Vertical shear cracks.
6.8. Inadequate support.
6.9. Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
6.10. Excessive cutting and notching.
6.11.
Exceptions:
      1.   Where substantiated otherwise by an approved method.
      2.   Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted where approved by
the code official.
   SECTION 308
   RUBBISH AND GARBAGE
Solid waste, rubbish and garbage shall be regulated by other provisions of the
Nyssa City Code, as they may be from time to time amended.
   SECTION 309
   PEST ELIMINATION
309.1 Infestation. Structures shall be kept free from insect and rodent
infestation. Structures in which insects or rodents are found shall be promptly
exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to human health.
After pest elimination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent
reinfestation.
309.2 Owner. The owner of any structure shall be responsible for pest
elimination within the structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
309.3 Single occupant. The occupant of a one-family dwelling or of a single-
tenant nonresidential structure shall be responsible for pest elimination on
the premises.
309.4 Multiple occupancy. The owner of a structure containing two or more
dwelling units, a multiple occupancy, a rooming house or a nonresidential
structure shall be responsible for pest elimination in the public or shared
areas of the structure and exterior property. If infestation is caused by
failure of an occupant to prevent such infestation in the area occupied, the
occupant and owner shall be responsible for pest elimination.
309.5 Occupant. The occupant of any structure shall be responsible for the
continued rodent and pest-free condition of the structure.
Exception: Where the infestations are caused by defects in the structure, the
owner shall be responsible for pest elimination.
CHAPTER 4
LIGHT, VENTILATION AND OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS
   SECTION 401 GENERAL
401.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum conditions
and standards for light, ventilation and space for occupying a structure.
401.2 Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
light, ventilation and space conditions in compliance with these requirements.
A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant, or permit another person to
occupy, any premises that do not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
401.3 Alternative devices. In lieu of the means for natural light and
ventilation herein prescribed, artificial light or mechanical ventilation
complying with the Oregon State Building Code as it may from time to time be
amended.
   SECTION 402
   LIGHT
402.1 Habitable spaces. Every habitable space shall have not less than one
window of approved size facing directly to the outdoors or to a court. The
minimum total glazed area for every habitable space shall be 8 percent of the
floor area of such room. Wherever walls or other portions of a structure face a
window of any room and such obstructions are located less than 3 feet (914 mm)
from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room,
such window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors nor to a court
and shall not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window
area for the room.
Exception: Where natural light for rooms or spaces without exterior glazing
areas is provided through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening to the
adjoining room shall be not less than 8 percent of the floor area of the
interior room or space, or not less than 25 square feet (2.33 m2), whichever is
greater. The exterior glazing area shall be based on the total floor area being
served.
402.2 Common halls and stairways. Every common hall and stairway in residential
occupancies, other than in one- and two-family dwellings, shall be lighted at
all times with not less than a 60-watt standard incandescent light bulb for
each 200 square feet (19 m2) of floor area or equivalent illumination, provided
that the spacing between lights shall not be greater than 30 feet (9144 mm). In
other than residential occupancies, interior and exterior means of egress,
stairways shall be illuminated at all times the building space served by the
means of egress is occupied with not less than 1 footcandle (11 lux) at floors,
landings and treads.
402.3 Other spaces. Other spaces shall be provided with natural or artificial
light sufficient to permit the maintenance of sanitary conditions, and the safe
occupancy of the space and utilization of the appliances, equipment and
fixtures.
   SECTION 403
   VENTILATION
403.1 Process ventilation. Where injurious, toxic, irritating or noxious fumes,
gases, dusts or mists are generated, a local exhaust ventilation system that is
in compliance with the Oregon Specialty Codes shall be provided to remove the
contaminating agent at the source. Air shall be exhausted to the exterior and
not be recirculated to any space.
Exception: Range hoods constructed in accordance with code requirements in
place at the time of construction.
403.2 Clothes dryer exhaust. Clothes dryer exhaust systems shall be independent
of all other systems and shall be exhausted outside the structure in accordance
with the Oregon State Building Code as it may from time to time be amended.
Exception: Listed and labeled condensing (ductless) clothes dryers.
   SECTION 404
   OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS
404.1 Privacy. Dwelling units, hotel units, housekeeping units, rooming units
and dormitory units shall be arranged to provide privacy and be separate from
other adjoining spaces.
404.2 Minimum room widths. A habitable room, other than a kitchen, shall be not
less than 7 feet (2134 mm) in any plan dimension. Kitchens shall have a minimum
clear passageway of 3 feet (914 mm) between counterfronts and appliances or
counterfronts and walls.
404.3 Minimum ceiling heights. Habitable spaces, hallways, corridors, laundry
areas, bathrooms, toilet rooms and habitable basement areas shall have a
minimum clear ceiling height of 7 feet (2134 mm).
Exceptions:
      1.   In one- and two-family dwellings, beams or girders spaced not less
than 4 feet (1219 mm) on center and projecting not greater than 6 inches (152
mm) below the required ceiling height.
      2.   Basement rooms in one- and two-family dwellings occupied exclusively
for laundry, study or recreation purposes, having a minimum ceiling height of 6
feet 8 inches (2033 mm) with a minimum clear height of 6 feet 4 inches (1932
mm) under beams, girders, ducts and similar obstructions.
      3.   Rooms occupied exclusively for sleeping, study or similar purposes
and having a sloped ceiling over all or part of the room, with a minimum clear
ceiling height of 7 feet (2134 mm) over not less than one-third of the required
minimum floor area. In calculating the floor area of such rooms, only those
portions of the floor area with a minimum clear ceiling height of 5 feet (1524
mm) shall be included.
404.4 Bedroom and living room requirements. Every bedroom and living room shall
comply with the requirements of Sections 404.4.1 through 404.4.5.
404.4.1 Room area. Every living room shall contain not less than 120 square
feet (11.2 m2) and every bedroom shall contain not less than 70 square feet
(6.5 m2) and every bedroom occupied by more than one person shall contain not
less than 50 square feet (4.6 m2) of floor area for each occupant thereof.
404.4.2 Access from bedrooms. Bedrooms shall not constitute the only means of
access to other bedrooms or habitable spaces and shall not serve as the only
means of egress from other habitable spaces.
Exception: Units that contain fewer than two bedrooms.
404.4.3 Water closet accessibility. Every bedroom shall have access to not less
than one water closet and one lavatory without passing through another bedroom.
Every bedroom in a dwelling unit shall have access to not less than one water
closet and lavatory located in the same story as the bedroom or an adjacent
story.
404.4.4 Prohibited occupancy. Kitchens and nonhabitable spaces shall not be
used for sleeping purposes.
404.4.5 Other requirements. Bedrooms shall comply with the applicable
provisions of this code including, but not limited to, the light, ventilation,
room area, ceiling height and room width requirements of this chapter; the
plumbing facilities and water- heating facilities requirements of Chapter 5;
the heating facilities and electrical receptacle requirements of Chapter 6; and
the smoke detector and emergency escape requirements of Chapter 7.
404.5 Overcrowding. Dwelling units shall not be occupied by more occupants than
permitted by the minimum area requirements of Table 404.5.
   TABLE 404.5
   MINIMUM AREA REQUIREMENTS
 
SPACE           MINIMUM AREA IN SQUARE FEET
                1-2 occupants  3-5 occupants 6 or more occupants
Living room a,b 120            120           150
Dining rooma,b  No requirement 80            100
Bedrooms        Shall comply with Section 404.4.1
 
For SI: 1 square foot = 0.0929 m2.
         a.      See Section 404.5.2 for combined living room/dining room
spaces.
         b.      See Section 404.5.1 for limitations on determining the minimum
occupancy area for sleeping purposes.
404.5.1 Sleeping area. The minimum occupancy area required by Table 404.5 shall
not be included as a sleeping area in determining the minimum occupancy area
for sleeping purposes. Sleeping areas shall comply with Section 404.4.
404.5.2 Combined spaces. Combined living room and dining room spaces shall
comply with the requirements of Table 404.5 if the total area is equal to that
required for separate rooms and if the space is located so as to function as a
combination living room/dining room.
404.6 Efficiency unit. Nothing in this section shall prohibit an efficiency
living unit from meeting the following requirements:
      1.   A unit occupied by not more than one occupant shall have a minimum
clear floor area of 120 square feet (11.2 m2). A unit occupied by not more than
two occupants shall have a minimum clear floor area of 220 square feet (20.4
m2). A unit occupied by three occupants shall have a minimum clear floor area
of 320 square feet (29.7 m2). These required areas shall be exclusive of the
areas required by Items 2 and 3.
      2.   The unit shall be provided with a kitchen sink, cooking appliance
and refrigeration facilities, each having a minimum clear working space of 30
inches (762 mm) in front. Light and ventilation conforming to this code shall
be provided.
      3.   The unit shall be provided with a separate bathroom containing a
water closet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
      4.   The maximum number of occupants shall be three.
404.7 Food preparation. Spaces to be occupied for food preparation purposes
shall contain suitable space and equipment to store, prepare and serve foods in
a sanitary manner. There shall be adequate facilities and services for the
sanitary disposal of food wastes and refuse, including facilities for temporary
storage.
CHAPTER 5
PLUMBING FACILITIES AND FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS
   SECTION 501 GENERAL
501.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum plumbing
systems, facilities and plumbing fixtures to be provided.
501.2 Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
such plumbing facilities and plumbing fixtures in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another
person to occupy any structure or premises that does not comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
   SECTION 502 REQUIRED FACILITIES
502.1 Dwelling units. Every dwelling unit shall contain its own bathtub or
shower, lavatory, water closet and kitchen sink that shall be maintained in a
sanitary, safe working condition. The lavatory shall be placed in the same room
as the water closet or located in close proximity to the door leading directly
into the room in which such water closet is located. A kitchen sink shall not
be used as a substitute for the required lavatory.
502.2 Rooming houses. Not less than one water closet, lavatory and bathtub or
shower shall be supplied for each four rooming units.
502.3 Hotels. Where private water closets, lavatories and baths are not
provided, one water closet, one lavatory and one bathtub or shower having
access from a public hallway shall be provided for each 10 occupants.
502.4 Employees' facilities. Not less than one water closet, one lavatory and
one drinking facility shall be available to employees.
502.4.1 Drinking facilities. Drinking facilities shall be a drinking fountain,
water cooler, bottled water cooler or disposable cups next to a sink or water
dispenser. Drinking facilities shall not be located in toilet rooms or
bathrooms.
502.5 Public toilet facilities. Public toilet facilities shall be maintained in
a safe, sanitary and working condition in accordance with the Oregon Plumbing
Specialty Code as amended from time to time. Except for periodic maintenance or
cleaning, public access and use shall be provided to the toilet facilities at
all times during occupancy of the premises.
   SECTION 503 TOILET ROOMS
503.1 Privacy. Toilet rooms and bathrooms shall provide privacy and shall not
constitute the only passageway to a hall or other space, or to the exterior. A
door and interior locking device shall be provided for all common or shared
bathrooms and toilet rooms in a multiple dwelling.
503.2 Location. Toilet rooms and bathrooms serving hotel units, rooming units
or dormitory units or housekeeping units, shall have access by traversing not
more than one flight of stairs and shall have access from a common hall or
passageway.
503.3 Location of employee toilet facilities. Toilet facilities shall have
access from within the employees' working area. The required toilet facilities
shall be located not more than one story above or below the employees' working
area and the path of travel to such facilities shall not exceed a distance of
500 feet (152 m). Employee facilities shall either be separate facilities or
combined employee and public facilities.
Exception: Facilities that are required for employees in storage structures or
kiosks, which are located in adjacent structures under the same ownership,
lease or control, shall not exceed a travel distance of 500 feet (152 m) from
the employees' regular working area to the facilities.
503.4 Floor surface. In other than dwelling units, every toilet room floor
shall be maintained to be a smooth, hard, nonabsorbent surface to permit such
floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   SECTION 504
   PLUMBING SYSTEMS AND FIXTURES
504.1 General. Plumbing fixtures shall be properly installed and maintained in
working order, and shall be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects and
be capable of performing the function for which such plumbing fixtures are
designed. Plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a safe, sanitary and
functional condition.
504.2 Fixture clearances. Plumbing fixtures shall have adequate clearances for
usage and cleaning.
504.3 Plumbing system hazards. Where it is found that a plumbing system in a
structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by reason of
inadequate service, inadequate venting, cross connection, backsiphonage,
improper installation, deterioration or damage or for similar reasons, the code
official shall require the defects to be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
   SECTION 505
   WATER SYSTEM
505.1 General. Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking fountain,
water closet or other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to either a
public water system or to an approved private water system. Kitchen sinks,
lavatories, laundry facilities, bathtubs and showers shall be supplied with hot
or tempered and cold running water in accordance with Oregon Plumbing Specialty
Code as amended from time to time.
505.2 Contamination. The water supply shall be maintained free from
contamination, and all water inlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located
above the flood-level rim of the fixture. Shampoo basin faucets, janitor sink
faucets and other hose bibs or faucets to which hoses are attached and left in
place, shall be protected by an approved atmospheric-type vacuum breaker or an
approved permanently attached hose connection vacuum breaker.
505.3 Supply. The water supply system shall be installed and maintained to
provide a supply of water to plumbing fixtures, devices and appurtenances in
sufficient volume and at pressures adequate to enable the fixtures to function
properly, safely, and free from defects and leaks.
505.4 Water heating facilities. Water heating facilities shall be properly
installed, maintained and capable of providing an adequate amount of water to
be drawn at every required sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower and laundry facility
at a temperature not less than 110°F (43°C) or as otherwise required by the
Oregon Plumbing Specialty Code as amended from time to time. A gas- burning
water heater shall not be located in any bathroom, toilet room, bedroom or
other occupied room normally kept closed, unless adequate combustion air is
provided. An approved combination temperature and pressure-relief valve and
relief valve discharge pipe shall be properly installed and maintained on water
heaters.
505.5 Nonpotable water reuse systems. Nonpotable water reuse systems and
rainwater collection and conveyance systems shall be maintained in a safe and
sanitary condition. Where such systems are not properly maintained, the systems
shall be repaired to provide for safe and sanitary conditions, or the system
shall be abandoned in accordance with state law.
   SECTION 506
   SANITARY DRAINAGE SYSTEM
506.1 General. Plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to either a public
sewer system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
506.2 Maintenance. Every plumbing stack, vent, waste and sewer line shall
function properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects.
506.3 Grease interceptors. Grease interceptors and automatic grease removal
devices shall be maintained in accordance with this code and the manufacturer's
installation instructions. Grease interceptors and automatic grease removal
devices shall be regularly serviced and cleaned to prevent the discharge of
oil, grease, and other substances harmful or hazardous to the building drainage
system, the public sewer, the private sewage disposal system or the sewage
treatment plant or processes. Records of maintenance, cleaning and repairs
shall be available for inspection by the code official.
   SECTION 507
   STORM DRAINAGE
507.1 General. Drainage of roofs and paved areas, yards and courts, and other
open areas on the premises shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a
public nuisance.
CHAPTER 6
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS
   SECTION 601 GENERAL
601.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum mechanical
and electrical facilities and equipment to be provided.
601.2 Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another
person to occupy any premises that does not comply with the requirements of
this chapter.
   SECTION 602
   HEATING FACILITIES
602.1 Facilities required. Heating facilities shall be provided in structures
as required by this section.
602.2 Residential occupancies. Dwellings shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all
habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms based on the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality indicated in the Oregon Plumbing Specialty Code.
Cooking appliances shall not be used, nor shall portable unvented fuel- burning
space heaters be used, as a means to provide required heating.
Exception: In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F (-1°C),
a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
602.3 Heat supply. Every owner and operator of any building who rents, leases
or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either expressed
or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply heat during
the period from October 1 to May 31 to maintain a minimum temperature of 68°F
(20°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms.
Exceptions:
      1.   When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall
not be required provided that the heating system is operating at its full
design capacity. The winter outdoor design temperature for the locality shall
be as indicated in the Oregon Plumbing Specialty Code.
      2.   In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F (-1°C),
a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
602.4 Occupiable work spaces. Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be supplied
with heat during the period from October 1 to May 31 to maintain a minimum
temperature of 65°F (18°C) during the period the spaces are occupied.
Exceptions:
      1.   Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or
special temperature conditions.
      2.   Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous physical
activities.
602.5 Room temperature measurement. The required room temperatures shall be
measured 3 feet (914 mm) above the floor near the center of the room and 2 feet
(610 mm) inward from the center of each exterior wall.
   SECTION 603
   MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
603.1 Mechanical equipment and appliances. Mechanical equipment, appliances,
fireplaces, solid fuel-burning appliances, cooking appliances and water heating
appliances shall be properly installed and maintained in a safe working
condition, and shall be capable of performing the intended function.
603.2 Removal of combustion products. Fuel-burning equipment and appliances
shall be connected to an approved chimney or vent.
Exception: Fuel-burning equipment and appliances that are labeled for unvented
operation.
603.3 Clearances. Required clearances to combustible materials shall be
maintained.
603.4 Safety controls. Safety controls for fuel-burning equipment shall be
maintained in effective operation.
603.5 Combustion air. A supply of air for complete combustion of the fuel and
for ventilation of the space containing the fuel- burning equipment shall be
provided for the fuel-burning equipment.
603.6 Energy conservation devices. Devices intended to reduce fuel consumption
by attachment to a fuel-burning appliance, to the fuel supply line thereto, or
to the vent outlet or vent piping therefrom, shall not be installed unless
labeled for such purpose and the installation is specifically approved.
   SECTION 604 ELECTRICAL FACILITIES
604.1 Facilities required. Every occupied building shall be provided with an
electrical system in compliance with the requirements of this section and
Section 605.
604.2 Service. The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall serve as a
basis for determining the need for additional facilities in accordance with
NFPA 70. Dwelling units shall be served by a three-wire, 120/240 volt, single-
phase electrical service having a minimum rating of 60 amperes.
604.3 Electrical system hazards. Where it is found that the electrical system
in a structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by reason
of inadequate service, improper fusing, insufficient receptacle and lighting
outlets, improper wiring or installation, deterioration or damage, or for
similar reasons, the code official shall require the defects to be corrected to
eliminate the hazard.
604.3.1 Abatement of electrical hazards associated with water exposure. The
provisions of this section shall govern the repair and replacement of
electrical systems and equipment that have been exposed to water.
604.3.1.1 Electrical equipment. Electrical distribution equipment, motor
circuits, power equipment, transformers, wire, cable, flexible cords, wiring
devices, ground fault circuit interrupters, surge protectors, molded case
circuit breakers, low-voltage fuses, luminaires, ballasts, motors and
electronic control, signaling and communication equipment that have been
exposed to water shall be replaced in accordance with the provisions of the
Oregon Electrical Specialty Code as amended from time to time.
Exception: The following equipment shall be allowed to be repaired where an
inspection report from the equipment manufacturer or approved manufacturer's
representative indicates that the equipment has not sustained damage that
requires replacement:
      1.   Enclosed switches, rated not more than 600 volts or less.
      2.   Busway, rated not more than 600 volts.
      3.   Panelboards, rated not more than 600 volts.
      4.   Switchboards, rated not more than 600 volts.
      5.   Fire pump controllers, rated not more than 600 volts.
      6.   Manual and magnetic motor controllers.
      7.   Motor control centers.
      8.   Alternating current high-voltage circuit breakers.
      9.   Low-voltage power circuit breakers.
      10.   Protective relays, meters and current transformers.
      11.   Low- and medium-voltage switchgear.
      12.   Liquid-filled transformers.
      13.   Cast-resin transformers.
      14.   Wire or cable that is suitable for wet locations and whose ends
have not been exposed to water.
      15.   Wire or cable, not containing fillers, that is suitable for wet
locations and whose ends have not been exposed to water.
      16.   Luminaires that are listed as submersible.
      17.   Motors.
      18.   Electronic control, signaling and communication equipment.
604.3.2 Abatement of electrical hazards associated with fire exposure. The
provisions of this section shall govern the repair and replacement of
electrical systems and equipment that have been exposed to fire.
604.3.2.1 Electrical equipment. Electrical switches, receptacles and fixtures,
including furnace, water heating, security system and power distribution
circuits, that have been exposed to fire, shall be replaced in accordance with
the provisions of the Oregon Electrical Specialty Code as amended from time to
time.
Exception: Electrical switches, receptacles and fixtures that shall be allowed
to be repaired where an inspection report from the equipment manufacturer or
approved manufacturer's representative indicates that the equipment has not
sustained damage that requires replacement.
   SECTION 605
   ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
605.1 Installation. Electrical equipment, wiring and appliances shall be
properly installed and maintained in a safe and approved manner.
605.2 Receptacles. Every habitable space in a dwelling shall contain not less
than two separate and remote receptacle outlets. Every laundry area shall
contain not less than one grounding-type receptacle or a receptacle with a
ground fault circuit interrupter. Every bathroom shall contain not less than
one receptacle. Any new bathroom receptacle outlet shall have ground fault
circuit interrupter protection. All receptacle outlets shall have the
appropriate faceplate cover for the location.
605.3 Luminaires. Every public hall, interior stairway, toilet room, kitchen,
bathroom, laundry room, boiler room and furnace room shall contain not less
than one electric luminaire.
Pool and spa luminaires over 15 V shall have ground fault circuit interrupter
protection.
605.4 Wiring. Flexible cords shall not be used for permanent wiring, or for
running through doors, windows, or cabinets, or concealed within walls, floors,
or ceilings.
   SECTION 607
   DUCT SYSTEMS
607.1 General. Duct systems shall be maintained free of obstructions and shall
be capable of performing the required function.
CHAPTER 7
FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS
   SECTION 701
   GENERAL
701.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum conditions
and standards for fire safety relating to structures and exterior premises,
including fire safety facilities and equipment to be provided.
701.2 Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall provide and maintain such
fire safety facilities and equipment in compliance with these requirements. A
person shall not occupy as owner- occupant or permit another person to occupy
any premises that do not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   SECTION 702
   MEANS OF EGRESS
702.1 General. A safe, continuous and unobstructed path of travel shall be
provided from any point in a building or structure to the public way. Means of
egress shall comply with the Oregon Fire Code.
702.2 Aisles. The required width of aisles in accordance with the Oregon Fire
Code shall be unobstructed.
702.3 Locked doors. Means of egress doors shall be readily openable from the
side from which egress is to be made without the need for keys, special
knowledge or effort, except where the door hardware conforms to that permitted
by the Oregon State Building Code.
702.4 Emergency escape openings. Required emergency escape openings shall be
maintained in accordance with the code in effect at the time of construction,
and the following. Required emergency escape and rescue openings shall be
operational from the inside of the room without the use of keys or tools. Bars,
grilles, grates or similar devices are permitted to be placed over emergency
escape and rescue openings provided that the minimum net clear opening size
complies with the code that was in effect at the time of construction and such
devices shall be releasable or removable from the inside without the use of a
key, tool or force greater than that which is required for normal operation of
the escape and rescue opening.
   SECTION 703
   FIRE-RESISTANCE RATINGS
703.1 Fire-resistance-rated assemblies. The provisions of this chapter shall
govern maintenance of the materials, systems and assemblies used for structural
fire resistance and fire- resistance-rated construction separation of adjacent
spaces to safeguard against the spread of fire and smoke within a building and
the spread of fire to or from buildings.
703.2 Unsafe conditions. Where any components are not maintained and do not
function as intended or do not have the fire resistance required by the code
under which the building was constructed or altered, such components or
portions thereof shall be deemed unsafe conditions in accordance with the
Oregon Fire Code. Components or portions thereof determined to be unsafe shall
be repaired or replaced to conform to that code under which the building was
constructed or altered. Where the condition of components is such that any
building, structure or portion thereof presents an imminent danger to the
occupants of the building, structure or portion thereof, the fire code official
shall act in accordance with the Oregon Fire Code.
703.3 Maintenance. The required fire-resistance rating of fire- resistance-
rated construction, including walls, firestops, shaft enclosures, partitions,
smoke barriers, floors, fire-resistive coatings and sprayed fire-resistant
materials applied to structural members and joint systems, shall be maintained.
Such elements shall be visually inspected annually by the owner and repaired,
restored or replaced where damaged, altered, breached or penetrated. Records of
inspections and repairs shall be maintained. Where concealed, such elements
shall not be required to be visually inspected by the owner unless the
concealed space is accessible by the removal or movement of a panel, access
door, ceiling tile or entry to the space. Openings made therein for the passage
of pipes, electrical conduit, wires, ducts, air transfer and any other reason
shall be protected with approved methods capable of resisting the passage of
smoke and fire. Openings through fire-resistance-rated assemblies shall be
protected by self- or automatic-closing doors of approved construction meeting
the fire protection requirements for the assembly.
703.3.1 Fire blocking and draft stopping. Required fire blocking and draft
stopping in combustible concealed spaces shall be maintained to provide
continuity and integrity of the construction.
703.3.2 Smoke barriers and smoke partitions. Required smoke barriers and smoke
partitions shall be maintained to prevent the passage of smoke. Openings
protected with approved smoke barrier doors or smoke dampers shall be
maintained in accordance with NFPA 105.
703.3.3 Fire walls, fire barriers, and fire partitions. Required fire walls,
fire barriers and fire partitions shall be maintained to prevent the passage of
fire. Openings protected with approved doors or fire dampers shall be
maintained in accordance with NFPA 80.
703.4 Opening protectives. Opening protectives shall be maintained in an
operative condition in accordance with NFPA 80. The application of field-
applied labels associated with the maintenance of opening protectives shall
follow the requirements of the approved third-party certification organization
accredited for listing the opening protective. Fire doors and smoke barrier
doors shall not be blocked or obstructed, or otherwise made inoperable. Fusible
links shall be replaced whenever fused or damaged. Fire door assemblies shall
not be modified.
703.4.1 Signs. Where required by the code official, a sign shall be permanently
displayed on or near each fire door in letters not less than 1 inch (25 mm)
high to read as follows:
For doors designed to be kept normally open: FIRE DOOR - DO NOT BLOCK.
For doors designed to be kept normally closed: FIRE DOOR - KEEP CLOSED.
703.4.2 Hold-open devices and closers. Hold-open devices and automatic door
closers shall be maintained. During the period that such a device is out of
service for repairs, the door it operates shall remain in the closed position.
703.4.3 Door operation. Swinging fire doors shall close from the full-open
position and latch automatically. The door closer shall exert enough force to
close and latch the door from any partially open position.
703.5 Ceilings. The hanging and displaying of salable goods and other
decorative materials from acoustical ceiling systems that are part of a fire-
resistance-rated horizontal assembly shall be prohibited.
703.6 Testing. Horizontal and vertical sliding and rolling fire doors shall be
inspected and tested annually to confirm operation and full closure. Records of
inspections and testing shall be maintained.
703.7 Vertical shafts. Interior vertical shafts, including stairways, elevator
hoistways and service and utility shafts, which connect two or more stories of
a building shall be enclosed or protected as required in Chapter 11 of the
Oregon Fire Code. New floor openings in existing buildings shall comply with
the Oregon State Building Code.
703.8 Opening protective closers. Where openings are required to be protected,
opening protectives shall be maintained self- closing or automatic-closing by
smoke detection. Existing fusible-link-type automatic door-closing devices
shall be replaced if the fusible link rating exceeds 135°F (57°C).
   SECTION 704
   FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
704.1 Inspection, testing and maintenance. Fire detection, alarm and
extinguishing systems, mechanical smoke exhaust systems, and smoke and heat
vents shall be maintained in accordance with the Oregon Fire Code in an
operative condition at all times, and shall be replaced or repaired where
defective.
704.1.1 Installation. Fire protection systems shall be maintained in accordance
with the original installation standards for that system. Required systems
shall be extended, altered or augmented as necessary to maintain and continue
protection where the building is altered or enlarged. Alterations to fire
protection systems shall be done in accordance with applicable standards.
704.1.2 Required fire protection systems. Fire protection systems required by
this code, the Oregon Fire Code or the Oregon State Building Code shall be
installed, repaired, operated, tested and maintained in accordance with this
code. A fire protection system for which a design option, exception or
reduction to the provisions of this code, the Oregon Fire Code or the Oregon
State Building Code has been granted shall be considered to be a required
system.
704.1.3 Fire protection systems. Fire protection systems shall be inspected,
maintained and tested in accordance with the following Oregon Fire Code
requirements.
      1.   Automatic sprinkler systems, see Section 903.5.
      2.   Automatic fire-extinguishing systems protecting commercial cooking
systems, see Section 904.12.5.
      3.   Automatic water mist extinguishing systems, see Section 904.11.
      4.   Carbon dioxide extinguishing systems, see Section 904.8.
      5.   Carbon monoxide alarms and carbon monoxide detection systems, see
Section 915.6.
      6.   Clean-agent extinguishing systems, see Section 904.10.
      7.   Dry-chemical extinguishing systems, see Section 904.6.
      8.   Fire alarm and fire detection systems, see Section 907.8.
      9.   Fire department connections, see Sections 912.4 and 912.7.
      10.   Fire pumps, see Section 913.5.
      11.   Foam extinguishing systems, see Section 904.7.
      12.   Halon extinguishing systems, see Section 904.9.
      13.   Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms, see Section 907.10.
      14.   Smoke and heat vents and mechanical smoke removal systems, see
Section 910.5.
      15.   Smoke control systems, see Section 909.20.
      16.   Wet-chemical extinguishing systems, see Section 904.5.
704.2 Standards. Fire protection systems shall be inspected, tested and
maintained in accordance with the referenced standards listed in Table 704.2
and as required in this section.
   TABLE 704.2
   FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
SYSTEM STANDARD
SYSTEM                                   STANDARD
Portable fire extinguishers              NFPA 10
Carbon dioxide fire-extinguishing system NFPA 12
Halon 1301 fire-extinguishing systems    NFPA 12A
Dry-chemical extinguishing systems       NFPA 17
Wet-chemical extinguishing systems       NFPA 17A
Water-based fire protections systems     NFPA 25
Fire alarm systems                       NFPA 72
Smoke and heat vents                     NFPA 204
Water-mist systems                       NFPA 750
Clean-agent extinguishing systems        NFPA 2001
 
704.2.1 Records. Records shall be maintained of all system inspections, tests
and maintenance required by the referenced standards.
704.2.2 Records information. Initial records shall include the: name of the
installation contractor; type of components installed; manufacturer of the
components; location and number of components installed per floor; and
manufacturers' operation and maintenance instruction manuals. Such records
shall be maintained for the life of the installation.
704.3 Systems out of service. Where a required fire protection system is out of
service, the fire department and the fire code official shall be notified
immediately and, where required by the fire code official, either the building
shall be evacuated or an approved fire watch shall be provided for all
occupants left unprotected by the shutdown until the fire protection system has
been returned to service. Where utilized, fire watches shall be provided with
not less than one approved means for notification of the fire department and
shall not have duties beyond performing constant patrols of the protected
premises and keeping watch for fires. Actions shall be taken in accordance with
Section 901 of the Oregon Fire Code to bring the systems back in service.
704.3.1 Emergency impairments. Where unplanned impairments of fire protection
systems occur, appropriate emergency action shall be taken to minimize
potential injury and damage. The impairment coordinator shall implement the
steps outlined in Section 901.7.4 of the Oregon Fire Code.
704.4 Removal of or tampering with equipment. It shall be unlawful for any
person to remove, tamper with or otherwise disturb any fire hydrant, fire
detection and alarm system, fire suppression system or other fire appliance
required by this code except for the purposes of extinguishing fire, training,
recharging or making necessary repairs.
704.4.1 Removal of or tampering with appurtenances. Locks, gates, doors,
barricades, chains, enclosures, signs, tags and seals that have been installed
by or at the direction of the fire code official shall not be removed,
unlocked, destroyed or tampered with in any manner.
704.4.2 Removal of existing occupant-use hose lines. The fire code official is
authorized to permit the removal of existing occupant-use hose lines where all
of the following apply:
      1.   The installation is not required by the Oregon Fire Code or the
Oregon State Building Code.
      2.   The hose line would not be utilized by trained personnel or the fire
department.
      3.   The remaining outlets are compatible with local fire department
fittings.
704.4.3 Termination of monitoring service. For fire alarm systems required to
be monitored by the Oregon Fire Code, notice shall be made to the fire code
official whenever alarm monitoring services are terminated. Notice shall be
made in writing by the provider of the monitoring service being terminated.
704.5 Fire department connection. Where the fire department connection is not
visible to approaching fire apparatus, the fire department connection shall be
indicated by an approved sign mounted on the street front or on the side of the
building. Such sign shall have the letters "FDC" not less than 6 inches (152
mm) high and words in letters not less than 2 inches (51 mm) high or an arrow
to indicate the location. Such signs shall be subject to the approval of the
fire code official.
704.5.1 Fire department connection access. Ready access to fire department
connections shall be maintained at all times and without obstruction by fences,
bushes, trees, walls or any other fixed or movable object. Access to fire
department connections shall be approved by the fire chief.
Exception: Fences, where provided with an access gate equipped with a sign
complying with the legend requirements of Section 912.5 of the Oregon Fire Code
and a means of emergency operation. The gate and the means of emergency
operation shall be approved by the fire chief and maintained operational at all
times.
704.5.2 Clear space around connections. A working space of not less than 36
inches (914 mm) in width, 36 inches (914 mm) in depth and 78 inches (1981 mm)
in height shall be provided and maintained in front of and to the sides of
wall-mounted fire department connections and around the circumference of free-
standing fire department connections.
704.6 Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms. Single- and multiple-station
smoke alarms shall be installed in existing Group I-1 and R occupancies in
accordance with Sections 704.6.1 through 704.6.3.
704.6.1 Where required. Existing Group I-1 and R occupancies shall be provided
with single-station smoke alarms in accordance with Sections 704.6.1.1 through
704.6.1.4. Interconnection and power sources shall be in accordance with
Sections 704.6.2 and 704.6.3.
Exceptions:
      1.   Where the code that was in effect at the time of construction
required smoke alarms and smoke alarms complying with those requirements are
already provided.
      2.   Where smoke alarms have been installed in occupancies and dwellings
that were not required to have them at the time of construction, additional
smoke alarms shall not be required provided that the existing smoke alarms
comply with requirements that were in effect at the time of installation.
      3.   Where smoke detectors connected to a fire alarm system have been
installed as a substitute for smoke alarms.
704.6.1.1 Group R-1. Single- or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be
installed in all of the following locations in Group R-1:
      1.   In sleeping areas.
      2.   In every room in the path of the means of egress from the sleeping
area to the door leading from the sleeping unit.
      3.   In each story within the sleeping unit, including basements. For
sleeping units with split levels and without an intervening door between the
adjacent levels, a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for
the adjacent lower level provided that the lower level is less than one full
story below the upper level.
704.6.1.2 Groups R-2, R-3, R-4 and I-1. Single- or multiple- station smoke
alarms shall be installed and maintained in Groups R-2, R-3, R-4 and I-
1 regardless of occupant load at all of the following locations:
      1.   On the ceiling or wall outside of each separate sleeping area in the
immediate vicinity of bedrooms.
      2.   In each room used for sleeping purposes.
      3.   In each story within a dwelling unit, including basements but not
including crawl spaces and uninhabitable attics. In dwellings or dwelling units
with split levels and without an intervening door between the adjacent levels,
a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for the adjacent lower
level provided that the lower level is less than one full story below the upper
level.
704.6.1.3 Installation near cooking appliances.
Smoke alarms shall not be installed in the following locations unless this
would prevent placement of a smoke alarm in a location required by Section
704.6.1.1 or 704.6.1.2.
      1.   Ionization smoke alarms shall not be installed less than 20 feet
(6096 mm) horizontally from a permanently installed cooking appliance.
      2.   Ionization smoke alarms with an alarm-silencing switch shall not be
installed less than 10 feet (3048 mm) horizontally from a permanently installed
cooking appliance.
      3.   Photoelectric smoke alarms shall not be installed less than 6 feet
(1829 mm) horizontally from a permanently installed cooking appliance.
704.6.1.4 Installation near bathrooms. Smoke alarms shall be installed not less
than 3 feet (914 mm) horizontally from the door or opening of a bathroom that
contains a bathtub or shower unless this would prevent placement of a smoke
alarm required by Section 704.6.1.1 or 704.6.1.2.
704.6.2 Interconnection. Where more than one smoke alarm is required to be
installed within an individual dwelling or sleeping unit, the smoke alarms
shall be interconnected in such a manner that the activation of one alarm will
activate all of the alarms in the individual unit. Physical interconnection of
smoke alarms shall not be required where listed wireless alarms are installed
and all alarms sound upon activation of one alarm. The alarm shall be clearly
audible in all bedrooms over background noise levels with all intervening doors
closed.
Exceptions:
      1.   Interconnection is not required in buildings that are not undergoing
alterations, repairs or construction of any kind.
      2.   Smoke alarms in existing areas are not required to be interconnected
where alterations or repairs do not result in the removal of interior wall or
ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless there is an attic, crawl space
or basement available that could provide access for interconnection without the
removal of interior finishes.
704.6.3 Power source. Single-station smoke alarms shall receive their primary
power from the building wiring provided that such wiring is served from a
commercial source and shall be equipped with a battery backup. Smoke alarms
with integral strobes that are not equipped with battery backup shall be
connected to an emergency electrical system. Smoke alarms shall emit a signal
when the batteries are low. Wiring shall be permanent and without a
disconnecting switch other than as required for overcurrent protection.
Exceptions:
      1.   Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in existing
buildings where construction is not taking place.
      2.   Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in
buildings that are not served from a commercial power source.
      3.   Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in existing
areas of buildings undergoing alterations or repairs that do not result in the
removal of interior walls or ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless
there is an attic, crawl space or basement available that could provide access
for building wiring without the removal of interior finishes.
704.6.4 Smoke detection system. Smoke detectors listed in accordance with UL
268 and provided as part of the building's fire alarm system shall be an
acceptable alternative to single- and multiple-station smoke alarms and shall
comply with the following:
      1.   The fire alarm system shall comply with all applicable requirements
in Section 907 of the Oregon Fire Code.
      2.   Activation of a smoke detector in a dwelling or sleeping unit shall
initiate alarm notification in the dwelling or sleeping unit in accordance with
Section 907.5.2 of the Oregon Fire Code.
      3.   Activation of a smoke detector in a dwelling or sleeping unit shall
not activate alarm notification appliances outside of the dwelling or sleeping
unit, provided that a supervisory signal is generated and monitored in
accordance with Section 907.6.6 of the Oregon Fire Code.
704.7 Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms. Single- and multiple-station
smoke alarms shall be tested and maintained in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. Smoke alarms that do not function shall be
replaced. Smoke alarms installed in one and two-family dwellings shall be
replaced not more than 10 years from the date of manufacture marked on the
unit, or shall be replaced if the date of manufacture cannot be determined.
   SECTION 705
   CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS AND DETECTION
705.1 General. Carbon monoxide alarms shall be installed in dwellings in
accordance with Section 1103.9 of the Oregon Fire Code, except that alarms in
dwellings covered by the Oregon Residential Specialty Code shall be installed
in accordance with that code.
705.2 Carbon monoxide alarms and detectors. Carbon monoxide alarms and carbon
monoxide detection systems shall be maintained in accordance with the Oregon
Residential Specialty Code. Carbon monoxide alarms and carbon monoxide detector
that become inoperable or begin producing end-of-life signals shall be
replaced.
(Ord. 660-18, 10-9-2018)
CHAPTER 3
HOUSING RECEIVERSHIP
SECTION:
11-3-1: Title, Purpose, And Scope; Findings
11-3-2: Definitions
11-3-3: Authority
11-3-4: Selection Of Properties
11-3-5: Notice To Interested Parties And Application
11-3-6: Selection Of Receivers
11-3-7: Powers Of A Receiver
11-3-8: Plan And Estimate
11-3-9: Record Keeping
11-3-10: Purchasing
11-3-11: Lien Enforcement And Foreclosure
11-3-12: Severability
11-3-1: TITLE, PURPOSE, AND SCOPE; FINDINGS:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the HOUSING RECEIVERSHIP
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF NYSSA. The purpose of this chapter is to establish
authority and procedures for the use of the Oregon Housing Receivership Act 1 ,
and shall apply to all residential property. The remedies provided for in this
chapter shall be in addition to any other remedy set out in this Code.
In addition to the Oregon Legislature's findings set out at Oregon Revised
Statutes 105.420, the Council specifically finds that properties in violation
of the Act create an undue risk of harm to the City's public safety officers
and firefighters responding to calls at these properties, as well as
neighboring citizens. The Council declares that the health, safety, and welfare
of citizens, public safety officers, and firefighters are promoted by adopting
and implementing this chapter. (Ord. 661-18, 10-9-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. ORS 105.420 - 105.455.
11-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
ABATEMENT: Means the removal or correction of any condition at a property
including demolition that violates a provision of a City Building or Housing
Code, as well as the making of other such improvements or corrections as are
needed to effect the rehabilitation of the property or structure, but not
including the closing or physical securing of the structure.
BUILDING OR HOUSING CODE: Means any City law, ordinance or regulation
concerning habitability or the construction, maintenance, operation, occupancy,
use or appearance of any property.
INTERESTED PARTY: Means any person or entity that possesses any legal or
equitable interest of record in the property, including but not limited to the
holder of any lien or encumbrance of record on the property.
PROPERTY: Means any real property and all improvements thereon including
edifices, structures, buildings, unit or part thereof used or intended to be
used for residential purposes including single-family, duplex, multifamily, and
mixed-use structures which have one or more residential units. (Ord. 661-18,
10-9-2018)
11-3-3: AUTHORITY:
   A.   City Manager:
      1.   Subject to Council approval, when the City Manager finds that a
property is in violation of a Building or Housing Code, and in the exercise of
reasonable discretion believes that violation is a threat to the public's
health, safety, or welfare, the City Manager may apply to a court of competent
jurisdiction for the appointment of a receiver to perform an abatement.
      2.   In administering the provisions of this chapter, the City Manager's
authority shall include, but is not limited to:
         a.   The selection of properties, subject to Council approval;
         b.   The selection of appropriate receivers, subject to Council
approval; and
         c.   The establishment of written rules and procedures as are deemed
necessary for the administration of this chapter. (Ord. 661-18, 10-9-2018)
11-3-4: SELECTION OF PROPERTIES:
   A.   In selecting properties where the City may seek appointment of a
receiver, the City Manager shall consider those properties that have, at a
minimum, the following characteristics:
      1.   A violation of a Building or Housing Code that threatens the public
health, safety, or welfare; and
      2.   The owner has not acted in a timely manner to correct the
violations. (Ord. 661-18, 10-9-2018)
11-3-5: NOTICE TO INTERESTED PARTIES AND APPLICATION:
   A.   Notice:
      1.   At least sixty (60) days prior to the filing of an application for
appointment of a receiver, the City Manager shall cause a notice to be sent by
certified mail to all interested parties.
      2.   The notice shall give the date upon which the City has the right to
file with the court for the receiver, and in addition shall:
         a.   State the address and legal description of the property;
         b.   List the Building or Housing Code violations which give rise to
the proposed application; and
         c.   Give the name, address, and telephone number of a person who can
provide additional information concerning the violations and their remedy.
(Ord. 661-18, 10-9-2018)
11-3-6: SELECTION OF RECEIVERS:
   A.   In selecting specific receivers, the City Manager may choose a housing
authority organized under the terms of Oregon Revised Statutes 456.055 to
456.235, a City department designated by the City as being responsible for the
rehabilitation of property, an urban renewal agency, or a private not-for-
profit corporation, the primary purpose of which is the improvement of housing
conditions within Malheur County, Oregon. In making the selection, the City
Manager shall consider, at a minimum, the following:
      1.   The receiver's experience in rehabilitating and managing this type
of property; and
      2.   The receiver's capacity to take on additional property management
responsibilities. (Ord. 661-18, 10-9-2018)
11-3-7: POWERS OF A RECEIVER:
A receiver appointed by the court shall have the authority to take any of the
actions provided for in Oregon Revised Statutes 105.435. (Ord. 661-18, 10-9-
2018)
11-3-8: PLAN AND ESTIMATE:
Within thirty (30) days after appointment by the court, a receiver shall submit
to the City Manager a written plan for the abatement. The City Manager shall
approve the plan before the receiver commences work on the abatement. (Ord.
661-18, 10-9-2018)
11-3-9: RECORD KEEPING:
The receiver shall keep a record of all moneys received and expended and all
costs and obligations incurred in performing the abatement and managing the
property. Records shall be kept in a form as shall be agreed upon by the
receiver and the City Manager, and copies shall be provided to the City Manager
upon request. (Ord. 661-18, 10-9-2018)
11-3-10: PURCHASING:
All abatement work done pursuant to this chapter is exempt from the provisions
of the City's Contracting and Purchasing Code. (Ord. 661-18, 10-9-2018)
11-3-11: LIEN ENFORCEMENT AND FORECLOSURE:
In accordance with Oregon Revised Statutes 105.440(2), if the costs and
obligations incurred due to the abatement have not been paid, the order of the
court shall be filed with the County Recorder within sixty (60) days of its
filing with the court and shall thereafter constitute a lien on the property.
In addition, unpaid liens shall be entered into the docket of City liens, and
shall bear interest at the Oregon statutory rate on judgments. Thereafter, the
City may cause the property to be sold as provided for by Oregon Revised
Statutes 223.505 to 223.590, or any other method provided by law. (Ord. 661-18,
10-9-2018)
11-3-12: SEVERABILITY:
The sections of this chapter are severable. The invalidity of a section shall
not affect the validity of the remaining sections. (Ord. 661-18, 10-9-2018)
