ROCKAWAY BEACH, OREGON
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-01, passed 2-12-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
THE CHARTER
Section
   
CHAPTER I: NAMES AND BOUNDARIES.
      § 1      Title
      § 2      Boundaries
   
CHAPTER II: POWERS.
      § 3      Powers
      § 4      Construction
      § 5      Distribution
   
CHAPTER III: COUNCIL.
      § 6      Council
      § 7      Mayor
      § 8      Council President
      § 9      Rules
      § 10   Meetings
      § 11   Quorum
      § 12   Vote Required
      § 13   Record
   
CHAPTER IV: LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY.
      § 14   Ordinances
      § 15   Ordinance Adoption
      § 16   Effective Date of Ordinances
   
CHAPTER V: ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY.
      § 17   Resolutions
      § 18   Resolution Approval
      § 19   Effective Date of Resolutions
   
CHAPTER VI: QUASI-JUDICIAL AUTHORITY.
      § 20   Orders
      § 21   Order Approval
      § 22   Effective Date of Orders
   
CHAPTER VII: ELECTIONS.
      § 23   Councilors
      § 24   Mayor
      § 25   State Law
      § 26   Qualifications for Elective Office
      § 27   Nominations
      § 28   Terms
      § 29   Oath
      § 30   Vacancies
      § 31   Filling Vacancies
   
CHAPTER VIII: APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
      § 32   City Manager
      § 33   Appointed Officers
      § 34   City Attorney
      § 35   Municipal Court and Judge
   
CHAPTER IX: PERSONNEL.
      § 36   Compensation
      § 37   Merit Systems
   
CHAPTER X: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
      § 39   Procedure
      § 40   Special Assessments
   
CHAPTER XI: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
      § 41   Debt
      § 42   Ordinance Continuation
      § 43   Repeal
      § 44   Severability
      § 45   Time of Effect
 
AN ACT TO REVISE AND CONSOLIDATE THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF ROCKAWAY BEACH AND
TO REPEAL PRIOR LOCAL ACTS.
   SECTION 1. The Charter of the City of Rockaway Beach hereby is revised and
consolidated to read as follows: THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF ROCKAWAY BEACH,
OREGON.
CHARTER
CITY OF ROCKAWAY BEACH
PREAMBLE
We, the voters of Rockaway Beach, Oregon exercise our power to the fullest
extent possible under the Oregon Constitution and laws of the state, and enact
this Charter to guide our City Government.
Editor's Note:
   Whenever a word indicates gender in this Charter, it shall include both
sexes.
Chapter I
NAMES AND BOUNDARIES.
   Section 1. Title. This charter may be referred to as the Rockaway Beach City
Charter and the city shall be known as Rockaway Beach, Oregon.
   Section 2. Boundaries. The city includes all territory within its boundaries
as they now exist or are legally modified. The city will maintain as a public
record an accurate and current description of the boundaries.
Chapter II
POWERS
   Section 3. Powers. The city has all powers that the constitutions, statutes
and common law of the United States and Oregon expressly or impliedly grant or
allow the city, as fully as though this charter specifically enumerated each of
those powers.
   Section 4. Construction. The charter shall be liberally construed so that
the city may exercise fully all powers possible under this charter and under
United States and Oregon law.
   Section 5. Distribution. The Oregon Constitution reserves initiative and
referendum powers as to all municipal legislation to city voters. This charter
vests all other city powers in the council except as the charter otherwise
provides. The council has legislative, administrative and quasi-judicial
authority. The council exercises legislative authority by ordinance,
administrative authority by resolution, and quasi-judicial authority by order.
The council may not delegate its authority to adopt ordinances.
Chapter III
COUNCIL
   Section 6. Council. The council consists of a mayor plus five voting
councilors nominated and elected from the city at large.
   Section 7. Mayor. The Mayor shall preside over all meetings and
deliberations of the City Council and be privileged to all City business. The
Mayor shall nominate for appointment by a majority of the Council, Liaison
Councilors, members of all committees, heads of departments, other persons as
required by the Council, laws, rules or ordinances. The Mayor has no right to
vote and has no veto power. The Mayor shall preserve order, enforce ordinances
and Council rules, determine the order of business, and shall be responsible
for the efficient, legal and orderly conduct of City business. The Mayor shall
sign all warrants and all legal documents approved by the Council and shall be
an ex-officio member of all boards and commissions of the City. The Mayor
shall, annually or semiannually, communicate a general statement of the
condition of the affairs of the City of Rockaway Beach and recommend the
adoption of such measures as the Mayor may deem expedient and proper. The Mayor
is entitled to vote only when a tie vote of the council occurs.
   The mayor serves as the political head of the city government.
   TERM OF MAYOR’S OFFICE. The term of office shall be two (2) years.
   Section 8. Council President. At its first meeting each year, the council
must elect a president from its membership. The president presides in the
absence of the mayor and acts as mayor when the mayor is unable to perform
duties.
   Section 9. Rules. The council must by resolution adopt rules to govern its
meetings.
   Section 10. Meetings. The Council shall meet in the City regularly at least
once each month at a time and place designated by ordinance, and may meet at
other times in accordance with the ordinances.
   Section 11. Quorum. A quorum shall consist of three of the five voting
council members, and such quorum is necessary in order to conduct business, but
a smaller number may meet and compel attendance of absent members as prescribed
by council rules. At least three affirmative votes are necessary to pass an
ordinance.
   Section 12. Vote Required. The express approval of a majority of a quorum of
the council is necessary for any council decision, except when this charter
requires otherwise.
   Section 13. Record. A record of council meetings must be kept in a manner
prescribed by the council rules.
Chapter IV
LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY
   Section 14. Ordinances. The council will exercise its legislative authority
by adopting ordinances. The enacting clause for all ordinances must state “The
City of Rockaway Beach ordains as follows:”.
   Section 15. Ordinance Adoption.
      (a)   Except as authorized by subsection (b), adoption of an ordinance
requires approval by three voting councilors at two meetings.
      (b)   The council may adopt an ordinance at a single meeting by the
approval of at least three voting councilors, provided the proposed ordinance
is available in writing to the public at least one week before the meeting.
      (c)   Any substantive amendment to a proposed ordinance must be read
aloud or made available in writing to the public before the council adopts the
ordinance at that meeting.
      (d)   After the adoption of an ordinance, the vote of each member must be
entered into the council minutes.
      (e)   After adoption of an ordinance, the city custodian of records must
endorse it with the date of adoption and the custodian’s name and title.
   Section 16. Effective Date of Ordinances. Ordinances normally take effect on
the 30th day after adoption, or on a later day provided in the ordinance. An
ordinance may take effect as soon as adopted or other date less than 30 days
after adoption if it contains an emergency clause.
Chapter V
ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY
   Section 17. Resolutions. The council will normally exercise its
administrative authority by approving resolutions. The approving clause for
resolutions may state “The City of Rockaway Beach resolves as follows:”.
   Section 18. Resolution Approval.
      (a)   Approval of a resolution or any other council administrative
decision requires approval by the council at one meeting.
      (b)   Any substantive amendment to a resolution must be read aloud or
made available in writing to the public before the council adopts the
resolution at that meeting.
      (c)   After approval of a resolution or other administrative decision,
the vote of each member must be entered into the council minutes.
      (d)   After approval of a resolution, the city custodian of records must
endorse it with the date of approval and the custodian’s name and title.
   Section 19. Effective Date of Resolutions. Resolutions and other
administrative decisions take effect on the date of approval, or on a later day
provided in the resolution.
Chapter VI
QUASI-JUDICIAL AUTHORITY
   Section 20. Orders. The council will normally exercise its quasi-judicial
authority by approving orders. The approving clause for orders may state “The
City of Rockaway Beach orders as follows:”.
   Section 21. Order Approval.
      (a)   Approval of an order or any other council quasi-judicial decision
requires approval by the council at one meeting.
      (b)   Any substantive amendment to an order must be read aloud or made
available in writing to the public at the meeting before the council adopts the
order.
      (c)   After approval of an order or other council quasi-judicial
decision, the vote of each member must be entered in the council minutes.
      (d)   After approval of an order, the city custodian of records must
endorse it with the date of approval and the custodian’s name and title.
   Section 22. Effective Date of Orders. Orders and other quasi-judicial
decisions take effect on the date of final approval, or on a later day provided
in the order.
Chapter VII
ELECTIONS
   Section 23. Councilors. The term of a councilor in office when this charter
is adopted is the term for which the councilor was elected. At each general
election after the adoption, three councilors will be elected for four-year
terms.
   Section 24. Mayor. The term of the mayor in office when this charter is
adopted continues until the next general election. At every other general
election after the adoption, a mayor will be elected for a two (2) year term.
   Section 25. State Law. City elections must conform to state law except as
this charter or ordinances provide otherwise. All elections for city offices
must be nonpartisan.
   Section 26. Qualifications for Elective Office. A Person shall be eligible
for an elective office of the City if at the time of election he/she is a
qualified elector within the City for twelve continuous months immediately
preceding the election and remains so during the term of office to which
elected. The Council shall be final judge of the qualifications and election of
its own members.
      (a)   The mayor and each councilor must be a qualified elector under
state law, and reside within the city for at least one year immediately before
election or appointment to office.
      (b)   No person may be a candidate at a single election for more than one
city office.
      (c)   Neither the mayor nor a councilor may be employed by the city.
      (d)   The council is the final judge of the election and qualifications
of its members.
   Section 27. Nominations. The council must adopt an ordinance prescribing the
manner for a person to be nominated to run for mayor or a city councilor
position.
   Section 28. Terms. The term of an officer elected at a general election
begins at the first council meeting of the year immediately after the election,
and continues until the successor qualifies and assumes the office.
   Section 29. Oath. The mayor and each councilor must swear or affirm to
faithfully perform the duties of the office and support the constitutions and
laws of the United States and Oregon.
   Section 30. Vacancies. The mayor or a council office becomes vacant:
      (a)   Upon the incumbent's:
         (1)   Failure to qualify for the office within 10 days of the time the
term of office is to begin;
         (3)   Ceasing to reside in the city,
         (4)   Ceasing to be a qualified elector under state law,
         (5)   Conviction of a public offense punishable by loss of liberty,
         (6)   Resignation from the office, or
         (7)   Removal under Section 33(i).
      (b)   Upon declaration by the Council of the vacancy in case of the
incumbent's:
         (1)   Failure, following election or appointment to the office, to
qualify for the office within ten days after the time for his or her term of
office to begin,
         (2)    Absence from the City for 30 days without the Council's consent
or from all meetings for a sixty day period.
      (c)   Upon declaration by the council after the incumbent’s:
         (1)   Failure to qualify for the office within 10 days of the time the
term of office is to begin;
         (3)   Ceasing to reside in the city,
         (4)   Ceasing to be a qualified elector under state law,
         (5)   Conviction of a public offense punishable by loss of liberty,
         (6)   Resignation from the office, or
         (7)   Removal under Section 33(i).
   Section 31. Filling Vacancies. A vacancy in the Council shall be filled by
appointment by a majority of the Council. In this matter the Mayor is
considered to have a vote. The appointee's term of office runs from the time of
his or her qualifying for the office after appointment until expiration of the
term of the predecessor who has left the office vacant. If the vacancy is
filled more than ninety days before the next general election, the appointee's
term of office runs only until the first Council meeting in the year
immediately following the election, and at that election a member shall be
elected to fulfill the unexpired term. During a temporary, (in excess of sixty
days) absence or disability period where an elected officer cannot perform his/
her duties, the office may be filled pro tern in the manner provided for
filling vacancies adopted by Council rules ordinance.
Chapter VIII
APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
   Section 32. City Manager.
      (a)   The office of city manager is established as the administrative
head of the city government. The city manager is responsible to the mayor and
council for the proper administration of all city business. The city manager
will assist the mayor and council in the development of city policies, and
carry out policies established by ordinances and resolutions.
      (b)   A majority of the council must appoint and may remove the manager.
The appointment must be made without regard to political considerations and
solely on the basis of education and experience in competencies and practices
of local government management.
      (c)   The manager need not reside in the city.
      (d)   The manager may be appointed for a definite or an indefinite term,
and may be removed at any time by a majority of the council. The council must
fill the office by appointment as soon as practicable after the vacancy occurs.
      (e)   The manager must:
         (1)   Attend all council meetings unless excused by the mayor or
council;
         (2)   Make reports and recommendations to the mayor and council about
the needs of the city;
         (3)   Administer and enforce all city ordinances, resolutions,
franchises, leases, contracts, permits, and other city decisions;
         (4)   Appoint, supervise and remove city employees;
         (5)   Organize city departments and administrative structure;
         (6)   Prepare and administer the annual city budget;
         (7)   Administer city utilities and property;
         (8)   Encourage and support regional and intergovernmental
cooperation;
         (9)   Promote cooperation among the council, staff and citizens in
developing city policies, and building a sense of community;
         (10)   Perform other duties as directed by the council;
         (11)   Delegate duties, but remain responsible for acts of all
subordinates.
      (f)   The manager has no authority over the council or over the judicial
functions of the municipal judge.
      (g)   The manager and other employees designated by the council may sit
at council meetings but have no vote. The manager may take part in all council
discussions.
      (h)   When the manager is temporarily disabled from acting as manager or
when the office of manager becomes vacant, the council must appoint a manager
pro tem. The manager pro tem has the authority and duties of manager, except
that a pro tem manager may appoint or remove employees only with council
approval.
      (i)   No council member may directly or indirectly attempt to coerce the
manager or a candidate for the office of manager in the appointment or removal
of any city employee, or in administrative decisions regarding city property or
contracts. Violation of this prohibition is grounds for removal from office by
a majority of the council after a public hearing. In council meetings,
councilors may discuss or suggest anything with the manager relating to city
business.
   Section 33. Appointed Officers. The duties required of persons appointed to
fill offices established by the Council shall be as prescribed in the
applicable ordinance, resolution, job/position description, contract or service
agreement adopted by the Council when appointing persons to those offices.
   Section 34. City Attorney. The office of city attorney is established as the
chief legal officer of the city government. A majority of the council must
appoint and may remove the attorney.
   Section 35. Municipal Court and Judge.
      (a)   A majority of the council may appoint and remove a municipal judge
and any judge pro tempore. A municipal judge will hold court in the city at
such place as the council directs. The court will be known as the Municipal
Court.
      Judicial Qualifications.
         (a)   A majority of the council may appoint and remove a municipal
judge. A municipal judge will hold court in the city at such place as the
council directs. The court will be known as the Municipal Court.
         (b)   All proceedings of this court will conform to state laws
governing justices of the peace and justice courts.
         (c)   All areas within the city and areas outside the city as
permitted by state law are within the territorial jurisdiction of the court.
      (b)   All proceedings of this court will conform to state laws governing
justices of the peace and justice courts.
      (c)   All areas within the city and areas outside the city as permitted
by state law are within the territorial jurisdiction of the court.
      (d)   The municipal court has jurisdiction over every offense created by
city ordinance. The court may enforce forfeitures and other penalties created
by such ordinances. The court also has jurisdiction under state law unless
limited by city ordinance.
      (e)   The municipal judge may:
         (1)   Render judgments and impose sanctions on persons and property;
         (2)   Order the arrest of anyone accused of an offense against the
city;
         (3)   Issue and compel obedience to subpoenas;
         (4)   Compel witnesses to appear and testify; (6) Penalize contempt of
court;
         (5)   Issue processes necessary to enforce judgments and orders of the
court;
         (6)   Perform other judicial and quasi-judicial functions assigned by
ordinance.
      (f)   The council may appoint and may remove municipal judges pro tern.
      (g)   The council may transfer some or all of the functions of the
municipal court to an appropriate state court.
Chapter IX
PERSONNEL
   Section 36. Compensation. The council must authorize the compensation of
city officers and employees as part of its approval of the annual city budget.
   Section 37. Merit Systems. The council by resolution will determine the
rules governing recruitment, selection, promotion, transfer, demotion,
suspension, layoff, and dismissal of city employees based on merit and fitness.
Chapter X
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
   Section 39. Procedure. The council may by ordinance provide for procedures
governing the making, altering, vacating, or abandoning of a public
improvement. A proposed public improvement may be suspended for six months upon
remonstrance by owners of the real property to be specially assessed for the
improvement. The number of owners necessary to suspend the action will be
determined by ordinance.
   Section 40. Special Assessments. The procedure for levying, collecting and
enforcing special assessments for public improvements or other services charged
against real property will be governed by ordinance.
Chapter XI
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
   Section 41. Debt. City indebtedness may not exceed debt limits imposed by
state law. A Charter amendment is not required to authorize city indebtedness.
   Section 42. Ordinance Continuation. All ordinances consistent with this
charter in force when it takes effect remain in effect until amended or
repealed.
   Section 43. Repeal. All charter provisions adopted before this charter takes
effect are repealed.
   Section 44. Severability. The terms of this charter are severable. If any
provision is held invalid by a court, the invalidity does not affect any other
part of the charter.
   Section 45. Time of Effect. This charter takes effect, January 14, 2009.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “City of Rockaway
Beach Code of Ordinances,” for which designation “code of ordinances,”
“codified ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and
section headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the
code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The area within Rockaway
Beach, Oregon. The term CITY when used in this code may also be used to refer
to the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Tillamook County, Oregon.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oregon.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in 1 section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body shall take effect as provided
in the city charter. If there is no city charter, all ordinances passed by the
legislative body shall take effect as provided by the legislative body or
applicable state law.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any amending ordinances are listed following
the text of the code section. Example: (Prior Code, Ord. 161, passed 5-13-1960;
Am. Ord. 170, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 180, passed 1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 185,
passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (O.R.S. 192.410) (Prior Code, Ord. 180, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord.
185, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, unless otherwise exempted by state    law.
   Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see O.R.S. 192.420
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this code for which no other
specific penalty is provided shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not
to exceed $500, subject to division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this code which is identical to
a state statute containing a penalty shall, upon conviction, be punished by the
penalty prescribed by state statute.
   (C)   Each calendar date on which a violation occurs constitutes a separate
violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   GENERAL MUNICIPAL POLICIES
   
31.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
   
32.   CITY OFFICIALS
   
33.   CITY COUNCIL
   
34.   FINANCES
   
35.   POLICE DEPARTMENT ADMINISTRATION
   
36.   ELECTIONS
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL MUNICIPAL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   (Reserved)
   
30.02   Facsimile transmissions
   
30.03   Personal property; abandonment, seizure and the like
Public Contracts
   
30.10   Purpose
   
30.11   Contract Review Board
   
30.12   Oregon Model Rules
   
30.13   Delegation of powers
   
30.14   Definitions
   
30.15   Facsimile and electronic submissions
   
30.16   Public contracts; federal funds
   
30.17   General exemptions
   
30.18   Specific exemptions
   
30.19   Mayor/Council exemptions
   
30.20   Brand name specifications in contracts
   
30.21   Prequalification
   
30.22   Request for proposal; construction manager/general contractor
   
30.23   Requests for proposals
   
30.24   Advertisements for competitive bids
   
30.25   Competitive bidding procedures
   
30.26   Appeals
   
30.27   Contract amendments
   
30.28   Additional authority of Council
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 (RESERVED).
§ 30.02 FACSIMILE TRANSMISSIONS.
   (A)   The City of Rockaway Beach hereby establishes the close of the
business day as 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, except holidays.
   (B)   For purposes of filing appeals or meeting any deadline established by
city ordinance, by state law or by policy, the document must be received by 5:
00 p.m. on the deadline day. Any documents received or transmitted to the city
after 5:00 p.m. shall be deemed to have been filed the next succeeding business
day.
   (C)   Facsimile transmissions will be accepted by the city for all deadlines
except land use appeals so long as the original document is received by the
city not later than the close of the third business day after the receipt of
the facsimile transmission.
   (D)   Land use appeals must be submitted to the city in original form by the
close of the deadline day. Facsimile transmissions for land use appeals shall
not be accepted by the city.
   (E)   For any action requiring filing fees, no document will be accepted for
filing without the required filing fee accompanying the document.
   (F)   This section applies to all ordinances, resolutions and policies of
the city which have a deadline in them as well as any state statute which
applies to or is administered by the city.
   (G)   This section shall become effective 30 days after adoption.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-307, passed 9-22-1993)
§ 30.03 PERSONAL PROPERTY; ABANDONMENT, SEIZURE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Custody of property. Whenever any personal property other than motor
vehicles are taken into the custody of any department by reason of seizure,
abandonment or for any other reason, the personal property shall be turned over
to and held by the Police Department at the expense and risk of the owner or
person lawfully entitled to possession thereof.
   (B)   Surrender to true owner. Within 60 days after the property is taken
into possession, except when confiscated or held as evidence, the owner or
person lawfully entitled to possession may reclaim the same upon application to
the Police Department, submission of satisfactory proof of ownership or right
to possession, and payment of charges and expenses, if any, incurred in the
storage, preservation and custody of the property.
   (C)   Sale procedure.
      (1)   At any time after the 60-day period, the Chief of Police shall sell
at public auction any unclaimed property and any property which has been
confiscated and not ordered destroyed, except the property held as evidence in
any legal or court proceeding. Notice of the sale shall be given once by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city at least 10 days
before the date of sale, giving the time and place of the sale and generally
describing the property to be sold.
      (2)   All sales of the property shall be for cash to the highest and best
bidder; provided, however, that any person appearing at, or prior to the sale,
and proving ownership or right of possession thereto shall be entitled to
reclaim the property upon the payment of the charges and expenses incurred by
the city in the storage, preservation and custody of the property and a
proportionate share of the costs of advertising the same for sale.
      (3)   If no bids are entered for the property or if the highest bid
entered is less than the costs incurred by the city, the Chief of Police may
enter a bid on behalf of the city in an amount equal to the costs. If bid in by
the city, the property shall become the property of the city as compensation
for the costs incurred, or if no use or value to the city, shall be disposed of
in such manner as the City Recorder directs.
      (4)   The proceeds of a sale shall be first applied to payment of the
cost of the sale and the expense incurred in the preservation, storage and
custody of the property; and the balance, if any, shall be credited to the
general fund of the city.
      (5)   The sales shall be without the right of redemption.
   (D)   Certificate of title.
      (1)   At the time of the payment of the purchase price, the Chief of
Police shall execute a certificate of sale in duplicate, the original to be
delivered to the purchaser and a copy to be kept on file in the office of the
City Recorder, which certificate shall contain the date of sale, the
consideration paid, a brief description of the property and a stipulation that
the city does not warrant the condition of title of the property other than the
return of the purchase price in case the title is for any reason invalid.
      (2)   The certificate of sale shall be in substantially the following
form:
CERTIFICATE OF SALE
This is to certify that under the provisions of Ordinance No.
                     and pursuant to due notice of time and place of sale, I
did on the                             day of
                                  , 20                            , sell at
public auction to                                                           for
the sum of $                                             cash, he being the
highest and best bidder, and that being the highest and best sum bid therefor,
the following-described personal property, to wit:
(brief description of property)
and in consideration of the payment of the said sum of
$                               , receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, I
have this day delivered to said purchaser the foregoing property. Dated this
                day of                             , 20
                              .
                                                                                           
                                 Chief of Police
Note: The City of Rockaway assumes no responsibility as to condition of title
of the above-described property. In case this sale shall for any reason be
invalid, the liability of the city is limited to return of the purchase price.
   (E)   Dangerous or perishable property. Any property coming into the
possession of the Chief of Police which he or she determines to be dangerous or
perishable, may be disposed of immediately, without notice, in the manner as he
or she determines to be in the public interest.
   (F)   Scope. This section shall apply to all personal property, except motor
vehicles, now or hereafter in custody of the city.
   (G)   Disposal of alcohol. Whenever any alcoholic liquor is confiscated in
connection with an arrest, it shall be disposed of in accordance with the
provisions of O.R.S. 471.610.
   (H)   Disposal of drugs.
      (1)   All drugs, the lawful possession of which is not established or the
title to which cannot be ascertained, which have come into the custody of a
police officer, shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of
applicable state and federal laws.
      (2)   All drugs which are to be used as evidence in a criminal trial,
when no longer needed as evidence, shall be disposed of according to the
directions of the presiding judge at the trial.
(Prior Code, Ord. 108, passed 7-22-1975)
PUBLIC CONTRACTS
§ 30.10 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to foster competition to obtain the best
possible product for the best price in an efficient and timely manner with the
understanding that there are a number of different procedures to obtain these
results.
(Ord. 10-413, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 30.11 CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD.
   The City Council of is hereby designated as the Local Contract Review Board
and, relative to contract concerns of this city, shall have all the powers
granted to the State Public Contract Review Board.
(Ord. 10-413, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 30.12 OREGON MODEL RULES.
   The city rejects the Oregon Public Contracting Rules to the extent that the
rules conflict with the rules set forth in this subchapter, which the city
expressly authorizes to take precedence over the Oregon Model Rules.
(Ord. 10-413, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 30.13 DELEGATION OF POWERS.
   The City Council delegates concurrent contracting power to the Police Chief
and the Public Works Director for procurement of budgeted equipment, supplies
and services, subject to the Council's prior budget approval for items up to
$25,000, and to the City Manager for items up to $75,000.
(Ord. 10-413, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 30.14 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPETITIVE BIDDING. The solicitation by the city of competitive offers
which follow the formal process for advertising, bid and bid opening required
by this subchapter and by applicable rules of the city.
   COMPETITIVE QUOTES. The solicitation of offers by the city from competing
vendors. The solicitation may be by advertisement or by the city initiating a
request to vendors to make an offer. The solicitation and the offer may be
written or oral.
   CONTRACTOR. The person with whom the city enters into a contract.
   ELECTRONIC ADVERTISEMENT. The city's request for bids, quotes, RFPs or other
information available over the internet.
   MODEL RULES. The Oregon Attorney General's Model Rules of Procedure for
Public Contracting.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, business trust estate, trust,
partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture, government
agency, public corporation or any other legal or commercial entity.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. A contract with a person described in §
30.17(G)(1).
   PUBLIC CONTRACT. Any purchase, lease, disposal or sale by the city personal
property, public improvements, services and public works including minor
alterations and repairs or maintenance necessary to preserve a public
improvement.
   PUBLIC CONTRACTING AGENCY. City of Rockaway Beach ("city").
   LOCAL CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD. The City Council of the City of Rockaway Beach
("Council").
   PROCUREMENT. The act of purchasing, leasing, renting or otherwise acquiring
goods or services.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Projects for construction, reconstruction or major
renovation on real property by or for the city. PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT does not
include emergency work, minor alterations, ordinary repair or maintenance
necessary in order to preserve a public improvement.
   PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT. Includes, but is not limited to, roads, highways,
buildings, structures and improvements of all types, the construction,
reconstruction, major renovation or painting of which is carried on or
contracted for by the city to serve the public interest, but does not include
the reconstruction or renovation of privately owned property which is leased by
the city.
   SPECIFICATION. Any description of the physical or functional
characteristics, or of the nature of a supply, service or construction item,
including any requirement for inspecting, testing or preparing  a supply,
service or construction item for delivery and the quantities or qualities of
materials to be furnished under a contract. Specifications generally will state
the result to be obtained and may, on occasion, describe the method and manner
of doing the work to be performed.
   WORK. The furnishing of all materials, equipment, labor and incidentals
necessary to successfully complete any individual item in a contract and
successful completion of all duties and obligations imposed by the contract.
   WRITTEN or WRITING. Written or writing means conventional paper documents,
whether handwritten, typewritten or printed, in contrast to spoken words. It
also includes electronic transmissions or facsimile documents when required by
applicable law or permitted by a solicitation document or contract.
(Ord. 10-413, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 30.15 FACSIMILE AND ELECTRONIC SUBMISSIONS.
   Facsimile or electronic submissions to the city shall only be allowed if in
conformance with the city's ordinance governing facsimile and electronic
submissions then in effect.
(Ord. 10-413, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 30.16 PUBLIC CONTRACTS; FEDERAL FUNDS.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this subchapter, the applicable federal
laws, rules and regulations shall govern when federal funds are involved and
the federal laws conflict with any local and/or state law.
(Ord. 10-413, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 30.17 GENERAL EXEMPTIONS.
   All public contracts shall be based upon competitive bidding except:
   (A)   Public agencies. Contracts made with, or the cost of which is provided
by, other public agencies or the federal government, provided the item can be
obtained at a lower total cost than if it were procured from a private entity.
   (B)   Nonprofit agencies. Contracts made with qualified nonprofit agencies
providing employment opportunities for disabled persons.
   (C)   Contracts for supplies. Contracts for products, services or supplies
if the value of the contract is less than $5,000. Said contracts may be
procured by direct purchase.
   (D)   Insurance. Insurance and service contracts as provided for under
O.R.S. 414.115, 414.125, 414.135 and 414.145.
   (E)   Existing contracts with other public agencies. Contracts between
public agencies utilizing an existing solicitation or current requirements
contract of one of the public agencies that is party to the contract for which:
      (1)   The original contract met the requirements of this subchapter;
      (2)   The contract allows other public agency usage of the contract; and
      (3)   The original contracting public agency concurs.
   (F)   Emergency. 
      (1)   Contracts requiring prompt execution due to any emergency. The
Council shall adopt a resolution indicating:
         (a)   The existence of the emergency that could not have been
reasonably foreseen;
         (b)   Which creates a substantial risk of loss, damage, interruption
of services, threat to the public health or safety or other circumstances; and
         (c)   Requires prompt execution of a contract to remedy the condition.
The resolution shall state with specificity the emergency conditions
necessitating the prompt execution of the contract.
      (2)   The Mayor may act in place of the Council, should conditions
dictate immediate action and the Mayor shall notify the Council as soon as
reasonably possible for their ratification of his/her actions.
      (3)   Any contract award under this exemption shall be awarded within 60
days following declaration of the emergency conditions necessitating prompt
execution of the contract.
   (G)   Personal services contracts. The following are personal services
contracts are exempt from competitive bidding by the Council:
      (1)   Contracts for services performed as an independent contractor in a
professional capacity, including but not limited to the services of an
accountant, attorney, architectural or land use planning consultant,
consultant, physician or dentist, registered professional engineer, fire chief,
information technology consultant, forester, appraiser, surveyor, passenger
aircraft pilot, photographer, timber cruiser, data processing consultant,
broadcaster or other person with specialized skills, knowledge, education and
resources;
      (2)   Contracts for services as an artist in the performing of fine arts,
including but not limited to persons identified as photographer, film maker,
painter, weaver or sculptor;
      (3)   Contracts for services of a specialized, creative, research
oriented or of a non-commercial nature;
      (4)   Contracts for services as a consultant;
      (5)   Contracts for educational services;
      (6)   Such other contracts or classes of service contracts as the Council
by resolution designates.
   (H)   Personal services procurement. 
      (1)   (a)   The Council may procure personal services directly; or
         (b)   May solicit personal services by requesting requests for
proposals or requests for qualifications, sent to persons identified by the
Council as persons with the requisite knowledge, experience and/or expertise
desired by the city. Any request for proposal shall describe a summary of the
services sought and the deadline for submitting a proposal. The city may, at
any time, reject any or all proposals or cancel the solicitation without
liability for any reason. All proposals submitted shall be solely at the
expense of the proposer.
      (2)   The city may continue or extend existing personal services
contracts, including changes in scope of work and payment, thereto, without
requesting other bids, qualifications or proposals.
      (3)   The city may procure personal services directly through negotiation
if the contract price is not more than $75,000.
      (4)   Any personal services contract required due to emergency
circumstances may be obtained without a formal or informal solicitation
process.
      (5)   Any person hired under a personal services contract shall not
result in an employee relationship. If the nature of the services or project is
such that an employee/employer relationship will exist, then the city must hire
the person through the normal personnel hiring procedures. The person shall be
solely responsible for their own social security, state and federal taxes, any
unemployment compensation and any other payment required.
(Ord. 10-413, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 30.18 SPECIFIC EXEMPTIONS.
   The following classes of public contracts are exempt from competitive
bidding in that the Council hereby finds that the awarding of such contracts
without competitive bidding is unlikely to encourage favoritism or
substantially diminish competition for public contracts, and the awarding of
such contracts will result in substantial cost savings to the city. An
exemption under this subsection shall be granted only by resolution of the
Council adopted in a public meeting, with specific findings which may consider
the type, cost, amount of contract, number of persons available to bid and such
other factors as the Council deems appropriate to support the exemption.
   (A)   Contracts under $5,000. Contracts for any purchase, the amount of
which at time of purchase is less than $5,000.
   (B)   Contracts from $5,000 to $75,000. When the amount of the contract for
goods, materials, supplies and services is more than $5,000, but less than
$75,000, the city must obtain a minimum of 3 informally solicited competitive
quotes. A written record of the 3 quotes shall be kept. If 3 quotes are not
available, a lesser number will suffice so long as a written record is made of
the effort to obtain the quotes.
   (C)   Equipment maintenance, repair and overhaul contracts. That meet the
following conditions:
      (1)   The service and/or parts required are unknown and the cost cannot
be determined without extensive preliminary dismantling or testing; or
      (2)   The service and/or parts required are for sophisticated equipment
for which specially-trained personnel are required and/or such personnel are
available from only one source; or
      (3)   If the contract exceeds $75,000, the public contracting agency
shall document in its procurement file the reason why competitive bids or
quotes were deemed to be impractical.
   (D)   Public improvements. When the contract is for a public improvement and
the contract price exceeds $5,000, but is less than $75,000, the city must
obtain a minimum of 3 informally solicited competitive quotes. A written record
of the 3 quotes shall be kept. If 3 quotes are not available, a lesser number
will suffice so long as a written record is made of the effort to obtain the
quotes.
   (E)   Public works. When the contract is for a public works project and the
contract price exceeds $5,000, but is less than $75,000, the contract shall
comply with:
      (1)   The prevailing rate of wage for an hour's work in the same trade or
occupation in Tillamook County, if such rate can be determined;
      (2)   A performance bond; and
      (3)   Contractor registration requirements.
   (F)   Contracts for price-regulated items. Contracts for the purchase of
goods or services where the rate or price for the goods or services being
purchased is established by federal, state or local regulatory authority.
   (G)   Gasoline, diesel fuel, lubricants and asphalts. Contracts for the
purchase of gasoline, diesel fuel, lubricants and asphalts if city seeks
competitive quotes from a majority of the venders in the area, makes its
purchase from the least expensive source, and retains written justification for
the purchase made.
   (H)   Trade related projects. Construction, maintenance repair or similar
labor and materials contracts when the amount is more than $5,000, but less
than $75,000, the city must obtain a minimum of 3 informally solicited
competitive quotes. A written record of the 3 quotes shall be kept. If 3 quotes
are not available, a lesser number will suffice so long as a written record is
made of the effort to obtain the quotes.
   (I)   Fire suppression equipment. Contracts made between regularly organized
fire departments as defined by O.R.S. 652.050, for fire protection equipment,
as defined in O.R.S. 476.005, provided that:
      (1)   The purchaser makes a written request to the seller for the
equipment; and
      (2)   The fire protection equipment is surplus or unusable by the seller;
and
      (3)   The value of the equipment transferred does not exceed $50,000 per
calendar year; and
      (4)   The seller/transferor holds a public hearing on the equipment
transfer and finds that the transfer is in the public's interest.
   (J)   Copyrighted materials. Contracts for the purchase of copyrighted
materials if there is only 1 known supplier available for such goods.
   (K)   Periodicals. Contracts for the purchase of subscriptions for
periodicals, including journals, magazines and similar publications.
   (L)   Used personal property. Contracts for the purchase of used personal
property for $150,000 or less. To secure used personal property costing less
than $150,000 the city shall, where feasible, obtain 3 informally solicited
competitive quotes unless the city has determined and finds that a purchase
without obtaining competitive quotes will result in cost savings to the city
and will not diminish competition or encourage favoritism. For purchase of used
personal property over $150,000, 3 informally solicited competitive quotes
shall be obtained, but if 3 quotes are not available, a written record must be
made of the attempt to obtain quotes.
   (M)   Advertising contracts. Contracts for the purchase of advertising.
   (N)   Investment contracts. Contracts for the purpose of investment of
public funds or the borrowing of funds.
   (O)   Requirement contracts. Purchases of goods or services from a supplier
when the price of the goods or services has been established under a previously
competitive bid requirements contract.
      (1)   REQUIREMENTS CONTRACT means a contract whereby the Council has
agreed to purchase requirements for an anticipated need at a pre-determined
price.
      (2)   Council may use the requirements contract entered into by another
public contracting agency when a formal inter-agency agreement exists between
the 2 agencies relating to the subject matter of the contract.
   (P)   Single seller or price. Contracts for purchase where there is only 1
seller or only 1 price among more than 1 seller of a product of the quality
required or if the efficient utilization of existing equipment or supplies
require specification of a compatible product for which there is only 1 seller,
available within a reasonable purchase area.
   (Q)   Insurance.
      (1)   Contracts for insurance where either the annual or aggregate
premium is lower than $20,000.
      (2)   Employee benefits insurance.
      (3)   Insurance through city county insurance services.
   (R)   Affirmative action contracts. Contracts let pursuant to a specific
affirmative action plan.
      (1)   AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN means any plan designed to insure equal
opportunity in employment and business for persons otherwise disadvantaged by
reason of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, age, or physical or mental disability.
      (2)   Prior to awarding any contracts pursuant to this exemption, the
city shall submit to the Council in writing:
         (a)   A description of the affirmative action plan, with emphasis on
the goal or goals to be accomplished;
         (b)   A description of the contract to be awarded, including the
amount therefor, name of contractor and type of work, product or service
purchased.
   (S)   Data processing contracts. Contracts for the purchase or acquisition
or word processing or data processing hardware or software, if prior to
selection of a contractor, the city has solicited 3 proposals and, if the
amount of the contract exceeds $15,000, the city has also solicited a proposal
in an appropriate trade publication of general circulation.
   (T)   Telecommunications systems. Contracts for the purchase or acquisition
of telecommunications system hardware and software if, prior to the selection
of a contractor, the city has solicited 3 competitive quotes and, if the amount
exceeds $15,000, the city may use the request for proposal process set forth in
OAR 125-310-025 and the city shall solicit written proposals.
   (U)   Office copier. Requirements contracts for either the purchase or lease
of office copying equipment.
   (V)   Personal property disposition for cash. Surplus personal property may
be disposed of without competitive bidding, under any of the following
conditions:
      (1)   There are specific statutory procedures for the sale of the type of
property involved and the property is disposed of according to those
procedures;
      (2)   The property involved has a value of $10,000 or less;
      (3)   When the property has a value greater than $10,000, the property
must be offered for competitive bid or be offered for sale at a public auction.
A public auction may be in person, or posted at an internet auction site,
including any auction site of the state. If no bids are received, or the
received bids do not meet the minimum bid requirements, the city may reject the
bids and the city may negotiate a sale if:
         (a)   The negotiated sales price exceeds the market value of the
property; or
         (b)   The negotiated sale amount exceeds the highest bid received
through the bidding or auction process.
   (W)   Donated personal property. The city may donate or trade surplus
personal property to other public agencies or to recognized non-profit social
or health service entities subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The property is not needed for other public purposes;
      (2)   If the property has a value greater than $500, the Council shall
approve the donation or trade and there is documentation by the city that such
a donation is in the public interest;
      (3)   The city determines that a donation or trade is the most efficient
and cost effective method for disposing of the property or is otherwise in the
best interests of the city;
      (4)   Records of all transfers or donations are kept by the city for a
period of 3 years after the transfer.
(Ord. 10-413, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 30.19 MAYOR/COUNCIL EXEMPTIONS.
   The Mayor or Council may exempt any other contract through the following
procedure.
   (A)   The Mayor or Councilor may request a ruling from the Council exempting
a particular contract or contracts from the bidding requirements of this
subchapter and/or state law. The request shall contain
the following:
      (1)   The nature of the project;
      (2)   Estimated cost of the project;
      (3)   A narrative description of the cost savings and other benefits
anticipated by the exemption from competitive bidding;
      (4)   Proposed alternative contracting and purchasing practice be
employed; and
      (5)   The estimated date by which it would be necessary to let the
contract.
   (B)   The Council may, by resolution, exempt the contract or contracts
presented under division (A) above from the requirement of competitive bidding
if it finds that:
      (1)   The lack of bids will not result in favoritism or substantially
diminish competition for public contracts;
      (2)   The exemption will result in substantial cost savings to the city.
In making such finding, the Council may consider the type, cost, amount of the
contract, number of persons available to bid and such other factors as the
Council may deem appropriate;
      (3)   In granting the exemption, the Council may, where appropriate,
direct the use of alternate contracting and purchasing practice that take into
account market realities and modern and innovative purchasing methods, which
are also consistent with the public policy of encouraging competition.
(Ord. 10-413, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 30.20 BRAND NAME SPECIFICATIONS IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts for goods and services procurement may specify brand names.
Public improvement contract shall not require any product by any brand name or
make, nor the product of any particular manufacturer or seller, unless the
product is exempted from the requirement by the Council under divisions (B),
(C) or (D) below. However, this section shall not be construed to prevent
reference in the specifications to a particular product as a description of the
type of item required, suffixed by "or equal", "or approved equal", "or
equivalent", "or approved equivalent", or similar language if there is no other
practical specification.
   (B)   The Council may, by resolution, exempt certain products or classes of
products upon any of the following findings:
      (1)   It is unlikely that such exemption will encourage favoritism in the
awarding of the contract or substantially diminish competition;
      (2)   The specification of a product by brand name or mark, or the
product of a particular manufacturer or seller, would result in substantial
cost savings;
      (3)   There is only 1 manufacturer or seller of the product of the
quality required, (but see division (C)(4) below); or
      (4)   Efficient utilization of existing equipment or supplies require the
acquisition of compatible equipment and supplies.
   (C)   Specific exemptions. The city hereby finds that the conditions for
granting an exemption under division (B) above exist for the following items:
      (1)   Products part of a contract exempt under division (D) below;
      (2)   Copyrighted material;
      (3)   Data processing hardware or software;
      (4)   Single manufacturer or compatible products: If there is only 1
manufacturer or seller of a product of the quality required, or if the
efficient utilization of the existing equipment or supply requires
a compatible product of a particular manufacturer or seller, city may specify
such particular product subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The product is selected on the basis of the most competitive
offer, considering quality and cost; and
         (b)   Prior to awarding the contract, the city has made reasonable
effort to notify all locally known vendors of competing or comparable products
of the intended specifications and invited such vendors to submit competing
proposals. If the purchase does not exceed $15,000, such notice and invitation
may be informal. If the amount of the purchase exceeds $15,000, such notice
shall include advertisement in at least 1 newspaper of general circulation in
the area where the contract is to be performed and shall be timely to allow
competing vendors a reasonable opportunity to make proposals.
   (D)   Product prequalification.
      (1)   When it is impractical to separate specific design or performance
specification for a type of product to be purchased, city may specify a list of
approved products by reference to particular manufacturers or sellers in
accordance with the following product prequalification procedure:
         (a)   The city has made reasonable efforts to notify all known
manufacturers or vendors of competitive products of its intention to accept
applications for inclusion in its list of prequalified products. Notification
shall include advertisement in a trade journal of state-wide distribution when
possible. In lieu of advertising, city may notify vendors and manufacturers
appearing on the appropriate list maintained by the Department of General
Services of the State of Oregon.
         (b)   The city permits application for prequalification of similar
products up to 15 days prior to advertisement for bids on the product.
   (B)   If an application for inclusion in a list of prequalified products is
denied, or an existing prequalification revoked, city shall notify the
applicant. The applicant may appeal to the Council for a review of the denial
or revocation in the same manner as an appeal of disqualification or denial as
provided for by law and these rules.
(Ord. 10-413, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 30.21 PREQUALIFICATION.
   (A)   The following categories or classes of work may be, in the discretion
of the city, subject to prequalification, should the contract be a public
improvement contract exceeding $75,000:
      (1)   Highway, road and street improvement;
      (2)   Concrete paving and flatwork;
      (3)   Rock crushing;
      (4)   Bituminous oiling;
      (5)   Bituminous paving;
      (6)   Reinforced concrete construction;
      (7)   Bridge and overcrossing construction;
      (8)   Dredging and pile driving;
      (9)   Excavation and grading;
      (10)   Sewer construction;
      (11)   Sewage treatment plants;
      (12)   Sewage pumping stations;
      (13)   Waterlines;
      (14)   Water reservoirs;
      (15)   Water tanks - steel;
      (16)   Water tanks - concrete;
      (17)   Electrical wiring;
      (18)   Traffic signalization;
      (19)   Outdoor illumination;
      (20)   Building construction;
      (21)   Building alterations and repair;
      (22)   Demolition and related excavation and clearing;
      (23)   Painting and decorating;
      (24)   Plumbing;
      (25)   Heating;
      (26)   Roofing;
      (27)   Air conditioning;
      (28)   Irrigation and sprinkling systems;
      (29)   Drainage;
      (30)   Landscape.
   (B)   Bidder prequalification procedures.
      (1)   Any contract requiring prequalification shall be advertised as such
a contract by publication at least once in a newspaper of general circulation
within the area in which the contract is to be performed, or designated as such
a contract as part of the advertisement procedure.
      (2)   Applications for prequalification shall be submitted on the forms
provided by the city at the times designated by the Council for such
prequalification.
      (3)   Upon establishment of the applicant's qualification, but in no case
not to exceed 30 days from receipt of application, the city shall issue a
qualification statement, if appropriate. The statement shall inform the
applicant of:
         (a)   Any conditions which may be imposed on the qualification;
         (b)   The time period for which the qualification is valid; and
         (c)   Advise the applicant to notify the city promptly if there is any
substantial change of conditions or circumstances which would make any
statement contained in the prequalification application no longer applicable or
untrue.
      (4)   If an applicant does not qualify, the city shall give the
applicant, within 30 days of receipt of the application, notice of the denial
and the basis for the denial.
      (5)   Should the city discover that a person prequalified is no longer
qualified, the city may revoke the prequalification after giving notice to the
newly-disqualified person. The notice shall:
         (a)   Specify the reason for the revocation;
         (b)   Inform the person of their right to a hearing on the
disqualification; and
         (c)   Inform the person that the revocation will be effective 10 days
from the date of the notice unless evidence showing that the deficiency has
been corrected has been received and approved by the city. Any request for
hearing must be received at City Hall before the close of business the fifth
business day after notice of disqualification is mailed or faxed to the person.
(Ord. 10-413, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 30.22 REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL; CONSTRUCTION MANAGER/GENERAL CONTRACTOR.
   The city may, at its discretion, use request-for-proposal procedures for the
selection of construction manager/general contractor (CM/GC) firms who will be
required to establish guaranteed maximum prices for constructing public
improvements, subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   Contractual requirements are stated clearly in the solicitation
document. The contract shall describe the methods by which the CM/GC shall
competitively select other contractors and subcontractors to perform the work
of the improvement. Further, the contract shall describe completely the methods
by which the CM/GC and its affiliated or subsidiary entities, if any, may
compete to perform the work of the improvement; such methods shall include, at
a minimum, public opening of sealed bids at a preannounced time and place:
   (B)   Evaluation criteria to be applied in selecting the CM/GC firm are
stated clearly in the solicitation document. Criteria used to identify the CM/
GC firm which best meets the public contracting needs may include, but are not
limited to cost, quality, experience relevant to the improvement to be
constructed, and time required to commence and complete the improvement; and
   (C)   The city adopts findings to support the use of the CM/GC contracting
method, which findings may include the following:
      (1)   The city has competitively bid a public improvement project and
failed to receive a responsive, responsible bid within the cost estimate
established by the agency or its consultant. There are de facto cost savings
from not redesigning and rebidding the project;
      (2)   There are expected substantial savings on direct construction
costs;
      (3)   The city needs to have use of the project within the stated project
schedule and there will be program and cost consequences if the required use is
delayed;
      (4)   The technical complexity or unique character of the project
requires the coordination of multiple disciplines;
      (5)   The use of value engineering through cooperation among the
architect/engineer, contractor and the city is important to the project's
delivery on time and within budget; and
      (6)   There are other factors which demonstrably affect cost.
(Ord. 10-413, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 30.23 REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS.
   The city, at its discretion, may use request-for-proposal competitive
procurement methods subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   The procurement is advertised and a written solicitation document is
issued that invites the submission of sealed, written offers to be opened
publicly at a designated time and place; and
   (B)   Contractual requirements are stated clearly in the solicitation
document; and
   (C)   Evaluation criteria to be applied in awarding the contract and the
role of an evaluation committee are stated clearly in the solicitation
document. Criteria used to identify the proposal that best meets the city's
needs may include, but are not limited to cost, quality, service,
compatibility, product reliability, operating efficiency and expansion
potential, proposer qualifications and experience; and
   (D)   The solicitation document clearly states all complaint processes and
remedies available; and
   (E)   The solicitation document states the provisions for proposers to
comment on any specifications that they feel limit competition;
   (F)   Any expense incurred in generating the proposal shall be solely that
of the proposer.
(Ord. 10-413, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 30.24 ADVERTISEMENT FOR COMPETITIVE BIDS.
   (A)   Generally. Advertisement for competitive bids shall be published at
least once in at least 1 newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
contract is being performed. Advertisements, requests for proposals and
solicitations by the city may be made electronically over the internet and/or
by facsimile transmission in addition to publication set forth herein.
   (B)   Public improvements in excess of $75,000. In addition to the
advertisements for bids as provided above, the advertisement for bids for
public improvements in excess of $75,000 shall be published in at least 1 trade
newspaper of general statewide circulation.
   (C)   All advertisements for bids shall state:
      (1)   If the contract is for a public work, that no bid will be received
or considered by the city unless the bid contains a statement by the bidder as
part of its bid that it shall comply with prevailing wage statutes and rules;
      (2)   The date after which bids will not be received, which date shall be
not less than 5 days after the date of the last publication of the
advertisement;
      (3)   The date that prequalification applications must be filed under §
30.18 and the class or classes of work for which bidders must be prequalified
if prequalification is a requirement;
      (4)   The character of the work to be done or the material or supplies to
be purchased;
      (5)   The office where the specifications for the work, material or
supplies may be seen;
      (6)   City Hall is the proper place to submit the bids;
      (7)   The date, time and place that the city will publicly open the bids;
      (8)   That all expenses and costs associated with making the offer are
solely those of the offeror.
(Ord. 10-413, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 30.25 COMPETITIVE BIDDING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Requirements for bids. Competitive bids shall:
      (1)   Be in writing and sealed;
      (2)   Be filed with the City Manager of the city;
      (3)   Be at the sole cost of the bidder;
      (4)   Opened publicly by the city at the time designated in the
advertisement, which date shall be not less than 5 days after the date of the
last publication of the advertisement;
      (5)   Bids shall not be examined or opened by anyone until the time of
the public opening as provided in the advertisement and such bids are not
public record until the bid opening. After having been opened, the bids shall
be filed for public inspection;
      (6)   If required by the city for a particular contract or class or
contracts, a surety bond, cashier's check or certified check of the bidder
shall be attached to all bids as bid security unless exempted from this
requirement. Such security shall not exceed 10% of the amount bid for the
contract;
      (7)   The city may accept facsimile or electronically transmitted bids
subject to the city's facsimile and electronic submission ordinance
requirements. If the city determines that it will accept facsimile bids, the
notices and advertisements shall state this. Any bids accepted by facsimile
must have the bid security, delivered to City Hall by the closing date and
time; and
      (8)   The bidder's offer is a firm offer, irrevocable, valid and binding
on the offeree for a period of not less than 30 days from closing unless
otherwise specified in the bid document or solicitation.
   (B)   Award to the lowest responsible bidder. After bids are opened and
after a determination is made by the Council that a contract is to be awarded,
the Council may award the contract to the lowest responsible bidder.
      (1)   LOWEST RESPONSIBLE BIDDER means the lowest bidder who has
substantially complied with all prescribed public bidding procedures and
requirements and who the city finds:
         (a)   Has the financial, equipment, personnel and expertise sufficient
to perform the contract; and
         (b)   Can acquire a surety bond in the amount and type required,
should the city determine that such bond be required to insure performance; and
         (c)   Has equipment available to perform the contract; and
         (d)   Has key personnel available of sufficient experience to perform
the contract; and
         (e)   Has a satisfactory record or contract performance obligations to
the city and on other public and private contracts; and
         (f)   Has a satisfactory record of integrity. If the offeror has
demonstrated a lack of business ethics, such as a violation of state
environmental laws, false certification or convictions of its owners, officers
or directors for any criminal offense for embezzlement, theft, forgery,
bribery, falsification or destruction of records, receiving stolen property,
anti-trust violations or any other offense indicating a lack of business
integrity or honesty, the city may, on its discretion, omit the bid from
consideration. The city may require a credit report, at the bidder's sole
expense, on any person involved in the business, as part of the city's
determination in the bid award.
      (2)   The city may make such investigation as is necessary or desirable
to determine whether a person is qualified, including inquiries to the Oregon
Contractor's Board. The city's investigation may include the business entity's
owners, officers, directors, affiliates or any other entity acquiring an
ownership interest. Lack of integrity defined in division (B)(1)(6) above as to
any person listed herein is sufficient to disqualify the bid, in the city's
sole discretion.
   (C)   Successful bidder. The successful bidder shall:
      (1)   Promptly execute a formal contract produced or approved by the
city;
      (2)   Promptly execute and deliver to the city a good and sufficient
performance bond, furnished by a surety company authorized to do business in
Oregon, approved by the City Council, in a sum equal to the contract price for
the faithful performance of the contract, or in lieu of a surety bond, a
cashier's check or certified check payable to the city in an amount not less
than a sum equal to 100% of the contract price, unless such requirement is
waived or modified by the Council.
         (a)   This division shall not apply to contracts for less than
$25,000, unless special circumstances, in the discretion of the City Council,
so require.
         (b)   This division shall not apply in cases of emergency, or where
the interest or property of the city probably would suffer material injury by
delay or other cause, such emergency or probable material injury made by
unanimous declaration of the Council.
      (3)   In the event that the successful bidder fails to execute the
contract provided by the city and post the required bond, within 30 days of the
award date, the city may reject the offer and award the contract to the
responsive bidder with the next lowest responsible bid.
      (4)   The successful bidder may offer a substitute contract at any time
during the contract performance upon approval by the city, provided that the
contract terms and the bond requirements remain unchanged. Such substitute
performance does not involve the award of a new contract and is not subject to
competitive bidding requirements.
   (D)   Return or retention of bid security.
      (1)   Successful bidder. Upon execution of the contract and bond, the bid
security of the successful bidder shall be returned to him/her. Should the
bidder, however, fail to promptly or properly execute the contract or bond, he/
she shall forfeit his/her bid security, which shall be kept by the city as
liquidated damages for such failure and not as a penalty of failure of the
successful bidder to execute the contract or bond.
      (2)   Unsuccessful bidder. The bid security of the unsuccessful bidders
shall be returned to them when the bids have been opened, the contract has been
awarded, and the contract has been duly signed and the bond delivered to the
city.
   (E)   Rejection of bids. The city may reject:
      (1)   Any bid not in compliance with all prescribed public bidding
procedures and bid requirements;
      (2)   Bids made contingent upon the city's acceptance of terms and
conditions that differ from the bid specifications or solicitation document;
and/or
      (3)   All bids if, in the city's judgment, it is in the public interest
to do so. In the event that the city cancels the solicitation prior to the bid
opening, the city shall return all offers it has received unopened to the
offerors.
(Ord. 10-413, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 30.26 APPEALS.
   (A)   A contractor or bidder may appeal to the City Council any of the
following:
      (1)   Notice of denial of qualification;
      (2)   Notice of conditions varying from application for prequalification;
      (3)   Notice of revocation of prequalification;
      (4)   Notice of product disqualification;
      (5)   Awarding of contract. An offeror may only protest the awarding of
the contract if the offeror can show that the offeror is next in line behind
the award recipient for award of the contract.
   (B)   The appeal must be in writing and filed with the city. At the time of
submitting the appeal, the appellant must pay to the city an amount of money
deemed sufficient to cover the city's advertisement and postage costs for the
appeal. The person appealing must notify the city within 5 business days after
receipt of the notice referred to above of his intention to appeal. The notice
of intention to appeal need not be in any particular form so long as it is in
writing addressed to the city and received at the Rockaway Beach City Hall at
276 Hwy. 101 S. , P.O. Box 5, Rockaway Beach, Oregon 97136 within the 5-day
period.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the City Manager shall forward
to the Council the notice appealed form and the record of investigation by the
city upon which the city based its refusal or revocation, together with the
notice of appeal. Within 10 days after receipt of the notice of intent to award
the contract, the person appealing must deliver to the city a detailed
description of all the specific legal and factual bases of the appeal. Legal
and factual bases not raised are deemed waived.
   (D)   For purpose of appeals, 4 members of the Council shall constitute a
quorum. Meetings for appeal purposes may be held on 5 days notice to the
Council.
   (E)   At any time prior to the meeting of the Council, the city may
reconsider its revocation or disqualification.
   (F)   Promptly upon receipt of notice of appeal from the City Manager of the
city, the Council shall notify the person appealing and the City Manager of the
time and place of the hearing.
   (G)   The Council shall conduct the hearing and decide the appeal within 10
business days after receiving the notification from the City Manager of the
city.
   (H)   The Council shall set forth in writing the reason for its decision.
   (I)   In the hearing the Council shall consider de novo (anew) the notice of
disqualification, the record of the investigation made by the city and any
evidence provided by the parties.
   (J)   In all other matters, the hearing shall be conducted in the same
manner as a contested case under rules of procedure determined by the Council.
   (K)   All city's out of pocket costs shall be paid by the appellant, if the
appeal is not successful. Costs include publication costs, mailing costs and
other costs deemed necessary by the city. In the event the appellant is
successful, the city shall pay said costs.
(Ord. 10-413, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 30.27 CONTRACT AMENDMENTS.
   Any contract amendment for additional work or product which is reasonably
related to the scope of work under the original contract, including change
orders, extra work, field orders or other changes in the specifications which
increases the original contract price, may be made with the contractor, without
competitive bidding, if:
   (A)   The amended contract does not substantially alter the scope or nature
of the original contract; or
   (B)   If the amendment does substantially alter the scope or nature of the
project, the amount of the aggregate cost change from all amendments creating
new or changed obligations shall not exceed 25% of the initial contract; or
   (C)   The original contract was let by:
      (1)   Competitive bidding or alternative procurement process;
      (2)   Unit prices or additive alternates were provided that established
the cost basis for the additional work or product; and
      (3)   Binding obligations exist on the parties covering the terms and
conditions of the additional work; or
      (4)   The original contract was let pursuant to a declaration of
emergency and the amendment is necessary to address the continuing emergency.
(Ord. 10-413, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 30.28 ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   In addition to the power and duties established by this subchapter,
the Council shall have such additional powers as authorized by state law.
   (B)   For any set of circumstances not covered by the provisions of this
subchapter, and any other relevant ordinance of the city, the City Charter and
the city's Rules of Procedures, and the state statutes shall govern to the
extent that such rules and statutes are not in conflict with the city's
provisions.
(Ord. 10-413. passed 12-15-2010)
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Planning Commission
   
31.02   Police Reserve
   
31.03   Tourism Commission
Cross-reference:
   Contract Review Board, see §
30.11
§ 31.01 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. The Rockaway Beach Planning Commission is established,
and shall have the authority and responsibility provided by this code and state
law.
   (B)   Duties and powers. The Planning Commission is the appointed citizen
body that provides recommendations to the City Council on land use policies;
makes land use decisions on planning applications; and provides a public forum
for ascertaining community values, visioning, and strategic thinking on long
range planning. The Planning Commission shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Review and act on land use applications and appeals of land use
decisions within its jurisdiction pursuant to applicable law.
      (2)   Periodically review the Comprehensive Plan, as prioritized by the
City Council through its goal setting process or as otherwise directed by the
City Council.
      (3)   Act as the Citizen Involvement Committee within the City of
Rockaway Beach Urban Growth Boundary. As directed by the City Council, this
role may include working with stakeholder groups or citizen advisory
committees, to help inform refinement and other land use plans, and
facilitating community engagement on land use issues with groups such as
neighborhood associations or coalitions.
      (4)   Make recommendations to the City Council on Type IV legislative
land use actions.
   (C)   Membership.
      (1)   The Rockaway Beach Planning Commission shall consist of 7 voting
members. The Commission members shall be appointed by the City Council.
      (2)   A minimum of 6 members shall be residents of the city. One member
may be a registered voter in Tillamook County and living as a full-time
resident within the City’s Urban Growth Boundary.
      (3)   No more than 2 voting members may engage principally in the buying,
selling, or developing of real estate for profit as individuals, or be members
of any partnership, or officers or employees of any corporation that is engaged
principally in the buying, selling, or developing of real estate for profit. No
more than 2 voting members shall be engaged in the same kind of business,
trade, or profession.
      (4)   City of Rockaway Beach Charter, Chapter III, Section 7, provides
that the Mayor shall serve as an ex-officio member. The Mayor shall not vote,
and shall excuse themself from the Planning Commission meeting prior to any
land use hearing or land use application discussion.
      (5)   The Mayor may nominate a Councilor to the liaison position as
deemed necessary, subject to provisions of City of Rockaway Beach Charter,
Chapter III, Section 7. The Mayor will consider the Council liaison appointment
in January of every year. The Council liaison is a non-voting position and is
not a member of the Planning Commission. The role of Council liaison is to
provide an avenue for communication between the Planning Commission and the
Council. The liaison shall report to the Planning Commission on the general
status of the City Council and items relevant to the work of the Planning
Commission. The Council liaison shall excuse themself from the Planning
Commission meeting prior to any land use hearing or land use application
discussion.
      (6)   Members shall hold office for 4 years. A member may be removed by
the City Council, after hearing, for misconduct or nonperformance of duty.
      (7)   A vacancy shall be filled by the Mayor with approval of the City
Council for the unexpired portion of the term, subject to the provisions of the
City of Rockaway Beach Charter, Chapter III, Section 7.
      (8)   At its first meeting each July, the Planning Commission shall elect
a President and Vice-President to serve 1-year terms. The President and Vice-
President shall be voting members.
      (9)   Four voting members of the Planning Commission shall constitute a
quorum.
      (10)   The Planning Commission may make and alter rules and regulations
for its governance and procedure consistent with the laws of Oregon, the City
Charter and code.
      (11)   The Planning Commission shall meet at least once a month, unless
business does not require such a meeting, in which case the President, with the
consent of the City Manager, may cancel such meeting. Planning Commission
meetings shall be held at such times and places fixed by the Commission.
      (12)   Members of the Planning Commission shall receive no compensation
for their services, but shall be reimbursed for duly authorized expenses.
      (13)   City staff shall perform administrative functions for the Planning
Commission. All recommendations and suggestions by the Planning Commission
shall be made in writing by city staff and presented for consideration to the
City Council at their monthly meeting in a report.
(Prior Code, Ord. 116, passed 11-25-1975; Am. Ord. 10-411, passed 10-27-2010;
Am. Ord. 2024-04, passed 9-11-2024)
§ 31.02 POLICE RESERVE.
   (A)   Creation; membership. There is created an organization of police
officers in the city to be known as the Rockaway Beach Police Reserve, to be
composed of a voluntary membership not to exceed 15 members who shall be under
the jurisdiction and subject to duty on the call of the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Membership; revocation; qualifications. Membership in the Police
Reserve shall be for an indefinite term. Such membership may be revoked at any
time by the Chief of Police for the good of the city or may be cancelled at any
time by a member on written notification to the Chief of Police. Members shall
be not less than 21 years of age. Their applications must be approved and
confirmed by the Chief of Police and each member must take the oath of office
as prescribed by the City Charter.
   (C)   Equipment and uniform requirements. The city shall furnish and
maintain uniforms for reserve officers. All reserves will be required to
purchase their own protection vest, weapon, duty belt and equipment. The
protection vest will be replaced when needed, as determined by the Chief of
Police, at city expense.
   (D)   Duty restrictions. Except when on duty by call of the Chief of Police
or other authority of the city, the members of the Police Reserve shall perform
no police function other than those granted to all citizens of the State of
Oregon by the laws thereof.
   (E)   Subject to call. Members of the Police Reserve shall at all times be
subject to call and the performance of such police duties as may be assigned to
them and shall report for duty at such intervals and times that shall be fixed
or determined by order of the Chief of Police.
   (F)   Jurisdiction of Police Department. Members of the organization shall
be subject to the orders of the regularly constituted authority of the city and
shall be directly responsible to the Chief of Police and under his jurisdiction
and that of the other officers of the Police Department of the city and of the
Police Reserve. Members found guilty of insubordination or conduct unbecoming
an officer, or who shall have been convicted of any crime involving moral
turpitude, or who for any reason shall be regarded as unsatisfactory as a
member of such organization, may be dismissed from service in the Police
Reserve by the Chief of Police.
   (G)   City official cannot be member. No official of the city, whether
appointed or elected, may be a member of the Police Reserve.
   (H)   City property to be returned upon membership termination. Upon
termination of membership in the Police Reserve for whatever reason, all
property of the city in the possession of the retiring member shall be
surrendered and delivered to such official as the Chief of Police shall
designate to receive the same.
   (I)   Appointment of Reserve Commander. There may be appointed by the Chief
of Police a Commander of the Police Reserve who shall not be an active member
of the regular police force of the city, but shall be a member in good standing
of the Police Reserve and shall, subject to regulations imposed by the Chief of
Police, be the executive officer of the Police Reserves. Additional Reserve
Supervisors may from time to time be appointed by the Chief of Police from
members of the Reserve to serve at his pleasure.
   (J)   Compensation provisions and contract services.
      (1)   Members of the Police Reserve shall receive no compensation for
their membership therein or while on duty as such unless the Chief of Police
declares an emergency and then they would be paid based on police officer rate.
      (2)   However, division (1) above shall not prohibit the city from
contracting with public or private entities for services provided by reserve
police officers including, but not limited to, providing security and directing
traffic, and shall charge base police officer rate for such services.
      (3)   While on duty as a Reserve Officer, each individual will be covered
by the city workers' compensation insurance for work-related injuries and under
the city's liability policy as long as they are acting within the scope and
responsibility of their position, unless prohibited by a separate agreement.
   (K)   Powers and privileges of regular police while serving on active duty.
When serving on active duty at the call of the Chief of Police or other
authority of the city, members of the Police Reserve shall be entitled to all
the powers and privileges of a regular police officer of the city and subject
to all the duties and regulations and responsibilities thereof. The
responsibility of citizens to assist police officers in pursuit of their duties
shall apply to the members of the Police Reserve while on active duty in the
same manner as to any other police officer.
(Ord. 07-404, passed 10-24-2007)
§ 31.03 TOURISM COMMISSION.
   (A)   Tourism Commission established. There is hereby established a Tourism
Commission of the City of Rockaway Beach, Tillamook County, Oregon, hereafter
referred to as the "Commission," and consisting of 5 persons to be appointed by
the Mayor and approved by a majority of the City Council and hereafter
individually referred to as "Commissioner."
   (B)   Commissioner qualifications, appointment, removal and vacancy.
      (1)   The term of office of all Commissioners shall be 4 years, but the
terms of the first appointees to these positions shall expire according to the
following schedule in order to provide for staggered terms in the future. The
first appointees shall be appointed to individual positions at the discretion
of the Mayor.
         (a)   Position No. 1 expires December 31, 2014 (Next term January 1,
2015 - December 31, 2018);
         (b)   Position No. 2 expires December 31, 2014 (Next term January 1,
2015 - December 31, 2018);
         (c)   Position No. 3 expires December 31, 2016 (Next term, January 1,
2017 - December 31, 2020);
         (d)   Position No. 4 expires December 31, 2016 (Next term, January 1,
2017 - December 31, 2020);
         (e)   Position No. 5 expires December 31, 2016 (Next term, January 1,
2017 - December 31, 2020).
      (2)   Qualifications for membership shall be established by the City
Council through any combination of experience or education.
      (3)   Commissioners may be removed at any time by the City Council
without cause.
      (4)   Any Commissioner missing 3 consecutive meetings without being
excused by the Commission Chair shall be automatically removed from the
Commission and replaced through the normal appointment process.
      (5)   A vacancy shall be declared by the City Council if a Commissioner
is unable to attend scheduled meetings or serve in the position of Commissioner
for any reason, or if removed by the Council. Once a vacancy is declared, the
Mayor shall appoint a person to complete the position's term.
      (6)   Whenever a position's term has expired, the Mayor shall fill said
position in a method to be determined by the City Council. Any City Council
Member may nominate a person who has completed an application to the city
stating their qualifications and willingness to serve on the Commission, and
appointment shall be made by motion and vote of the Council.
   (C)   Meetings, quorums and procedures.
      (1)   The Commission shall elect a Chair and Vice Chair from its
membership. The Chair, or Vice Chair in the absence of the Chair, shall preside
over all meetings. The City Manager shall provide staff support to include
keeping and publishing minutes of each meeting. The Mayor and the City Manager
shall be ex-officio members ofthe Commission.
      (2)   A meeting shall not be held without a quorum. A quorum shall be not
less than 3 members of the Commission. Members not physically available to
attend meetings may be counted in a quorum calculation and may vote on items
before the Commission provided a telephone contact can be maintained allowing
the absent Commissioner to monitor and participate in any discussion.
      (3)   The Commission shall hold a meeting at least quarterly and/or as
required at a time and place designated by the Commission Chair. Such meetings
shall be advertised in the same manner as other public meetings held by the
city and shall be open to the public. Meetings shall be conducted in accordance
with provisions of Oregon law.
      (4)   The City Council may, if it deems necessary, suspend all meeting
schedules and activity of the Commission to meet the needs of city government.
      (5)   The Commission shall use a recognized set of meeting rules such as
Robert's Rules of Order, and the Commission Chair shall ensure that each
meeting is conducted in a decorous and civil manner.
      (6)   Commissioners shall receive no compensation for their services but
may be reimbursed for duly authorized expenses incurred in the execution
oftheir responsibilities. All requests for expense reimbursement shall be
submitted to the City Manager for approval prior to payment.
   (D)   Powers and duties. The duties and powers of the Commission shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Act as a consulting body, advising the Council concerning the
expenditure of city funds for media advertising to be used in the promotion
oftourism; oversee the implementation of recommendations made by the
Commission; analyze and recommend, prior to the City Manager and Council
approval of a contract for services, any contractor proposal for the provision
of media advertising services using TRT funding;
      (2)   Identify the need for tourism activities and events that will
provide economic stability to seasonally-affected businesses in the city
through the collection and analysis of economic data and other information;
      (3)   Develop and forward to the Council a Tourism Plan for the city that
will address these needs in a practical and sustainable strategy;
      (4)   Recommend annually to the City Budget Officer and Budget Committee
a plan for media advertising expenditures based on anticipated TRT revenues
balanced against expenditures that meet the priorities of the Tourism Plan;
      (5)   Recommend the development of programs, plans or processes that will
further the goals of the Tourism Plan or generally encourage tourism-driven and
focused economic development in the city.
      (6)   Participate in local and regional organizations that facilitate
tourism and economic development in the city;
      (7)   Report on the use of any departments or resources made available to
the Commission by the Council at the recommendation of the Budget Committee;
      (8)   Perform any other services and tasks as directed by the City
Council.
(Ord. 13-418, passed 2-27-2013)
CHAPTER 32: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
32.01   Purchasing Officer
§ 32.01 PURCHASING OFFICER.
   (A)   The City Recorder is hereby appointed as the City of Rockaway Beach,
Oregon Purchasing Officer. The Purchasing Officer is delegated full authority
of the City Council to review all contracts for the purchase of goods or
services. The Purchasing Officer has authority to refuse permission on any or
all the contracting subject to automatic review by the City Council of Rockaway
Beach, Oregon. The Purchasing Officer has authority to review any purchase by
any department for compliance with any applicable law, rules or ordinance.
   (B)   No person shall enter into any contract for any purpose except as
permitted under the rules hereby adopted. Any city employee who fails to comply
with this section shall be subject to disciplinary action.
   (C)   The Purchasing Officer is hereby authorized to require participation
by all city departments in bulk purchasing of materials or supplies.
(Prior Code, Ord. 285, passed 6-25-1991)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 33: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
33.01   Authority
   
33.02   Ethics
   
33.03   Regular meetings
§ 33.01 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The authority for this chapter is the statement in Chapter III,
Section 10, Charter of the City of Rockaway Beach which states “The Council
shall meet in the City regularly at least once each month at a time and place
designated by ordinance, and may meet at other times in accordance with the
ordinances.”
   (B)   These Council rules are to be supplementary and subordinate to the
City Charter, the laws of the State of Oregon, and the United States of
America.
   (C)   The Council shall review these rules at least once every 2 years.
Amendments shall be adopted by a majority vote of the full Council excluding
the Mayor.
(Ord. 07-403, passed 10-24-2007; Am. Ord. 23-444, passed 7-12-2023)
§ 33.02 ETHICS.
   Councilors are advised to be familiar with the ethics law, O.R.S. Chapter
244. Each Councilor shall be provided with a copy of the current publication “A
Guide for Public Officials”, published by the Oregon Government Ethics
Commission.
(Ord. 07-403, passed 10-24-2007; Am. Ord. 23-444, passed 7-12-2023)
§ 33.03 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Council shall hold 1 regular meeting on the second Wednesday of each
month at 6:00 p.m. The Council may by resolution at any meeting, either regular
or special, change the day and/or time of any future meeting so long as the
minimum 1 regular City Council meeting each month is observed.
(Ord. 07-403, passed 10-24-2007; Am. Ord. 13-420, passed 10-9-2013; Am. Ord.
23-444, passed 7-12-2023)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCES
Section
Transient Room Tax
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Transient lodging tax imposed
   
34.03   Collection of tax by transient lodging tax collector
   
34.04   Short-term rental hosting platform fees
   
34.05   Liability for tax
   
34.06   Exemptions
   
34.07   Registration of transient lodging provider, form and contents,
execution, certification of authority
   
34.08   Remittances and returns
   
34.09   Penalties and interest
   
34.10   Deficiency determination; fraud, evasion, local tax trustee delay
   
34.11   Redeterminations
   
34.12   Collections
   
34.13   Liens
   
34.14   Refunds
   
34.15   Administration
   
34.16   Appeals to City Council
Marijuana Retail Sales Act
   
34.50   Title
   
34.51   Definitions
   
34.52   Tax imposed
   
34.53   Collection by marijuana retailer
   
34.54   Collection from marijuana retailer
Emergency Services Fees
   
34.60   Purpose of emergency services fees
   
34.61   Definitions
   
34.62   Establishment of emergency service fees
   
34.63   Exceptions to the emergency service fee
   
34.64   Determination of emergency service fees
   
34.65   Revenue
   
34.66   Billing and collection
   
34.67   Adjustment of accounts
   
34.68   Delinquency and collection
 
   
34.99   Penalty
TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OCCUPANCY. The right to the use or possession of any space in transient
lodging for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes for less than 30 days.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy
in transient lodging for a period of 30 consecutive calendar days or less,
counting portions of calendar days as full days.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, limited liability
company, corporation, limited liability partnership, association, host, social
club, fraternal organization, fraternity, sorority, public or private
dormitory, joint stock company, estate, trust, business trust, receiver,
trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
   RENT. The consideration paid or payable by an occupant for the occupancy of
space in transient lodging valued in money, goods, labor, credits, property, or
other consideration. If a separate fee is charged for services, goods or
commodities and the fee is optional, that fee is not included in rent.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. A house, duplex, multi-plex, apartment, condominium,
houseboat, trailer or other residential dwelling unit where a person rents a
guest bedroom or the entire residential dwelling unit for transient lodging
occupancy. Generally, a SHORT-TERM RENTAL is zoned residential or has a
building occupancy that only allows for residential use.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL HOSTING PLATFORM. A business or other person that
facilitates the retail sale of transient lodging by connecting occupants with
transient lodging providers, either online or in any other manner. SHORT-TERM
RENTAL HOSTING PLATFORMS are transient lodging intermediaries.
   TAX or TLT. The transient lodging tax.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The City Manager of the City of Rockaway Beach, or its
designee, which may include the Oregon Department of Revenue. If the city
utilizes the Oregon Department of Revenue as its Tax Administrator, it will
comply with O.R.S. 305.620 in that it will follow the rules adopted by the
Department of Revenue regarding the administration, collection, enforcement and
distribution of transient lodging taxes.
   TRANSIENT LODGING or TRANSIENT LODGING FACILITIES.
      (1)   Hotel, motel, and inn dwelling units that are used for temporary
overnight human occupancy;
      (2)   Spaces used for overnight parking of recreational vehicles or
placement of tents during periods of human occupancy; or
      (3)   Houses, cabins, condominiums, apartment units or other dwelling
units, or portions of any of these dwelling units that are used for temporary
human occupancy.
   TRANSIENT LODGING INTERMEDIARY. A person other than a transient lodging
provider that facilitates the retail sale of transient lodging and:
      (1)   Charges for occupancy of the transient lodging;
      (2)   Collects the consideration charged for occupancy of the transient
lodging; or
      (3)   Receives a fee or commission and requires the transient lodging
provider to use a specified third-party entity to collect the consideration
charged for occupancy of the transient lodging.
   TRANSIENT LODGING PROVIDER. A person that furnishes transient lodging.
   TRANSIENT LODGING TAX COLLECTOR. A transient lodging provider or transient
lodging intermediary.
(Prior Code, Ord. 176, passed 1-9-1980; Am. Ord. 289, passed 10-8-1991; Am.
Ord. 97-348, passed 11-12-1997; Am. Ord. 07-402, passed 7-9-2007; Am. Ord. 19-
432, passed 6-12-2019; Am. Ord. 21-441, passed 11-10-2021)
Cross-reference:
      Emptying and maintenance of containers, see §
51.04
§ 34.02 TRANSIENT LODGING TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   Each occupant shall pay a TLT in the amount of 10% of the rent. The
occupant shall pay the TLT with the rent to the transient lodging tax
collector. TLT amounts shall be rounded down to the nearest cent. The transient
lodging tax collector shall maintain records of all rent charged and TLT
payments received. If rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of
the TLT shall be paid by the occupant to the transient lodging tax collector
with each installment unless the occupant pays the entire amount with the first
payment.
   (B)   Bills, receipts or invoices provided to occupants shall list the TLT
separately and must accurately state the amount of tax. All amounts listed as
TLT on invoices, bills or receipts must be reported as TLT and, after
collection, must be turned over to the city, less the 5% administrative charge.
(Prior Code, Ord. 176, passed 1-9-1980; Am. Ord. 97-348, passed 11-12-1997; Am.
Ord. 00361, passed 7-26-2000; Am. Ord. 07-402, passed 7-9-2007; Am. Ord. 13-
419, passed 10-9-2013; Am. Ord. 19-432, passed 6-12-2019; Am. Ord. 21-441,
passed 11-10-2021)
§ 34.03 COLLECTION OF TAX BY TRANSIENT LODGING TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Every transient lodging tax collector shall collect the TLT at the
time rent is paid, unless an exemption applies. If payment is by credit card,
for purposes of this section, payment is made at the time credit card
information is provided to the transient lodging tax collector, not when the
transient lodging tax collector ultimately receives credit for the transaction.
While holding the payment in trust for the city, a transient lodging tax
collector may commingle the tax proceeds with the transient lodging tax
collector’s funds, but the transient lodging tax collector is not the owner of
tax proceeds, except that, when a return is filed, the transient lodging tax
collector becomes the owner of the administrative fee authorized to be
retained. Transient lodging tax collectors may choose to file returns and remit
payment based on amounts accrued but not yet collected. The transient lodging
tax collector is liable for any TLT that should have been collected from the
occupant, except in cases of nonpayment of rent by the occupant.
   (B)   Upon request of the city, transient lodging tax collectors must
provide all physical addresses of transient lodging facilities within the city
limits and the related contact information, including the name and mailing
address, of the general manager, agent, owner, host or other responsible person
for the location.
(Prior Code, Ord. 176, passed 1-9-1980; Am. Ord. 97-348, passed 11-12-1997; Am.
Ord. 07-402, passed 7-9-2007; Am. Ord. 19-432, passed 6-12-2019; Am. Ord. 21-
441, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 34.04 SHORT-TERM RENTAL HOSTING PLATFORM FEES.
   A hosting platform for short-term rentals may collect a fee for booking
services in connection with short-term rentals only when those short-term
rentals are lawfully registered as operators with the city and possess a
certificate of authority at the time the short-term rental is occupied.
(Ord. 07-402, passed 7-9-2007; Am. Ord. 19-432, passed 6-12-2019; Am. Ord. 21-
441, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 34.05 LIABILITY FOR TAX.
   Transient lodging providers who receive any portion of the rent for
transient lodging and transient lodging intermediaries that provide booking
service are both transient lodging tax collectors and are jointly and severally
liable for the tax.
(Ord. 21-441, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 34.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   No TLT shall be imposed upon:
   (A)   A dwelling unit in a hospital, health care facility, long-term care
facility or any other residential facility that is licensed, registered or
certified by the Oregon Department of Human Services or the Oregon Health
Authority;
   (B)   A dwelling unit in a facility providing treatment for drug or alcohol
abuse or providing mental health treatment;
   (C)   A dwelling unit that is used by members of the general public for
temporary human occupancy for fewer than 30 days per year;
   (D)   A dwelling unit, the consideration for which is funded through a
contract with a government agency and the purpose of which is to provide
emergency or temporary shelter;
   (E)   A dwelling unit at a nonprofit youth or church camp, nonprofit
conference center or other nonprofit facility; or
   (F)   A dwelling unit that is leased or otherwise occupied by the same
person for a consecutive period of 30 days or more during the year. The
requirements of this division are satisfied even if the physical dwelling unit
changes during the consecutive period, if:
      (1)   All dwelling units occupied are within the same facility; and
      (2)   The person paying consideration for the transient lodging is the
same person throughout the consecutive period.
(Prior Code, Ord. 176, passed 1-9-1980; Am. Ord. 97-348, passed 11-12-1997; Am.
Ord. 07-402, passed 7-9-2007; Am. Ord. 19-432, passed 6-12-2019; Am. Ord. 21-
441, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 34.07 REGISTRATION OF TRANSIENT LODGING PROVIDER, FORM AND CONTENTS,
EXECUTION, CERTIFICATION OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Every person engaging or about to engage in business as a transient
lodging provider shall provide a completed registration form to the Tax
Administrator within 15 calendar days after commencing business. The
registration form shall require the transient lodging provider to provide the
name of the business, any separate business addresses, and other information as
the Tax Administrator may require to implement this chapter. Transient lodging
providers who own or operate transient lodging facilities in Rockaway Beach
shall provide the address of the lodging facility. The registration form shall
be signed by the transient lodging provider. The Tax Administrator shall,
within 15 days after registration, issue without charge a certificate of
authority to collect the TLT. The transient lodging provider’s obligation to
collect the TLT is imposed once rent for transient lodging is paid, even if the
registration form has not been filed or if the certificate has not been issued.
If the rent transaction is facilitated online, the certificate of authority
must be able to be viewed by the occupant by clicking on a link to the
certificate of authority at a reasonable place during the payment transaction.
   (B)   Certificates shall be non-assignable and non-transferable and shall be
surrendered to the Tax Administrator when the business is sold or transferred
or when a transient lodging facility ceases to operate at the location
specified in the registration form. Each certificate issued to a transient
lodging provider for a specific lodging facility shall be prominently displayed
at the lodging facility and include:
      (1)   The name of the transient lodging provider;
      (2)   The address of the transient lodging facility;
      (3)   The date the certificate was issued; and
      (4)   The certificate number as assigned by the Tax Administrator.
(Prior Code, Ord. 176, passed 1-9-1980; Am. Ord. 97-348, passed 11-12-1997; Am.
Ord. 07-402, passed 7-9-2007; Am. Ord. 19-432, passed 6-12-2019; Am. Ord. 21-
441, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 34.08 REMITTANCES AND RETURNS.
   (A)   Transient lodging tax collectors must submit a completed tax return
form to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the month following
the end of each calendar quarter, reporting the amount of tax due during the
quarter and accompanied by remittance of all tax collected, less a 5%
administration fee. The return shall be filed in such form as the Tax
Administrator may prescribe. The Tax Administrator, if they deem it necessary
in order to ensure payment or facilitate collection by the city of the amount
of taxes in any individual case, may require returns and payment of the amount
of taxes on other than monthly periods.
   (B)   The transient lodging tax collector is entitled to the administration
fee. If a transient lodging facility has multiple owners, they are not entitled
to retain additional fees.
   (C)   Remittances are delinquent if not made by the last day of the month in
which they are due.
   (D)   Returns shall show the gross rents collected, taxable rents, the total
amount of TLT collected and the amount of the administrative fee retained by
the transient lodging tax collector. Returns shall also show the exempt and
excluded rents and the basis for exemptions and exclusions.
   (E)   The person required to file the return shall deliver the return,
together with payment of the amount of the tax due, to the Tax Administrator,
to the appropriate office, either by personal delivery, by mail, or by
electronic tax return filed through a reporting and payment portal furnished by
the Tax Administrator, or their designee. If the return is mailed, the postmark
shall be considered the date of delivery.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may extend the time for making any return or
remittance of the tax by up to 30 days. No further extension shall be granted,
except by the City Council. Any transient lodging tax collector to whom an
extension is granted shall pay interest at the rate of 1.5% per month on the
amount of the remittance due without proration for a fraction of a month. If a
return is not filed, and the remittance and interest due is not paid by the end
of the extension granted, then the interest shall become a part of the tax for
computation of penalties.
(Prior Code, Ord. 176, passed 1-9-1980; Am. Ord. 97-348, passed 11-12-1997; Am.
Ord. 07-402, passed 7-9-2007; Am. Ord. 19-432, passed 6-12-2019; Am. Ord. 21-
441, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 34.09 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Interest shall be added to the overall tax amount due at the same rate
established under O.R.S. 305.220 for each month, or fraction of a month, from
the time the return to the Tax Administrator was originally required to be
filed to the time of payment.
   (B)   If a transient lodging tax collector fails to file a return or pay the
tax as required, a penalty shall be imposed in the same manner and amount
provided under O.R.S. 314.400.
   (C)   Every penalty imposed, and any interest that accrues, becomes a part
of the financial obligation required to be paid and remitted to the Tax
Administrator.
   (D)   Taxes, interest, and penalties paid to the Tax Administrator under
this section shall be distributed to the city’s transient room tax fund.
(Prior Code, Ord. 176, passed 1-9-1980; Am. Ord. 97-348, 11-12-1997; Am. Ord.
07-402, passed 7-9-2007; Am. Ord. 19-432, passed 6-12-2019; Am. Ord. 21-441,
passed 11-10-2021)
§ 34.10 DEFICIENCY DETERMINATION; FRAUD, EVASION, LOCAL TAX TRUSTEE DELAY.
   (A)   Deficiency determination. The Tax Administrator may review tax returns
and adjust the amount due based on the information in the return, on
information obtained during a review or audit of records, or on the basis of
other evidence. In the event of a deficiency, the Tax Administrator shall
provide notice of the deficiency to the transient lodging tax collector, who
shall remit deficiencies within 10 business days of the deficiency notice.
Notice may be by personal delivery or certified or registered mail.
      (1)   In reviewing and adjusting tax returns, the Tax Administrator shall
offset any amount received in excess of the remittances due against any
shortages in remittances.
      (2)   Except in the case of fraud or intent to evade the TLT, notice of
deficiency determinations shall be issued within 3 years of the period for
which the deficiency determination is made.
      (3)   The time to remit deficient payment amounts under this section
shall be extended if the local tax trustee timely requests a redetermination.
   (B)   Fraud; refusal to collect; evasion. If any transient lodging tax
collector fails to collect, report or remit the tax as required, submits a
fraudulent return, or otherwise violates or attempts to violate this chapter,
the Tax Administrator shall estimate the tax due, calculate the amount owed
from the transient lodging tax collector for tax remittance, interest and
penalties and provide notice to the transient lodging tax collector of the
assessment. The determination and notice shall be made and mailed within 3
years of the discovery by the Tax Administrator of the violation. The
determination is due and payable upon receipt of notice and shall become final
10 business days after the date notice was delivered if no petition for
redetermination is filed.
(Prior Code, Ord. 176, passed 1-9-1980; Am. Ord. 97-348, passed 11-12-1997; Am.
Ord. 07-402, passed 7-9-2007; Am. Ord. 19-432, passed 6-12-2019; Am. Ord. 21-
441, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 34.11 REDETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Any person affected by a deficiency determination may file a petition
for redetermination with the Tax Administrator within 10 business days of
service of notice of the tax deficiency. A determination becomes final if a
petition for redetermination is not timely filed.
   (B)   If a petition for redetermination is filed within the allowable
period, the Tax Administrator shall reconsider the determination and grant an
oral hearing if requested. The petitioner shall be allowed at least 20 business
days to prepare for the hearing.
   (C)   After considering the petition and all available information, the Tax
Administrator shall issue a redetermination decision and mail the decision to
the petitioner. During the redetermination process, the Tax Administrator may
agree to a compromise of the amount due if there is a good faith dispute over
the amount owed.
   (D)   The decision of the Tax Administrator on redetermination becomes final
and payment is due 10 business days after the decision is mailed unless the
petitioner files an appeal to the City Council within that time. The appeal
shall be filed with the Tax Administrator. The City Council’s decision shall be
final when reduced to writing and mailed to the petitioner and all amounts due
must be paid within 10 business days of mailing of the City Council decision.
(Prior Code, Ord. 176, passed 1-9-1980; Am. Ord. 97-348, passed 11-12-1997; Am.
Ord. 07-402, passed 7-9-2007; Am. Ord. 19-432, passed 6-12-2019; Am. Ord. 21-
441, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 34.12 COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The city and the Oregon Department of Revenue, if the Department of
Revenue is the Tax Administrator, may bring legal action to collect on any
amounts owed to the city under this chapter within 3 years after remittance is
due to the city or within 3 years after any determination becomes final.
   (B)   The city is entitled to collect reasonable attorneys’ fee in any legal
action brought to collect on amount owed to the city under this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ord. 176, passed 1-9-1980; Am. Ord. 97-348, passed 11-12-1997; Am.
Ord. 07-402, passed 7-9-2007; Am. Ord. 19-432, passed 6-12-2019; Am. Ord. 21-
441, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 34.13 LIENS.
   The city may record a lien in the city’s lien docket, or in the appropriate
records of the Tillamook County Clerk, against any real property owned by a
transient lodging provider who receives any portion of the rent from a
transient lodging facility located within the city as to any delinquent
remittances by the transient lodging provider.
(Prior Code, Ord. 176, passed 1-9-1980; Am. Ord. 97-348, passed 11-12-1997; Am.
Ord. 07-402, passed 7-9-2007; Am. Ord. 19-432, passed 6-12-2019; Am. Ord. 21-
441, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 34.14 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Refunds by city to transient lodging tax collector. If the transient
lodging tax collector remits more tax, penalty or interest than is due, the
transient lodging tax collector may file a claim in writing stating the facts
relating to the claim, within 3 years from the date of remittance. If the claim
is approved by the Tax Administrator, the excess amount shall be either
refunded or credited on any amount due from the transient lodging tax
collector.
   (B)   Refunds by city to occupant. A transient lodging tax collector may
file a claim for refund by filing a claim in writing within 3 years of payment
providing the facts relating to the claim for refund. If the Tax Administrator
determines that the tax was collected and remitted to the city and the occupant
was not required to pay the tax or overpaid, the city shall issue a refund to
the occupant.
   (C)   Refunds by transient lodging tax collector to occupant. If an occupant
has paid tax to a transient lodging tax collector but stays a total of 30 or
more consecutive days in the same transient lodging facility, the transient
lodging tax collector shall refund to the occupant any tax collected for any
portion of the continuous stay. The transient lodging tax collector shall
account for the collection and refund to the Tax Administrator. If the
transient lodging tax collector has remitted the tax prior to the refund or
credit to the occupant, the transient lodging tax collector shall be entitled
to a corresponding refund or offset if the claim for refund is filed within 3
years from the date of collection.
   (D)   Burden of proof. The person claiming the refund shall have the burden
of proving the facts that establish the basis for the refund.
(Prior Code, Ord. 176, passed 1-9-1980; Am. Ord. 97-348, passed 11-12-1997; Am.
Ord. 07-402, passed 7-9-2007; Am. Ord. 19-432, passed 6-12-2019; Am. Ord. 21-
441, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 34.15 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Use of TLT funds. The revenue collected from the first 5% of the tax
pursuant to this subchapter shall be allocated by the City Council to any 1 or
more of the following during any 1 fiscal year, as follows: fire and rescue
equipment, police services and equipment, promotion and tourism, street and
parking improvements, parks and recreation services and equipment, land
acquisition and capital improvements, and/or city beautification and urban
renewal; provided, however, that no more than 40% of the total funds shall be
allocated to any 1 category during 1 fiscal year. The revenue collected from
the next 2% of the tax pursuant to this subchapter shall be allocated in its
entirety to tourism promotion or tourism-related facilities. The revenue
collected from the 3% balance of the tax pursuant to this subchapter shall be
allocated, following reductions attributed to collection reimbursement charges,
consistent with O.R.S. 320.350.
   (B)   Records required from local tax trustee. Every local tax trustee shall
keep records of each transaction involving rent and/or collection of TLT. All
records shall be retained for at least 3 years and 6 months.
   (C)   Examination of records; investigations. The Tax Administrator or agent
may examine all records of a local tax trustee relating to receipt of rent and
TLT and remittance of tax during normal business hours and may obtain copies of
the records to audit returns.
   (D)   Authority of Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator shall have the
power to enforce this chapter, conduct audits, and to adopt rules, regulations
and forms consistent with this chapter. Rules and regulations of general
application shall be mailed to all registered transient lodging providers. The
Tax Administrator may also issue written interpretations on request of a
transient lodging tax collector. As to the transient lodging tax collector to
whom the interpretation is issued, the city will act consistently with the
interpretation until it is withdrawn, and the city shall provide 30 days’
written notice of withdrawal of an interpretation.
   (E)   Confidential character of information obtained; disclosure unlawful.
The city shall maintain the confidentiality of information provided by
transient lodging tax collector. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
prevent:
      (1)   The disclosure to, or the examination of records and equipment by,
another city official, employee or agent for collection of taxes for the
purpose of administering or enforcing any provisions of this chapter or
collecting city business license fees.
      (2)   Disclosure of information to the transient lodging tax collector
and the transient lodging tax collector’s agents.
      (3)   The disclosure of the names and addresses of any persons to whom
certificates of authority have been issued.
      (4)   The disclosure of general statistics regarding taxes collected or
business done in the city.
      (5)   Disclosures required by O.R.S. Chapter 192.
      (6)   Disclosures required by O.R.S. Chapter 297.
(Prior Code, Ord. 176, passed 1-9-1980; Am. Ord. 266, passed 7-12-1990; Am.
Ord. 97-348, passed 11-12-1997; Am. Ord. 291, passed 3-25-1992; Am. Ord. 00-
361, passed 7-26-2000; Am. Ord. 07-402, passed 7-9-2007; Am. Ord. 13-419,
passed 10-9-2013; Am. Ord. 19-432, passed 6-12-2019; Am. Ord. 21-441, passed
11-10-2021; Am. Ord. 2025-01, passed 2-12-2025)
§ 34.16 APPEALS TO CITY COUNCIL.
   If the Oregon Department of Revenue is the Tax Administrator, all appeals
shall be filed in the Oregon Tax Court. See O.R.S. 305.620(6). In all other
cases, any person aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Administrator may appeal
to the City Council by filing a written appeal with the Tax Administrator
within 10 business days of the serving or mailing of the decision being
appealed. The Tax Administrator shall schedule the hearing on a City Council
agenda and provide the appellant notice of the hearing at least 10 business
days before the hearing. The City Council may agree to a compromise of the
amount of tax remittance if there is a good faith dispute over the amount owed.
Any person may appeal the issuance of a rule or regulation issued by the Tax
Administrator to the City Council by filing a written appeal within 10 business
days of the mailing of the notice of the regulation.
(Prior Code, Ord. 176, passed 1-9-1980; Am. Ord. 95-327, passed 6-14-1995; Am.
Ord. 97-348, passed 11-12-1997; Am. Ord. 00-361, passed 7-26-2001; Am. Ord. 07-
402, passed 7-9-2007; Am. Ord. 19-432, passed 6-12-2019; Am. Ord. 21-441,
passed 11-10-2021)
MARIJUANA RETAIL SALES ACT
§ 34.50 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the "Rockaway Beach Marijuana Retail Sales
Act."
(Ord. 15-426, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 34.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MARIJUANA. All parts of the plant of the Cannabis family Moraceae, including
seeds, whether growing or not; the resin extracted from any part of the plant;
and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of
the plant or its resin, as may be defined by Oregon Revised Statutes as they
currently exist or may from time to time be amended. MARIJUANA does not include
the:
      (1)   Mature stalks of the plant which are defined as stalks without
leaves, immature buds, seeds or roots attached;
      (2)   Fiber produced from the stalks;
      (3)   Oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant;
      (4)   Any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted there from);
      (5)   Fiber, oil, or cake of the marijuana plant which do not contain
cannabinoids; or
      (6)   Sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germination.
   MARIJUANA ITEM. The meaning given that term in O.R.S. Chapter 614, § 1, and
includes MARIJUANA as defined above.
   MARIJUANA RETAILER. A person who sells marijuana or marijuana items to a
consumer where one or both persons are within the jurisdiction of the city. The
transactions here include recreational and medical marijuana retail sales,
unless otherwise specifically exempted by Oregon law enacted in advance of the
effective date of this subchapter.
   RETAIL SALE PRICE. The price in money, goods, services and/or other valuable
consideration, excluding any tax, exchanged between a marijuana retailer and
another person as, or on behalf of, a consumer of a marijuana item.
   SALE. The object, action or result of a sale, transfer, mixing, handling
and/or serving of an item by or from one person to another for money or other
valuable consideration. SALE includes selling, sells and any other similar word
of an exchange.
(Ord. 15-426, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 34.52 TAX IMPOSED.
   The city hereby imposes a tax of 3% on the retail sale price of marijuana
items exchanged between a marijuana retailer and/or consumer within the city.
(Ord. 15-426, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 34.53 COLLECTION BY MARIJUANA RETAILER.
   The tax shall be collected at the point of sale of a marijuana item by a
marijuana retailer at the time at which the retail sale occurs and remitted to
city by each marijuana retailer that engages in the retail sale of marijuana
items quarterly by the 15th day of the calendar month next following the end of
the calendar-quarter months of March, June, September and December.
(Ord. 15-426, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 34.54 COLLECTION FROM MARIJUANA RETAILER.
   The City Council shall adopt laws reasonably necessary:
   (A)   For where, how, and when the tax must be remitted to city;
   (B)   To verify the tax;
   (C)   For adjustments, credits and deductions as may be just and proper for
calculating retail sales of, and taxes imposed upon, marijuana items;
   (D)   For penalties and sanctions for enforcing the collection of the tax;
and
   (E)   For resolving any dispute on any matter related to this subchapter.
(Ord. 15-426, passed 1-13-2016)
EMERGENCY SERVICES FEES
§ 34.60 PURPOSE OF EMERGENCY SERVICES FEES.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to more fairly distribute the costs
of emergency services, including without limitation police, fire and emergency
preparedness services, among all citizens of Rockaway Beach. Where citizens
live and/or work in more human-population dense areas, the needs and costs of
emergency services' responses are disproportionately greater than those in less
dense areas.
   (B)   Another purpose of this subchapter is to maintain and grow emergency
services to meet the residential and commerce needs of the citizens, real
property owners, and visitors to Rockaway Beach as those needs may change
through time.
   (C)   The purpose of the emergency services fees is to provide funding for
emergency services. Emergency services safeguard, facilitate, and encourage the
health, safety, and welfare of the residents and enterprises of the City of
Rockaway Beach. Stable and reliable emergency services provide a multitude of
economic and social benefits to the public, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Protection of life and property;
      (2)   Reduction in the incidence of crime; and
      (3)   Dependable response by law enforcement.
   (D)   The Rockaway Beach City Council finds and determines emergency service
fees are necessary to help pay for the benefits of emergency services and to
provide an acceptable level of service.
(Ord. 19-438, passed 12-11-2019)
§ 34.61 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following means:
   DEVELOPED PROPERTY. A parcel or legal portion of real property, on which an
improvement exists or has been constructed. Improvement on developed property
includes, but is not limited to buildings, parking lots, outside storage,
recreational vehicle storage and other uses.
   UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY. A parcel or legal portion of real property, on which
no improvement exists or has been constructed.
   UTILITY ACCOUNT CUSTOMER. The person in whose name a water and/or wastewater
account exists and who is responsible for payment of charges for said account.
The utility account customer is responsible for the demand for fire services
generated by activity on the property served by the account.
   UTILITY BILLING OFFICE. The city office responsible for issuing city
services bills and collecting payment of monies due.
(Ord. 19-438, passed 12-11-2019)
§ 34.62 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   Emergency service fees are imposed jointly and severally upon: (1)
corresponding utility account holders of record; and/or (2) the owners of
record, on all developed property within the city. All developed property
receives a direct or indirect benefit from emergency services. Unless
specifically exempted, emergency services fees apply to all City of Rockaway
Beach utility accounts, including those that serve local, state and federal
governments, and to utility accounts that serve premises that are entitled to
an exemption from or deferral of ad valorem property taxes. The emergency
service fees shall also apply to premises not connected to utility services
such as commercial storage units.
   (B)   The entirety of the emergency service fees are earned or assessed for
all or any part of a calendar month as of the first of the month. City shall
not be required to apportion emergency service fees, in whole, part or by
emergency service among multiple owners or ownerships in any month.
   (C)   The obligation to pay the emergency services fees is a personal
obligation of the customer responsible for payment of the city utility account.
Residential units and non-residential units that are the basis for calculating
the emergency services fees do not in any way create an obligation of the
property or premises. No lien will attach to any premise because of the
nonpayment of the emergency services fees. The emergency service fee may be
paid by any person.
   (D)   The fees shall be based on the Residential Meter Equivalent (RME),
which corresponds to the direct and indirect demand for the use of emergency
services generated by the utility account customer. The fees imposed under this
chapter shall become due and payable from and after the effective date of this
chapter, and for developed property after the effective date of this chapter,
from and after the date the property becomes developed or water service
provided.
   (E)   The emergency services fees described herein are not subject to the
property tax limitations of Article IX, Sections 11b and 11(19) of the Oregon
Constitution and is not a fee imposed on property or property owners by fact of
ownership.
   (F)   The fees imposed under this chapter shall begin with city services
bills issued on or after January 10, 2020.
(Ord. 19-438, passed 12-11-2019)
§ 34.63 EXCEPTIONS TO THE EMERGENCY SERVICE FEE.
   The following properties shall not be subject to the emergency service fees.
   (A)   City-owned parking lots, which are not associated with public services
other than parking.
   (B)   Publicly owned parkland, open spaces, and greenways.
   (C)   Undeveloped properties.
   (D)   Premises owned by the City of Rockaway Beach, except premises or parts
thereof leased to any other legal person or entity, are exempt from the payment
of any emergency services fee.
(Ord. 19-438, passed 12-11-2019)
§ 34.64 DETERMINATION OF EMERGENCY SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   The emergency service fees for each utility customer of each developed
property shall be based on the Residential Meter Equivalent (RME) methodology
adopted by the American Water Works Association, most recent edition of its
model and as amended, reflecting differences in demand for water service based
on the size of the meter.
   (B)   For example, most single-family residential units have or ¾ inch
meters. As a result, the RME treats this size of meter as a single RME (a.k.a
RME = 1). The higher the RME, the corresponding and proportionately higher the
demand for supplemental and additional fire services generated by the
development served by the utility account. Multi-unit properties currently
serviced by a single or ¾ meter will be billed at an RME equal to the dwelling
unit value designated by the Tillamook County Assessor's Office.
   (C)   Specific RME calculations are as expressed in the table in this
section.
Size of Meter RME
Size of Meter  RME
No meter       1
inch to ¾ inch1
1 inch         2
1.5 inch       4
2 inch         7
3 inch         16
4 inch         28
6 inch         64
10 inch        178
 
   (D)   Each property's monthly fee total shall be the product of that
property's RME calculated value multiplied by the sum of the service fees. Fee
amounts to be subsequently set or updated by City Council resolution at the
Council's discretion. The initial monthly fee amounts are as follows:
         Fire Service Fee (FSF)                  $5.00
         Police Service Fee (PSF)                  $0.00
         Emergency Preparedness Service Fee (ESF)         $0.00
   Emergency Services Fees Total = (FSF + PSF + EPSF) x Utility Customer RME
value.
(Ord. 19-438, passed 12-11-2019)
§ 34.65 REVENUE.
   (A)   The emergency service fees revenue shall be used only for emergency
services, including funding payroll costs for staff, equipment, and the
materials necessary to operate police, fire and emergency preparedness
services.
   (B)   All funds collected pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited in an
"Emergency Services Account" in the city's General Fund.
   (C)   Funds shall be allocated to the specific emergency service (Police,
Fire and Emergency Preparedness), in proportion to the fee amount collected for
each service.
   (D)   City shall collect the emergency services fee by adding the emergency
services fee to the utility bill of each customer in the City of Rockaway
Beach. For non-utility accounts, the billing shall be mailed to the property
owner's address as set forth in the county property records, unless such owner
requests the billing be sent to a different address.
(Ord. 19-438, passed 12-11-2019)
§ 34.66 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   The customer(s) responsible for paying the city utility account is
responsible for payment of the emergency services fees. For non-utility
premises, the property owner as set forth in the Tillamook County tax records
shall be the responsible party.
   (B)   City shall regularly collect the emergency services fees by adding the
emergency services fees to the utility bill of each customer in the City of
Rockaway Beach. For non-utility accounts, the billing shall be mailed to the
property owner’s address as set forth in the county property records, unless
such owner requests the billing be sent to a different address.
   (C)   If a premise has more than one utility account, the emergency services
fees for the premises shall be calculated based on the total number of
residential units and non-residential units on the premise. For §
34.64(D), RME calculations, the residential units and non-residential units may
be combined into one utility account or separately allocated to each utility
account.
   (D)   Charges for water, wastewater, and emergency services fees may be
billed on the same utility bill. If full payment of utility billing is not
made, payment shall be applied in the following order:
      (1)   Water;
      (2)   Wastewater/sewer; and
      (3)   Emergency services fees.
   (E)   Payment due date. The emergency service fees shall be billed and
collected every 2 months with and as part of the combined city services billing
which includes water and/or wastewater fees. The emergency services fee shall
be due the same date as the utility bill. For non-utility accounts, the due
date shall be the 17th of the month the bill is received.
(Ord. 19-438, passed 12-11-2019)
§ 34.67 ADJUSTMENT OF ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Review of emergency services fee by Utility Clerk. Any customers who
believes their emergency services fees, as applied to their premise, are: (1)
not within the intent of this subchapter; and/or (2) not correctly calculated
or assessed, may request in writing a review of their emergency services fees
by the Utility Clerk. This request must be received within 10 days of the due
date of the customers utility bill due date. The Utility Clerk may
independently initiate a review of a customer's emergency services fees formula
and/or assessment for compliance with this subchapter.
      (1)   If a customer's charge is reduced as a result of this review, the
corrected emergency services fees shall begin with the next billing and a
credit or refund shall be made retroactively, not to exceed 1 year from the
last billing.
      (2)   If a customer's charge is increased as a result of this review, the
corrected emergency services fees shall begin with the next billing and the
customer may be billed for the increase retroactively, not to exceed 1 year
from the last billing. Retroactive assessment of the emergency services fee
shall not be for any month within 1 year following the effective date of this
subchapter.
   (B)   If an existing customer has not been billed for the emergency services
fees, the emergency services fees shall begin with the next billing and the
customer may be billed retroactively, not to exceed 1 year. Retroactive
correction shall not be for any month for 1 year prior to the effective date.
   (C)   Appeal of Utility Clerk's decision. Customers not satisfied with the
results of the review by the Utility Clerk may appeal the Utility Clerk's
decision to the Rockaway Beach City Manager who shall determine, by
preponderance of the evidence, whether the Utility Clerk's decision is
consistent with the intent of the ordinance, and whether the measurements and
calculations supporting the Utility Clerk's decision of the applicable
emergency services fee are correct. A Notice of Appeal must be in writing and
physically delivered to the City Manager no later than 14 calendar days from
the date of the Utility Clerk's decision.
      (1)   The hearing before the City Manager acting as the Rockaway Beach
Hearings Officer shall be conducted no later than 20 days from the date of the
appeal, unless a different date is stipulated by the city and the customer, or
good cause is shown for setting the matter forward. Testimony at the hearing
shall be taken upon oath or affirmation of the witnesses. The Hearings Officer
shall consider only the matters set forth in the Notice of Appeal. The Hearings
Officer shall uphold, reverse, or uphold in part and reverse in part the
Utility Clerk's decision. The Findings and Decision of the Hearings Officer
shall be served upon the customer by first class mail within 10 days after the
hearing concludes. The Hearings Officer decision shall be effective 10 days
following the date of the decision. The findings and decision of the Hearings
Officer shall be city's final decision, subject only to remedy by writ of
review under ORS 34.010 to 34.100, which shall be the customer's sole remedy.
   (D)   The Utility Clerk may write off closed accounts and retroactive bills
if it is in the best interest of the city.
(Ord. 19-438, passed 12-11-2019)
§ 34.68 DELINQUENCY AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   An emergency services fee is delinquent if payment in full is not
received on or before the due date.
   (B)   If a customer's utility account is delinquent for any emergency
services fee only, the city may not discontinue water services billed on that
account. However, the city may refuse to restore water service to the premise
if: (1) service is lawfully shut off; and (2) the delinquent charges and other
costs incurred, including emergency services fees, are not paid.
   (C)   Delinquent amounts owing for emergency service fees may be collected
by all legal means, including, but not limited to the referral or assignment to
a collection agency.
   (D)   Initial collection of the emergency service fees shall begin with the
calendar month of the effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 19-438, passed 12-11-2019)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise specified herein, a violation of this chapter is a Class A
civil violation. Each day that a violation remains uncured is a separate
infraction.
(Prior Code, Ord. 176, passed 1-9-1980; Am. Ord. 97-348, passed 11-12-1997; Am.
Ord. 07-402, passed 7-9-2007; Am. Ord. 19-432, passed 6-12-2019)
CHAPTER 35: POLICE DEPARTMENT ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   LEDS access/use
   
35.03   LEDS check authorization by applicant
   
35.04   LEDS check request by non-profit organizations
   
35.05   Records retention; persons not hired/appointed
   
35.06   Records retention; persons hired/appointed
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The meaning described in §
35.02.
   CITY. The municipality of Rockaway Beach, Oregon.
   LEDS. The Law Enforcement Data System administered by the Oregon State
Police pursuant to O.R.S. 181.555 and OAR 257-010-0025 concerning its access
and use.
   NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION. Any legal entity, other than a natural person,
primarily organized for a purpose other than generating a profit or financial
gain such as a charity or club, fraternal or scientific organization. As used
herein, the focus is on non-profit legal entities serving the local public or
community.
   PERSON. A natural person, partnership, corporation, limited liability
partnership, limited liability company, co-operative, governmental entity,
association, or other entity in law or fact.
   POLICE CHIEF. The Chief of the Police Department of the City of Rockaway
Beach or his/her designee.
(Ord. 16-428, passed 5-11-2016)
§ 35.02 LEDS ACCESS/USE.
   (A)   Only a member of the Police Department trained and authorized to
perform criminal history checks through the OSP LEDS system (a.k.a. LEDS
operator) will conduct the check on the prospective
      (1)   Employee;
      (2)   Volunteer;
      (3)   Tow truck driver;
      (4)   Franchisee;
      (5)   Licensee, e.g. gaming licensee; and/or
      (6)   Any other special permit (individually or collectively APPLICANT OR
APPLICANTS).
   (B)   The LEDS operator will report to the Police Chief, and the Police
Chief to the City Manager, the applicant's records indicate "criminal record"
or "no criminal record". If the applicant's record is reported as "criminal
record", the city will, under OAR 257-010-0025, request a written criminal
history report from OSP's Identification Services Section. City Manager will
make the written criminal history record available to the appropriate city
official for his/her consideration in making the official's decision.
(Ord. 16-428, passed 5-11-2016)
§ 35.03 LEDS CHECK AUTHORIZATION BY APPLICANT.
   All applicants will be required to authorize city to conduct a criminal
offender information check through the OSP LEDS system.
(Ord. 16-428, passed 5-11-2016)
§ 35.04 LEDS CHECK REQUEST BY NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION.
   A non-profit organization serving youth in the community, including but not
limited to organizations which serve youth baseball, youth basketball, youth
soccer and youth football, may request the Police Department perform a criminal
history check on a prospective or serving employee or volunteer for their
organization. Subject to workload priorities and staff availability, a Police
Department LEDS operator may perform such criminal record check in accordance
with applicable law. The LEDS operator will report to the Police Chief the
applicant's records indicate "criminal record" or "no criminal record". The
Police Chief shall confirm report to the City Manager and the non-profit
organization that the applicant's records indicate "criminal record" or "no
criminal record", without any further detail of such report. The non-profit
organization may request the criminal record history directly from the OSP
pursuant to statute and administrative rule.
(Ord. 16-428, passed 5-11-2016)
§ 35.05 RECORDS RETENTION; PERSONS NOT HIRED/APPOINTED.
   The written criminal history record of persons not hired or appointed as an
employee and/or volunteer will be retained by city's Human Resources Department
or designated Human Resources employee in accordance with the requirements of
city personnel policies and state law and for a period of 3 years, unless
otherwise required, and, thereafter, city shall then destroy the record.
(Ord. 16-428, passed 5-11-2016)
§ 35.06 RECORDS RETENTION; PERSONS HIRED/APPOINTED.
   The written criminal history record of persons hired or appointed as an
employee and/or volunteer will be retained by city's Human Resources Department
or designated Human Resources employee as part of that individual's personnel
and/or volunteer file in accordance with the requirements of city personnel
policies and state law. Any release or destruction of such record shall be in
accordance with the law.
(Ord. 16-428, passed 5-11-2016)
CHAPTER 36: ELECTIONS
Section
   
36.01   Nominating petition
   
36.02   Nominating petition form
   
36.03   Nominating petition deadline
§ 36.01 NOMINATING PETITION.
   Prospective candidates shall file a nominating (prospective) petition to be
nominated to run for Mayor or a City Councilor position.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 36.02 NOMINATING PETITION FORM.
   Nominating petitions shall be submitted to the City Elections Officer on the
official candidate filing forms provided by the state in the manner prescribed
by state law. The filing form must specify the office and position for which
the candidate is filing. The number of signatures required on the nominating
petition is set by state law.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 36.03 NOMINATING PETITION DEADLINE.
   The nominating petition deadline is established by state law. Candidates are
advised to submit materials to the City Elections Officer for verification
allowing sufficient time for the verification process to be completed prior to
the filing deadline.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 2-14-2024)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
51.   GARBAGE
   
52.   SEWERS
   
53.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
System Development Charges
   
50.01   Purpose
   
50.02   Scope
   
50.03   Definitions
   
50.04   SDC established
   
50.05   Methodology
   
50.06   Authorized expenditures
   
50.07   Expenditure restrictions
   
50.08   Improvement plan
   
50.09   Adopting and amending the methodology
   
50.10   Collection of charge
   
50.11   Delinquent charges; hearings
   
50.12   Installment payment
   
50.13   Exemptions
   
50.14    Credits
   
50.15   Notice
   
50.16   Segregation and use of revenue
   
50.17   Refunds
   
50.18   Appeal procedure
   
50.19   Prohibited connection
   
50.20   Classification
Extensions of Sewer and Water Lines
   
50.35   Payment of extension
   
50.36   Relief
   
50.37   Reimbursement
   
50.38   Refund to payer
   
50.39   Exemptions from contributions
   
50.40   Unimproved streets
   
50.41   Subsequent construction
   
50.42   Standards for streets
   
50.43   Address of applicant
   
50.44   Effective date
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES
§ 50.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the system development charge (SDC) is to impose a portion of
the cost of capital improvements for sanitary sewer, water, storm drainage,
streets and parks upon those developments and redevelopments that create the
need for, or increase the demands on capital improvements.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
§ 50.02 SCOPE.
   The SDC imposed by this subchapter is separate from and in addition to any
applicable tax, assessment, charge or fee otherwise provided by law or imposed
as a condition of development.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
§ 50.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS. Public facilities or assets used for wastewater
collection, transmission, treatment and disposal, or any combination.
   DEVELOPMENT. All improvements on a site, including buildings, other
structures, parking and loading areas, landscaping, paved or graveled areas,
and areas devoted to exterior display, storage or activities. DEVELOPMENT
includes redevelopment of property, dividing of land into 2 or more parcels,
and creating or termination of a right of access. DEVELOPMENT includes improved
open areas such as plazas and walkways, but does not include natural geologic
forms or unimproved lands.
   IMPROVEMENT FEE. A fee for costs associated with capital improvements to be
constructed after the date the fee is adopted pursuant to §
50.04 of this subchapter.
   LAND AREA. The area of a parcel of land as measured by projection of the
parcel boundaries upon a horizontal plane with the exception of a portion of
the parcel within a recorded right-of-way or easement subject to a servitude
for a public street or for a public scenic or preservation purpose.
   OWNER. The owner or owners of record title or the purchaser(s) under a
recorded land sales agreement, and other persons having an interest of record
in the described real property.
   PARCEL OF LAND. A lot, parcel, block or other tract of land that, in
accordance with city regulations, is occupied or may be occupied by a
structure, or structures, or other use, and that includes the yards and other
open spaces required under the zoning, subdivision and other development
ordinances.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom a building permit, development permit, a
permit or plan approval to connect to the sewer system, water system or right-
of-way access permit is issued.
   QUALIFIED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. A capital improvement that is:
      (1)   Required as a condition of development approval; and
      (2)   Identified in the plan as adopted pursuant to §
50.08 of this subchapter and:
         (a)   Not located on or contiguous to a parcel of land this is the
subject of the development approval;
         (b)   Located in whole or in part on or contiguous to property that is
the subject of development approval and required to be built larger or with
greater capacity than is necessary for the particular development project to
which the improvement fee is related; or
         (c)   For the purposes of this definition, CONTIGUOUS includes
improvements to, located in, a public way that abuts the parcel.
   REIMBURSEMENT FEE. A fee for costs associated with capital improvements
constructed or under construction on the date the fee is established pursuant
to §
50.04 of this subchapter, and for which the city determines that capacity
exists.
   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE. A reimbursement fee, an improvement fee or a
combination thereof assessed or collected at the time of increased usage of a
capital improvement, at the time of issuance of a development permit or
building permit, or at the time of connection to the capital improvement.
      (1)   System development charge includes that portion of a sewer system
and/or water system connection that is greater than the amount necessary to
reimburse the city for its average cost of inspecting and installing
connections with the facilities.
      (2)   A system development charge does not include fees assessed or
collected as part of a local improvement district or a charge in lieu of a
local improvement district assessment, or the cost of complying with
requirements or conditions imposed by a land use decision.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
§ 50.04 SDC ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   System development charges shall be established and may be revised by
resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Unless otherwise exempted by the provisions of this subchapter, or
other local or state law, an SDC is hereby imposed upon all development within
the city, upon connection to the sewer system and/or water system and upon all
development outside the boundary of the city that connects to the facilities of
the city. Street and parks SDC's may also be imposed upon connection to the
sanitary sewer system and/or water system.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
§ 50.05 METHODOLOGY.
   (A)   The methodology used to establish or modify the reimbursement fee
shall, where applicable, be based on the cost of then-existing facilities
including without limitation, design, financing and construction costs; prior
contributions by then-existing users; gifts or grants from federal or state
government or private persons; the value of unused capacity available to future
system users, rate-making principles employed to finance publicly owned capital
improvements; and other relevant factors identified by the City Council. The
methodology shall promote the objective that future systems users shall
contribute no more than an equitable share of the cost of then-existing
facilities.
   (B)   The methodology used to establish or modify the improvement fee shall,
where applicable, demonstrate consideration of the projected cost of the
capital improvements identified in the plan that are needed to increase the
capacity of the systems to which the fee is related. The methodology shall be
calculated to obtain the cost of capital improvements for the projected need
for available system capacity for future users.
   (C)   The methodology used to establish or modify improvement fees or
reimbursement fees, or both, shall be adopted by resolution of the City
Council.
   (D)   The methodology may be amended only as provided in §
50.09.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
§ 50.06 AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   Reimbursement fees shall be applied only to capital improvements
associated with the system for which the fees are assessed, including
expenditures relating to repayment of debt for the improvements. The portion of
the improvements funded by improvement fees must be related to the need for
increased capacity to provide service for future users.
   (B)   Improvement fees shall be spent only on capacity increasing capital
improvements associated with the system for which the fees are assessed,
including expenditures relating to repayment of indebtedness. An increase in
system capacity occurs if a capital improvement increases the level of
performance or service provided by existing facilities or providing new
facilities.
      (1)   The portion of the capital improvements funded by improvement fees
must be related to demands created by current or projected development.
      (2)   A capital improvement being funded wholly, or in part from revenues
derived from the improvement fee shall be included in the plan adopted by the
city pursuant to §
50.08.
   (C)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B) above, SDC revenues may be
expended on the direct costs of complying with the provisions of this
subchapter, including the costs of developing SDC methodologies and providing
an annual accounting of SDC expenditures.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
§ 50.07 EXPENDITURE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   SDCs shall not be expended for costs associated with the construction
of administrative office facilities that are more than an incidental part of
other capital improvements.
   (B)   SDCs shall not be expended for costs of the operation or routine
maintenance of capital improvements.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
§ 50.08 IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Prior to the establishment of an SDC, the City Council shall adopt a
plan that includes a list of:
      (1)   The capital improvements that the city intends to fund in whole or
in part with the improvement fee revenues; and
      (2)   The estimated cost and time of construction of each improvement and
the percentage of that cost eligible to be funded with improvement fee
revenues.
   (B)   In adopting this plan, the city may incorporate by reference all or a
portion of any public facilities plan, master plan, capital improvements plan
or similar plan that contains the information required by this section.
   (C)   The city may modify the plan and list at any time. If an SDC will be
increased by a proposed modification to the list to include a capacity
increasing public improvement the Council will:
      (1)   Order the methodology to be amended as necessary. Amendments to the
methodology shall be made pursuant to §
50.09;
      (2)   Provide at least 30-days’ notice prior to adopting the modification
to those who have requested notice pursuant to §
50.15; and
      (3)   Hold a public hearing if a written request for a hearing is
received within 7 days of the date of the proposed modification.
   (D)   A change in the amount of a reimbursement fee or an improvement fee is
not a modification of the SDC if the change in amount is based on:
      (1)   A change in the cost of labor, materials or real property applied
to projects or project capacity as set forth in the capital improvement plan;
and
      (2)   A periodic application of the ENR Construction Cost Index.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
§ 50.09 ADOPTING AND AMENDING THE METHODOLOGY.
   Before adopting or amending the methodology, the Council shall:
   (A)   At least 90 days prior to adoption of the proposed methodology, or
amendment to the methodology, provide written notice to persons who have
requested notice pursuant to §
50.15; and
   (B)   Make the revised methodology available to the public at least 60 days
prior to the first public hearing of the adoption or amendment.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
§ 50.10 COLLECTION OF CHARGE.
   (A)   The SDC is payable upon issuance of at least 1 of the following
activities:
      (1)   A building permit; and
      (2)   A permit or approval to connect to the sewer system, and/or water
system.
   (B)   SDCs shall be assessed on an equivalent dwelling unit basis as adopted
by resolution.
   (C)   If development is commenced or connection is made to the sewer system
and/or water system without an appropriate permit, the SDC is immediately
payable upon the earliest date that a permit was required.
   (D)   If no building, development or connection permit is required, the SDC
is payable at the time the usage of the capital improvement is increased based
on changes in the use of the property unrelated to seasonal or ordinary
fluctuations in usage.
   (E)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall collect the applicable
SDC(s) from the permittee when a permit that allows building or development of
a parcel is issued or when application for connection to the sewer system is
made.
   (F)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall not issue the permit
or allow the connection until the charge has been paid in full, or until
provision for installment payments has been made pursuant to §
50.12 or unless an exemption is granted pursuant to §
50.13 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
§ 50.11 DELINQUENT CHARGES; HEARINGS.
   (A)   When, for any reason, the SDC has not been paid, the City Manager
shall report to the City Council the amount of the uncollected charge, the
description of the real property to which the charge is attributable, the date
upon which the charge was due and the name of the person responsible for the
payment of the fee.
   (B)   The city shall schedule a public hearing on the matter and direct that
notice of the hearing be given to each owner or person responsible for payment
of the fee, with a copy of the City Manager's report concerning the unpaid
charge. Notice of the hearing shall be given either personally, by certified
mail, return receipt requested or by both personal and mailed notice and by
posting notice on the parcel at least 10 days before the date set for the
hearing.
   (C)   At the hearing, the Council may accept, reject or modify the
determination of the City Manager as set forth in the report.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
§ 50.12 INSTALLMENT PAYMENT.
   (A)   When a SDC of $25 or more is due and collectable, the owner of the
parcel of land subject to the development charge may apply for payment in at
least 10 semi-annual installments, to include interest on the unpaid balance,
in accordance with O.R.S. 223.208.
   (B)   The City Manager shall provide application forms for installment
payments which shall include a waiver of all rights to contest the validity of
the lien, except for the correction of computational errors.
   (C)   An applicant for installment payment shall have the burden of
demonstrating the applicant's authority to assent to the imposition of a lien
on the parcel and that the property interest of the applicant is adequate to
secure payment of the lien.
   (D)   The City Manager shall report to the Council the amount of the SDC,
the dates on which payments are due, the name of the owner and the description
of the parcel.
   (E)   The City Manager shall docket the lien in the lien docket. From that
time, the city shall have a lien upon the described parcel for the amount of
the SDC, together with interest on the unpaid balance at the rate established
by resolution of the City Council. The lien shall be enforceable in the manner
provided in O.R.S. Chapter 223.
   (F)   Upon written notification from the permittee and with written evidence
from the county, where new development is not constructed and the building
permit is cancelled, the City Manager is authorized to cancel assessments of
SDCs. For property that has been subject to a cancellation of assessment of
SDCs, application for any subsequent installment payment contract shall be
subject to the code provisions applicable to SDCs and installment payment
contracts on file the date the new contract is received by the city.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
§ 50.13 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Additions to single-family dwellings that do not constitute the
addition of a dwelling unit, as defined by the State Uniform Building Code, are
exempt from all portions of the SDC.
   (B)   An alteration, addition, replacement or change in use that does not
increase the parcel's or structure's use of the public improvement facility, is
exempt from all portions of the SDC.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
§ 50.14 CREDITS.
   (A)   When a development occurs that is subject to an SDC, the SDC for the
existing use, if applicable, shall be calculated. If this amount is less than
the SDC for the use that will result from the development, the difference
between the SDC for the existing use and the SDC for the proposed use shall be
the SDC. If a change in use results in the SDC for the proposed use being less
than the SDC for the existing use, no SDC shall be required. No refund or
credit shall be given.
   (B)   A credit of the improvement fee portion of the SDC only shall be given
to the permittee against the cost of the SDC charged, for the cost of a
qualified public improvement, upon acceptance by the city of the public
improvement. The credit shall not exceed the amount of the improvement fee even
if the cost of the capital improvement exceeds the improvement fee.
   (C)   If a qualified public improvement is located in whole, or in part on,
or contiguous to the property that is the subject of the development approval
and is required to be built larger or with greater capacity than is necessary
for the particular development project, a credit shall be given for the cost of
the portion of the improvement that exceeds the city's minimum standard
facility size or capacity needed to serve the particular development project or
property. The applicant shall have the burden of demonstrating that a
particular improvement qualifies for credit under this division. The request
shall be filed in writing no later than 60 days after acceptance of the
improvement by the city. The city may deny the credit provided for in this
section if the city demonstrates that the application does not meet the
requirements of this section or, if the improvement for which credit is sought
was not included in the improvement plan pursuant to §
50.08.
   (D)   When construction of a qualified public improvement located in whole,
in part or contiguous to the property that is the subject of development
approval gives rise to a credit amount greater than the improvement fee that
would otherwise be levied against the project, the credit in excess of the
improvement fee for the original development project may be applied against
improvement fees that accrue in subsequent phases of the original development
project.
   (E)   Credit shall not be transferable from 1 development to another, except
in compliance with standards (if any) adopted by the City Council.
   (F)   Credit shall not be transferable from 1 type of capital improvement to
another.
   (G)   Credits shall be used within 10 years from the date the credit was
given.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
§ 50.15 NOTICE.
   (A)   The city shall maintain a list of persons who have made a written
request for notification prior to adoption or modification of a methodology for
any SDC. Written notice shall be mailed to persons on the list as provided in §
50.09. The failure of a person on the list to receive notice that was mailed
does not invalidate the action of the city.
   (B)   The city may periodically delete names from the list, but at least 30
days prior to removing a name from the list, the city must notify the person
whose name is to be deleted that a new written request for notification is
required if the person wishes to remain on the notification list.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
§ 50.16 SEGREGATION AND USE OF REVENUE.
   (A)   All funds derived from a SDC are to be segregated by accounting
practices from all other funds of the city. That portion of the SDC calculated
and collected on account of a specific facility system shall be used for no
purpose other than those set forth in §
50.06.
   (B)   The City Manager shall provide the City Council with an annual
accounting, based on the city's fiscal year, for SDCs showing the total amount
of SDC revenues collected for each type of facility and the projects funded
from each account in the previous fiscal year. A list of the amounts spent on
each project funded in whole or in part, with SDC revenues shall be included in
the annual accounting.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
§ 50.17 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Refunds may be given by the city upon finding that there was a
clerical error in the calculation of the SDC.
   (B)   Refunds shall not be allowed for failure to timely claim credit or for
failure to timely seek an alternative SDC rate calculation at the time of
submission of an application for a building permit.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
§ 50.18 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A person challenging the propriety of an expenditure of SDC revenues
may appeal the decision of the expenditure to the City Council by filing a
written request with the City Manager describing with particularity the
decision and the expenditure from which the person appeals. An appeal of the
expenditure must be filed within 2 years of the date of the alleged improper
expenditure.
   (B)   Appeals of any other decision required or permitted to be made by the
City Manager under this subchapter must be filed in writing with the City
Manager within 10 days of the decision.
   (C)   After providing notice to the appellant, the City Council shall
determine whether the City Manager's decision or the expenditure is in
accordance with this subchapter and the provision of O.R.S. 223.297 to 223.314
and may affirm, modify or overrule the decision. If the Council determines that
there has been an improper expenditure of SDC revenues, the Council shall
direct that a sum equal to the misspent amount shall be deposited within 1 year
to the credit of the account or fund from which it was spent. The decision of
the Council shall be reviewed only as provided in O.R.S. 34.010 to 34.100, and
not otherwise.
   (D)   A legal action challenging the methodology adopted by the City Council
pursuant to §
50.05 shall not be filed later than 60 days after adoption. A person shall
contest the methodology used for calculating an SDC only as provided in O.R.S.
34.010 to O.R.S. 34.100, and not otherwise.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
§ 50.19 PROHIBITED CONNECTION.
   No person may connect to the sewer system/water system of the city or obtain
a building permit unless the appropriate SDC(s) has been paid, or the
installment payment method has been applied for and approved.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.20 CLASSIFICATION.
   The City Council determines that any fees, rates or charges imposed by this
subchapter and/or future enabling resolutions are not a tax subject to the
property tax limitations of Article XI, § 11(b) of the Oregon Constitution.
(Ord. 06-398, passed 7-26-2006)
EXTENSIONS OF SEWER AND WATER LINES
§ 50.35 PAYMENT OF EXTENSION.
   In the event new water lines, sewer lines or street extensions are required
to serve applicant's property, the applicant will be required to pay for the
total cost of the extensions at the time of obtaining a building permit or
placement permit. This subchapter does not apply to extensions within
subdivisions, cluster or planned developments subject to Article 10 of the
Rockaway Beach Development Ordinance or any amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, Ord. 94-310, passed 6-8-1994)
§ 50.36 RELIEF.
   In order for the applicant to seek relief under this subchapter, the
applicant shall be required to provide and certify to the city, a cost summary
outlining the actual out-of-pocket costs paid by the applicant for extension of
any street, sewer line or water line, together with copies of bills and
evidence of payment which total the cost summary. No amounts shall be billed
for the applicant's or the applicant's families' time or services expended on
any extension. If the information is not provided to city within 90 days after
completion of each extension, then the applicant shall not be eligible for
reimbursement of his or her expenses.
(Prior Code, Ord. 94-310, passed 6-8-1994)
§ 50.37 REIMBURSEMENT.
   The Council shall establish a formula for a fair and equitable contribution
from each property which is benefitted by the applicant's extension for
reimbursement of the initial improvement cost. No interest shall accrue.
Benefitted property shall be considered as any property served by the street
extension or water or sewer line extension. The Council's decision shall be
final. In addition, the city shall develop a system of reporting the prorata
share of the benefitted property so owners and purchasers of affected property
are aware of their respective financial obligation.
(Prior Code, Ord. 94-310, passed 6-8-1994)
§ 50.38 REFUND TO PAYER.
   If any person or legal entity is required by the city to pay the cost of the
extensions which also benefit other property other than that of the applicant
making the extensions, then the city shall require the owner of the other
benefitted property, prior to either providing the service to that property or
issuing a building permit or placement permit, to reimburse to the initial
applicant required to pay the cost of the extension or extensions, a prorata
portion of the extensions as set forth in this subchapter. The right to require
the reimbursement shall not continue for more than 15 years after the date of
the certification of the extension costs to the city. The prorata contribution
shall be calculated based upon the lineal frontage footage of each benefitted
property along the public street or right-of-way and may consider the cost
incurred by the original applicant, the cost incurred by the benefitted
property owner and any other relevant factors but excluding interest. All
payments shall be made to the city which shall release the funds to the
original applicant, less a fee in an amount set by City Council from time to
time for the administration of this provision. In the event the applicant
cannot be found with due diligence, the city shall retain the funds in the
general fund.
(Prior Code, Ord. 94-310, passed 6-8-1994)
§ 50.39 EXEMPTIONS FROM CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   Any person who pays or installs extension water lines, sewer lines or
streets equal to or greater than at least 90% of the original extension length
shall be exempt from paying a prorata contribution to the original applicant.
Any property owners who are benefitted by this further extension are exempted
from paying a prorata portion of the original extension, but will be required
to pay a prorata portion of the further extension in accordance with the
procedures outlined in §
50.36 herein.
   (B)   In the event a Local Improvement District (LID) is formed to upgrade
water or sewer lines or street extensions, all benefitted property owners who
are also within the LID shall not be required to reimburse the costs of the
first applicant's extensions.
   (C)   No prorata contribution shall be paid for a substandard street.
   (D)   Any property owner with a currently existing residence provided with
all services shall be exempt from making a prorata contribution unless the
owner applies for a permit for new construction of a residence, a placement
permit for a manufactured dwelling or a commercial building permit. Remodeling
or new construction additions shall not make the owner liable for prorata
costs.
(Prior Code, Ord. 94-310, passed 6-8-1994)
§ 50.40 UNIMPROVED STREETS.
   Any landowner constructing or placing a building on land not served by an
existing city street shall, at his or her own expense, do the following:
   (A)   If the street is an extension of an existing street, then the
landowner may construct a street of substandard construction quality provided
that:
      (1)   The landowner obtain prior written approval by the City Council to
construct the extension to equal or better quality and to the same standards
and width as the existing street; and
      (2)   The landowner must sign a non-remonstrance agreement that would
eventually allow the city to create a Local Improvement District or other legal
entity to provide for the cost of proper development of the street.
   (B)   If the street is a new street, then the landowner may construct a
street of substandard construction duality provided that:
      (1)   The landowner obtain prior written approval by the City Council
detailing the standards and quality of construction required; and
      (2)   The landowner sign a non-remonstrance agreement that would
eventually allow the city to create a Local Improvement District or other legal
entity to provide for the cost of proper development to city standards of the
street.
   (C)   Any street constructed or extended under this section shall be
maintained at the landowner's sole expense and shall not be maintained by the
city until the time as the road has been improved to city standards and has
been formally accepted by the city as a city street.
   (D)   Any street constructed or extended under this section shall be
engineered by an engineer licensed with the State of Oregon. Engineering plans
or reports shall be submitted to the city as a prerequisite to obtaining a
building permit.
   (E)   No sewer or water shall service the landowner's property until the
time as there has been full compliance with this section.
(Prior Code, Ord. 94-310, passed 6-8-1994)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.41 SUBSEQUENT CONSTRUCTION.
   Any landowner applying for a building permit or placement permit for
construction on an unimproved street shall, as a condition for obtaining the
building permit or building permit, either:
   (A)   Sign a non-remonstrance agreement that would eventually allow the city
to create a Local Improvement District or other legal entity to provide for the
development of the street to city standards; or
   (B)   Improve the street to city standards.
(Prior Code, Ord. 94-310, passed 6-8-1994)
§ 50.42 STANDARDS FOR STREETS.
   All elements of new construction or extension of streets shall conform to
the requirements and guidelines of the City of Rockaway Beach's Public Works
Standards and Specifications, unless otherwise authorized by the City Council
under §
50.40 herein.
(Prior Code, Ord. 94-310, passed 6-8-1994)
§ 50.43 ADDRESS OF APPLICANT.
   The applicant originally paying for the extension(s) shall have the
obligation of providing the city with his or her address for 15 years after the
certification of costs to the city. If the person cannot be found by the city
with due diligence on behalf of a benefitted property owner, including a
Department of Motor Vehicle search and a search with the County Clerk, then the
original applicant will be deemed to have waived his or her right to any
prorata contribution. This waiver shall be final. All amounts required to be
paid to the original applicant shall be paid to the City of Rockaway Beach
general fund.
(Prior Code, Ord. 94-310, passed 6-8-1994)
§ 50.44 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective 30 days after passage by the Rockaway
Beach City Council.
(Prior Code, Ord. 94-310, passed 6-8-1994)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Garbage containers
   
51.03   Rubbish containers
   
51.04   Emptying and maintenance of containers
   
51.05   Hauling; vehicle regulations
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All animal and vegetable matter, refuse and household waste of
materials or matter prepared or intended in whole or in part to be used for
food; also all animal and vegetable refuse from places where foodstuffs
intended for human consumption are handled commercially.
   PERSON. Firm, company or corporation.
   RUBBISH. All refuse other than garbage.
(Prior Code, Ord. 78, passed 8-12-1969)
§ 51.02 GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   All garbage within the corporate limits of the City of Rockaway Beach shall
be placed in containers of not more than 40-gallons’ capacity, and the combined
weight of the garbage and container shall not exceed 100 pounds. The container
shall be a watertight receptacle of a solid and durable grade of metal, and/or
plastic, and shall be provided with suitable handles on the outside with a
close-fitting metal, and/or plastic cover, equipped with a handle. The
container shall not have any inside structures, such as inside bands, rings,
reinforcing angles or any other obstructions to prevent the free discharge of
the contents of the container. Garbage containers that have deteriorated to the
extent that they have sharp or jagged edges capable of causing injury to
handlers, or leak liquids, shall be replaced or repaired and at all times kept
in condition.
(Prior Code, Ord. 78, passed 8-12-1969)
§ 51.03 RUBBISH CONTAINERS.
   Rubbish shall be placed in boxes or cartons for handling and shall not be
mixed with garbage. Boxes or cartons containing refuse when filled shall not
weigh more than 100 pounds.
(Prior Code, Ord. 78, passed 8-12-1969)
§ 51.04 EMPTYING AND MAINTENANCE OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Emptying trash containers at regular intervals. Garbage containers
shall be removed from the premises where located and emptied at intervals of
not more than 1 week, shall not be permitted to leak or distribute garbage and
shall be kept clean and free of odor by the owner or person in charge of the
garbage containers.
   (B)   Emptying and removal of garbage from transient rental units. Any
operator of a hotel as those terms are defined in §
34.01 shall contract with a person who engages in the hauling of garbage and
rubbish within the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of emptying
garbage containers and removal of contents at intervals of not more than 1
week.
(Prior Code, Ord. 78, passed 8-12-1969; Am. Ord. 238, passed 9-10-1985)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions, see §
34.01
§ 51.05 HAULING; VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any person who engages in the hauling of garbage and rubbish within
the corporate limits of the city shall provide trucks or other vehicles with
steel bodies and leakproof bottoms.
   (B)   No garbage or rubbish may be hauled upon or over the streets of the
city unless it is put in steel containers which are leakproof and hauled in
trucks or other vehicles with steel bodies with leakproof bottoms.
   (C)   No garbage or rubbish may be permitted to leak from containers or
vehicles or be strewn upon or scattered over the streets, sidewalks or other
public ways of the city.
(Prior Code, Ord. 78, passed 8-12-1969)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
   
52.01   Powers of the city; operation of a sewer system
   
52.02   Sanitary sewer connections mandatory
   
52.03   Application for connection
   
52.04   Failure to connect
   
52.05   Connection inspection
   
52.06   Making sanitary sewer connections
   
52.07   Connection of mobile homes
   
52.08   Sanitary sewer connection and service outside city limits
   
52.09   Collection of fees; charges
   
52.10   Handling of funds
   
52.11   Lien docket
   
52.12   Sewer user charges
   
52.13   Modifications of, additions to or deletions from structures
   
52.14   Building code
   
52.15   City main lines
   
52.16   User line
   
52.17   Control of construction
   
52.18   Extension costs
   
52.19   Sewer truck and lateral extension; local improvement district
   
52.20   Industries
   
52.21   Illegal connections
   
52.22   Prohibited use of sewers
   
52.23   Authorized entry
   
52.24   Tampering with property
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 POWERS OF THE CITY; OPERATION OF A SEWER SYSTEM.
   The City of Rockaway Beach may:
   (A)   Acquire, construct, reconstruct, alter, enlarge, renew, replace,
operate and maintain the sewage collection and disposal system as in the
judgment of the Council are necessary and proper for the city. In the
performance of these functions, either in or out of the city, it may join any
county, other city or district or other governmental agency in the joint
establishment, maintenance and operation of the works and may contract
therefore within the city limits or without the city limits for the use of the
sanitary system;
   (B)   Permit the use, by lease or otherwise, of any property of the city or
any other city or governmental agency or district involved in operation of its
sanitary disposal system;
   (C)   Acquire by purchase, gift, devise, condemnation proceedings or
otherwise the real and personal property and rights-of-way, either within or
without the limits of the city, as in the judgment of the Council are necessary
or proper to exercise its powers and to pay for and hold the same;
   (D)   Make and accept contracts, deeds, releases and documents that, in the
judgment of the Council, are necessary or proper in the exercise of any of the
powers of the city relative to the operation of its sanitary sewer system;
   (E)   Lay its sewerage system and drains in and on any public street or road
in the county or city and for this purpose enter upon it and make all necessary
and proper excavations, restoring it to its proper condition. However, the
consent of the proper city, county, district or state authorities, as the case
may be, shall first be obtained and the conditions of the consent complied
with;
   (F)   Maintain and operate disposal sites and solid waste collection and
disposal systems in compliance with requirements of the Council as provided in
Oregon law;
   (G)   Compel all residents and property owners in the city to connect their
houses or structures requiring sewage and wastewater to the sewage disposal
systems of the city; and
   (H)   Do any other act necessary or proper to complete the exercise and
effect of any of its powers for the purpose for which the city has entered into
the program of establishing a sewer system.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.02 SANITARY SEWER CONNECTIONS MANDATORY.
   (A)   Any person who uses any building for human occupancy, employment,
recreation or is otherwise required to have toilet facilities under the Oregon
Uniform Building Code within the City of Rockaway Beach, shall connect his or
her houses and structures requiring sanitary sewage disposal with the street
sewers of the City of Rockaway Beach sanitary sewer system; the time within
which connections shall be made shall be determined by the Council, and due
notices to the property owners of the connection date given by certified mail.
   (B)   All structures constructed after completion of the sanitary system
will likewise be connected to the sanitary sewer system. In situations where
connection to the sanitary sewer system may not be possible or feasible due to
the location of the structure, the decision as to whether or not the structure
shall be connected with the sanitary sewer system shall be within the purview
of the Council; and the final decision shall emanate therefrom.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to
be deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within
the City of Rockaway Beach or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city,
any human or animal excretion, garbage or other objectionable waste.
      (2)   Any person who uses any building for human occupancy, employment,
recreation or is otherwise required to have toilet facilities under the Oregon
Uniform Building Code situated within the City of Rockaway Beach and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is located or may in the
future be located a sanitary sewer of the City of Rockaway Beach, is hereby
required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein
and to connect the facilities directly with the sewer system in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter within 90 days after date of official notice to
do so, provided the sewer is within 200 feet of the property line. It shall be
the duty of the user to make application to the city, pay the fees as
prescribed by the city and complete the sewer connection within 90 days from
the date of the notice, unless the City Council shall, in writing, extend the
time for the completion of the connection.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.03 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION.
   (A)   Application for sewer connection shall be made in writing in the form
prescribed by officials of the city. If the application is approved and the
fees paid as provided, the city shall issue a sewer connection permit,
specifying the location where the connection shall be made. The connection fees
are valid for 1 year from the date of the sewer connection permit. If the sewer
connection is not made within 1 year, or any further connections allowed by the
Council, then the applicant shall be required to make a new application and pay
a new connection fee at the time of re-application. No credit shall be given to
the applicant on his or her account from the first connection fee.
   (B)   Unless otherwise requested, the applicant shall be deemed the user of
the sewer and shall be legally liable for all charges therefore. In the event
someone other than the applicant wishes to assume the legal obligation for the
sewer charges, the city must receive a written request signed by both the
applicant and the person desiring to be legally liable for the bill. However,
such a request will act as a guarantor of the bill and shall not relieve the
actual user from liability for charges incurred by that user.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.04 FAILURE TO CONNECT.
   Any person of the City of Rockaway Beach who knowingly fails to connect to
the sanitary sewer system, commits a violation of the ordinances of the City of
Rockaway Beach. The City Council may, in lieu of, or in addition to any other
remedy, go upon the property failing to connect and make the necessary
extension and connection and charge the cost thereof against the user
benefitted by the sewer connection. Any entering upon the property for the
purpose of making the connection and installation by any agent, employee,
representative or official of the City of Rockaway Beach, shall not be deemed a
trespasser.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.05 CONNECTION INSPECTION.
   The city shall be given reasonable notice to allow inspection of a sewer
connection before completion, and while the connections are still uncovered.
All work is to be done in accordance with the specifications contained in the
permit and shall meet state plumbing codes. The manner of the connection shall
be subject to the approval of the city official designated to inspect the work.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.06 MAKING SANITARY SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   In constructing connections to the sanitary sewer system of the city, the
following rules and regulations shall be adhered to:
   (A)   No unauthorized personal shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first making written application with the City Recorder and receiving
approval from the city;
   (B)   A separate sewer connection shall be provided for every building
described in §
52.02 herein; and
   (C)   A property owner or his or her agent may construct his or her own
connecting line to the main sewer line or, in the alternative, may hire a
licensed contractor to do so; but the user and/or contractor must comply with
all state, county and city licensing and bonding regulations relative to the
construction. Connection to the main sewer line shall be done by employee or
agent of the City of Rockaway Beach.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.07 CONNECTION OF MOBILE HOMES.
   All mobile homes shall be connected to the city sanitary sewer system in the
same manner as other homes are connected; provided however, any mobile home
located in an approved mobile home park shall be excepted from the provisions
of this section, and use of the sanitary sewer system by the mobile home user
shall be governed by the rules, regulations and policies promulgated by the
Council of the City of Rockaway Beach.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.08 SANITARY SEWER CONNECTION AND SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   All requests for connection to the sanitary sewer system for property
outside the limits of the City of Rockaway Beach shall be by written
application by the users to the Council. All costs of the connection shall be
at the expense of the user of the property to be served, if permission for
connection is granted by the Council. Costs shall include all labor, materials
and other construction or excavating costs from the main sewer line to the
place of connection to the property as well as all engineering costs. The
monthly charge for sewer service shall be determined by the Council.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.09 COLLECTION OF FEES; CHARGES.
   The city may use the means for collecting of sewer charges or fees, as are
provided by the laws of the State of Oregon and/or are authorized by the
charter and ordinances of the city. All sewer charges shall be made, enforced
and collected by the Council acting through the City Recorder as follows:
   (A)   The City Recorder is hereby directed to collect the sewage rates and
charges from each user of the sewage facilities or of water from the City
Public Works Department. All charges shall be shown on the regular water bill.
The Public Works Department of the city may enforce the collection of rates and
charges for the use of sewage facilities by withholding delivery of water to
any premises.
   (B)   Where a leak exists underground between the meter and the building and
the same is repaired within 10 days after the consumer of the premises has been
notified in writing of the leakage, the City Public Works Department may allow
an adjustment of up to 50% of the estimated excess consumption provided that
the consumer notified the City Public Works Department of the repair and the
City Public Works Department has confirmed that the repair has been
satisfactorily completed.
   (C)   When the user is the property owner, any delinquencies in payment
thereof may be certified to the assessor for Tillamook County, Oregon, in
accordance with the Oregon Revised Statutes. In addition, if the fee or charge
is not paid to the city by the tenth of the month following billing, the fee
shall be deemed to be delinquent. If the charges are not paid by the thirtieth
day of the month following billing, the fee or charge may become a lien in
favor of the city against the property served if the property is owned by the
user. The City Recorder shall make a record of the lien in favor of the city in
the city lien docket or book. If the user is not the property owner of the
serviced property, then the city may proceed by any action by law or statute to
recover the fees and charges. Any overdue sewer charge or fee further may be
collected, at the option of the city and/or by an action at law in the name of
the city.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.10 HANDLING OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Every person applying for water and sewer service shall make
application to the city. The person making application shall be deemed the user
of the sewer service.
   (B)   Bills for sewer user charges shall be mailed to the address specified
in the application for permit to make the connection, unless or until the
different owner or user of the property makes application to the city. It is
the user's responsibility to make application to the city whenever there is an
occupancy or owner change. The user shall be solely responsible for notifying
the city of termination of the service by user or transfer of the account to a
subsequent user. Absent notice to the city, the user shall be responsible for
all charges incurred for the use of the system until the city is notified in
writing and all required termination or transfer fees are paid in full.
   (C)   All collections of sewer user charges, connection fees and all other
fees associated with the sewer, shall be made by the City Recorder. Sewer user
charges shall be set by the Council by resolution and shall be payable as
provided in §
52.07.
   (D)   Rates and charges for sewage facilities shall be delinquent if not
paid by the tenth day of the month following the billing.
   (E)   Charges for sewer service shall commence at the time of the owner's
request for sewer service, or upon installation of sewer service to the
property, except as to those lots in subdivisions where water and sewer lines
were installed to the property line before sales of the lots. In these cases,
sewer service charges will commence at the time as construction of a building
or buildings, or installation of a mobile home or recreation vehicle is
commenced.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.11 LIEN DOCKET.
   (A)   The City of Rockaway Beach, shall maintain a lien docket relative to
the operation of the sanitary sewer system for those users who are owners of
the property being serviced which are delinquent in their accounts.
   (B)   The docket shall contain:
      (1)   The date of the entry of the lien;
      (2)   The number or letter of each lot assessed and the number or letter
of the block of which it is a part;
      (3)   The description of each unplatted tract or parcel of land;
      (4)   The sum assessed upon each lot or parcel thereof or tract of land;
      (5)   The name of the owner or that owner is unknown. However, failure to
enter name of owner, mistake in name of owner or entry of a name other than
that of true owner shall not render void any assessment or in any way affect
the lien of the city of the property described in the document; and
      (6)   The lien shall accrue interest at the rate of 9% per annum or the
statutory interest rate, whichever is greater.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.12 SEWER USER AND CHARGES.
   The sewer user charges established by resolution of the City Council shall,
as a minimum, be reviewed annually and revised periodically to reflect not less
than the total actual costs of operation, maintenance, replacement and
financing of the treatment works and to maintain the equatability of the user
charges with respect to proportional distribution of the costs of operation and
maintenance in proportion to each user's contribution to the total wastewater
loading of the treatment works.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.13 MODIFICATIONS OF, ADDRESSING TO OR DELETIONS FROM STRUCTURES.
   All modifications, additions or deletions of all or any part of the
improvements of any structure within the City of Rockaway Beach, so made after
the enactment of this chapter, shall be reported to the Council, its employees,
agents or representatives, who shall consider possible additions to existing
connection charges and monthly use charges; and the decision of the Council
relative thereto shall be final.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.14 BUILDING CODE.
   Any building code duly adopted by the Council of the City of Rockaway Beach
which, relates to the maintenance and operation of the sanitary sewer system,
shall apply and become a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.15 CITY MAIN LINES.
   The city owns all main lines. Any connection to or disconnection from the
city mains, will be made by the Public Works Department, or by a private
contractor, subject to Council approval as provided below. Installation shall
be in accordance with city standards for material and installation.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.16 USER LINE.
   The user line is the line from the city main line to the residence or other
structure. A user line, or house service line, will be laid and maintained at
the expense of the user who shall protect the line from injury and be
responsible for all damages resulting from leaks, breaks or other causes. The
user may construct his or her own customer line or may hire a licensed
contractor. The installation shall be done in accordance with all state, county
and city licensing and bonding regulations relative to the construction. The
customer line shall be at least 4 inches in diameter, inside measurement.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.17 CONTROL OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The City Council shall decide which service line, mainline extensions or
major repairs shall be constructed by the city work force and which shall be
constructed by private contractors. The public contracting law regarding bids
and competitive quotes shall be followed when a private contractor is used for
construction.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.18 EXTENSION COSTS.
   The cost of the extension of existing or installed lines shall be in
addition to the connection fee and shall be based on a cost basis for each such
extension, the cost basis being the actual cost of labor, materials and
equipment expended and used in the extension of new sewer lines and
installation of new sewer lines.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.19 SEWER TRUNK AND LATERAL EXTENSION; LOCAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT.
   In the event the property owners to be benefitted or the city initiates a
Local Improvement District for the purpose of constructing a sewer trunk or
sewer lateral extension to serve all or a portion of property, the following
method of assessment shall be used:
   (A)   Sewer trunk.
      (1)   Whenever a sewer trunk is to be constructed, the Council shall
determine the geographical area to be benefitted thereby. The boundary around
the area shall be the service boundary.
      (2)   When the construction of the sewer trunk within a service boundary
is done in 1 phase, the total cost of the sewer trunk to serve the area will be
charged to the area benefitted.
      (3)   When the sewer trunk designed to serve the area within a service
boundary is not constructed in its entirety at 1 time, the portion of the
service boundary area to be served by the first construction shall be deemed to
be the first phase of the project.
         (a)   The portion in which the first phase of the project is
constructed shall be assessed for a proportionate share of the total cost of
the construction of the sewer trunk to be built within the service boundary.
The proportionate share shall be determined by the Council's estimating the
total number of square feet assessable within the service boundary and the
total cost of the sewer trunk. A square-foot assessment rate shall thus be
determined. Each assessable parcel in the first phase of the project will be
assessed at the rate so determined. In the event that the square-foot method of
assessment is inequitable, then the Council may use any other reasonable plan
of assessment.
         (b)   The benefitted territories in all subsequent phases of the
project shall be assessed at the rate determined above or at a rate based on
the actual construction cost of the subsequent phase then being assessed,
whichever is greater.
         (c)   Total cost shall include the construction, easements,
engineering, administration, legal and lift station costs.
      (4)   The assessment may be paid in installments as provided in the
Bancroft Bonding Act in the same manner as other assessment liens in the city.
      (5)   The assessment shall be in addition to all other assessments
required by ordinance, shall be levied when the sewer trunk is completed in
which the property to be assessed lies, shall be docketed in the city docket of
liens, and shall be enforced in the manner provided in O.R.S. Chapter 223.
   (B)   Sewer laterals. All real property benefitted by a sewer lateral shall
be assessed for the total cost of the sewer lateral on a square-foot basis. The
proportionate share shall be determined by the Council's estimating the total
number of square feet benefitted by the sewer lateral and the total cost of the
sewer lateral. The square-foot assessment rate shall thus be determined. Each
assessable parcel will be assessed at the rate so determined. In the event that
the square-foot method of assessment is inequitable, then the Council may use
any other reasonable plan of assessment.
      (1)   The assessment may be paid in installments as provided in the
Bancroft Bonding Act in the same manner as other assessment liens in the city.
      (2)   The assessment shall be in addition to all other assessments
required by ordinance, shall be levied when the sewer trunk is completed in
which the property to be assessed lies, shall be docketed in the city docket of
liens and shall be enforced in the manner provided in O.R.S. Chapter 223.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.20 INDUSTRIES.
   The system for industrial cost recovery shall be implemented and maintained
according to the following requirements:
   (A)   Each year during the industrial cost recovery period, each industrial
user of the treatment works shall pay its share of the total federal grant
amount divided by the recovery period;
   (B)   The industrial cost recovery period shall be equal to 30 years or the
useful life of the treatment works, whichever is less;
   (C)   Payments shall be made by industrial users no less often than
annually. The first payment by an industrial user shall be made not later than
1 year after the user begins use of the treatment works;
   (D)   An industrial user's share shall be based on all factors which
significantly influence the cost of the treatment works, such as strength,
volume and flow rate characteristics. As a minimum, an industry's share shall
be based on its flow versus treatment works capacity except in unusual cases;
   (E)   An industrial user's share shall be adjusted when there is a
substantial change in the strength, volume, or flow rate characteristics of the
user's wastes, or if there is an expansion or upgrading of the treatment works;
   (F)   An industrial user's share shall not include any portion of the
federal grant amount allocable to unused or unreserved capacity;
   (G)   An industrial user's share shall include any firm commitment to the
city of increased use by the user;
   (H)   An industrial user's share shall not include an interest component;
and
   (I)   This requirement applies only to those features of wastewater
treatment and transportation facilities which have been constructed with
federal assistance administered by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under Pub. Law No. 92-500. All industrial users shall be required to pay
that portion of the federal assistance grant under Pub. Law No. 92-500
allocable to the treatment of waste from the users.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.21 ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall make any sewer connection to the
sanitary sewer system or to a storm drain of the City of Rockaway Beach,
without making application and securing a permit therefore.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.22 PROHIBITED USE OF SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, ground water or roof runoff to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Except as herein provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following wastes to any public sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per
million, by weight, of fat, oil or grease;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzine, naptha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substances capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewerage works;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous substances in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process
constitutes a hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of the character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle the
materials at the sewage treatment plant; and
      (8)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   (C)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided as required by the
Oregon Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.23 AUTHORIZED ENTRY.
   The Public Works Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
City of Rockaway Beach, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter upon all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, samplings and testing, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
§ 52.24 TAMPERING WITH PROPERTY.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works, including opening of
any manholes. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of disorderly conduct or shall be subject to civil
penalties pursuant to §
52.99 herein.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The city may proceed against the person violating this chapter in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Each day of violation of a provision of this chapter constitutes a
separate offense.
   (C)   As an additional remedy, the city may impose a fine of the greater of
$500 per day per violation or the cost of any expense, loss, cost of repair or
damage occasioned by the city arising by reason of the violation, including the
costs of the city's attorneys fees, whichever is greater.
   (D)   The city shall have all other remedies available to it by law.
   (E)   Failure to connect to the sewer system and all other violations of
this chapter may be punishable by a fine of not more than $100 and each day of
the violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ord. 93-297, passed 1-13-1993; Am. Ord. 04-388, passed 7-14-2004)
CHAPTER 53: WATER
Section
Sale, Purchase and Use
   
53.01   Short title
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Application for connection or discontinuance of services
   
53.04   Water use by applicant
   
53.05   Separate service to each house or premises
   
53.06   Installation of services from main meter or shut-off
   
53.07   Ownership of lines
   
53.08   Main extensions
   
53.09   Water charges to premises
   
53.10   Fees, charges and monthly water rates
   
53.11   Billing
   
53.12   Discontinuance of service for nonpayment
   
53.13   Adjustments and refunds
   
53.14   Disconnection; reconnection
   
53.15   Collection of fees; charges
   
53.16   Lien docket
   
53.17   New construction meters and turnoff valves
   
53.18   Ownership, damage and registration of meters
   
53.19   Testing meters
   
53.20   Repair and protection of water pipes
   
53.21   Adjustment on account for underground leaks
   
53.22   Fire protection service
   
53.23   Jurisdiction, maintenance and repair of service connections
   
53.24   Stop and waste cocks; private service pipes; responsibility
   
53.25   Use of private water and city water
   
53.26   Cross connections regulated
   
53.27   Access to premises for inspection and repair
   
53.28   Use of fire hydrants, valves and meters
   
53.29   Services outside the city
   
53.30   Water districts and the like
   
53.31   Turning water on and off without authority
   
53.32   Cooling and refrigeration
   
53.33   Wastage
   
53.34   Rates, charges, rules and regulations
   
53.35   Sale of water prohibited
   
53.36   Effective date
Protection of the Purity of the City Water Supply
   
53.50   Definitions
   
53.51   Offenses against the purity of the water supply
   
53.52   Pollution prohibited
   
53.53   Placing substances on watershed prohibited
   
53.54   Defacing of signs prohibited
   
53.55   Special police officers
Nonessential Uses of Water
   
53.65   Purpose and intent
   
53.66   Definitions
   
53.67   Application
   
53.68   Regulation of sprinkling and watering
   
53.69   Nonessential water use
   
53.70   Nonessential commercial or industrial use
   
53.71   Gutter flooding
   
53.72   Regulation of applications for new water service
   
53.73   Citation for violation of the provisions of this subchapter
   
53.74   Discontinuance of service
   
53.75   Variances
 
   
53.99   Penalty
SALE, PURCHASE AND USE
§ 53.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as The City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon, Water
Ordinance, and may be so cited.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device to counteract back pressures
or prevent back siphonage. This device must appear on the list of approved
devices issued by the Oregon State Health Division.
   AUXILIARY SUPPLY. Any water source or system other than the public water
system, that may be available in the building or on the premises.
   BACKFLOW. The flow in the direction opposite to the normal flow or the
introduction of any foreign liquids, gases or substances into the water system
of Rockaway Beach.
   CITY. The City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon, a municipal corporation.
   CONSUMER. The applicant for water service and/or the user of the service.
   COUNCIL. City Council of the City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon.
   CROSS CONNECTION. Any physical arrangement where a public water system is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other non-drinkable water system or
auxiliary system, sewer, drain conduit, swimming pool, storage reservoir,
plumbing fixtures, swamp cooler or any other device which contains, or may
contain, contaminated water, sewage or other liquid of unknown or unsafe
quality which may be capable of imparting contamination to the public water
system as a result of backflow. Bypass arrangements, jumper connections,
removable sections, swivel or change over devices or other temporary or
permanent devices through which, or because of which, backflow may occur are
considered to be CROSS CONNECTIONS.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion of a building, that has independent
living facilities including provisions for sleeping, cooking and sanitation and
that is designed for residential occupancy.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT (ERDU). Each user is related to an
average single family dwelling, including modular housing and manufactured
homes and duplexes, by both size of water service required and the average
consumption for the units. Each ERDU is taken to be a unit, which can be served
by a 3/4-inch service or consumes approximately 800 cubic feet of water per
month. For this subchapter, ERDUs will determine the meter or pipe size as
required by the Uniform Plumbing Code.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or
corporation, whether he, she or it is acting for himself, herself or itself or
as the clerk, servant, employee or agent of another; and the singular number
shall include the plural and plural the singular.
   PREMISES. Any piece of land to which water is provided including all
structures, improvements and mobile home(s) located on it.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPAL DEVICE. An assembly containing 2 independently
acting approved check valves together with a hydraulically-operated,
mechanically independent pressure differential relief valve located between the
check valves and at the same time below the first check valve. The device shall
include properly located test cocks and tightly closing shut off valves at the
end of the assembly. A check valve is approved if it appears on the list of
approved devices issued by the Oregon State Health Division.
   SUPERVISOR. The Public Works Supervisor of Rockaway Beach, Oregon.
   WATER SERVICE. Water used, and/or water facilities used or available for
use, even though not used.
   WRITTEN NOTICE. Statement, reminder, letter, door hanger by mail or hand
delivered.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.03 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION OR DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use water
from the city's water system within or without the City of Rockaway Beach,
Oregon, unless permission therefore shall have been first obtained in writing
from the City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon, the City Manager or his or her
designee who is hereby empowered and authorized to grant the permission in
accordance with the terms of this subchapter.
   (B)   Application for water hookup and all fees associated therewith for all
new construction shall be applied for by the consumer after issuance of a
building permit.
   (C)   Applications for permits to connect premises with the city water
system or requests to turn water on at any premises shall in all cases be made
in writing at the City Hall on forms provided by the city. The application
shall specify the location and the use for which service is required. The
applicant shall provide all necessary information to the city for billing and
notifying purposes. The applicant shall be deemed to be the consumer of the
water service and shall be responsible for all charges for the water service.
The applicant, as a condition precedent to water service, must agree to conform
to all city ordinances, resolutions and regulations concerning the use of
water.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.04 WATER USE BY APPLICANT.
   (A)   Any person or entity supplied with water provided by the City of
Rockaway Beach shall use the water in accord with the generally accepted terms
contained in the permit or application requested. Any additional use requires
another permit and/or fee.
   (B)   The permittee may not supply water to any other user or entity.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.05 SEPARATE SERVICE TO EACH HOUSE OR PREMISES.
   (A)   There shall be a separate meter for each dwelling unit. The owner of
the dwelling unit shall pay for the metering device and its installation.
   (B)   Where water is now supplied through 1 service to several houses,
families, persons or businesses, the city may, at its discretion, either
decline to furnish water until separate services are provided, or may continue
the supply on the condition that water may be shut off from all in the case of
nonpayment or violation of the rules and regulations by any one, or, at its
option, may continue the supply on the condition that 1 person shall pay at
least the minimum charge for each of the houses, families, stores, persons or
businesses supplied through 1 service.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.06 INSTALLATION OF SERVICES FROM MAIN METER OR SHUT-OFF.
   No service connection less than 3/4 inch pipe size shall be installed. The
Public Works Supervisor shall have the authority to require larger pipe to be
installed if there are articulable reasons. The charges for the installation of
water services shall be as determined by the Council from time to time and
shall be paid prior to installation. An advance payment of the charge set by
the City Council for the installation shall be made before a permit is granted
for each installation. Provided that whenever the charge set by the Council is
not sufficient to cover the total expense for labor, material and overhead by
the city, the deficit shall be charged to the applicant for which the
installation was made.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.07 OWNERSHIP OF LINES.
   The city shall own, operate and maintain all main lines and the service
connections between the main and the curbline or the property line. The
consumer shall install and bear the expense of waterlines from the curbline or
property line to the premises being served subject always to building, plumbing
and sanitation codes and required inspection of the city. In the event a meter
is installed in a building, the city's responsibility ends at the property
line.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.08 MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may authorize water distribution mains and related
connections. All extensions of distribution mains shall include installation of
service to all adjacent properties.
   (B)   Any plans for the extension of water mains shall conform to an overall
plan for water service to all residents of the city. All main extensions shall
become the sole property of the city upon completion.
   (C)   Extensions of water mains shall be made only along city streets,
county roads or other satisfactory rights-of-way approved by the city.
Extensions shall only be approved where the city has an adequate water supply
for the new customers, and where the city can provide and maintain adequate
pressure to the customers without detriment to existing water customers.
   (D)   No extension of a water main shall be authorized until the applicant
files with the city any necessary permits, licenses or approvals required by
the city and any other governmental agency.
   (E)   Any plans, blueprints, specifications and the like, filed with the
city shall become city property and remain on file at City Hall as public
documents.
   (F)   All extensions shall conform to the city's adopted Design Standards
and Technical Specifications and shall be approved by the City Engineer prior
to construction.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.09 WATER CHARGES TO PREMISES.
   All monthly water charges shall be billed in the name of the applicant who
is presumed to be the consumer residing on the property or otherwise in use and
possession of the property being serviced. In extending water service to any
premises, the consumer must make proper application for the service with the
city. In the case of renters, the owner of the structure will ultimately be
responsible for any unpaid billings.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.10 FEES, CHARGES AND MONTHLY WATER RATES.
   All fees, charges and monthly rates shall be set by the Council by way of a
separate resolution after a public hearing. The proposed rate schedule shall be
available at City Hall at least 14 days prior to the public hearing, and notice
shall be advertised in a newspaper of general circulation in Tillamook County
not less than 4 days nor more than 10 days before the public hearing.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.11 BILLING.
   (A)   All new water consumers may be required to pay a new consumer charge.
If the consumer desires reconnection to the system after disconnection for
nonpayment, the consumer shall be required to pay the outstanding balance in
full prior to reconnection and pay the reconnection fee. A new service charge
shall be required any time a change in the name of the consumer account is
requested.
   (B)   Charges for monthly water service shall commence at the time of the
installation of the meter and the city supplies water to that meter.
   (C)   Metered rates are payable on or before the tenth day of the month
following billing. Meters will be read on or about the eleventh day of the
month and consumers of city water shall be billed on or about the twenty-fifth
day every other month for water used during the preceding 2 months.
   (D)   All charges shall be deemed delinquent if not paid by the tenth day of
the month following billing.
   (E)   If the charges are not paid by the thirtieth day of the month
following billing, the city, at its option may discontinue water service to the
premises served in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
53.12.
   (F)   If the charges are not paid by the thirtieth day of the month
following the billing, an additional charge of 5% of the unpaid balance per
month shall be added to the bill.
   (G)   As water is provided to the structure, billings will be sent to the
occupant of that structure. If the occupant fails to pay timely as directed
above, the service will be terminated until paid. When a user applies for
service, the owner, if other than the user, will be sent a copy of the bill
requiring the owner to pay. The owner of the structure will ultimately be
responsible for any unpaid billings. A lien will be recorded against the
property and filed with the County Clerk of Tillamook County.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.12 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
10 days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person and
by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present orally or
in writing his complaint and contentions to the city official in charge of
utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer's
service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final
determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
§ 53.13 ADJUSTMENTS AND REFUNDS.
   The City of Rockaway Beach is authorized to refund to water users, and
overpayments, in excess of final bill and amounts due on account of adjustments
upon certification by the city of the amount due. Any refund due to a billing
for water consumption shall be given as a credit on the next succeeding bill,
or in the event of an adjustment to a final bill, then a cash refund to the
consumer.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.14 DISCONNECTION; RECONNECTION.
   In the event of delinquency or non-compliance resulting in water shut-off or
at shut-off at the consumer's request, water shall not again be furnished
thereto until all outstanding obligations for water system services. Water
supplied to the consumer shall have been paid in full, together with any of
consumer's delinquent sewer charges charged to the consumer, together with any
new service charges, the disconnection fee and the reconnection fee for water
or sewer services required to be paid by the City of Rockaway Beach. In cases
of renters, the property owner will be contacted prior to reconnection.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.15 COLLECTION OF FEES; CHARGES.
   The city may use the means for collecting of water charges or fees as are
provided by the laws of the State of Oregon or are authorized by the charter
and ordinances of the city. Any delinquencies in payment thereof may be
certified to the assessor for Tillamook County, Oregon, in accordance with the
Oregon Revised Statutes become a lien on the property owned by the consumer.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.16 LIEN DOCKET.
   (A)   The City of Rockaway Beach shall maintain a lien docket relative to
the operation of the water system.
   (B)   The docket shall contain:
      (1)   The date of the entry of the lien;
      (2)   The number or letter of each lot assessed and the number or letter
of the block of which it is a part;
      (3)   The description of each unplatted tract or parcel of land;
      (4)   The sum assessed upon each lot or parcel thereof or tract of land;
and
      (5)   The name of the owner or that owner is unknown. However, failure to
enter the name of the owner or mistake in the name of the owner, or entry of a
name other than that of the true owners shall not render void any assessment or
in any way affect the lien of the city of the property described in the
document.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.17 NEW CONSTRUCTION METERS AND TURNOFF VALVES.
   All new services constructed within the city shall have each dwelling unit
separately metered for water service and shall have separate turnoff valves
installed outside the building. All other new construction shall be metered for
water service and shall have turnoff valves installed as required by the State
Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.18 OWNERSHIP, DAMAGE AND REGISTRATION OF METERS.
   All meters of the city water system are the property of the city, and any
usual repairs to the meters shall be made by the city. If a meter is damaged by
hot water or by the carelessness or negligence of the consumer or occupant of
the premises, the city Public Works Department will repair the meter, and the
cost of the repair shall be charged against the consumer. When a meter fails to
register accurately, the charge for water used shall be either based on the
average quantity of water used in a comparable period as shown by the meter
when in order, or if there be no average consumption, then the minimum rate of
the city shall apply. The consumer shall be responsible for maintaining and
keeping all water meter boxes free and clear of all debris, growth or other
obstacles and protected from damage.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.19 TESTING METERS.
   When any water consumer shall make complaint that the bill for any
particular period is excessive, the city Public Works Department will, upon
request, have the meter reread and the service inspected for leaks. Should the
consumer then desire that the meter be tested or changed, the Public Works
Department will test the meter. Should the meter on test show a registration in
excess of 3% in favor of the City of Rockaway Beach, the meter will be changed
and the bill adjusted accordingly. The excess registration not to exceed the 3
previous readings shall be credited to the account.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.20 REPAIR AND PROTECTION OF WATER PIPES.
   The city Public Works Department reserves the right at any time, without
notice, to shut off the water supply for repairs, extensions, nonpayment of
rates or any other reason the city feels is necessary to protect the city's
water system. The city Public Works Department shall not be responsible for any
consequent damage, such as bursting of boilers or hot water heaters, the
breakage of any pipes, fixtures or appliances, stoppage or interruption of
water supply, or for any other inconvenience or other damage resulting from the
shutting off of the water. The Department will, however, notify affected
consumers in advance whenever possible.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.21 ADJUSTMENT ON ACCOUNT FOR UNDERGROUND LEAKS.
   Where a leak exists and the same is repaired within 10 days after the
consumer of the premises has been notified in writing of the leakage, the city
may allow an adjustment of up to 50% of the estimated excess consumption
provided that the consumer notified the city of the repair and the city Public
Works Department has confirmed that the repair has been satisfactorily
completed.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.22 FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE.
   Fire protection pipes to be used in case of fire will be allowed within and
without buildings on the following conditions:
   (A)   When the consumer desires, or when the building or fire code calls for
a certain size pipe to supply water to a wet or dry sprinkler system without
those connections, the pipe or pipes may be served by an approved proportional
meter or detector check. The consumer or consumer's agent of the building shall
make written application and agree in writing that water supplied through this
service will not be used for any purpose except for extinguishing a fire. If at
any time it is found that hose connections have been added to the system or
that registration is recorded on the meter or detector check, the immediate
installation of a compound meter will be required by the city at the consumer's
expense.
   (B)   A minimum service charge shall be billed each month to the owner or
agent of the property supplied. No charge shall be made for water used in the
extinguishing of fires if the consumer reports the use to the city in writing
within 10 days of the usage.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.23 JURISDICTION, MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All mains, laterals, service connections and other parts of the system
are under the exclusive ownership and control of the city and no person other
than the city Public Works Department will be permitted to install any service
connection, or to remove, change or tamper with same or to in any manner
interfere with any main, service pipe, meter or other part of the system, or to
connect any private service with the meter, or to disconnect same, or to turn
the water on or off at the meter shutoff or curb stop without written approval
of the city.
   (B)   The city Public Works Department will maintain all service connections
in good order and will make all repairs and replacements of the city-owned
meters and other parts thereof required by normal wear and tear thereof, at the
expense of the City of Rockaway Beach. Each user is required to take all due
precautions to protect the connection through which he or she is served from
damage by freezing, hot water, traffic or tampering; and any damage arising
through lack of the precaution shall be charged to him or her.
   (C)   Inasmuch as the available pressures in the water system are, or may be
higher than the pressure rating of devices or appliances connected thereto, it
shall be the responsibility of the consumer to provide the pressure reducing
valves, relief valves or other protective devices as may be necessary or
advisable to protect the devices or appliances.
   (D)   No pump or similar mechanical device shall be connected to the water
system by consumers for the purpose of withdrawing water from or returning
water to the system. This provision shall not apply to regularly constituted
fire departments in fighting fires.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.24 STOP AND WASTE COCKS; PRIVATE SERVICE PIPES; RESPONSIBILITY.
   All pipes from the meter or shutoff to the premises must be installed in
accordance with State Plumbing Code and maintained in good order by the user.
The user will be held responsible for any losses or damages occurring from the
meter, to and including the premises, resulting from leaks, freezing or
otherwise.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.25 USE OF PRIVATE WATER AND CITY WATER.
   Owners of buildings desiring to use both a city water supply and a supply of
water other than that furnished by the City of Rockaway Beach Water System, may
obtain city water at applicable rates provided that no physical connection,
direct or indirect, exist or be made in any manner, even temporarily, between
the city water supply and that of a private water supply or between 2 services
connected to the city water supply without the installation of a proper
backflow prevention device and the consent and approval of the city Public
Works Department. Where an unauthorized connection is found to exist, or where
provision is made to connect the 2 systems by means of a spacer or otherwise,
the city water supply shall be shut off from the premises immediately with or
without notice. In case of the discontinuance, service shall not be re-
established until satisfactory proof is furnished that the cross connection has
been completely severed and all required disconnection and reconnection fees
have been paid.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.26 CROSS CONNECTIONS REGULATED.
   No cross connections shall be created, installed, used or maintained within
the territory served by the City of Rockaway Beach, except in accordance with
these regulations.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.27 ACCESS TO PREMISES FOR INSPECTION AND REPAIR.
   Employees of the city Public Works Department shall have access, at
reasonable and proper times, to consumer's exterior premises for the purpose of
inspecting the condition of the pipes and fixtures and the manner in which the
water is being used. The city shall have access to all water meters for the
purpose of inspecting, repairing and reading all meters.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.28 USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS, VALVES AND METERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, alter, change, remove,
disconnect, connect with or interfere in any manner with any fire hydrant,
water main, shutoff valve or water meter owned or used by the City of Rockaway
Beach without first obtaining written permission from the City of Rockaway
Beach. The provisions of this section applying to fire hydrants shall not apply
to the Fire Department or any contracted fire protection workers of the City of
Rockaway Beach.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.29 SERVICES OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   (A)   Excess water may be served to individual users, companies or water
districts outside the City of Rockaway Beach limits under the rates, charges
and rules as the City Council of Rockaway Beach may from time to time prescribe
by resolution or as outlined under special contracts. Water served outside the
city limits is intended mainly for household and sanitary use and is not
intended for irrigation. The city reserves the right at any time to prohibit
the use of water outside the city limits for purposes other than those stated.
All regulations now in effect or hereafter promulgated by the Council for users
inside the city shall apply to users outside the city except as provided by the
Council of the City of Rockaway Beach. Service to users outside the city is
hereby declared to be subject to the prior and superior rights of the people of
the City of Rockaway Beach to the water at all times. The City of Rockaway
Beach shall have the right to refuse to sell water when it appears that the
best interest of the citizens of Rockaway Beach are served by the refusal, or
to refuse to sell water to consumers who do not comply with the requirements of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Sale of water outside the city limits shall be expressly conditioned
that the city reserves the right to require any consumer, group of consumers,
district or districts to build and maintain, at his, her or their sole expense,
storage facilities of sufficient capacity; to hold a supply of water equal to
the maximum demand of the consumer, group of consumers or district during any
period of 3 consecutive days. The city shall give no less than 6-months’ notice
of its intention to demand the storage facilities; and on the date named in the
notice the consumer, group of consumers or district shall have the storage
facilities provided and shall thereafter operate the same in the manner as the
city shall prescribe. Order for construction of the storage works shall be
given when and as operating conditions shall make the action necessary in order
to safeguard the best interest of the citizens of Rockaway Beach.
   (C)   The city shall in no manner be responsible to consumers of water
outside the city limits for failure of the system to deliver water, either due
to voluntary stoppage of delivery of water upon order of the Council,
operational failure or accident on account of repairs and alterations thereto.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.30 WATER DISTRICTS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All water districts, water companies, agencies and other agreeing
parties supplying water furnished by the City of Rockaway Beach to customers
outside the limits of the City of Rockaway Beach must furnish, not later than
June 30 of each year, to the City of Rockaway Beach a written description of
the area supplied by the distributing agency, together with a report and maps
showing all mains and services which then exist.
   (B)   The description, report and maps shall be filed with the Public Works
Department supervisor of the City of Rockaway Beach.
   (C)   No increase in services or extensions of mains shall be made by any
water district, company or any parties under agreement with the city unless
approval of the City Council shall first be obtained.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.31 TURNING WATER ON AND OFF WITHOUT AUTHORITY.
   Should the water be turned on or off by any water consumer or other person
without authority from the city, the water may then be shut off at the meter at
the discretion of the city. The charge for shutting the water off at the meter
shall be the disconnection/reconnection fee. All the charges shall be
chargeable to the consumer and water shall not again be furnished to the
consumer until the charges are paid.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.32 COOLING AND REFRIGERATION.
   On and after the effective date of this subchapter, the water demand for any
cooling or refrigeration equipment or process of a capacity of 2 tons of
refrigeration or more at any premises, and utilizing city water for the heat
exchange, shall be limited to 0.25 gallon per minute per ton. Unconserved
installations now existing may be continued at metered rates for a maximum of
10 years from the effective date of this subchapter or until the sooner time as
the equipment is overhauled, replaced or altered.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.33 WASTAGE.
   It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to conserve water and prevent
waste in order that there may be an adequate supply for all users and to
prevent soil erosion and damage to sidewalks, curbs and streets. Water used for
irrigation shall be applied through open hose or open faucets, leaking faucets
or flush valves, roof sprinkling or allowing any water to discharge or flow
into or across any sidewalk, street or alley is unlawful; and any person who
wastes water shall be punished as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.34 RATES, CHARGES, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Rates and charges for the installation or removal of services, the monthly
charge for furnishing of water, turn off, turn on, meter testing together with
terms and conditions of water use incident thereto and not provided herein,
including rules and regulations now or hereafter promulgated with respect to
the foregoing or any part thereof, shall be established in a rate schedule or
schedules, and by rules and regulations adopted by resolutions by the Council.
The rate schedule or schedules and all rules and regulations promulgated shall
remain in effect until amended or superseded by resolution of the Council.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.35 SALE OF WATER PROHIBITED.
   The sale of water, other than bottled water commonly found in grocery
stores, within the city in competition with the city system is prohibited.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
§ 53.36 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter becomes effective 30 days after adoption by the Council.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
PROTECTION OF THE PURITY OF THE CITY WATER SUPPLY
§ 53.50 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, the singular shall include the plural and the
masculine shall include the feminine. Except where the context (requires)
otherwise, the following words shall have the following meaning:
   CITY. The City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon.
   PERSON. An individual, firm or corporation.
   WATERSHED. All property owned, acquired or occupied by the city's
waterworks, reservoirs, systems, springs, branches, pipes and all lakes,
rivers, springs, streams, creeks or tributaries acquired by the city, or the
right of use of water therefrom acquired by the city, (constituting the)
sources of city water supply and by means of which the city supplies water, or
stores or conducts the water supply; and, all property acquired for the
preservation and protection of the purity of the city water supply; and, all
property owned or possessed by the city within the areas draining into lakes,
rivers, springs, streams, creeks or tributaries constituting the sources of
water supply.
(Prior Code, Ord. 73, passed 9-13-1966)
§ 53.51 OFFENSES AGAINST THE PURITY OF THE WATER SUPPLY.
   No person shall corrupt, pollute, impair or endanger the purity of the city
water supply by:
   (A)   Going or trespassing upon the area within the watershed;
   (B)   Permitting any animal owned, controlled or possessed by him or her to
run-at-large or go upon the area within the watershed;
   (C)   Leaving, keeping, placing or depositing any garbage, refuse, offensive
material or personal property of any kind within the watershed;
   (D)   Carrying or discharging a loaded firearm, or hunting, harvesting or
harassing any animal within the watershed, except it shall be a defense to this
division only if defendant was lawfully present within the watershed and
acting:
      (1)   Consistent with the defenses expressed in §
131.040(C) but as interpreted to apply herein; or
      (2)   As otherwise expressly allowed by law, e.g. without limitation
while in possession of a valid concealed carry permit;
   (E)   Picnicking, hunting, smoking, lighting a fire or maintaining a fire
within the watershed;
   (F)   Driving a motor vehicle in the watershed; or
   (G)   Bathing or swimming or placing any article or substance in or near the
water supply as to be apt to cause pollution or danger to the purity of the
lakes, springs, streams, dams, creeks or tributaries in the watershed.
(Prior Code, Ord. 73, passed 9-13-1966; Am. Ord. 14-423, passed 4-9-2014)
Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.52 POLLUTION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall establish or maintain a slaughter pen, stock feeding yards
or hogpens or deposit or maintain any unclean or unwholesome substance, or
conduct any business or occupation, or allow any condition (upon) or
sufficiently near the sources from which the city water supply is obtained, or
where water is stored, or the property or means through which it may be
conveyed or conducted so that the water would be polluted or its purity
destroyed or endangered.
(Prior Code, Ord. 73, passed 9-13-1966)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.53 PLACING SUBSTANCES ON WATERSHED PROHIBITED.
   No person shall place or cause to be placed within the watershed any
substance which either by itself or in connection with other matter will
corrupt, pollute or impair the quality of the city water supply. No owner of
any dead animal shall knowingly leave or cause to be left the carcass or any
portion thereof within the watershed in the condition as to in any way corrupt
or pollute the city water supply.
(Prior Code, Ord. 73, passed 9-13-1966)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.54 DEFACING OF SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall alter, change, deface, destroy or remove any sign, warning
or notice posted by the city, or caused to be posted by the city or its duly
authorized agents, in the watershed.
(Prior Code, Ord. 73, passed 9-13-1966)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.55 SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   The City Council of Rockaway is hereby authorized to appoint a special
police officer or officers as may be necessary to carry out and enforce the
provisions of this subchapter. The compensation and terms of employment of the
officer or officers shall be determined by the City Council. Any officer
appointed under this section shall have the powers and duties as prescribed by
O.R.S. 448.315.
(Prior Code, Ord. 73, passed 9-13-1966)
NONESSENTIAL USES OF WATER
§ 53.65 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the management of
water resources in the event of emergency and how and under what circumstances
such emergency shall be handled.
   (B)   An emergency may be called by the City Manager or the City Manager's
appropriate designate to curtail or manage the city's water resources in a
responsible manner when:
      (1)   The City Manager or the City Manager's appropriate designate
determines with valid stated reasons that the city is experiencing or about to
experience a water shortage or water emergency; and
      (2)   Conditions prevail within the area of the city and its urban growth
boundary due to occurrences such as drought, extraordinary demand, and/or the
ordinary demands and requirements of water consumers that cannot be satisfied
without depleting the water supply of the city to the extent that there would
be insufficient water for human consumption, sanitation, and fire protection.
   (C)   In order to conserve the water supply for the greatest public benefit
with particular regard to domestic use, sanitation, and fire protection, the
City Council adopts the following regulations and restrictions on the delivery
and consumption of water to take effect immediately and remain in effect until
rescinded by ordinance or direction of the City Manager or his or her
designate.
   (D)   The specific uses regulated or prohibited in this subchapter are
nonessential so that if allowed would constitute wastage of water, and should
be prohibited.
(Ord. 09-409, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 53.66 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, business, partnership, corporation, rental unit,
condominium, owner of real property or user of water supplied by the city.
   WATER. Water obtained from or provided by the facilities of the city, unless
expressly provided otherwise or required by contract.
(Ord. 09-409, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 53.67 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all customers using water
provided by the city.
(Ord. 09-409, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 53.68 REGULATION OF SPRINKLING AND WATERING.
   No person or customer shall sprinkle, water, or irrigate any shrubbery,
trees, lawns, grass, ground covers, plants, vines, gardens, flowers, or any
other vegetation, except as follows: that growth that is used for the raising
of food for human consumption.
(Ord. 09-409, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 53.69 NONESSENTIAL WATER USE.
   The following water uses are hereby determined to be nonessential and are
prohibited:
   (A)   The use of water to wash any vehicle, boat, trailer, or the like;
   (B)   The use of water to wash down any sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts or other hard-surfaced area, building or structure;
   (C)   The use of water to fill, refill or add to any indoor or outdoor
swimming pools or Jacuzzi pools except for neighborhood fire control, where the
pools have recycling water systems and evaporative covers, or where the use of
the pool is required by a medical doctor's prescription;
   (D)   The use of water in a fountain or pond for aesthetic or scenic
purposes, except where necessary to support fish life.
(Ord. 09-409, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 53.70 NONESSENTIAL COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL USE.
   The following commercial or industrial water uses are hereby determined to
be nonessential and are prohibited:
   (A)   The use of water to serve a customer in a restaurant unless requested
by the customer;
   (B)   The use of water for scenic and recreational ponds and lakes, except
for the minimum amount required to support fish life;
   (C)   The use of water from hydrants for construction purposes, fire drills,
or any purpose other than firefighting;
   (D)   The use of water by a golf course to irrigate any portion of its
grounds except those areas designated as tees and greens;
   (E) The use of water for dust control.
(Ord. 09-409, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 53.71 GUTTER FLOODING.
   No person or customer shall cause or permit water to run to waste in any
gutter or drain.
(Ord. 09-409, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 53.72 REGULATION OF APPLICATIONS FOR NEW WATER SERVICE.
   No applications for new, additional, further expanded, or increased-in-size
water service connections, meters, service lines, pipeline extensions, mains,
or other water service facilities of any kind shall be allowed, approved, or
installed while this subchapter and its terms have been invoked by the city.
(Ord. 09-409, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 53.73 CITATION FOR VIOLATION OF THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   Whenever any portion of this subchapter is violated, a citation may be
issued by a police officer of the city, the Chief of the Fire Department or the
Chief's assistant, or any other person designated to do so by the City Manager.
That citation shall incur a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500, said
fine to be considered and imposed by the Judge of the Municipal Court for the
City of Rockaway Beach. Each day this subchapter is violated is a separate
offense.
(Ord. 09-409, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 53.74 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The City Manager may, after 1 warning by certified mail or served in
person by staff to the offending party, disconnect the water service of any
person or customer whenever he or she determines that such person or customer
has failed to comply with any provisions of this subchapter. Service so
disconnected shall be restored only upon payment of a turn-on charge, hereby
fixed at $100 during office hours or $200 after office hours, or as otherwise
specified by law, in addition to any other costs incurred by the city in the
discontinuance of service and the giving of suitable assurances to the city
that the action causing the discontinuance will not be repeated.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, the city may, prior to restoration of
service, install a flow restrictive device on the customer's service.
(Ord. 09-409, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 53.75 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The City Manager may, in writing, grant temporary variances for
prospective uses of water otherwise prohibited after determining that due to
unusual circumstances the failure to grant such variance would cause an
emergency condition affecting health, sanitation, or fire protection of the
applicant or the public.
   (B)   The city shall ratify or revoke any such variance or adjustment at its
next scheduled meeting. Any such variance or adjustment so ratified may be
revoked by later action of the city.
   (C)   No such variance shall be retroactive or otherwise justify any
violation of this subchapter occurring prior to issuance of said temporary
variance.
(Ord. 09-409, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Each day's violation of a provision §§
53.01 et seq. constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   The city may impose a fine of the greater of $200 per day per
violation or the cost of any expense, loss, cost of repair or damage occasioned
by the city, whichever is greater.
      (3)   The city shall have all other remedies available to it by law.
      (4)   Failure to pay all fines and costs in full shall result in
termination of service.
      (5)   The city retains the right to discontinue service to any premise
which violates provisions of §§
53.01 et seq., public health and safety concerns or for any other reason the
city feels is necessary for the health and safety of the city's residents and/
or to protect the city's water system.
(Ord. 06-399, passed 10-25-2006)
   (C)   Any person found violating §§
53.50 et seq. of this chapter shall upon conviction be punished by a fine of
not more than $500 and each day of the violation shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, Ord. 73, passed 9-13-1966; Am. Ord. 04-388, passed 7-14-2004)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.001   Short title
   
70.002   Definitions
   
70.003   Effective date
   
70.004   Oregon Vehicle Code adopted
Administration
   
70.015   Powers of the Council
   
70.016   Duties of the Mayor and Council
   
70.017   Public danger
   
70.018   Standards
   
70.019   Authority of police and fire officers
General Regulations
   
70.035   Crossing private property
   
70.036   Unlawful riding
   
70.037   Sleds on streets
   
70.038   Damaging sidewalks and curbs
   
70.039   Removing glass and debris
Parking Regulations
   
70.055   Method of parking
   
70.056   Prohibited parking or standing
   
70.057   Use of loading zone
   
70.058   Unattended vehicles
   
70.059   Standing or parking of buses and taxicabs
   
70.060   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands
   
70.061   Lights on parked vehicle
   
70.062   Extension of parking time
   
70.063   Exemption
Bicycles, Pedestrians and Funeral Processions
   
70.080   Bicycle operating rules
   
70.081   Skateboard operating rules
   
70.082   Impounding of bicycles and skateboards
   
70.083   Pedestrians must use crosswalks
   
70.084   Right angles
   
70.085   Funeral procession
Parking Citations and Owner Responsibility
   
70.100   Citation on illegally parked vehicle
   
70.101   Failure to comply with parking citation attached to parked vehicle
   
70.102   Owner responsibility
   
70.103   Registered owner presumption
   
70.104   Impoundment of vehicles
   
70.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the City of Rockaway Beach Uniform Traffic
Ordinance.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
§ 70.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUS STOP. A space on the edge of a roadway designated by sign for use by
buses loading or unloading passengers.
      HOLIDAY. New Year's Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day,
Christmas Day and any other day proclaimed by the Council to be a holiday.
      LOADING ZONE. A space on the edge of a roadway designated by a sign for
the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or materials during specified
hours of specified days.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle that is self-propelled, including tractors,
forklift trucks, motorcycles, road building equipment, street cleaning
equipment and any other vehicle capable of moving under its own power,
notwithstanding that the vehicle may be exempt from licensing under the motor
vehicle laws of Oregon.
      PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
      TAXICAB STAND. A space on the edge of a roadway designated by a sign for
use by taxicabs.
      TRAFFIC LANE. That area of the roadway used for the movement of a single
line of traffic.
      VEHICLE. As used in subsequent sections of this chapter, includes
bicycles.
   (B)   As used in this chapter, the singular includes the plural; and the
masculine includes the feminine.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
§ 70.003 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this chapter and the repeal of ordinances shall take
effect on September 1, 1976.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
§ 70.004 OREGON VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The city adopts the Oregon Vehicle Code as it is presently constituted
and as it may be amended in the future.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of the Oregon Vehicle Code related to
vehicular or pedestrian traffic is an offense against the city.
(Ord. 10-410, passed 6-9-2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 70.015 POWERS OF THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Subject to state laws, the City Council shall exercise all municipal
traffic authority for the city except those powers specifically and expressly
delegated herein or by another ordinance.
   (B)   The powers of the Council shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Designation of through streets;
      (2)   Designation of 1-way streets;
      (3)   Designation of truck routes;
      (4)   Designation of parking meter zones;
      (5)   Restriction of the use of certain streets by any class or kind of
vehicle to protect the streets from damage;
      (6)   Authorization of greater maximum weights or lengths for vehicles
using city streets than specified by state law;
      (7)   Initiation of proceedings to change speed zones; and
      (8)   Revision of speed limits in parks.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
§ 70.016 DUTIES OF THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
   The Mayor and City Council or its designate shall exercise the following
duties:
   (A)   Implement the ordinances, resolutions and motions of the Council by
installing traffic control devices. The installations shall be based on the
standards contained in the Oregon Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for
Streets and Highways; and
   (B)   Establish, maintain, remove or alter the following classes of traffic
controls:
      (1)   Crosswalks, safety zones and traffic lanes;
      (2)   Intersection channelization and areas where drivers of vehicles
shall not make right, left or U-turns, and the time when the prohibition
applies; and
      (3)   Parking areas and time limitations, including the form of
permissible parking.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
§ 70.017 PUBLIC DANGER.
   Under conditions constituting a danger to the public, the Police Chief or
his or her designate may install temporary traffic control devices deemed by
him or her to be necessary.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
§ 70.018 STANDARDS.
   The regulations of the Mayor and City Council or its designate shall be
based upon:
   (A)   Traffic engineering principles and traffic investigations;
   (B)   Standards, limitations and rules promulgated by the Oregon
Transportation Commission; and
   (C)   Other recognized traffic control standards.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
§ 70.019 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE OFFICERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of police officers to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   In the event of a fire or other public emergency, officers of the
Police and Fire Department may direct traffic as conditions require,
notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.035 CROSSING PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a vehicle shall proceed from 1 street to an intersecting
street by crossing private property. This provision shall not apply to the
operator of a vehicle who stops on the property for the purpose of procuring or
providing goods or services.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.036 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   (A)   No operator shall permit a passenger and no passenger shall ride on a
vehicle upon a street except on a portion of the vehicle designed or intended
for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an employee
engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to a person riding within a
truck body in space intended for merchandise.
   (B)   No person shall board or alight from a vehicle while the vehicle is in
motion upon a street.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.037 SLEDS ON STREETS.
   No person shall use the streets for traveling on skis, toboggans, sleds or
similar devices, except where authorized.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.038 DAMAGING SIDEWALKS AND CURBS.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not drive upon a sidewalk or
roadside planting strip except to cross at a permanent or temporary driveway.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall place dirt, wood or other material in the
gutter or space next to the curb of a street with the intention of using it as
a driveway.
   (C)   No person shall remove a portion of a curb or move a motor vehicle or
device moved by a motor vehicle upon a curb or sidewalk without first obtaining
authorization and posting bond if required. A person who causes damage shall be
held responsible for the cost of repair.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.039 REMOVING GLASS AND DEBRIS.
   A party to a vehicle accident or a person causing broken glass or other
debris to be upon a street shall remove the glass and other debris from the
street.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 70.055 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   Where parking space markings are placed on a street, no person shall
stand or park a vehicle other than in the indicated direction and, unless the
size or shape of the vehicle makes compliance impossible, within a single
marked space.
   (B)   The operator who first begins maneuvering his or her motor vehicle
into a vacant parking space on a street shall have priority to park in that
space, and no other vehicle operator shall attempt to deprive him or her of his
or her priority or block his or her access.
   (C)   Whenever the operator of a vehicle discovers that his or her vehicle
is parked close to a building to which the Fire Department has been summoned,
he or she shall immediately remove the vehicle from the area unless otherwise
directed by police or fire officers.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
§ 70.056 PROHIBITED PARKING OR STANDING.
   (A)   In addition to the state motor vehicle laws prohibiting parking, no
person shall park or stand:
      (1)   A vehicle in an alley other than for the expeditious loading or
unloading of persons or materials, and in no case for a period in excess of 30
consecutive minutes;
      (2)   A motor truck as defined by O.R.S. 801.355 on a street between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following day in front of or adjacent
to a residence, motel, apartment house, hotel or other sleeping accommodation;
      (3)   A vehicle on the west side of United States Highway 101 between
Nehalem Street to South Second Street; and
      (4)   No person shall park or stand a motor vehicle as defined in §
70.002, MOTOR VEHICLE, commencing at the southeast corner of the intersection
of United States Highway 101 and South Second Avenue on the east side of United
States Highway 101 for a distance of 78 feet south.
   (B)   No operator shall park and no owner shall allow a vehicle to be parked
upon a street for the principal purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
      (2)   Repairing or servicing the vehicle, except repairs necessitated by
an emergency;
      (3)   Displaying advertising from the vehicle; and
      (4)   Selling merchandise from the vehicle, except when authorized.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976; Am. Ord. 140, passed 5-24-1977; Am.
Ord. 95-326, passed 2-22-1995)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.057 USE OF LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of time,
other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of persons or materials, in
a place designated as a loading zone when the hours applicable to that loading
zone are in effect. In no case, when the hours applicable to the loading zone
are in effect, shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed the
time limits posted. If no time limits are posted, then the use of the zone
shall not exceed 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.058 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   Whenever a police officer shall find a motor vehicle parked unattended with
the ignition key in the vehicle, the police officer is authorized to remove the
key from the vehicle, and deliver the key to the person in charge of the police
station.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
§ 70.059 STANDING OR PARKING OF BUSES AND TAXICABS.
   The operator of a bus or taxicab shall not stand or park the vehicle upon a
street in a business district at a place other than a bus stop or taxicab
stand, respectively; except that this provision shall not prevent the operator
of a taxicab from temporarily stopping his or her vehicle outside a traffic
lane while loading or unloading passengers.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.060 RESTRICTED USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle other than a taxi cab in a taxicab
stand, or a bus in a bus stop, except that the operator of a passenger vehicle
may temporarily stop for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading
or unloading passengers, when stopping does not interfere with a bus or taxicab
waiting to enter or about to enter the restricted space.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.061 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLE.
   No lights need be displayed upon a vehicle that is parked in accordance with
this chapter upon a street where there is sufficient light to reveal a person
or object at a distance of at least 500 feet from the vehicle.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
§ 70.062 EXTENSION OF PARKING TIME.
   Where maximum parking time limits are designated by sign, movement of a
vehicle within a block shall not extend the time limits for parking.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
§ 70.063 EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the parking or standing of
vehicles shall not apply to a vehicle of the city, county or state or public
utility while necessarily in use for construction or repair work on a street,
or a vehicle owned by the United States while in use for the collection,
transportation or delivery of mail.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
BICYCLES, PEDESTRIANS AND FUNERAL PROCESSIONS
§ 70.080 BICYCLE OPERATING RULES.
   In addition to observing other applicable provisions of state and local laws
pertaining to bicycles, no person shall:
   (A)   Park a bicycle other than in a bicycle rack. If no bicycle rack is
available, the person shall leave the bicycle so that it does not obstruct a
roadway, sidewalk, driveway or building entrance;
   (B)   Park a bicycle in violation of a motor vehicle parking provision;
   (C)   Park a bicycle secured to a fire hydrant, or police or fire call box;
   (D)   Ride a bicycle on any sidewalk between North Third Street to South
Third Street and from the Pacific Ocean to Coral Street, in Rockaway Beach,
Oregon;
   (E)   Park a bicycle on a sidewalk except in a city approved bicycle rack;
   (F)   Park a bicycle on private property without consent of the owner or
person in charge. Consent shall be implied on private commercial property
unless bicycle parking is expressly prohibited; and
   (G)   Park a bicycle on a stand or public property for more than 24 hours.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976; Am. Ord. 263, passed 5-23-1989)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.081 SKATEBOARD OPERATING RULES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Ride a skateboard on a sidewalk, walkway, path, porch or pedestrian
area within the area of North Third Street to South Third Street and from the
Pacific Ocean to Coral Street in the city; and
   (B)   Leave or park a skateboard on a sidewalk or walkway.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976; Am. Ord. 263, passed 5-23-1989)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.082 IMPOUNDING BICYCLES AND SKATEBOARDS.
   (A)   Bicycles and skateboards operated, parked, or left in violation of
this chapter or any provision of state law may be immediately impounded by the
Police Department, in addition to any citation issued.
   (B)   The Police Department shall make reasonable efforts to locate the
owner of any bicycle or skateboard impounded under the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   A bicycle or skateboard impounded under this chapter which remains
unclaimed for 30 days shall be disposed of in accordance with the city's
procedures for disposal of abandoned or lost personal property.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976; Am. Ord. 263, passed 5-23-1989)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.083 PEDESTRIANS MUST USE CROSSWALKS.
   No pedestrian shall cross a street other than within a crosswalk in blocks
with marked crosswalks or if within 150 feet of a marked crosswalk.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.084 RIGHT ANGLES.
   A pedestrian shall cross a street at a right angle unless crossing within a
crosswalk.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
§ 70.085 FUNERAL PROCESSION.
   (A)   A funeral procession shall proceed to the place of interment by the
most direct route which is both legal and practicable.
   (B)   The procession shall be accompanied by adequate escort vehicles for
traffic control purposes.
   (C)   All motor vehicles in the procession shall be operated with their
lights turned on.
   (D)   No person shall unreasonably interfere with a funeral procession.
   (E)   No person shall operate a vehicle that is not a part of the procession
between the vehicles of a funeral procession.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
Penalty, see § 70.999
PARKING CITATIONS AND OWNER RESPONSIBILITY
§ 70.100 CITATION ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   Whenever a vehicle without an operator is found parked in violation of a
restriction imposed by this chapter, the officer finding the vehicle shall take
its license number, and any other information displayed on the vehicle which
may identify its owner, and shall conspicuously affix to the vehicle a parking
citation for the operator to answer to the charge against him or her or pay the
penalty imposed within 5 days during the hours and at a place specified in the
citation.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
§ 70.101 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PARKING CITATION ATTACHED TO PARKED VEHICLE.
   If the operator does not respond to a parking citation affixed to a vehicle
within a period of 5 days, the city recorder may send to the owner of the
vehicle to which the traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him or her
of the violation and warning him or her that in the event that the letter is
disregarded for a period of 5 days, a warrant for his or her arrest will be
issued.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
§ 70.102 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of a vehicle placed in violation of a parking restriction shall be
responsible for the offense, except when the use of the vehicle was secured by
the operator without the owner's consent.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
§ 70.103 REGISTERED OWNER PRESUMPTION.
   In a prosecution of a vehicle owner charging a violation on of a restriction
on parking, proof that the vehicle at the time of the violation was registered
to the defendant shall constitute a presumption that he or she was then the
owner in fact.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
§ 70.104 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is placed in a manner or location that constitutes
an obstruction to traffic or a hazard to public safety, a police officer shall
order the owner or operator of the vehicle to remove it. If the vehicle is
unattended, the officer may cause the vehicle to be towed and stored at the
owner's expense. The owner shall be liable for the costs of towing and storing,
notwithstanding that the vehicle was parked by another or that the vehicle was
initially parked in a safe manner but subsequently became an obstruction or
hazard.
   (B)   The disposition of a vehicle towed and stored under authority of this
section shall be in accordance with the provisions of the ordinance of the city
relating to impoundment and disposition of vehicles abandoned on the city
streets.
   (C)   The impoundment of a vehicle will not preclude the issuance of a
citation for violation of a provision of this chapter.
   (D)   Stolen vehicles may be towed from public or private property and
stored at the expense of the vehicle owner.
   (E)   Whenever a police officer observes a vehicle parked in violation of a
provision of this chapter, if the vehicle has 4 or more unpaid parking
violations outstanding against it, the officer may, in addition to issuing a
citation, cause the vehicle to be impounded. A vehicle so impounded shall not
be released until all outstanding fines and charges have been paid. Vehicles
impounded under authority of this division shall be disposed of in the same
manner as is provided in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976)
§ 70.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this chapter is punishable by a fine in an amount set by
City Council from time to time.
   (B)   Violation of §§
70.035 et seq. is punishable by fine in an amount set by City Council from time
to time, or confinement in the city jail not to exceed 10 days, or both fine
and imprisonment.
   (C)   Violation of §§
70.055 et seq. and §§
70.080 et seq. is punishable by fine in an amount set by City Council from time
to time.
   (D)   A fee in an amount set by City Council from time to time shall be
charged to the owner of any bicycle or skateboard impounded under this chapter
prior to its return to its owner.
(Prior Code, Ord. 129, passed 8-24-1976; Am. Ord. 263, passed 5-23-1989)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
   
91.   ANIMALS
   
92.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
   
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
94.   NUISANCES
   
95.   NOISE
   
96.   EXCLUDING INDIVIDUALS FROM CITY PROPERTY
   
97.   ADMINISTRATIVE WARRANTS
CHAPTER 90: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
90.01   Regulating garage sales
   
90.02   Fire prevention and protection; maintaining open fires
   
90.03   Camping on beach; prohibited
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 REGULATING GARAGE SALES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the term GARAGE SALE shall be defined
as any sale, displaying of goods for sale, or the offer to sell used goods
within the city limits by any individual or group of individuals from any
private property, including but not limited to garages, porches, carports and
yards.
   (B)   A garage sale permit shall be obtained at the Rockaway Beach City Hall
prior to any sale in excess of 3 consecutive days and would be valid for no
more than 10 consecutive days in any 6-month period in the same location. Any
sale permit in excess of 10 days would need City Council approval.
   (C)   Advertising shall be allowed on premise only, and no off premise signs
are allowed unless prior written consent of property owner has been obtained.
Signs on public property are prohibited at all times and shall be removed.
   (D)   Sales commonly referred to as rummage sales, conducted by members of
civic, patriotic, religious, service, charitable or educational organizations,
including fraternal, are exempted from the required permit fees.
   (E)   The City Council shall set permit fees by resolution.
   (F)   Issuance of the permit under this section shall not constitute a
waiver of the requirements of the zoning ordinance or any other ordinance of
the City of Rockaway Beach.
(Prior Code, Ord. 95-326, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 90.02 FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION; MAINTAINING OPEN FIRES.
   (A)   Burn permits. It shall be unlawful for any person, at any time, to
ignite or maintain a fire out-of-doors without having first obtained a written
permit signed by authorized city personnel, the city Fire Chief or his or her
designee. Regulations governing issuance of open fires shall be adopted by
resolution. Permits for open fires shall be issued in accordance with adopted
regulations with the following excepted:
      (1)   Confined fires. Out-of-doors fires confined to an incinerator
covered with wire grating and so built as to meet requirements of the State
Fire Marshal are specifically allowed at all times.
      (2)   Fire pits. Out-of-doors open fire pit fires are allowed at all
times provided that:
         (a)   The fire pit is located on private property;
         (b)   The fire pit is made of noncombustible material such as rock or
brick;
         (c)   The fire pit has a 15-feet diameter around the pit which is
noncombustible;
         (d)   Water of sufficient quantity for fire suppression, a hose and a
shovel must be in the immediate vicinity of the fire pit at all times that a
fire is present; and
         (e)   The fire must have a person in attendance over the age of 18
years at all times that a fire is present.
   (B)   Large burns. It shall be unlawful for any person, at any time, to
ignite or maintain a fire out-of-doors on a vacant lot or any burn anticipated
to be larger or of a longer duration than normally conducted on an occupied lot
without having first obtained a written permit signed by the Rockaway Beach
Fire Chief or his or her designee. Such a burn may require a visual inspection
by the Fire Chief or his or her designee prior to issuance of a permit.
   (C)   Restrictions. Burn permits issued under this section may contain
safety conditions and restrictions as may be required by the issuing authority.
   (D)   Beach fires.  Beach fires are allowed at all times provided that the
fires are:
      (1)   At least 50 feet from any beach grass;
      (2)   Are not in or near combustible log piles; and
      (3)   Are built on sand or rock.
   (E)   Sale of fireworks. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to sell consumer fireworks as defined in O.R.S. 480.111, within the
City of Rockaway Beach.
   (F)   Use of fireworks. Except as authorized under permit of the Oregon
State Fire Marshal, it shall be unlawful for any person to shoot or discharge
fireworks within the City of Rockaway Beach.
   (G)   Restriction or banning. Notwithstanding any other provision herein,
the Fire Chief of the city or his or her designee, shall have the authority at
any time to restrict or ban any type of fire or burn within the city when, in
his or her sole discretion, conditions exist which make out-of-doors fires
unsafe, or create a nuisance which is a threat to public health, welfare and
safety.
(Prior Code, Ord. 95-324, passed 1-11-1995; Am. Ord. 96-340, passed 12-11-1996;
Am. Ord. 23-443, passed 7-12-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CAMPING ON BEACH; PROHIBITED.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this section, no person shall
camp upon any portion of the beach located within the city limits.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CAMP and CAMPING. The setting up upon the beach a tent or other means of
shelter with the intent to use the beach and tent or other means of shelter as
a place for housing or shelter for a period of time.
   (C)   The erection of a tent or other shelter upon the beach shall be deemed
prima facie evidence of the person's intent to use the tent or shelter as
housing or for purposes of shelter.
(Prior Code, Ord. 59, passed 8-11-1959)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates §
90.02(F) is guilty of an infraction, which is punishable by a fine not to
exceed $2,000.
   (C)   Each occurrence of a violation, or, in the case of continuous
violations, each day a violation occurs or continues, constitutes a separate
infraction, and may be punished separately.
(Am. Ord. 23-443, passed 7-12-2023)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
Wild Life
   
91.01   Feeding and keeping of wild animals
Dog Control
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Running-at-large
   
91.17   Dogs not affected
   
91.18   Dogs which are nuisances
   
91.19   Dogs to be identified
   
91.20   Dog waste matter
   
91.21   Impounding
   
91.22   Seizing certain dogs
   
91.23   Killing of certain dogs
   
91.24   Vicious dogs
   
91.25   Reporting of biting dogs or other animals
   
91.26   Biting and rabid dogs; quarantine
   
91.27   Animal confinement
   
91.28   Owner responsibility
   
91.29   Interference with officer
   
91.30   Entry onto private land
   
91.31   Dogs creating a nuisance
   
91.32   Notification requirements; redemption fee
   
91.33   Right of appeal
   
91.34   Licensing
   
91.99   Penalty
WILD LIFE
§ 91.01 FEEDING AND KEEPING OF WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally feed or keep fur-bearing mammals as
defined in O.R.S. 496.004, which includes beaver, bobcat, fisher, marten, mink,
muskrat, otter, raccoon, red fox and gray fox, on either public or private
property.
   (B)   No person shall intentionally feed or keep game mammals as defined in
O.R.S. 496.004, which includes antelope, black bear, cougar, deer, elk, moose,
mountain goat, mountain sheep, silvergray squirrel and gray wolf on either
public or private property.
   (C)   No person shall intentionally feed or keep exotic animals as defined
in O.R.S. 609.205.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be subject to
penalties prescribed in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, Ord. 2000-359, passed 4-1-2000; Am. Ord. 2024-03, passed 7-17-
2024) Penalty, see §
91.99
DOG CONTROL
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT-LARGE. Off the premises of the owner or person having the control,
custody or possession of the dog while the dog is not under the complete
control of the owner or the person by an 8 foot or less, adequate restraint,
chain or leash; but the use of the chain or leash shall not be required when
the dog is safely and securely confined or completely controlled while in, or
upon, a motor vehicle.
   DOG. Any animal in the canine family.
   OWNER. A person, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping or
harboring a dog.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983; Am. Ord. 05-396, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 91.16 RUNNING-AT-LARGE.
   Hereafter it shall be unlawful for any person owning or having the care or
custody or possession of any male or female dog of any age, to suffer or permit
the same to run-at-large within the limits of the City of Rockaway Beach.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.17 DOGS NOT AFFECTED.
   (A)   Dogs on the beach in the City of Rockaway Beach shall be considered
and subject to the definition of a dog at-large as defined under §§
91.15 and
91.17, excepting when accompanied by and under the control of its owner or
person having the care, custody or possession of the dog.
   (B)   A guide dog being used by a blind person will be exempt from §§
91.15 and
91.17.
   (C)   A police dog in performance of its duty while on patrol accompanied by
an officer.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983)
§ 91.18 DOGS WHICH ARE NUISANCES.
   A dog is a public nuisance if it:
   (A)   Bites a person;
   (B)   Habitually chases vehicles, bicyclists or other persons;
   (C)   Damages or destroys property of persons other than the owner of the
dog;
   (D)   Scatters garbage or trash;
   (E)   Habitually trespasses on private property of persons other than the
owner of the dog;
   (F)   Barking or whining that would disturb a reasonable person;
   (G)   Is a female in heat and running-at-large;
   (H)   Drinks from a public fountain; and
   (I)   Routinely impedes the entrance to public ways or buildings.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983; Am. Ord. 05-396, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 91.19 DOGS TO BE IDENTIFIED.
   A dog shall be licensed and wear an identification tag indicating its
owner's name, address and telephone number, and the tag shall be attached
securely to a collar or harness on the dog. Any dog without identification will
be impounded as a lost or unwanted dog. Licenses and tags shall be obtained by
owners through the Rockaway City Hall.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983; Am. Ord. 05-396, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 91.20 DOG WASTE MATTER.
   No person owning or in custody, control or possession of any dog shall cause
or permit the dog to defecate on any property other than that of the person
owning, or in custody, possession or control of the dog; but it shall be a
defense to this charge to immediately remove the feces from the property.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.21 IMPOUNDING.
   A dog which is running-at-large, is a nuisance or is not identified by a tag
indicating owner's name, address and telephone number is in violation of this
subchapter and may be impounded by the Police Chief, Dog Control Officer or any
other authorized law enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983; Am. Ord. 05-396, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 91.22 SEIZING CERTAIN DOGS.
   A dog found biting a person or showing a propensity to bite persons may be
summarily seized by any person and promptly delivered to the Rockaway Beach
Police Department, or any other law enforcement department or officer for
impounding.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983)
§ 91.23 KILLING OF CERTAIN DOGS.
   A vicious dog running-at-large, which because of its disposition or diseased
conditions is too hazardous to apprehend, may be destroyed by a peace officer.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983: Am. Ord. 05-396, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 91.24 VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   A vicious dog is one that has shown a propensity to bite or attack any
person without provocation and the capacity to inflict serious harm on a
person.
   (B)   It shall be presumed that any dog which has attacked or bitten a human
being without provocation, is a vicious dog.
      (1)   A vicious dog must be kept on the owner's property in a secure
environment capable of assuring that the animal is unable to escape. A vicious
dog must be under the immediate control of its owner or handler, and must be
restrained with a short leash at all the times that it is not on the owner's
property in a secure environment. IMMEDIATE CONTROL means that the animal may
not be loose or tied up away from the owner at any time it is not in a secure
environment.
      (2)   A vicious dog which either has bitten a person or is being kept in
violation of division (B)(1) above, may be impounded by any peace officer or
dog control officer and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter for the impoundment and disposition of dogs.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983; Am. Ord. 99-355, passed 6-23-1999)
§ 91.25 REPORTING OF BITING DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owner of a dog or other animal which bites a human being, shall
immediately notify the Police Department of the bite and address of the person
bitten, if known.
   (B)   Any person who is bitten by a dog or other animal shall forthwith
notify the Police Department of the bite giving a description of the dog or
other animal, the time and circumstances of the bite and the name and address
of the owner, if known.
   (C)   When a doctor, veterinarian, hospital employee or other person has
information that a person has been bitten by a dog or other animal, the person
shall forthwith notify the Police Department.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983)
§ 91.26 BITING AND RABID DOGS; QUARANTINE.
   (A)   When either the Police Department or the Departments of Public Health
and Sanitation or Public Safety of the City of Rockaway Beach has grounds to
suspect that a dog is infected with the disease of rabies, there shall be
delivered to the owner of the dog a written notice thereof. The owner shall
thereupon be required to quarantine the dog for 10 days. The biting of any
person by the dog shall constitute adequate grounds for suspecting the dog to
be so infected. The delivery of the notice to a member of the owner's family 14
years of age or older at the premises where the dog is kept or at the owner's
usual place of abode shall be considered a delivery of the notice to the owner.
Any dog required to be quarantined shall be confined as follows:
      (1)   On the owner's premises in such a manner as to prevent it from
being in contact with any other animal or person; and
      (2)   At the owner's expense in a veterinary hospital.
   (B)   Any animal that has been bitten by a dog or other animal proved to be
rabid shall be destroyed.
   (C)   If a dog exhibits symptoms of rabies while it is under quarantine, the
Director of Public Health may order in writing that it be destroyed and that
its head be submitted to the Oregon State Public Health Laboratory.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983)
§ 91.27 ANIMAL CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit any animal to
be confined within, or on a motor vehicle, or any location under the conditions
as may endanger the health or well being of the animal, including but not
limited to dangerous temperature, lack of food, water, attention or confinement
with a dangerous animal.
   (B)   No enforcement officer hall be held criminally or civilly liable for
actions pursuant to this section, provided the officer acts in good faith, or
probable cause and without malice.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983: Am. Ord. 05-396, passed 6-21-2005)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.28 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   No person who is the owner of a dog, or who has or shares the care, custody,
possession or control of a dog, shall allow the dog to bark loudly or with such
frequency as to cause discomfort to other persons. Once a complaint has been
received by an enforcement officer, a citation may be issued for violation of
this section if a complaint is signed by the person complaining on the barking
dog.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983: Am. Ord. 05-396, passed 6-21-2005)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.29 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere in any way with any police
officer or dog control officer of the City of Rockaway Beach, engaged in
seizing or impounding any dog under authority of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.30 ENTRY ONTO PRIVATE LAND.
   Any dog control officer or any peace officer shall have the privilege of
entering onto private land in the course of the officer's duties in enforcing
the provisions of this subchapter, but the officer shall not enter into any
building or dwelling without legal authorization or permission of the owner or
occupant of the premises.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983)
§ 91.31 DOGS CREATING A NUISANCE.
   Any dog which disturbs any person by frequent or prolonged noise shall be
confined to the inside of the owner's residence or the residence of the person
having the care, custody or possession of the dog. Any owner or person having
the care, custody or possession of a dog and who has been notified of a
complaint against the dog shall immediately bring the dog inside the residence
of the person. Any person not taking immediate action shall be in violation of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.32 NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS; REDEMPTION FEE.
   (A)   Whenever a dog is impounded pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter, the city shall give to the dog's owner, if known, notice that the
dog has been impounded and the reasons therefore. The notice shall state that
the owner has 3 days within which to apply for an appeal as provided in §
91.33. If the owner does not apply for an appeal within the required time, the
dog, if a vicious dog, may be humanely killed or, if other than a vicious dog,
may be either humanely killed or disposed of to a person agreeing to provide it
a suitable home.
   (B)   Where the police officer or animal control officer seizes a dog
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, the owner of the dog seeking to
regain it shall pay a redemption fee as established by the city.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983; Am. Ord. 99-355, passed 6-23-1999)
§ 91.33 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   A dog owner, believing himself or herself aggrieved by the seizure and
impounding of his or her dog, may apply to the Municipal Judge for the release
of his or her dog; and the Municipal Judge shall thereupon set a time and place
for hearing the application and notify the enforcing officer; and upon a
summary hearing at the time and place the Municipal Judge shall have full power
to determine whether the dog has been wrongfully impounded and whether he or
she shall be returned to his or her owner and upon what terms.
   (B)   Where the police officer or animal control officer seizes a dog
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, the owner of the dog seeking to
regain it shall pay a redemption impoundment fee as follows:
      (1)   Twenty-five dollars for the first impoundment;
      (2)   Fifty dollars for the second impoundment; or
      (3)   One hundred dollars for each subsequent impoundment. If unlicensed,
the applicable license fees must also be paid.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983; Am. Ord. 05-396, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 91.34 LICENSING.
   Licensing fees shall be established by the County Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, Ord. 230, passed 9-27-1983; Am. Ord. 05-396, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
Storage of Vehicle on Public Right-of-Way
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Storage of vehicles
   
92.03   Off-street parking
   
92.04   Vehicles stored in excess of 30 days
   
92.05   Notice of abatement
   
92.06   Placing vehicle in such a manner as to create a hazard
   
92.07   Impounding abandoned property
Impounding and Disposition of Discarded Vehicles
   
92.20   Definitions
   
92.21   Declaration of public nuisance
   
92.22   Prohibited action
   
92.23   Police duty
   
92.24   Entry upon private property
   
92.25   Hearing by City Council
   
92.26   Abatement by city and appraisal
   
92.27   Low value vehicle
   
92.28   Public sale notice
   
92.29   Public sale
   
92.30   Redemption before sale
   
92.31   Assessment of costs
   
92.99   Penalty
STORAGE OF VEHICLE ON PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless then context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The appointed Chief for the City of Rockaway Beach, his or
her designee or that person authorized by the City Council to act in that
capacity.
   CITY. The City of Rockaway Beach and all streets, avenues or ways within the
city limits.
   COSTS. All expenses associated with removing, storing and disposing of an
impounded vehicle.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tool, implement, personal property or machinery.
   OWNER OF THE VEHICLE. As shown by the records of the Department of
Transportation, shall be considered responsible for the abandonment of a
vehicle in the manner prohibited by this section and shall be liable for the
cost of removal and disposition of the abandoned vehicle.
   STORAGE. A vehicle that remains unmoved for 30 days.
   STORAGE IN EXCESS OF 30 DAYS. Shall constitute abandonment.
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is, or may
be transported upon, a public highway and includes vehicles that are propelled
or powered by any means.
      (2)   This definition includes water craft and their trailers.
(Ord. 372, passed 9-26-2001)
§ 92.02 STORAGE OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle or equipment may be stored on a public right-of-way in excess of
30 days without first having received a permit from the city.
(Ord. 372, passed 9-26-2001)
§ 92.03 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Property owners, renters and persons permitted to use the property
where the vehicle is stored who do not have off-street parking available shall
be permitted to park their vehicles and equipment on the right-of-way adjacent
to their property.
   (B)   However, §
92.04 shall apply.
(Ord. 372, passed 9-26-2001)
§ 92.04 VEHICLES STORED IN EXCESS OF 30 DAYS.
   (A)   Vehicles stored in excess of 30 days shall be declared abandoned. A
vehicle abandoned in violation of this section is subject to the provisions for
removal of abandoned vehicles under O.R.S. 819.110 and 819.120 and to being
sold as provided under O.R.S. 819.210 or 819.220.
   (B)   The offense described in this section, abandoning a vehicle, is a
Class B traffic violation.
(Ord. 372, passed 9-26-2001)
§ 92.05 NOTICE OF ABATEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department, whenever a vehicle is
found stored on the public right-of-way, to:
      (1)   Request of the owner to remove the vehicle; or
      (2)   If the owner cannot be located, to place a notice upon the
windshield or some other part of the vehicle easily seen by the passing public.
   (B)   The notice shall state that the Police Department will remove and
impound the vehicle 5 days after the time of posting, unless:
      (1)   The owner removes the vehicle;
      (2)   Good cause is shown why the vehicle should not be removed; and
      (3)   Notification by registered mail to the owner’s address that appears
in the records of the Department of Motor Vehicles shall suffice.
(Ord. 372, passed 9-26-2001)
§ 92.06 PLACING VEHICLE IN SUCH A MANNER AS TO CREATE A HAZARD.
   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in such a manner or location that it
constitutes a hazard to public safety or an obstruction on the street.
(Ord. 372, passed 9-26-2001)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.07 IMPOUNDING ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   Any vehicle that becomes abandoned shall be taken by an accredited towing
service to the service's facility and disposed of in accord with O.R.S.
819.120.
(Ord. 372, passed 9-26-2001)
IMPOUNDING AND DISPOSITION OF DISCARDED VEHICLES.
§ 92.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. Includes any authorized law enforcement officer of the
city.
   COSTS. The expense of removing, storing or selling a junked vehicle.
   DISCARDED. 
      (1)   Any vehicle which does not have lawfully affixed thereto an
unexpired license plate and is in one or more of the following conditions:
         (a)   Inoperative;
         (b)   Wrecked;
         (c)   Dismantled;
         (d)   Partially dismantled;
         (e)   Abandoned; and
         (f)   Junked.
      (2)   DISCARDED VEHICLES may be deemed to include major parts thereof,
including but not limited to, bodies, engines, transmissions and rear ends.
   PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY. Any agent, occupant, lessee, contract
purchaser, owner or person having possession, control or title of property
where a vehicle is located.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   VEHICLE OWNER. Any individual, firm, corporation or unincorporated
association with a claim, either individually or jointly, of ownership or any
interest, legal or equitable, in a vehicle.
(Prior Code, Ord. 135, passed 9-14-1976)
§ 92.21 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The open accumulation and storage of a discarded vehicle is hereby found to
create a condition tending to reduce the value of private property; to promote
blight, deterioration and unsightliness; to invite plundering; to create fire
hazards; to constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health
and safety of minors; to create a harborage for rodents and insects; and to be
injurious to the health, safety and general welfare. Therefore, the presence of
a discarded vehicle on private or public property is hereby declared to
constitute a public nuisance which may be abated in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ord. 135, passed 9-14-1976)
§ 92.22 PROHIBITED ACTION.
   It shall be unlawful to store or permit the storing of a discarded vehicle
upon any private property within the city unless the vehicle is completely
enclosed within a building or unless it is in connection with a business
enterprise dealing in junked vehicles lawfully conducted within the city.
(Prior Code, Ord. 135, passed 9-14-1976)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.23 POLICE ON DUTY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, whenever a discarded
vehicle is found upon private property to:
      (1)   Make an investigation to discover the owner of the vehicle and the
person in charge of the property upon which the vehicle is located and give
written notice to them by personal service or by registered mail that the
vehicle is in violation of this subchapter; and
      (2)   If the owner of the vehicle is not found, to place a notice upon
the windshield or some other part of the vehicle where it can be easily seen.
   (B)   The notice shall state that a certain discarded vehicle is in
violation of this subchapter and that within 7 days of the day of the sending
or posting of the notice:
      (1)   The vehicle must be removed from the city or to the storage yard of
a business enterprise dealing in junked vehicles lawfully conducted within the
city; or
      (2)   Completely enclosed within a building.
   (C)   The notice shall also state that the alternative to compliance with
division (B) above is to petition the City Recorder and request appearance in
writing before the City Council within 7 days of sending or posting of the
notice and show cause why the vehicle should not be immediately abated as
provided in this subchapter.
   (D)   The notice shall also state that failure to comply with this
subchapter authorizes the city to remove the vehicle and charge the cost.
   (E)   In the enforcement and execution of the provisions of this subchapter,
the Chief of Police shall charge and collect towing charges in an amount set by
City Council from time to time and storage charges in an amount set by City
Council from time to time per day and deliver same to the City Recorder
together with an inventory of the vehicle including accessories and contents.
(Prior Code, Ord. 135, passed 9-14-1976)
§ 92.24 ENTRY UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized at all reasonable times to enter
upon private property and examine any vehicle for the purpose of determining
whether or not it is in a discarded condition. However, before entering upon
private property, the Chief shall obtain the consent of an occupant thereof or
a warrant of the Municipal Court authorizing his or her entry for the purpose
of inspection, except when an emergency exists.
   (B)   No search warrant shall be issued under the terms of this subchapter
until an affidavit has been filed with the Municipal Court, showing probable
cause for the inspection by stating the purpose and extent of the proposed
inspection, citing this subchapter as the basis for the inspection, whether it
is an inspection instituted by complaint or other specific or general
information concerning the vehicle in question or the property on which it is
situated.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with or attempt to prevent
the Chief of Police from entering upon private premises and inspecting any
vehicle when an emergency exists or the Chief exhibits a warrant authorizing
entry.
(Prior Code, Ord. 135, passed 9-14-1976)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.25 HEARING BY CITY COUNCIL.
   Pursuant to a request, the City Council shall fix a time for a hearing to
show cause why a vehicle should not be immediately abated. It shall receive the
evidence and testimony of the Chief of Police and other interested persons
concerning the existence, location and condition of the vehicle. After the
hearing, the Council may authorize and order the vehicle removed by the city in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. The Council shall make its
order in the form of a resolution which declares the vehicle to be a public
nuisance. The resolution may order the removal of more than 1 vehicle and may
consolidate the hearings and orders relating to more than 1 vehicle. The
persons receiving the notice specified in §
92.23 shall be sent copies of the resolution of the Council. In addition, the
Council may impose conditions and take the other action as it deems appropriate
under the circumstances in order to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.
It may delay the time for removal of the vehicle where, in its opinion, the
circumstances justify it. It shall refuse to order the removal of the vehicles
where the vehicle, in the opinion of the Council, is not subject to the
provisions of this subchapter. The Council shall not be bound by the technical
rules of evidence in the conduct of the hearing.
(Prior Code, Ord. 135, passed 9-14-1976)
§ 92.26 ABATEMENT BY CITY AND APPRAISAL.
   (A)   Seven days after the giving of notice required in §
92.23 or 7 days after adoption of a resolution declaring a vehicle to be a
public nuisance as set forth in §
92.25, the city shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction to abate the
nuisance and may remove the vehicle by use of city employees or duly authorized
independent contractors. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with,
hinder or refuse to allow the persons to enter upon private property for the
purpose of removing a vehicle under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   After removing the vehicle, the city shall cause it to be appraised.
(Prior Code, Ord. 135, passed 9-14-1976)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.27 LOW VALUE VEHICLE.
   (A)   If the vehicle is appraised at an amount set by City Council from time
to time, the Chief of Police shall file with the (Motor Vehicles Division) an
affidavit describing the vehicle, including the license plates, if any, stating
the location and appraised value of the vehicle, and stating that the vehicle
will be junked or dismantled. The Chief of Police may, without notice and
public auction, dispose of the vehicle and execute a certificate of sale.
   (B)   The certificate of sale shall be substantially as follows:
CERTIFICATE OF SALE
This is to certify that under the provisions of Ordinance No. 135 entitled “An
Ordinance for the Impounding and Disposition of Discarded Vehicles,” I did in
the                       day of          , 20                , sell to
                                         for the sum of $         , receipt
whereof is hereby acknowledged, I have this day delivered to said purchaser the
foregoing property.
Dated this                    Day of                                          ,
20                                                                 .
Note: The City of Rockaway Beach assumes no responsibility as to the condition
of title of the above-described property. In case this sale shall for any
reason be invalid, the liability of the city is limited to the return of the
purchase price.
(Prior Code, Ord. 135, passed 9-14-1976)
§ 92.28 PUBLIC SALE NOTICE.
   (A)   If the vehicle is appraised over an amount set by City Council from
time to time, the Chief of Police shall cause to be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city a notice of sale. The notice of sale shall
state:
      (1)   The sale is of discarded property in possession of the city;
      (2)   A description of the vehicle, including the type, make, license
number, I.D. number and any other information which will aid in accurately
identifying the vehicle;
      (3)   The terms of the sale; and
      (4)   The date, time and place of the sale.
   (B)   The notice of sale shall be published 2 times. The first publication
shall be made not less than 14 days prior to the date of the proposed sale, and
the second shall be made not less than 7 days prior to the date of the proposed
sale.
(Prior Code, Ord. 135, passed 9-14-1976)
§ 92.29 PUBLIC SALE.
   (A)   If a vehicle is appraised an amount set by City Council from time to
time, the Chief of Police shall hold a sale at the time and place appointed
within the view of the vehicle to be sold.
   (B)   The vehicle shall be sold to the highest and best bidder, providing
that if no bids are entered, or those bids which are entered are less than the
costs incurred by the city, the Chief of Police may enter a bid on behalf of
the city in an amount equal to the costs.
   (C)   At the time of payment of the purchase price, the Chief of Police
shall execute a certificate of sale, in duplicate, the original of which shall
be delivered to the purchaser and the copy thereof filed with the City
Recorder.
   (D)   The certificate of sale shall be substantially as follows:
CERTIFICATE OF SALE
This is to certify that under the provisions of Ordinance No. 135 entitled “An
Ordinance for the Impounding and Disposition of Discarded Vehicles” and
pursuant to due notice of the time and place of sale, I did on the
                                    day of                , 20
                             , sell at public auction to
                                               for the sum of $
                                                cash, he being the highest and
best bidder, and that being the highest and best sum bid therefor, the
following-described personal property, to wit:
[Brief description of the property]
And in consideration of the payment of the said sum of $
                                        , receipt whereof is hereby
acknowledged, I have this day delivered to said purchaser the foregoing
property.
Dated this                                               day of
                                            , 20
                                      .
Note: The City of Rockaway Beach assumes no responsibility as to the condition
of title of the above-described property. In case this sale shall for any
reason be invalid, the liability of the city is limited to the return of the
purchase price.
(Prior Code, Ord. 135, passed 9-14-1976)
§ 92.30 REDEMPTION BEFORE SALE.
   (A)   A vehicle, impounded under the provisions of this subchapter, may be
redeemed by its owner or by the person in charge of the property from which the
vehicle was removed before a sale or disposition has taken place by applying to
the Police Department, whereupon he or she shall:
      (1)   Submit evidence of his or her ownership or interest in the vehicle,
satisfactory to the Chief of Police, that the claim is rightful;
      (2)   Pay the costs due and owing at the time the application to redeem
is made; and
      (3)   Give evidence that the nuisance character of the vehicle will not
be allowed to be resumed.
   (B)   Upon compliance with division (A) above, the Chief of Police shall
execute a receipt and cause the vehicle to be returned.
(Prior Code, Ord. 135, passed 9-14-1976)
§ 92.31 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   After disposing of the discarded vehicle and deducting the money, if
any, received from any sale of the vehicle from the costs, the City Recorder
shall give notice as specified in §
92.23 to the person in charge of the property from which the vehicle was
removed:
      (1)   Of the unpaid costs of abatement;
      (2)   That the cost as indicated will be assessed to and become a lien
against the real property unless paid within 30 days from the date of the
notice; and
      (3)   That if the person in charge of the property objects to the cost of
the abatement indicated, he or she may file a written notice of objection with
the City Recorder within 20 days from the date of the notice.
   (B)   Within 40 days after the date of the notice, objections to the
proposed assessment shall be heard and determined by the Council.
   (C)   If the costs of the abatement are not paid within 30 days from the
date of the notice, an assessment of the costs shall be made by resolution of
the City Council and shall be entered in the docket of city liens, and upon the
entry being made shall constitute a lien upon the real property from which the
nuisance was removed or abated.
   (D)   The lien shall be enforced in the same manner as liens for street
improvements are enforced and shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum.
The interest shall accrue from date of the entry of the lien in the lien
docket.
   (E)   An error in the name of the person in charge of the property shall not
void the assessment, nor will a failure to receive the notice of the proposed
assessment render the assessment void. The assessment shall remain a valid lien
against the property.
(Prior Code, Ord. 135, passed 9-14-1976)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Construction and Repair of Sidewalks
   
93.01   Declaration to construct sidewalk
   
93.02   Serving of notices
   
93.03   City to perform sidewalk construction upon owner’s failure to proceed
   
93.04   Grade of walks
   
93.05   Permit to build new or repair walks
   
93.06   Construction of curbs
   
93.07   Property owner to fill between curb and walk
   
93.08   Property owner to repair sidewalk; notice to owners about unsafe
conditions
   
93.09   City may make repairs upon property owner’s failure
   
93.10   Definitions
Method and Procedure; Instituting and Making Improvements
   
93.25   Definitions
   
93.26   Declaration of intention; report from City Engineer; recommendations
   
93.27   Council consideration of engineer’s report
   
93.28   Notice of hearing on Council-approved engineer’s report
   
93.29   Hearing
   
93.30   Manner of doing work; contracts, bids, bonds
   
93.31   Special hearing when low bid substantially exceeds engineer’s estimate
   
93.32   Assessment ordinance
   
93.33   Method of assessment and alternative methods of financing
   
93.34   Appeal
   
93.35   Lien recording; interest; foreclosure
   
93.36   Notice of assessment; bonding
   
93.37   Errors in assessment calculations
   
93.38   Deficit assessment
   
93.39   Rebate
   
93.40   Abandonment of proceedings
   
93.41   Curative provisions
   
93.42   Reassessment
   
93.43   Notice of completion of improvement; hearing
Public Rights-Of-Way
   
93.55   Public rights-of-way
Road Approach Standards
   
93.65   Purpose
   
93.66   Definitions
   
93.67   When a permit is required
   
93.68   Application for permit
   
93.69   Approval of permit
   
93.70   Special use road approaches
   
93.71   Standards
   
93.72   Modifications from standards
   
93.73   Enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS
§ 93.01 DECLARATION TO CONSTRUCT SIDEWALK.
   Whenever the City Council of the City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon, shall deem
it expedient that any new sidewalk shall be constructed within the city, the
Council shall pass a resolution declaring that the construction of the sidewalk
is expedient and describe in the resolution with convenient certainty the
location thereof, the kind of material required to be used in the construction
thereof and the time within which the same shall be completed; provided, that
the owners of the property adjacent to and abutting upon the proposed sidewalks
shall be allowed at least 10 days from the passage of the resolution within
which to complete the construction of any sidewalk. The resolution shall
provide that the proposed sidewalks are to be constructed at the expense of the
owners of the property adjacent to and abutting upon the proposed sidewalk. The
resolution shall also provide that all actual costs in the preliminary planning
of proposed sidewalks, as well as all other costs of construction, shall be
assessed against the property adjacent to and abutting upon the sidewalks
constructed under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ord. 57, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.02 SERVING OF NOTICES.
   A notice containing the substance of the resolution provided for in §
93.01 hereof shall be personally served by the Chief of Police of the City of
Rockaway Beach, Oregon, or his or her deputy, on each owner of property
required to construct the sidewalk, if the property owner is a resident of or
can be found in the city. However, if the property owner resides out of the
city, or if a resident owner cannot with reasonable diligence on the part of
the police officer serving the notice be found within the city, then a notice
containing the substance of the resolution shall be posted in a conspicuous
place upon the adjacent or abutting property or at some point adjacent to and
within plain sight of the location of the proposed walk for a period of 10
days. If the address of the nonresident owner of the abutting or adjacent
property is known or can with reasonable diligence on the part of the police
officer serving the notice be ascertained, a copy of the notice shall be
mailed, postage prepaid, to the nonresident owner and the posting and mailing
of the notice shall be deemed equivalent of personal service.
(Prior Code, Ord. 57, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.03 CITY TO PERFORM SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION UPON OWNER’S FAILURE TO PROCEED.
   In all cases of failure of any owner or owners of the property to construct
the sidewalk as provided in this subject and according to the declaratory
resolutions mentioned in §
93.01 of this subchapter, after the service of notice as provided for in this
subchapter, the Council may proceed with the construction of the sidewalk in
the manner following:
   (A)   The power and authority to construct the sidewalk as aforesaid is
hereby delegated by the City Council of the City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon, to
the City Engineer of the city; and he or she is hereby authorized and empowered
to construct the walk according to the standard plans and specifications of the
city by hiring people and purchasing the material necessary therefore; and the
City Engineer is hereby directed to file in the office of the City Recorder an
itemized statement of the costs of any sidewalk for labor and material,
including therein the actual expense of engineering, legal supervision and
inspection costs. The City Council shall audit and pay the costs in due course.
   (B)   The City Council may, by motion or resolution, direct the City
Recorder to advertise for bids for the construction of the sidewalk or
sidewalks; and the advertisement shall be sufficient if the Recorder shall post
or cause to be posted in 3 public places in the City of Rockaway Beach, notices
to contractors and property owners asking for bids for the construction of the
sidewalk, and stating in the notice the location of the sidewalk and therein
notifying contractors and property owners when and where the City Council will
receive bids for the construction of the sidewalk or sidewalks, and also
notifying property owners that they may remonstrate against the letting of any
contracts. The notice shall be posted in 3 public places at least 10 days
before the date set for receiving of the bids and remonstrances. One of the
notices shall be posted on the property adjacent to or abutting the proposed
sidewalk and the other notices in 2 public and conspicuous places in the city.
The City Council shall at the time and place stated in the notice consider bids
therefore and let the contract for construction of the sidewalk or sidewalks to
the lowest responsible bidder; except, however, the Council shall have the
right to reject any and all bids and then re-advertise for new bids. The
posting of the notice and the proof of posting the same by affidavit of the
person posting them for a period of 10 days prior to the time of awarding the
contract shall be a sufficient publication of the notices.
   (C)   Upon the completion of any sidewalk by either of the aforesaid
methods, the Council shall by ordinance, after giving 10-days’ written notice
to each property owner having property adjacent to and abutting upon the
constructed sidewalks, assess upon each lot or parcel of land liable for the
cost of the sidewalk its proportionate share of the costs thereof and shall
authorize and direct the assessments to be entered in the docket of city liens
and make the same a lien upon each lot, part of lot or parcel of land liable
for the costs of the construction of the sidewalk. Notice shall be deemed given
to the property owners for the levying of the assessments herein when the City
Recorder shall deposit the notices in the United States, Mail addressed to each
owner’s last known address.
   (D)   The City of Rockaway Beach may proceed to foreclose or enforce any
lien to which it shall be entitled pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter at any time after 30 days from the date on which the assessment was
entered in the city lien docket of Rockaway. The manner of foreclosure or
enforcement of any lien by the City of Rockaway Beach shall be pursuant to the
general laws of the State of Oregon. In the event suit or action is brought to
foreclose or enforce any lien, the city shall be entitled to recover from the
defendant, in addition to the lien, a reasonable attorney fee to be determined
by the court.
(Prior Code, Ord. 57, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.04 GRADE OF WALKS.
   All sidewalks constructed in the City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon, shall be
laid on the official grade as furnished by the City Engineer unless
specifically ordered otherwise by the Council of the city; and all sidewalks
shall be laid with a fall toward the curb of 1/4 of an inch to the top and
shall meet the curb flush with the top thereof at all street intersections, if
possible and practicable.
(Prior Code, Ord. 57, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.05 PERMIT TO BUILD NEW OR REPAIR WALKS.
   Any person or persons desiring to repair a sidewalk or construct a new
sidewalk shall apply for a permit to build, improve or repair the same to the
City Recorder of the City of Rockaway Beach describing the location, the kind
of material and width of the walk; and, if the application shall comply with
the requirements of this subchapter, it shall be the duty of the City Recorder
to furnish the applicant, without cost or charge, a written permit to build,
improve or repair the walk.
(Prior Code, Ord. 57, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.06 CONSTRUCTION OF CURBS.
   All curbs within the City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon, shall conform to the
official street grades and shall be uniform as to material, dimensions and
distance from property lines along which they are built. All cement concrete
curbs shall be built and constructed according to the specifications to be
adopted by an ordinance of the city, and all curbing of whatever kind shall be
constructed upon the lines or distances from the property lines along or in
front of which they shall be established according to the width of roadway
established or which may be hereafter established by the Council; provided,
that nothing in this section or in this subchapter shall be construed to
preclude the Council, in case of permanent street improvements, from providing
a different method and manner of constructing curb lines along the proposed
improvement.
(Prior Code, Ord. 57, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.07 PROPERTY OWNER TO FILL BETWEEN CURB AND WALK.
   It shall be the duty of all property owners to fill in the space between the
curb and sidewalk in front of their property and to the curb lines of the
street at the intersection, with earth to a level and grade with the curb and
sidewalk; and any and all shade trees hereafter set out in any portion of any
street in the City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon, shall be placed and set in the
parking space between the sidewalk and the curb.
(Prior Code, Ord. 57, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.08 PROPERTY OWNER TO REPAIR SIDEWALK; NOTICE TO OWNERS ABOUT UNSAFE
CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Whenever any sidewalk within the City of Rockaway Beach shall be
removed or become obstructed, shall become out of repair or in a dilapidated
condition so as to be in a dangerous or unsafe condition for persons passing
along or over the same, it shall be the duty of every property owner having
property abutting upon the dangerous or unsafe sidewalk condition to
immediately repair the sidewalk. Every property owner having a real property
abutting upon any sidewalk which is in a dangerous or unsafe condition shall,
until the sidewalk is placed in a safe condition, maintain continuously 24
hours a day at each end of that portion of the walk which is in an unsafe or
dangerous condition the lights, signs and barricades as are necessary to give
adequate warning and notice of the unsafe or dangerous condition of the
sidewalk to all persons who might use the walk. It shall be the duty of the
Mayor, members of the Council, City Recorder and Chief of Police of the city,
whenever their attention shall be called to any dangerous or unsafe condition
of any sidewalk within the city, to give to the owner of the property abutting
upon the sidewalk a notice of the dangerous and unsafe condition. The notice
shall be in substantially the following form:
To:
                                                                                                                                                              
You are hereby notified that the sidewalk in front of and abutting upon the
following-described property in the City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon, to wit:
(here describe property)
is in dangerous and unsafe condition in the following particulars, to wit:
(here insert particulars of the matters rendering the sidewalk unsafe)
And you are hereby further notified to put the sidewalk into a safe condition
for travel immediately; and until such walk is put in a safe condition for
travel, you are hereby notified and required to maintain constantly at all
hours of the day and night at each end of that portion of the walk which is in
an unsafe or dangerous condition the lights, signs and barricades as may be
necessary to give adequate warning and notice of the unsafe or dangerous
condition of signs and barricades shall be maintained until the time as the
walk is placed in a safe condition. A failure to maintain the lights, signs and
barricades will render you subject to prosecution for a violation of the
ordinances of the City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon.
Dated this                                           of
                                                       ,
20                            
   (B)   The foregoing notice shall be served upon the owner or owners of the
property abutting any dangerous or unsafe sidewalk by the Chief of Police of
the City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon, or his or her deputy. However, if any
property owner having property abutting upon a sidewalk which is in a dangerous
or unsafe condition cannot be found within the city within 3 days of the date
the City Recorder issues and signs the notice above set forth, then service of
the notice may be made upon any property owner having property abutting upon a
sidewalk in a dangerous or unsafe condition by depositing the notice in the
United States Mail addressed to the property owner at his or her last known
address, with the postage thereon prepaid.
(Prior Code, Ord. 57, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.09 CITY MAY MAKE REPAIRS UPON PROPERTY OWNER’S FAILURE.
   (A)   In the event any property owner having property abutting upon any
sidewalk, which is in a dangerous or unsafe condition shall fail to repair the
sidewalk within 10 days after the service of notice upon him or her, the City
of Rockaway Beach may proceed to repair or rebuild the sidewalk. After the
sidewalk is repaired or rebuilt, the City Recorder shall report to the City
Council all expenses incurred by the city, in repairing or rebuilding of the
sidewalk.
   (B)   The total amount of the expenses incurred by the city in repairing or
rebuilding the sidewalk shall be declared by a resolution to be a lien upon the
property abutting upon the repaired or rebuilt sidewalk. The lien declared upon
any property pursuant to the city. The city may proceed to foreclosure or
enforce any lien to which it shall be entitled pursuant to the provisions of
this subchapter at any time after 30 days after the date on which the
assessment was entered in the city lien docket of the city.
   (C)   The manner of foreclosure or enforcement of any lien by the city shall
be pursuant to the general laws of the state of Oregon. In the event suit or
action is brought to foreclosure or enforce any lien, the city shall be
entitled to recover from the defendant, in addition to the lien, a reasonable
attorney fee to be determined by the court.
(Prior Code, Ord. 57, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY ENGINEER.  The duly appointed incumbent of the office of City Engineer
of the City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon, if such an office shall exist and be
then occupied. If the office shall not exist or shall be vacant, the Council
shall designate an engineer or firm of engineers in connection with any
proposed improvement, in which event the term CITY ENGINEER shall be held to
mean the engineer or firm of engineers so designated.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon.
   OWNER. In relation to the ownership of real property, the term shall be held
to mean the record holder of the legal title to the land in question; except
that if there is a purchaser of the land whose interest therein is evidenced by
a recorded contract for the sale thereof, or by a written verified statement of
record holder of the legal title to the land duly filed with the Clerk and
Assessor of Tillamook County, Oregon, then the purchaser as well as the
recorder of the legal title shall be deemed the OWNER.
(Prior Code, Ord. 57, passed 1-20-1959)
METHOD AND PROCEDURE; INSTITUTING AND MAKING IMPROVEMENTS
§ 93.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY ENGINEER.  The duly appointed incumbent of the office of City Engineer
of the City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon, if such an office shall exist and be
then occupied. If the office shall not exist or shall be vacant, the Council
shall designate an engineer or firm of engineers in connection with any
proposed improvement, in which event the term CITY ENGINEER shall be held to
mean the engineer or firm of engineers so designated.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon.
   OWNER. In relation to the ownership of real property, the term shall be held
to mean the record holder of the legal title to the land in question; except
that if there is a purchaser of the land whose interest therein is evidenced by
a recorded contract for the sale thereof, or by a written verified statement of
record holder of the legal title to the land duly filed with the Clerk and
Assessor of Tillamook County, Oregon, then the purchaser as well as the
recorder of the legal title shall be deemed the OWNER.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.26 DECLARATION OF INTENTION; REPORT FROM CITY ENGINEER; RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Council shall determine upon its own initiative, or upon
the petition of a real property owner or owners, to make street, sidewalk or
other public improvements to be paid for in whole or in part by special
assessments to be levied according to benefits derived, the Council may, by
resolution, declare its intention to initiate the improvements and direct the
City Engineer to make a survey and written report of the proposed project and
file the same with the City Recorder within the time set forth by the Council
in the resolution.
   (B)   The report shall contain:
      (1)   A plat or map showing the general nature, location and extent of
the proposed improvements and the lands to be assessed to pay all or any part
of the costs thereof;
      (2)   Plans, specifications and estimates of the work to be done;
      (3)   An estimate of the probable cost of the improvement including
construction, legal, administrative and engineering costs attributable thereto;
      (4)   A recommendation as to the method of assessment to be used to
arrive at a fair apportionment of the cost of the improvement to the property
specially benefitted, which recommendation shall be in accord with the
provisions of §
93.33;
      (5)   An estimate of the unit cost of the improvement to the specially
benefitted properties derived from applying the recommended assessment method
to the estimated cost of the improvement;
      (6)   A description of the location and assessed value of each lot, tract
or parcel of land, or portion thereof, to be specially benefitted by the
improvement, with the names of the record owners thereof, and when readily
available, the names of the owners thereof as herein defined;
      (7)   A statement showing outstanding assessments against property to be
assessed; and
      (8)   Any other information required by the Council.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.27 COUNCIL CONSIDERATION OF ENGINEER’S REPORT.
   After the City Engineer’s report has been filed with the City Recorder, the
Council shall consider the report. The Council may approve the report as
submitted or may amend and approve the report as amended. The Council may
direct the City Engineer to furnish the Council with a further report or
information; or, on the basis of the engineer’s report. The Council may, by
resolution, record its intention to abandon the improvement.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.28 NOTICE OF HEARING ON COUNCIL-APPROVED ENGINEER’S REPORT.
   After the Council has approved the engineer’s report as submitted or amended
by the Council:
   (A)   It shall direct the City Recorder to cause to be published forthwith
once each week for 2 successive and consecutive weeks, in a newspaper of
general circulation in Rockaway Beach, Oregon, and to post in 3 conspicuous
places a notice stating:
      (1)   That the report, or amended report of the City Engineer, as
approved by the Council, is on file in the City Recorder’s office and is
subject to public examination on and after a stated date; the notice shall also
state the time, which shall be no sooner than 10 days nor later than 30 days
which immediately following the first publication of the notice, when any
written remonstrances and objections to the proposed improvement will be
considered by the Council at a public hearing;
      (2)   That written remonstrances may be filed against the proposed
improvement at the office of the City Recorder not later than the scheduled
time for the Council hearing of objections to the proposed improvement;
      (3)   The proposed improvement will be abandoned for at least 6 months if
in the opinion of the Council there is presented a valid remonstrance of owners
of 2/3 of the land to be specifically assessed the cost of the improvement
according to the method of assessment set forth in the Council-approved
engineer’s report and which method or basis shall be specified in the notice;
      (4)   A description of the boundaries of the district to be specifically
benefitted by the proposed improvement;
      (5)   The estimated total cost of the proposed improvement which is to be
paid for by special assessment of benefitted property; and
      (6)   The City Engineer’s estimated cost of the proposed improvement to
the specially benefitted property, clearly indicating that it is an estimate
and not an assessment.
   (B)   It shall also direct the City Recorder to send forthwith by United
States Mail, the same notice mentioned in division (A) above to each owner at
his or her last known address, if 1 is readily available, of the property to be
specifically benefitted by the proposed improvement.
   (C)   It may, in its discretion, direct the City Recorder, upon the basis of
the Council-approved engineer’s report, to advertise for bids and designate the
time at which the bids shall be opened, which time may be at the time of the
aforesaid hearing on remonstrances and objection to the proposed improvement;
provided that no such contract shall be let until after all remonstrances and
objections to the Council-approved engineer’s report are heard by the Council;
and provided that in the letting of any such contract the provisions of §
93.30 herein shall be followed by the Council.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959; Am. Ord. 137, passed 9-28-1976)
§ 93.29 HEARING.
   (A)   At the hearing on remonstrances and objections to the proposed
improvement, the Council shall hear both oral objections to the proposed
improvement and any written remonstrances thereto. Written remonstrances of the
owners of 2/3 of the land to be specially assessed the cost of the improvement,
according to the method of assessment which shall have been specified by the
Council for the improvement shall defeat the proposed improvement if in the
opinion of the Council the remonstrance is a valid and sufficient one. If the
proposed improvement is defeated, no further action to effect the improvement
shall be taken for 6 months. If the Council, after hearing objections and
considering any remonstrances, finds that there is not sufficient remonstrance,
it may proceed with improvement.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall prevent the Council from authorizing an
improvement where the affected property owners desire to contract for the
improvements; provided, however, that all property improvements shall be in
accordance with city standard specifications and shall be inspected and
approved by the City Engineer. Property owners who contract for an improvement
shall bear the cost for engineering, inspection and all other costs incident
thereto.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the Council from authorizing public
improvements by the city itself.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959; Am. Ord. 137, passed 9-28-1976)
§ 93.30 MANNER OF DOING WORK; CONTRACTS, BIDS, BONDS.
   The Council shall provide by resolution, the time and manner of doing the
work of the improvement and may provide for the city to do the work, or it may
award the work on contract. In event that the work is done under contract, bids
shall be received after advertisement once each week for 2 consecutive weeks
and successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of
Rockaway Beach. The bids shall not be opened prior to 20 days from the first
publication. All bids shall be accompanied by a certified check equal to 10% of
the amount of the bid and made payable to the order of the city. The contract
shall be let to the party who, in the opinion of the Council, is the lowest
responsible bidder; provided that the Council shall have the right to reject
any and all bids. The Council shall require all successful contract bidders to
furnish to the city a bond for the faithful performance by the contractor of
any contract let by the city or under its authority; and the provisions
thereof, incase of default, shall be enforced by action in the name of the
city.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.31 SPECIAL HEARING WHEN LOW BID SUBSTANTIALLY EXCEEDS ENGINEER’S ESTIMATE.
   If the Council finds, upon opening bids for the work of the improvement,
that the lowest responsible bid substantially exceeds the engineer’s estimate,
it may, in its discretion, hold a special hearing of objections to proceeding
with the improvement on the basis of the bid and may direct the City Recorder
to publish reasonable notice thereof in a newspaper of general circulation in
the City of Rockaway Beach.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.32 ASSESSMENT ORDINANCE.
   When the Council after the aforesaid hearing, or hearings, shall determine
to proceed with the improvement, it shall pass an ordinance assessing
benefitted thereby with its apportioned share of the cost of the improvement;
but the passage of an assessment ordinance may be delayed until the contract
for the work is let or the improvement completed and the total cost thereof
determined, if the Council shall desire to avoid deficit assessments or
rebates, or for any other reason deemed sufficient by the Council.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.33 METHOD OF ASSESSMENT AND ALTERNATIVE METHODS OF FINANCING.
   The Council, in adopting a method of assessment of the costs of the
improvement, may:
   (A)   Use any method of apportioning the sum to be assessed as is just and
reasonable among the properties determined to be specially benefitted;
   (B)   Authorize payment by the city of all or any part of cost of any
improvement when in the opinion of the Council, on account of topographical or
physical conditions, unusual or excessive public travel, other character of
work involved or when the Council otherwise believes the situation warrants it;
provided the method selected creates a reasonable relation between the benefits
derived by the property specially assessed and the benefits derived by the city
as a whole; and
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall preclude the Council from using other
available means of financing improvements, including federal or state grants-
in-aid, sewer service or other types of service charges, revenue bonds, general
obligation bonds or other legal means of finance. In the event any of the other
means of finance are used, the Council may, in is discretion, levy special
assessments hereunder according to benefits to cover any part of the costs of
the improvement not covered by such means.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.34 APPEAL.
   Any person feeling aggrieved by assessments made as herein provided may,
within 20 days from the passage of the ordinance levying the assessments by the
Council, appeal therefrom to the Circuit Court of the State of Oregon for
Tillamook County. The appeal and the requirements and formalities thereof shall
be heard, governed and determined and the judgment thereon rendered and
enforced so far as is practical in the manner provided for appeals from
reassessments contained in O.R.S. 34.010 through O.R.S. 34.100 as now or
hereafter amended. The result of the appeal shall be a final and conclusive
determination of the matter of the assessment, except with respect to the
city's right of reassessment as provided herein.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.35 LIEN RECORDING; INTEREST; FORECLOSURE.
   After the ordinance levying assessments has been passed, the City Recorder
shall enter in the docket of city liens a statement of the respective amounts
assessed upon each particular lot, tract or parcel of land with the names of
the record owner thereof, and so far as is readily known the names of the
owners thereof, as defined herein. Upon the entry in the lien docket, the
amount so entered shall be a lien and charged upon the respective lots, tracts
and parcels of land against which the same are placed. The liens shall be first
and prior to all other liens or encumbrances thereon whatsoever insofar as the
laws of the State of Oregon allow. The rate of interest charged shall be set
and fixed by the City Council at a rate it deems reasonable and prudent but not
to exceed the rate of interest provided by O.R.S. 288.515 to 288.550 as it
presently provides or as the section may hereafter provide until paid on all
amounts not paid within 30 days from the date of the entry or entry corrected
pursuant to §
93.37. The city may proceed to foreclose or enforce any lien to which it shall
be entitled pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter at any time after 30
days from the date on which the assessment, or assessment corrected pursuant to
§
93.37, was entered in the lien docket, in the manner provided for the
foreclosure or enforcement of liens by the general laws of the State of Oregon;
and, in event a suit is brought to foreclose any lien the city shall be
entitled to recover from the defendant, in addition to the lien, attorney's
fees to be determined by the court.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959; Am. Ord. 170, passed 10-11-1979; Am.
Ord. 202, passed 4-28-1981)
§ 93.36 NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT; BONDING.
   Within 10 days after the ordinance levying assessment has been passed, the
City Recorder shall send to each owner of property assessed for the improvement
to be made, a notice of the assessment levied against the particular owner's
property. The notices to each owner shall be sent by certified mail with a
return receipt requested to each owner's last known address as shown by the
public records of the assessor of Tillamook County, Oregon. These notices shall
state the time within which the assessments must be paid or bonded and that
assessments which are not paid or bonded within the time stated in the notice
shall bear interest at a rate the City Council deems reasonable and prudent but
not to exceed the rate of interest provided by O.R.S. 288.515 to 288.550 as it
presently provides or as it may hereafter provide, and that the property so
assessed is subject to foreclosure if the assessments are not paid or bonded
within the time stated in the notice, and the date established for hearing
objections to the assessments. The record owner, or other owner as herein
defined, may make application to bond the assessment pursuant to the provisions
of O.R.S. 223.300 through O.R.S. 223.295, which is known as the Bancroft
Bonding Act, together with amendments or future amendments thereof. The City
Council shall fix a date for a public hearing to provide opportunity whereby
persons’ objections to their assessments may be heard.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959; Am. Ord. 151, passed 8-22,-1978; Am.
Ord. 170, passed 10-11-1979; Am. Ord. 202, passed 4-28-1981)
§ 93.37 ERRORS IN ASSESSMENT CALCULATIONS.
   Any errors in the calculation of assessments shall be called to the
attention of the City Recorder prior to any payment on account thereof. The
City Recorder shall determine whether or not there is, in fact, an error. If he
or she shall find that there is an error, he or she shall recommend to the
Council an amendment to the assessment ordinance to correct the error. Upon the
enactment of the amendment by the Council, the City Recorder shall make the
necessary correction in the docket of city liens and send a notice of the
corrected assessment to the owner concerned. The notice shall be sent in
accordance with the provisions of §
93.36.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.38 DEFICIT ASSESSMENT.
   If assessment is made before the total costs of the improvement are known
and it be found that the amount assessed is insufficient to defray the expenses
of the improvement, the Council may by motion declare the deficit and prepare a
proposed deficit assessment. The Council shall set a time for a hearing of
objections to the deficit assessment and shall direct the City Recorder to
publish notice thereof for 2 successive and consecutive weeks in a newspaper of
general circulation in Rockaway, Oregon, and also to post the notice in 3
conspicuous places within the City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon. The Council, upon
the hearing, shall make a just and equitable deficit assessment by ordinance.
The deficit assessment shall be consolidated with the assessment in the lien
docket in accordance with the provisions of §
93.35. Thereafter, the provisions of §§
93.36 and
93.37 shall be applicable with regard to the deficit assessment.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.39 REBATE.
   If upon the completion of the project it is found that any sum theretofore
assessed therefore upon any property is more than sufficient to pay the cost
thereof, the Council must ascertain and declare the same by ordinance; and when
so declared, it must be entered in the docket of city liens as a credit upon
the appropriate assessment. If any such assessment has been paid, the person
who paid the same, or his or her legal representative, shall be entitled to the
payment of any portion of the rebate which exceeds the assessment by a warrant
on the city treasury.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.40 ABANDONMENT OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The Council shall have full power and authority to abandon and rescind
proceedings for improvements herein under at any time prior to the final
consummation of the proceedings; and if liens have been assessed upon any
property under this procedure, they shall be cancelled, and payments made
thereon shall be refunded to the payer, his or her assigns or legal
representatives.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.41 CURATIVE PROVISIONS.
   No improvement assessment shall be invalid by reasons of a failure to give,
in any report, in the proposed assessment, in the assessment ordinances, in the
lien docket or elsewhere in the proceedings, the name of the owner of any lot,
tract or parcel of land or part thereof or the name of any person having a lien
upon or interest in the property.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.42 REASSESSMENT.
   Whenever an assessment, deficit assessment or reassessment for any
improvement which has been or may be hereafter made by the city, has been, or
shall be, hereafter set aside, annulled, declared or rendered void, or its
enforcement refuted by any court of this state or any federal court having
jurisdiction thereof, whether directly or by virtue of any decision of the
court, or when the Council shall be in doubt as to the validity of the
assessment, deficit assessment or any part thereof, the Council may make a new
assessment or reassessment. The reassessment shall be made in the manner
provided by O.R.S. 223.405 through O.R.S. 223.485, as now or hereafter amended.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 93.43 NOTICE OF COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENT; HEARING.
   (A)   After the work of an improvement has been completed by the contractor
or the city, the Council may, in its discretion, direct the City Recorder to
post a notice in 3 conspicuous places within the City of Rockaway Beach,
Oregon, that the work on the improvement has been completed.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, the notice shall state the time when a
hearing will be held to hear any oral objections and to consider any
remonstrances concerning the work performed in executing and constructing the
improvement.
   (C)   The hearing shall not be held sooner than 2 weeks from the first day
the notices were posted.
(Prior Code, Ord. 56, passed 1-20-1959)
PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 93.55 PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ENCROACHMENTS. Shall include but are not limited to any structural or non
structural object or material placed n the city rights-of-way such as rock,
soil, plants, trees, yard ornaments, etc.
      PERSON. Means individual, corporation, association, firm, partnership,
joint stock company, and similar entities.
      PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Include, but are not limited to, streets, roads,
highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, trials, paths, public easements and all
other public ways or area, including subsurface and air space over these areas.
      WITHIN THE CITY. Means territory over which the city now has or acquires
jurisdiction for the exercise of its power.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory
control over all public rights-of-way within the city under the authority of
the city charter and state law.
   (C)   Scope of regulatory control. The city has jurisdiction and exercises
regulatory control over each public right-of-way whether the city has a fee,
easement, or other legal interest in the right-of-way. The city has
jurisdiction and regulatory control over each right-of-way whether the legal
interest in the right-of-way was obtained by grant, dedication, prescription,
reservation, condemnation, annexation, foreclosures or other means.
   (D)   City permission required. No person may occupy or encroach on a public
right-of-way withing the permission of the city. The city grants permission to
use rights-of-way by franchises, licenses and permits.
   (E)   Obligation of the city. The exercise of jurisdiction and regulatory
control over a public right-of-way by the city is not official acceptance of
the right-of-way, and does not obligate the city to maintain or repair any part
of the right-of-way.
   (F)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this division is to establish a procedure for
addressing encroachments of private improvements in the rights-of-way.
      (2)   It is the policy of the city to immediately remove encroachments
into the public rights-of-way if it is determined to be detrimental to public
safety.
   (G)   Grant or denial of waiver.
      (1)   Following the hearing, the City Council shall approve the waiver,
deny the waiver, or approve the waiver with conditions. The decision shall be
in the form of a written order granting the waiver, denying the waiver or
approving the waiver with conditions. The City Council may attach such
conditions to granting the waiver as may be considered reasonable. The order
shall incorporate findings of fact and conclusions that include a statement of
the compliance or noncompliance with the applicable criteria or standards and
those facts support the decision.
      (2)   Notice of the decision shall be provided to all parties submitting
testimony within 5 working days of the date o which the order was signed.
Notice of the decision shall include a brief description of the decision
reached and a statement that the complete file, including the final order, is
available for review at City Hall during regular working hours.
   (H)   Limitations on approval. Approval of the waiver pursuant to this
section shall be limited to the specific application which the limited the
action. The granting of a waiver does not preclude the City Council from
requiring removal of the encroachment at a later date, upon 60-days’ advance
notice to the owner.
   (I)   Building permits. Notwithstanding the provisions of the city’s
municipal code, the city shall not issue a building permit for a property with
an encroachment in the public right-of-way without the building permit
incorporating removal of the encroachment.
   (J)   Liability. The city shall not be held liable for any damages done to
encroachments in the right-of-way during the city’s normal course of work.
However, property owners may be held liable if the encroachment causes damage
to occur to any person or vehicle.
   (K)   Penalty. Violation of any provision of this section is punishable by a
fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 07-400, passed 5-23-2007)
ROAD APPROACH STANDARDS
§ 93.65 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish standards for road
approaches to all public roads within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   These regulations are necessary:
      (1)   In order to provide access for emergency vehicles;
      (2)   In order to provide uniform procedures and standards for road
approaches;
      (3)   To provide good sight distance for vehicles entering the roadway;
      (4)   To ensure the road approach construction does not damage the
existing roadway;
      (5)   To ensure the road approach construction does not impair the
roadway drainage system;
      (6)   To ensure a congestion or safety problem is not being created for
the vehicles on the roadway;
      (7)   To coordinate road approaches with the other private facilities
necessary for parcel development; and
      (8)   To coordinate road approaches with development plans for roads,
utilities, and other public facilities.
(Ord. 09-408, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 93.66 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person proposing to construct or modify a road approach.
   COMMERCIAL. Use for commercial, industrial, agricultural, logging or
multifamily residential activities.
   COUNCIL. The Mayor of the city and City Council members.
   DEPARTMENT. The Rockaway Beach Public Works Department.
   DRIVEWAY. A designated area on a parcel of property where automobiles and
other vehicles are operated or allowed to stand.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
syndicate, or any legal entity, including a trustee, receiver, assignee, or
other similar representative thereof.
   PRIVATE ROAD or STREET. A private way to provide vehicular access to 1 or
more parcels of land.
   PUBLIC STREET. A public road, as defined in O.R.S. 368.001(5) and 368.001
(6).
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A legally described portion or strip of land, either public or
private, which is condemned, reserved, or dedicated for roads. Including, but
are not limited to, streets, roads, highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks,
trials, paths, public easements and all other public ways or area, including
subsurface and air space over these areas as per §
93.55.
   ROAD. The entire width between the boundary lines of a right-of-way or an
easement, intended for traffic and/or the placement of utilities. ROAD includes
street, highway, lane, alley, place, way, avenue or any other similar
designations. ROAD does not include a driveway providing access within a single
parcel.
   ROAD APPROACH. An area of construction or improvement between the roadway
and the road right-of-way line.
   ROAD IMPROVEMENT ORDINANCE. City ordinance dealing with provisions for the
improvement or construction of roads in public right-of-ways. This ordinance is
administered by the Rockaway Beach Public Works Department.
   ROADWAY. The portion or portions of a street right-of-way or easement which
is developed for vehicular traffic.
   SIDEWALK. A pedestrian walkway with surfacing suitable for pedestrian
traffic.
   SUPERVISOR. The City of Rockaway Beach Supervisor of Public Works, or a
designee thereof.
   TEMPORARY ROAD APPROACH. A road approach that will be utilized only for a
pre-designated time frame of less than 12 months. After completion of use, the
approach is removed and returned to the original conditions (prior to approach
construction).
(Ord. 09-408, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 93.67 WHEN A PERMIT IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   When vehicular access is desired to any lot or parcel adjacent to a
city road. This would include construction equipment access.
   (B)   No person shall remove, alter or construct any road approach or other
improvement in any public street without first obtaining a permit from the
city.
   (C)   Any change in use of the property, which will increase the volume or
change the character of traffic using an existing road approach will require a
new permit. The new permit may require improvements or a change in location of
the existing road approach. Additional residences or an increased commercial
use of a private road is considered a change in use.
   (D)   Street access to a proposed road approach must be adequate for
emergency services vehicles and meet city standards prior to a road approach
permit being issued. If a portion of a public right-of-way needs to be improved
to a higher standard prior to a road approach permit being issued, the
applicant shall refer to §
93.55 regulating public rights-of-way within the city limits, to initiate the
appropriate permit process.
(Ord. 09-408, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 93.68 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   The application for permit shall include the following:
      (1)   The ownership of the parcel to be accessed;
      (2)   The proposed use of the parcel and buildings;
      (3)   A drawing of the parcel to be accessed, with the following
information:
         (a)   The road right-of-way lines;
         (b)   The actual location of the physical roadway;
         (c)   All existing and proposed road approaches;
         (d)   All existing and proposed driveways within the parcel;
         (e)   All existing and proposed structures;
         (f)   The existing and proposed drainage ditching, storm water
drainage, culverts; and
         (g)   All existing and proposed septic drain systems.
      (4)   Name of licensed and state bonded contractor, holding a current
city business license, performing work in the city's right-of-way;
      (5)   If road improvements are required on the public road in order to
gain access, refer to the Rockaway Beach Design and Standards Technical
Specifications;
      (6)   Signature of the contractor or owner ofthe property requesting the
road approach permit; and
      (7)   A road approach application review fee. The review fee shall be
$200 or any other rate as set by resolution ofthe Council. Double fees shall be
assessed for applications received after road approach construction has already
started.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant must stake and flag the proposed road approach
location before the permit will be processed.
      (2)   If additional inspection trips are required because the site is not
staked and flagged, an additional fee of $25 for each trip will be assessed
prior to issuing the permit.
   (C)   The road approach permit fee will be waived if the approach is
constructed in conjunction with a public right-of-way improvement in accordance
with the City of Rockaway Beach Road Improvement Ordinance.
(09-408, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 93.69 APPROVAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The approved permit, including all conditions and requirements, is
binding for the owner and the owner's heirs and assigns of the property being
accessed for the time frame indicated in the permit and/or extension.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued until an approved road approach
permit has been issued, unless the Supervisor has determined that an existing
road approach is satisfactory for the proposed use.
   (C)   Before approving the permit application, the Supervisor shall
establish that the proposed construction is in conformance with the standards
of this subchapter.
   (D)   The permit shall include all construction requirements as conditions
of the permit.
   (E)   The permit shall state the date that each phase of the construction
will be required to be completed. The maximum final completion date for all
work requirements associated with the permit or in accordance with this section
shall be 12 months from the date the permit is issued or as extended as
outlined below.
   (F)   Before any use of a road approach requiring a permit, (including site
construction equipment), all improvements of the road approach shall be
completed, with the exception of paving.
   (G)   If construction of all work required in the road approach permit,
except paving, has not been completed by the final completion date or
authorized extension, the permit shall be null and void, and the road approach
shall be in violation of this subchapter.
   (H)   If a road approach with a permit requiring paving is to be used before
the paving is completed, the following shall apply:
      (1)   The road approach must be paved within 6 months of the start of the
use that required paving.
      (2)   The applicant is responsible for damage to the edge of the paved
road and for gravel/materials on the road from the unpaved road approach until
the approach is paved.
      (3)   An unpaved road approach causing damage to the edge of the paved
road or gravel/materials on the pavement will be in violation of this
subchapter and subject to fines or voiding of the road approach permit.
      (4)   Six month extensions of the paving requirement may be granted by
the Supervisor provided the following criteria are met:
         (a)   The unpaved road approach is not causing damage to the edge of
the paved road; and
         (b)   There is not evidence of gravel/materials on the pavement; and
         (c)   There is evidence of continued progress related to the
respective building permit.
(09-408, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 93.70 SPECIAL USE ROAD APPROACHES.
   The applicant may request a temporary road approach and the following
conditions will apply:
   (A)   All fees will be paid upon application;
   (B)   The road approach application permit identified the approach as a
temporary road approach; and
   (C)   The maximum duration of use will be no more than 1 year; and
   (D)   The temporary road approach is completely uninstalled (i.e. returned
to the original condition prior to the established deadline on the permit).
(Ord. 09-408, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 93.71 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Ownership. The permit is to be issued to the contractor or legal
property owners of the parcel to be accessed.
   (B)   Sight distance. A vehicle using the road approach must have the
following sight distance in both directions from the road approach:
 
Traffic Speed (MPH) Recommended Stopping Sight Minimum Stopping Sight Distance
                    Distance (Feet)            (Feet)
20                  125                        107
25                  150                        139
 
   (C)   Corner lots. Road approach shall be located on the lowest functional
classification street.
   (D)   Clearance from intersections. No road approach shall be constructed
within 50 feet of the intersection radius or curb return. This provision does
not apply to intersections with alleys. If a road approach is requested for a
parcel within 50 feet of an intersection, the road approach shall be
constructed at the furthermost point from the intersection that will allow for
the standard road approach width.
   (E)   Standard profile. The road approach shall be constructed in accordance
with the standard drawing in the City of Rockaway Beach Technical
Specifications RB-04.
   (F)   Drainage. The drainage at the road approach shall be constructed to be
compatible with existing and future drainage facilities within the roadway.
   (G)   Width; minimum. The minimum road approach width for individual private
residence approaches shall be 12 feet. The minimum road approach width for
private road or commercial road approaches shall be 25 feet.
   (H)   Width; maximum. The maximum road approach width for residential road
approaches shall be 25 feet. On roads that parking is not allowed, and posted
as such, this maximum width shall not apply.
   (I)   Number of road approaches (residential). Only two road approaches will
be permitted for a residential parcel; and the second road approach will be
allowed only if the parcel has over 75 feet of frontage. The maximum width of
each approach shall be no more than 12 feet, and must comply with all Fire Code
standards.
   (J)   Number of road approaches (commercial). Only one road approach will be
permitted unless there is over 50 feet of frontage. If all other road approach
standards are met, additional road approaches will be allowed for a parcel with
greater than 50 feet frontage. Two road approaches may be permitted for parcels
with over 50, but less than 100 feet of frontage. Parcels with greater than 100
feet of frontage may be allowed multiple road approaches, but the total of the
road approaches shall not exceed 30% of the total frontage.
   (K)   Separation between road approaches. Multiple road approaches on the
same parcel shall be separated by safety islands at least 16 feet long.
   (L)   Paved road approaches. If the public road is paved, the road approach
within the right-of-way shall be paved. The minimum paving standard shall be a
3-inch thick lift of paving as per City of Rockaway Beach Design Standards and
Technical Specifications.
   (M)   Left turn pockets and right turn tapers. For commercial road
approaches a left turn refuge and/or right turn taper may be required based on
what traffic warrants.
   (N)   Utility facilities. No road approach shall be permitted to encompass
any public utility facility. If a utility facility is required to be relocated
for the road approach, the applicant will be required to make suitable
arrangements with the utility provider, including making payments for their
relocation expense.
   (O)   Provision for roadway widening. The road approach shall be constructed
so it is still usable when the roadway is widened to the city standard design
width.
   (P)   Culvert materials. The following are acceptable culvert materials for
approved road approaches:
      (1)   Corrugated polyethylene Type S dual wall culvert; or
      (2)   High-density polyethylene, (HDPE); or
      (3)   PVC; or
      (4)   Concrete; or
      (5)   Refer to City of Rockaway Beach Technical Specification.
(Ord. 09-408, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 93.72 MODIFICATION FROM STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Supervisor may require additional improvements if, in the
Supervisor's judgment, the additional improvements are necessary to protect the
public safety, and to comply with Fire Code.
   (B)   The Supervisor may grant modifications from the standards of this
subchapter provided all ofthe following conditions are met:
      (1)   The modification is required due to peculiar physical conditions at
this location or due to special needs required by the nature of the business or
operation;
      (2)   The modification would not compromise public safety or convenience;
      (3)   The granting ofthe modification will not adversely impact the
rights of the adjacent property owners;
      (4)   The standards of this subchapter would apply unnecessary hardship
upon the applicant.
(Ord. 09-408, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 93.73 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The owner of the property being accessed is in violation of this
subchapter for any failure to comply with any of the provisions of this
subchapter related to a road approach accessing the owner's property.
   (B)   A contractor is in violation of this subchapter for any activities
performed by the contractor which are not in compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (C)   This subchapter may be enforced in any manner authorized by state or
local law, including the general penalty set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 09-408, passed 10-14-2009)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
94.001   Definitions
Animals
   
94.015   Dangerous animals
   
94.016   Animals-at-large
   
94.017   Removal of carcasses
   
94.018   Livestock prohibited within city limits
Nuisances Affecting Public Health
   
94.035   Nuisances affecting public health
   
94.036   Attractive nuisances
   
94.037   Snow and ice
   
94.038   Noxious vegetation
   
94.039   Scattering rubbish
   
94.040   Trees
   
94.041   Fences
   
94.042   Surface waters; drainage
   
94.043   Screening of trash cans and dumpsters
Nuisances Affecting Public Peace
   
94.060   Radio and television interference
   
94.061   Junk
   
94.062   Metal tracked wheels prohibited
Unenumerated Nuisances
   
94.075   Unenumerated nuisances
Abatement Procedure
   
94.090   Notice
   
94.091   Abatement by the person responsible
   
94.092   Joint responsibility
   
94.093   Abatement by the city
   
94.094   Assessment of costs
   
94.095   Summary abatement
   
94.096   Separate violations
   
94.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY. An agent, occupant, lessee, contract purchaser
or other person having possession or control of property or the supervision of
any construction project.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE. The person responsible for abating a nuisance shall
include:
      (1)   The owner;
      (2)   The person in charge of property, as defined in PERSON IN CHARGE OF
PROPERTY; and
      (3)   The person who caused to come into or continue in existence a
nuisance as defined in this chapter or another ordinance of this city.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A building, way, place or accommodation, whether publicly or
privately owned, open and available to the general public.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
ANIMALS
§ 94.015 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   No owner or person in charge of an animal shall permit an animal which is
dangerous to the public health or safety to be exposed in public. If the animal
is exposed in public, it may be taken into custody by the city and disposed of
in accordance with the procedures provided by ordinance for the impoundment of
dogs; except that before the animal is released by the city, the Municipal
Judge must find that proper precautions will be taken to insure the public
health and safety.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.016 ANIMALS-AT-LARGE.
   Except for household pets, no owner or person in charge of an animal shall
permit the animal to be at-large. Animals at-large may be taken into custody by
the city and disposed of in accordance with the procedures provided by
ordinance for the impoundment of dogs.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.017 REMOVAL OF CARCASSES.
   No person shall permit an animal carcass owned or controlled by him or her
to remain upon public property, or to be exposed on private property, for a
period of time longer than is reasonably necessary to remove or dispose of the
carcass.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.018 LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   No person shall keep within the city limits any horse, mule or other
livestock, except for special events approved by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975; Am. Ord. 97-344, passed 5-28-1997)
Penalty, see § 94.999
NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC HEALTH
§ 94.035 NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC HEALTH.
   (A)   No person shall cause or permit, on property owned or controlled by
him or her, a nuisance affecting public health.
   (B)   The following are nuisances affecting public health and may be abated
as provided in this chapter:
      (1)   Privies. An open vault or privy constructed and maintained within
the city, except those constructed or maintained in connection with
construction projects in accordance with the Health Division regulations.
      (2)   Debris. Accumulations of debris, rubbish, manure and other refuse
that are not removed within a reasonable time and that affect the health of the
city, except properly maintained by compost piles.
      (3)   Stagnant water. Stagnant water which affords a breeding place for
mosquitoes and other insect pests.
      (4)   Water pollution. Pollution of a body of water, well, spring, stream
or drainage ditch by sewage, industrial wastes or other substances placed in or
near the water in a manner that will cause harmful material to pollute the
water.
      (5)   Food. Decayed or unwholesome food which is offered for human
consumption.
      (6)   Odor. Premises which are in a state or condition as to cause an
offensive odor, or which are in an unsanitary condition.
      (7)   Surface drainage. Drainage of liquid wastes from private premises.
      (8)   Cesspools. Cesspools or septic tanks which are in an unsanitary
condition or which cause an offensive odor.
      (9)   Slaughterhouse, and the like. A slaughterhouse, tannery or pigsty.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.036 ATTRACTIVE NUISANCES.
   (A)   No owner or person in charge of property shall permit thereon:
      (1)   Unguarded machinery, equipment or other devices which are
attractive, dangerous and accessible to children;
      (2)   Lumber, logs or piling placed or stored in a manner so as to be
attractive, dangerous and accessible to children; and
      (3)   An open pit, quarry, cistern or other excavation without safeguards
or barriers to prevent the places from being used by children.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to authorized construction projects with
reasonable safeguards to prevent injury or death to playing children.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.037 SNOW AND ICE.
   No owner or person in charge of property, improved of unimproved, abutting
on a public sidewalk shall permit:
   (A)   Snow to remain on the sidewalk for a period longer than the first 2
hours of daylight after the snow has fallen; and
   (B)   Ice to remain on the sidewalk for more than 2 hours of daylight after
the ice has formed unless the ice is covered with sand, ashes or other suitable
material to assure safe travel.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.038 NOXIOUS VEGETATION.
   No owner or person in charge of property shall permit weeds or other noxious
vegetation to grow upon his or her property. It shall be the duty of an owner
or person in charge of the property to cut down or to destroy shrubbery, brush,
bushes, weeds or other noxious vegetation as often as needed to prevent them
from becoming a traffic hazard and becoming a fire hazard or, in the case of
weeds or other noxious vegetation, from maturing or from going to seed.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.039 SCATTERING RUBBISH.
   No person shall deposit upon public or private property any kind of rubbish,
trash, debris, refuse or any substance that would mar the appearance, create a
stench or fire hazard, detract from the cleanliness or safety of the property
or would be likely to injure a person, animal or vehicle traveling upon a
public way.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.040 TREES.
   (A)   No owner or person in charge of property that abuts upon a street or
public sidewalk shall permit trees or bushes on his or her property to
interfere with street or sidewalk traffic. It shall be the duty of an owner or
person in charge of property that abuts upon a street or public sidewalk to
keep all trees and bushes on his or her premises, including the adjoining
parking strip, trimmed to a height of not less than 8 feet above the sidewalk
and not less than 14 feet above the roadway.
   (B)   No owner or person in charge of property shall allow to stand a dead
or decaying tree that is a hazard to the public or to persons or property on or
near the property.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975; Am. Ord. 11-414, passed 7-14-2011)
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.041 FENCES.
   (A)   No owner or person in charge of property shall construct or maintain a
barbed-wire fence thereon, or permit barbed wire to remain as part of a fence
along a sidewalk or public way; except the wire may be placed above the top of
other fencing not less than 6 feet, 6 inches high.
   (B)   No owner or person in charge of property shall construct, maintain or
operate an electric fence along a sidewalk or public way or along the adjoining
property line of another person.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.042 SURFACE WATERS; DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No owner or person in charge of a building or structure shall permit
rainwater, ice or snow to fall from the building or structure onto a street or
public sidewalk or to flow across the sidewalk.
   (B)   The owner or person in charge of the property shall install and
maintain in proper state of repair adequate drainpipes or a drainage system, so
that any overflow water accumulating on the roof or about the building is not
carried across or upon the sidewalk.
   (C)   The owners or properties adjoining or on which any existing stream,
canal, drainage ditch, ditch, pipeline, culvert or other facility for carrying
off surface water shall keep the drainage way open and free from growth and
other obstructions through the property of each respective owner.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975; Am. Ord. 241, passed 2-11-1986)
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.043 SCREENING OF TRASH CANS AND DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   No owner or person in charge of a building or structure shall place
trash cans (more than two 30-gallon) or dumpsters on site for more than 60 days
without a sight-obscuring fence or wall which prevents public access and
viewing.
   (B)   The owner or person in charge of property shall install and maintain,
in proper state of repair, an enclosure which prevents public access and
viewing, in a manner which does not distract from adjoining properties.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975; Am. Ord. 97-343, passed 4-23-1997)
Penalty, see § 94.999
NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC PEACE
§ 94.060 RADIO AND TELEVISION INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall operate or use an electrical, mechanical or other device,
apparatus, instrument or machine that causes reasonably preventable
interference with radio or television reception by a radio or television
receiver of good engineering design. This section does not apply to devices
licensed, approved and operated under the rules and regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.061 JUNK.
   (A)   No person shall keep any junk outdoors on any street, lot or premises,
or in a building that is not wholly or entirely enclosed, except doors used for
ingress and egress, or in an area not entirely concealed from view.
   (B)   The term JUNK as used in this section includes all old motor vehicles,
old motor vehicle parts, abandoned automobiles, old machinery, old machinery
parts, old appliances or parts thereof, old iron or other metal, glass, paper,
lumber, wood or other waste or discarded material.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to junk kept in a duly licensed junk yard
or automobile wrecking house.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.062 METAL TRACKED WHEELS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or permit to be driven upon any
street within the corporate limits of the city, any traction engine or tractor
under his or her control, equipped with steel cleats or metal tracts on wheels
thereof, unless the same is covered or kept clear of the surface of the street
in a manner as not to bear or touch the surface of the street.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975; Am. Ord. 04-390, passed 8-25-2004)
Penalty, see § 94.999
UNENUMERATED NUISANCES
§ 94.075 UNENUMERATED NUISANCES.
   (A)   The acts, conditions or objects specifically enumerated and defined in
§§
94.015 to
94.061 are declared public nuisances; and the acts, conditions or objects may
be abated by any of the procedures set forth in §§
94.090 to
94.094.
   (B)   In addition to the nuisances specifically enumerated within this
chapter, every other thing, substance or act which is determined by the Council
to be injurious or detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare of the
city is declared a nuisance and may be abated as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
§ 94.090 NOTICE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a properly filled-out complaint form, the City
Manager, or 1 of the City Manager's designees, shall determine whether or not a
nuisance exists based upon the criteria outlined in this chapter. If the City
Manager or assigned designee decides that a nuisance does exist, it shall cause
a notice to be posted on the premises or at the site of the nuisance, directing
the person responsible to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   At the time of posting, the City Recorder shall cause a copy of the
notice to be forwarded by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to the
person responsible at his or her last known address.
   (C)   The notice to abate shall contain:
      (1)   A description of the real property, by street address or otherwise,
on which the nuisance exists;
      (2)   A direction to abate the nuisance within 10 days from the date of
the notice;
      (3)   A description of the nuisance;
      (4)   A statement that, unless the nuisance is removed, the city may
abate the nuisance, and the cost of abatement will be charged to the person
responsible;
      (5)   A statement that failure to abate a nuisance may warrant imposition
of a fine or jail sentence; and
      (6)   A statement that the person responsible may protest the order to
abate by giving notice to the City Recorder within 10 days from the date of the
notice.
   (D)   Upon completion of the posting and mailing, the persons posting and
mailing shall execute and file certificates stating the date and place of the
mailing and posting, respectively.
   (E)   An error in the name or address of the person responsible shall not
make the notice void, and in the case the posted notice shall be sufficient.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975; Am. Ord. 02-380, passed 9-25-2002)
§ 94.091 ABATEMENT BY PERSON RESPONSIBLE.
   (A)   Within 10 days after the posting and mailing of the notice, as
provided in §
94.090, the person responsible shall remove the nuisance or show that no
nuisance exists.
   (B)   A person responsible, protesting that no nuisance exists, shall file
with the City Recorder a written statement which shall specify the basis for so
protesting.
   (C)   The statement shall be referred to the City Council as a part of its
regular agenda at its next succeeding meeting. At the time set for
consideration of the abatement, the person protesting may appear and be heard
by the Council; and the Council shall determine whether or not a nuisance in
fact exists; and the determination shall be entered in the official minutes of
the Council. Council determination shall be required only in those cases in
which a written statement has been filed as provided.
   (D)   If the Council determines that a nuisance does in fact exist, the
person responsible shall, within 10 days after the Council determination, abate
the nuisance.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
§ 94.092 JOINT RESPONSIBILITY.
   If more than 1 person is a person responsible, they shall be jointly and
severally liable for abating the nuisance, or for the costs incurred by the
city in abating the nuisance.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
§ 94.093 ABATEMENT BY THE CITY.
   (A)   If, within the time allowed, the nuisance has not been abated by the
person responsible, the Council may cause the nuisance to be abated.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall have the right at reasonable times to enter
into or upon property to investigate or cause the removal of a nuisance.
   (C)   The City Recorder shall keep an accurate record of the expense
incurred by the city in physically abating the nuisance and shall include
therein a charge for administrative overhead as determined by the Council,
whose decision shall be final.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
§ 94.094 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   The City Recorder, by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid,
shall forward to the person responsible a notice stating:
      (1)   The total cost of abatement, including the administrative overhead;
      (2)   That the cost as indicated will be assessed to and become a lien
against the property unless paid within 30 days from the date of the notice;
and
      (3)   That if the person responsible objects to the cost of the abatement
as indicated, he or she may file a notice of objection with the City Recorder
not more than 10 days from the date of the notice.
   (B)   Upon the expiration of 10 days after the date of the notice, the
Council, in the regular course of business, shall hear and determine the
objections to the costs assessed.
   (C)   If the costs of the abatement are not paid within 30 days from the
date of the notice, an assessment of the costs as stated or as determined by
the Council, shall be made by resolution and shall thereupon be entered in the
docket of city liens; and upon the entry being made, shall constitute a lien
upon the property from which the nuisance was removed or abated.
   (D)   The lien shall be enforced in the same manner as liens for street
improvements are enforced and shall bear interest at the rate of 7% per annum.
The interest shall commence to run from the date of the entry of the lien in
the lien docket.
   (E)   An error in the name of the person responsible shall not void the
assessment, nor will a failure to receive the notice of the proposed assessment
render the assessment void; but it shall remain a valid lien against the
property.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
§ 94.095 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   The procedure provided by this chapter is not exclusive but is in addition
to procedure provided by other ordinances; and the Chief of the Fire
Department, the Chief of Police, or any other city official may proceed
summarily to abate a health or other nuisance which unmistakably exists and
which imminently endangers human life or property.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
§ 94.096 SEPARATE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Each day's violation of a provision of this chapter constitutes a
separate offense.
   (B)   The abatement of a nuisance is not a penalty for violating this
chapter but is an additional remedy. The imposition of a penalty does not
relieve a person of the duty to abate the nuisance, however, abatement of a
nuisance within 10 days of the date of notice to abate, or if a written protest
has been filed, then abatement within 10 days of the Council determination that
a nuisance exists, will relieve the person responsible from the imposition of
any fine or imprisonment under §
94.999.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter is punishable by a fine not to
exceed $500 and/or reimbursement to property owner of cost of repairing
damages.
(Prior Code, Ord. 112, passed 9-23-1975; Am. Ord. 273, passed 7-24-1990; Am.
Ord. 04-390, passed 8-25-2004)
CHAPTER 95: NOISE
Section:
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Findings
   
95.03   Scope
   
95.04   Definitions
   
95.05   General prohibition
   
95.06   Noises prohibited
   
95.07   Exemptions
   
95.08   Enforcement
   
95.09   Event sound permits; types
   
95.10   Application for permit
   
95.11   Notice
   
95.12   Permit criteria and conditions
   
95.13   Permit decision
   
95.14   Appeal
 
   
95.99   Penalties
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted to protect, preserve, and promote the health,
safety, welfare, peace, and quiet of the citizens of Rockaway Beach through the
reduction, control, and prevention of loud and raucous noise, or any noise
which unreasonably disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace or safety; or causes public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm to
reasonable persons of ordinary sensitivity.
(Ord. 19-436, passed 10-9-2019)
§ 95.02 FINDINGS.
   The City Council of Rockaway Beach finds:
   (A)   Loud and raucous noise degrades the environment of the city to a
degree that:
      (1)   Is harmful to the health, welfare and safety of its inhabitants and
visitors;
      (2)   Interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property;
      (3)   Interferes with the wellbeing, tranquility and privacy of the home;
or
      (4)   Causes and aggravates health problems.
   (B)   Both the effective control and the elimination of loud and raucous
noise are essential to the health and welfare of the city's inhabitants and
visitors, and to the conduct of the normal pursuits of life, including
recreation, work and communication.
   (C)   The use of sound amplification equipment creates loud and raucous
noise that may, in a particular manner and at a particular time and place,
substantially and unreasonably invade the privacy, peace and freedom of
inhabitants of, and visitors to, the city.
   (D)   Certain short-term easing of noise reductions is essential to allow
the construction and maintenance of structures, infrastructure, and other
elements necessary for the physical and commercial vitality of the city.
   (E)   The obligation to draft regulations that affect speech in a content-
neutral fashion is of paramount importance to protect the freedom of expression
guaranteed by Article I, Section 8, of the Oregon Constitution and the First
Amendment to the United States Constitution. This chapter enacts narrowly
drawn, content-neutral regulations that are to be interpreted as such so as not
to infringe upon constitutionally protected rights.
(Ord. 19-436, passed 10-9-2019)
§ 95.03 SCOPE.
   This chapter applies to the control of all sound originating within the
jurisdictional limits of the city.
(Ord. 19-436, passed 10-9-2019)
§ 95.04 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage demanding immediate attention.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed to prevent or alleviate physical trauma
or property damage, whether actually caused or threatened by an emergency, or
work by private or public utilities when restoring utility service.
   CITY. The City of Rockaway Beach.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the city or the City Manager's designee.
   NOISE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An enforcement officer as defined in O.R.S.
153.005, and a person appointed by the City Manager to enforce the provisions
of this chapter.
   NOISE SENSITIVE AREA. Includes, but is not limited to, real property
normally used for sleeping or normally used as a school, church, hospital, or
public library.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, joint venture, or
corporation.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any sound that can be detected by a reasonable person of
ordinary sensitivities using his or her unaided hearing faculties.
   PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk,
alley, or similar place normally accessible to the public which is owned or
controlled by a government entity.
   PUBLIC SPACE. Any real property or structures on real property, owned by a
government entity and normally accessible to the public, including but not
limited to parks and other recreational areas.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. Any real property that contains a structure or building in
which one or more persons reside, provided that the structure or building is
properly zoned, or is legally nonconforming, for residential use in accordance
with the terms and maps of the city's zoning ordinance.
   UTILITY SERVICE. The normal operation of utilities within the city, whether
provided by the city or by another entity, including but not limited to water,
wastewater, electricity, natural gas, telecommunications and garbage hauling.
(Ord. 19-436, passed 10-9-2019)
§ 95.05 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person shall make or continue to make:
      (1)   Any unreasonably loud or raucous noise;
      (2)   Any noise which unreasonably disturbs, injures, or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary
sensitivity; or
      (3)   Any noise that is so harsh, prolonged, unnatural, or unusual in
time or place as to occasion unreasonable discomfort to any persons within the
vicinity of the location from which that noise emanates, or as to unreasonably
interfere with the peace and comfort of neighbors or their guests, or operators
or customers in places of business, or as to detrimentally or adversely affect
such residences or places of business.
   (B)   Factors for determining whether a sound is unreasonably loud or
raucous include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   The proximity of the sound to sleeping facilities, whether
residential or commercial;
      (2)   The land use, nature, and zoning of the area from which the sound
emanates and the area where it is received or perceived;
      (3)   The time of day or night the sound occurs;
      (4)   The duration of the sound; and
      (5)   Whether the sound is recurrent, intermittent, or constant.
(Ord. 19-436, passed 10-9-2019)
§ 95.06 NOISES PROHIBITED.
   The following acts are declared to be per se violations of this chapter.
This enumeration does not constitute an exclusive list:
   (A)   Unreasonable noises. The unreasonable making of, or knowingly and
unreasonably permitting to be made, any unreasonably loud, boisterous, or
unusual noise, disturbance, commotion, or vibration in any boarding facility,
dwelling, place of business or other structure, or upon any public street, park
or other place or building. The ordinary and usual sounds, noises, commotion or
vibration incidental to the operation of these places when conducted in
accordance with the usual standards of practice and in a manner which will not
unreasonably disturb the peace and comfort of adjacent residences or which will
not detrimentally affect the operators of adjacent places of business are
exempted from this provision.
   (B)   Vehicle horns, signaling devices, and similar devices. The sounding of
any horn, signaling device, or other similar device, on any automobile,
motorcycle or other vehicle on any right of way or in any public space of the
city, for more than 10 consecutive seconds. The sounding of any horn, signaling
device, or other similar device, as a danger warning is exempt from this
prohibition.
   (C)   Non-emergency signaling devices. Sounding any amplified signal from
any bell, chime, siren, whistle or similar device, intended primarily for non-
emergency purposes, from any place for more than 10 consecutive seconds in any
hourly period.
   (D)   Emergency signaling devices. The intentional sounding or permitting
the sounding outdoors of any emergency signaling device including fire,
burglar, civil defense alarm, siren, whistle or similar emergency signaling
device, except in an emergency or except as provided in the following:
      (1)   The testing of any emergency signaling device shall occur between
7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Any testing shall use only the minimum cycle test time.
In no case shall such test time exceed 5 minutes. Testing of the emergency
signaling system shall not occur more than once in each calendar month.
      (2)   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any exterior burglar or fire
alarm or any motor vehicle burglar alarm, shall terminate within 15 minutes of
activation unless an emergency exists. If a false or accidental activation of
an alarm occurs more than twice in a calendar month, the owner or person
responsible for the alarm shall be in violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Radios, televisions, boomboxes, phonographs, stereos, musical
instruments and similar devices. The use or operation of a radio, television,
boombox, stereo, musical instrument, or similar device, including but not
limited to computers, mp3 players, and cellular phones, that produces or
reproduces sound in a manner that is plainly audible to any person other than
the player(s) or operator(s) of the device, and those who are voluntarily
listening to the sound, and which unreasonably disturbs the peace, quiet, and
comfort of neighbors and passers-by, or is plainly audible at a distance of 50
feet from any person in a commercial, industrial area, or public space. The use
or operation of a radio, television, boombox, stereo, musical instrument or
similar device that produces or reproduces sound in a manner that is plainly
audible to any person other than the player(s) or operator(s) of the device,
and those who are voluntarily listening to the sound, and unreasonably disturbs
the peace, quiet and comfort of neighbors in residential or noise sensitive
areas, including multi-family or single-family dwellings.
   (F)   Loudspeakers, amplifiers, public address systems and similar devices.
The unreasonably loud and raucous use or operation of a loudspeaker, amplifier,
public address system or other device for producing or reproducing sound
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays, and 10:00 p.m. and
10:00 a.m. on weekends and recognized city holidays in the following areas:
      (1)   Within or adjacent to residential or noise sensitive areas; or
      (2)   Within public space if the sound is plainly audible across the real
property line of the public space from which the sound emanates, and is
unreasonably loud and raucous. This provision shall not apply to any public
performance, gathering, or parade for which a permit has been obtained from the
city or for which the city is hosting.
   (G)   Yelling, shouting and similar activities. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling or singing in residential or noise sensitive areas or in public
places, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time or place
so as to unreasonably disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of reasonable
persons of ordinary sensitivities. This section is to be applied only to those
situations where the disturbance is not a result of the content of the
communication but due to the volume, duration, location, timing, or other
factors not based on content.
   (H)   Animals. Unreasonably loud and raucous noise emitted by an animal for
which a person is responsible. A person is responsible for an animal if the
person owns, controls, or otherwise cares for the animal.
   (I)   Loading or unloading merchandise, materials, equipment. The creation
of unreasonably loud, raucous and excessive noise relating to the loading or
unloading of any vehicle at a place of business or residence.
   (J)   Construction or repair of buildings, excavation of streets and
highways. The construction, demolition, alteration, or repair of any building
or the excavation of streets and highways other than between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on weekdays. In cases of emergency, construction or repair
noises are exempt from this provision. In non-emergency situations, the City
Manager may issue a permit, upon application, if the City Manager determines
that the public health and safety, as affected by loud and raucous noise caused
by construction or repair of buildings or excavation of streets and highways
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. will not be impaired, and if the
City Manager further determines that loss or inconvenience would otherwise
result. The permit shall grant permission in non-emergency cases for a period
of not more than 30 days. The permit may be renewed once for a period of 30
days or less.
   (K)   Noise sensitive areas. The creation of any unreasonably loud and
raucous noise adjacent to any noise sensitive area while it is in use, which
unreasonably interferes with the workings of the institution or which disturbs
the persons in these institutions.
   (L)   Blowers, and similar devices. In residential or noise sensitive areas,
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., the operation of any noise-
creating blower, power fan, or any internal combustion engine, the operation of
which causes noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, provided
that the noise is unreasonably loud and raucous and can be heard across the
property line of the property from which it emanates.
(Ord. 19-436, passed 10-9-2019)
§ 95.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   Sounds caused by the following are exempt from the prohibitions set out in §
95.06 and are in addition to the exemptions specifically set forth in §
95.06:
   (A)   Motor vehicles on traffic ways of the city, provided that the
prohibitions of §
95.06(B) and (D)(2) continue to apply.
   (B)   Repairs of utility structures that pose a clear and immediate danger
to life, health, or significant loss or property.
   (C)   Sirens, whistles or bells lawfully used by emergency vehicles, or
other alarm systems used in case of fire, collision, civil defense, police
activity, or imminent danger, provided that the prohibition contained in §
95.06(D) continues to apply.
   (D)   Sounds caused by the ordinary and accepted use of emergency equipment,
vehicles and apparatus, regardless of whether such work is performed by a
public or private agency, or upon public or private property.
   (E)   The emission of sound to alert persons to the existence of an
emergency or the emission of sound in the performance of emergency work.
   (F)   Repairs or excavations of bridges, streets or highways by or on behalf
of the city, the state or the federal government, between the hours of 7:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., when the public welfare and convenience renders it
impractical to perform the work between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
   (G)   Sounds caused by demolition activities when performed under a permit
issued by the appropriate governmental authorities.
   (H)   Sounds caused by air-, electric- or gas-driven domestic tools,
including lawn mowers, edgers, saws, and other similar lawn or construction
tools, between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., Monday through Friday and between 8:00
a.m. and 8:00 p.m., Saturday and Sunday.
   (I)   Reasonable activities conducted on public playgrounds, parks and
public or private school grounds that are conducted in accordance with the way
such spaces are generally used, including but not limited to school athletic
and school entertainment events.
   (J)   Outdoor gatherings, public dances, shows, sporting events and other
similar outdoor events, provided that a permit has been obtained from the
appropriate permitting authority or is being sponsored by the city.
   (K)   Sounds regulated by federal law, including but not limited to sounds
caused by railroads or aircraft.
(Ord. 19-436, passed 10-9-2019; Am. Ord. 23-443, passed 7-12-2023)
§ 95.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Manager, Noise Enforcement Officer, or any law enforcement officer
will have primary responsibility for the enforcement of the noise regulations
contained in this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the city from
obtaining voluntary compliance by way of warning, notice, or education. Nothing
in this chapter affects the city's ability to protect the public against
harmful effects of noise under remedies supplied in other sections of this code
or other applicable provisions of law.
(Ord. 19-436, passed 10-9-2019)
§ 95.09 EVENT SOUND PERMITS; TYPES.
   Any person who owns, operates or controls a sound source that will produce
sound in excess of allowed levels must first obtain the applicable event sound
permit as follows:
   (A)   Class A permit. For a single event or activity that does not exceed 24
hours in duration.
   (B)   Class B permit. For a single event or activity or a series of related
events or activities that exceeds 24 hours in duration.
(Ord. 19-436, passed 10-9-2019)
§ 95.10 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   An application for an event sound permit shall be filed with the City
Manager on forms provided by the city. An application for a Class A permit
shall be submitted not less than 10 business days prior to the event or
activity for which the permit is sought. An application for a Class B permit
shall be submitted not less than 45 calendar days prior to the event or
activity for which the permit is sought. The application shall contain the
following information and shall be accompanied by the application fee, as set
by resolution of the City Council:
   (A)   The type of event or activity for which the permit is sought.
   (B)   The anticipated duration of the event or activity.
   (C)   The physical characteristics of the sound involved.
   (D)   The times when the sound will be emitted.
   (E)   The efforts that will be made to mitigate the level of the sound and
mitigate the effects of the sound on neighboring properties.
   (F)   Any other supporting information necessary to satisfy the criteria in
§
95.12.
(Ord. 19-436, passed 10-9-2019)
§ 95.11 NOTICE.
   (A)   Class A permits. No notice is required for a Class A permit.
   (B)   Class B permit. An applicant for a Class B permit shall, not more than
10 calendar days after submitting a complete permit application to the city,
provide written notice that an application for a sound event permit has been
submitted for consideration.
      (1)   Notice shall be provided to any person residing or any owner of a
business within 300 feet of the planned sound source or sources. Measuring the
300 foot notice area will be based upon the distance between the property
boundary of the property where the sound source is planned and the property
boundary of neighboring developed properties.
      (2)   Written notice shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The nature of the event or activity for which the permit is
sought and the date or dates thereof;
         (b)   The date by which the permit application must be acted upon by
the city;
         (c)   That recipients of the notification may file written comments on
the application with the City Recorder; and
         (d)   The address, including the e-mail address, where written
comments may be submitted and the date by which any comments must be received
in order to be considered.
(Ord. 19-436, passed 10-9-2019)
§ 95.12 PERMIT CRITERIA AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Criteria. The City Manager shall grant an event sound permit if, after
considering the application and any written comments received on the
application, it appears that:
      (1)   The public health and safety provisions of other chapters of the
code will not be violated if a permit is granted; and
      (2)   Granting the permit will not be unreasonably detrimental to the
public welfare. In determining whether the permit would be "unreasonably
detrimental to the public welfare," the City Manager shall consider such
factors as the potential impacts on businesses and noise sensitive properties
within 150 feet of the planned sound source, the time of day, the day of the
week, the proposed type and amount of amplification to be used and any
secondary noise consequences.
   (B)   Conditions. The City Manager may place conditions, including maximum
decibel levels, on an event sound permit necessary to protect public health,
safety and welfare. Permittees shall keep a copy of the permit at the event or
activity for which the permit was sought.
(Ord. 19-436, passed 10-9-2019)
§ 95.13 PERMIT DECISION.
   An application for a Class A permit shall be granted or denied within 7
business days of receipt of a completed application. An application for a Class
B permit shall be granted or denied within 20 business days after notice is
provided under §
95.11. If a permit is denied, the City Manager shall state in writing the
reasons why the permit was denied. If a permit is granted, a copy of the event
sound permit shall be provided to the applicant and to any person who submitted
written comments to the city.
(Ord. 19-436, passed 10-9-2019)
§ 95.14 APPEAL.
   Any person who has been denied an event sound permit may appeal the decision
to the city's municipal court. An appeal must be filed within 14 calendar days
of the city's written decision on the application. The city's municipal court
judge is authorized to hear such appeals as provided in this section. The
hearing on the appeal shall be set for a hearing within 30 calendar days after
the appeal is received. The city's municipal court judge shall evaluate the
permit application de novo and may affirm, overturn, modify, or remand the City
Manager's decision.
(Ord. 19-436, passed 10-9-2019)
§ 95.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   A person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty of an
infraction, which is punishable by a fine not to exceed $250.
   (B)   Each occurrence of a violation, or, in the case of continuous
violations, each day a violation occurs or continues, constitutes a separate
infraction, and may be punished separately.
(Ord. 19-436, passed 10-9-2019)
CHAPTER 96: EXCLUDING INDIVIDUALS FROM CITY PROPERTY
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Exclusion from city property
   
96.04   Appeal
   
96.05   Authority of municipal court to hear exclusion appeals
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   In furtherance of maintaining a safe environment for public employees and
citizens, and pursuant to the powers and authority of the Rockaway Beach City
Council, this chapter addresses exclusion from city property.
(Ord. 19-437, passed 10-9-2019)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of Rockaway Beach or the City
Manager's designee.
   CITY PROPERTY. Real property owned or leased by the City of Rockaway Beach,
including city buildings and parks. CITY PROPERTY does not include city rights-
of-way.
   MUNICIPAL COURT. The Rockaway Beach Municipal Court, or any other court
designated by the City Council to act as the municipal court for the City of
Rockaway Beach.
   NECESSARY OFFICIAL BUSINESS. A prearranged and verifiable meeting with a
city employee or official on city property.
   PROHIBITED CONDUCT. Any of the following types of conduct occurring on city
property:
      (1)   Behavior that constitutes a crime;
      (2)   Disorderly conduct;
      (3)   Riotous or violent or threatening behavior;
      (4)   Disruption of lawful meetings, events or work;
      (5)   Obstruction of access to government services;
      (6)   Abusive language or conduct;
      (7)   Violation of city policies intended to maintain a safe, orderly and
efficient work environment in public buildings and on city property; or
      (8)   Conduct that is otherwise disruptive to the efficient functioning
of government affairs.
(Ord. 19-437, passed 10-9-2019)
§ 96.03 EXCLUSION FROM CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) of this section, an individual is
subject to immediate exclusion from city property if that individual is
observed to be engaged in prohibited conduct.
   (B)   The City Manager, any City of Rockaway Beach police officer, and any
other peace officer have the authority to exclude individuals from city
property in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   An individual who engages in prohibited conduct on city property in
violation of this chapter may be excluded from the particular city property on
which the individual engaged in prohibited conduct for a period of up to 180
days (exclusion period).
   (D)   The exclusion period shall be as follows:
      (1)   If the individual to be excluded has not been excluded from any
city property within the last 30 days, the exclusion period shall be for 30
days.
      (2)   If the individual to be excluded has been excluded at any time from
city property within in the last 30 days, the exclusion period shall be for 90
days.
      (3)   If the individual to be excluded has been excluded more than once
from city property within the last 120 days, the exclusion shall be for 180
days.
   (E)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, during the
exclusion period, a person excluded from specific city property pursuant to
this chapter may not enter or remain upon that specific city property during
the exclusion period. If the individual is excluded from any city-owned park
property, the individual shall be excluded from all city parks within the City
of Rockaway Beach during the exclusion period.
   (F)   During the exclusion period, the individual who has been excluded may,
with prior notice to and approval from the City Manager, enter onto the city
property from which the individual has been excluded, to conduct necessary
official business.
   (G)   Individuals will be given a warning and a reasonable opportunity to
comply with the law or rule before an exclusion notice is issued. However, an
individual will not be given a warning if the prohibited conduct on which the
exclusion is based includes any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct punishable as a felony;
      (2)   Controlled substances or alcoholic beverages offenses;
      (3)   Actions actually or likely to result in personal injury or property
damage;
      (4)   Violation of laws concerning the unlawful possession of firearms,
unlawful carrying concealed weapon or felon in possession of a restricted
weapon; or
      (5)   If the individual was previously warned, cited or excluded for the
same conduct on city property.
   (H)   All exclusion notices shall be in writing, and shall include the
following information:
      (1)   The signature of the issuing party and date of issuance;
      (2)   The effective dates of the exclusion period;
      (3)   The specific city property from which the person is excluded;
      (4)   A description of the prohibited conduct that forms the basis of the
exclusion;
      (5)   A statement of the consequences of failure to comply with the
exclusion; and
      (6)   The process for appealing the exclusion.
   (I)   This chapter does not authorize exclusion of a person lawfully
exercising free speech rights or other rights protected by state or federal law
on city property.
   (J)   The exclusion notice shall be personally served on the individual.
Service of the exclusion notice is deemed to have occurred on the date of
personal service.
   (K)   The exclusion notice will be kept on file by the City Manager.
   (L)   The exclusion will remain in effect for the period of time specified
in the notice unless modified or rescinded due to an appeal.
   (M)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, if an individual
who receives a notice of exclusion enters onto or remains upon city property
from which he or she has been excluded, the individual is subject to immediate
arrest for criminal trespass.
(Ord. 19-437, passed 10-9-2019)
§ 96.04 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any exclusion from city property may be appealed by filing a written
appeal with the municipal court within 10 calendar days after service of notice
of exclusion.
   (B)   Appeal of an exclusion notice automatically stays the exclusion period
until a decision on the appeal is issued by the municipal court.
   (C)   If an appeal is not timely filed with the municipal court, no appeal
hearing will be held and the exclusion notice shall become the final decision
of the city.
   (D)   The municipal court will hold an appeal hearing within 35 calendar
days of the filing of the appeal unless the hearing date is extended by court
order.
   (E)   The appeal hearing shall be conducted by the municipal court judge. No
jury shall be empaneled for a hearing pursuant to this section.
   (F)   The municipal court judge will review the written appeal and may
consider any testimony, evidence, and other argument presented by the city and
by the person who is the subject of the notice, as well as any other testimony,
evidence, and other argument that the municipal court judge considers relevant
to whether the exclusion of prohibition is lawful and consistent with this
chapter or any other applicable law.
   (G)   The municipal court judge may uphold, amend, or rescind the exclusion.
The decision of the municipal court judge is the final decision of the city.
(Ord. 19-437, passed 10-9-2019)
§ 96.05 AUTHORITY OF MUNICIPAL COURT TO HEAR EXCLUSION APPEALS.
   The municipal court is hereby authorized to hear, consider, and render a
decision upon appeals of exclusions from city property, following the appeal
process described in this chapter.
(Ord. 19-437, passed 10-9-2019)
CHAPTER 97: ADMINISTRATIVE WARRANTS
Section
   
97.01   Title; purpose
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Entry onto property
   
97.04   Authority to request warrant
   
97.05   Procedure to obtain administrative warrant
   
97.06   Cause for issuance of warrant
   
97.07   Issuance and execution of administrative warrants
§ 97.01 TITLE; PURPOSE.
   This chapter sets forth the procedures for obtaining an administrative
warrant for purposes of enforcing the Rockaway Beach Code. It may be cited as
the Rockaway Beach Administrative Warrants Chapter.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 9-11-2024)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless then context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE WARRANT. A court order authorizing entry onto property for
purposes of conducting an administrative search, inspection or investigation,
or authorizing an administrative seizure of property or abatement of a nuisance
as authorized by the Code. It does not include an arrest, search or other
warrant arising from commission or prosecution of a crime.
   CITY OFFICER. A Tillamook County Sheriff or Deputy, or any city employee
authorized by the City Manager or Council to enforce the Rockaway Beach Code.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 9-11-2024)
§ 97.03 ENTRY ONTO PROPERTY.
   (A)   Whenever a city officer requires entry to property for purposes of
inspections pursuant to this Code, a city officer has probable cause to believe
there has been a violation of the Code or that a nuisance or dangerous
condition exists, or City Council or City Manager has ordered the removal or
abatement of an identified nuisance, the city officer may enter upon a site or
structure for the purpose of investigation or abatement subject to 1 or more of
the following:
      (1)   Consent is obtained from the owner or person with authority to
consent to entry on the premises. A person with actual authority must be a
person age 18 years or older and capable of consenting to the city officer’s
entry on the premises.
      (2)   The entry is pursuant to a recognized lawful exception to the
requirement to obtain a warrant.
      (3)   An administrative warrant or a search warrant is obtained.
   (B)   Nothing in this section precludes use of any information obtained
where there is no reasonable expectation of privacy or the property is in plain
view from public right-of-way, public property, or other private property
entered with the consent of the owner or person in charge.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 9-11-2024)
§ 97.04 AUTHORITY TO REQUEST WARRANT.
   (A)   Unless unreasonable under the circumstances, a city officer shall seek
to obtain the consent of the owner or person in charge of property to enter
onto property or to seize property before applying for a warrant.
   (B)   A request for a warrant must first be approved by the City Manager, or
their designee.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 9-11-2024)
§ 97.05 PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN ADMINISTRATIVE WARRANT.
   (A)   An application for an administrative warrant shall be presented to the
local municipal court. The Tillamook County Justice Court shall have
jurisdiction to issue administrative warrants for service within the city
limits of the City of Rockaway Beach.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by a supporting affidavit
containing the following, together with such other information as the court
deems necessary, including:
      (1)   The nature of the warrant sought, and action sought to be
authorized;
      (2)   In the case of an abatement or demolition warrant, the information
also shall include a description of the work to be performed and the estimated
time to complete performance;
      (3)   The affiant’s employment title and authority;
      (4)   A description of the property sought to be entered onto, seized,
abated or demolished;
      (5)   The Code provision, permit or other law alleged to have been
violated or otherwise supporting issuance of the warrant together with facts,
information and belief demonstrating cause for issuance of the warrant; and
      (6)   A statement that consent to entry or other action has been sought
but not obtained, or facts or circumstances reasonably showing the purpose of
the warrant might be frustrated if consent was sought.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 9-11-2024)
§ 97.06 CAUSE FOR ISSUANCE OF WARRANT.
   (A)   Cause for issuance of an abatement warrant shall be deemed to exist if
the city has declared a nuisance and ordered abatement pursuant to §§
94.090 through
94.093, or in the case of summary abatement, an immediate danger exists.
   (B)   Cause for issuance of a warrant authorizing the city to enter onto
property to demolish a structure or to enter on the property to effectuate
vacation of a property shall be deemed to exist if the city has issued an order
to demolish, or vacate the property or structure pursuant to
Chapter 151, and the order is final.
   (C)   Cause for issuance of a warrant to seize property, other than in
conjunction with an investigation or prosecution, shall be based on a showing
that the seizure is authorized by law and is reasonable and necessary to
achieve a legitimate legislative purpose. Examples include but are not limited
to seizing a dog for quarantine, pursuant to Chapter 91, or if property poses a
significant risk of harm to the public, such as Chapter 94 nuisances affecting
public health or public spaces.
   (D)   Cause for issuance of a warrant for any other purpose shall be based
on a showing that the action sought to be authorized is made in compliance with
applicable code procedures and authority. Examples include but are not limited
to examining removing an abandoned vehicle under
Chapter 92.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 9-11-2024)
§ 97.07 ISSUANCE AND EXECUTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE WARRANTS.
   (A)   An inspection, abatement, or demolition warrant shall contain a
direction that it be executed on any day of the week between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m. or where the court has specifically determined upon a
showing that it cannot be effectively executed between those hours, that it may
be executed at any additional or other time of the day or night. Unless
directed otherwise by the court, the warrant shall be executed and returned to
the court within 14 days from its date, unless the court before expiration of
such time by endorsement thereon extends the time. After the expiration of the
time prescribed by this division, the warrant is void unless executed.
   (B)   An abatement or demolition warrant shall describe the work authorized
and set a deadline for completion of work on the property not to exceed 14 days
unless good cause is shown why a longer time is necessary. The city may apply
to the court for an extension for good cause.
   (C)   The person authorized by the court to execute a warrant shall, before
entry, make a reasonable effort to present the person’s credentials, authority
and purpose to an occupant or person in possession of the property designated
in the warrant and show the occupant or person in possession of the property
the warrant or a copy thereof upon request, except that the person authorized
to execute the warrant may promptly enter the designated property if it is, or
is reasonably believed to be, vacant or unoccupied.
   (D)   A Sheriff or Sheriff’s Deputy may be requested to assist in the
execution of the administrative warrant. Such Deputy may assist the person
authorized to execute the warrant, including using any reasonable force
necessary, to enter the property if the administrative warrant specifically
allows the use of reasonable force to execute the warrant.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 9-11-2024)
 
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   LICENSE TAXES ON BUSINESSES
   
111.   SOCIAL GAMING
   
112.   MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITIES
   
113.   SHORT-TERM RENTALS
CHAPTER 110: LICENSE TAXES ON BUSINESSES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   Fees
   
110.04   Revenue
   
110.05   Multiple businesses
   
110.06   Liability for license fee; non-resident proprietors
   
110.07   Payment of fees
   
110.08   Renewal
   
110.09   Transfer or assignment
   
110.10   Alternation of fees
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. All and every kind of lawful business, trade, calling, profession
or occupation.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, co-partnership, association or corporation.
(Ord. 01-366B, passed 5-9-2001)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall as owner, operator, principal or as employee or agent of
another, engage in, prosecute or carry on any business within the City of
Rockaway Beach, unless or until the person shall have first obtained a license
from the city therefore, and paid to the city the license fee therefore as
hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 01-366B, passed 5-9-2001)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.03 FEES.
   This chapter shall apply to the businesses, professions, occupations and
pursuits as hereinafter set forth. The required annual license fee for each
business as defined in this chapter shall be $50. License fees shall be
prorated on a quarterly basis to the end of the fiscal year.
(Ord. 01-366B, passed 5-9-2001)
§ 110.04 REVENUE.
   The license fees imposed hereby shall be in addition to all general ad
valorem taxes now or hereafter levied pursuant to law and shall be in addition
to any and all other license fees otherwise imposed by the City of Rockaway
Beach under existing ordinances, it being hereby specifically declared that the
foregoing license fees are imposed. The licenses are to be granted with the
object of raising revenue, as well as for the purpose of regulation, and that
any and all license fees required hereby shall be considered reasonable and
legal for the purposes of raising revenue, regardless of costs of regulation.
(Ord. 01-366B, passed 5-9-2001)
§ 110.05 MULTIPLE BUSINESSES.
   If a person is engaged in carrying on in the City of Rockaway Beach multiple
businesses, which are all owned and operated by the same owner, then the annual
fee for each additional business shall be $25.
(Ord. 01-366B, passed 5-9-2001)
§ 110.06 LIABILITY FOR LICENSE FEE; NON-RESIDENT PROPRIETORS.
   Any person representing by sign or advertisement that he or she is engaged
in any business in the City of Rockaway Beach, for which a license is required
by this chapter, shall be deemed to be actually engaged in the business and
shall be liable for the payment of the license fee required therefore. The
agent or agents in the city, or non-resident proprietors engaged in any
business for which a license is required by this chapter, shall be liable for
the license fee required hereby and subject to the penalties hereof for the
failure to pay the same, to the same extent as if they were themselves the
proprietors of the business.
(Ord. 01-366B, passed 5-9-2001)
§ 110.07 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on or conduct any business,
trade, profession or occupation or transact any business in the City of
Rockaway Beach, Oregon, for which a license is required hereby, without first
paying to the city the license fee hereby required and obtaining licenses as
hereby required. It shall be unlawful and a violation hereof, for any person or
agent, of a non-resident owner or proprietor, to operate or conduct any
business in the city, for which a license is required hereunder, unless a
license has been obtained for the business hereunder as herein required.
(Ord. 01-366B, passed 5-9-2001)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.08 RENEWAL.
   The license obtained by any person prior to the effective date of this
chapter shall be effective and continue in full force and effect for a period
of time as provided under the chapter in existence at the time the license was
obtained. Upon the expiration date of the license, the new license shall be
obtained under and pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 01-366B, passed 5-9-2001)
§ 110.09 TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT.
   No transfer or assignment of any license issued hereunder shall be valid or
permitted, except that whenever any person shall sell or transfer in whole a
business for which the license has been issued, the purchaser thereof shall not
be required to pay any additional license on the business for the balance of
the period covered by the previously issued license, except that in case of the
sale the purchaser shall pay a transfer fee of $10.
(Ord. 01-366B, passed 5-9-2001)
§ 110.10 ALTERNATION OF FEES.
   Nothing herein contained shall be taken or construed as vesting any right in
the licensee as a contract obligation on the part of the City of Rockaway
Beach, as to the amount or character of license fee or license hereunder, and
the license fees may be increased or decreased in any or all instances at any
time by the city.
(Ord. 01-366B, passed 5-9-2001)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof in the municipal court of the city, be punished by a fine
not exceeding $500, or suspension or revocation of business license, or by both
a fine and suspension or revocation of business license.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided for in this section, and as
separate and distinct remedies, the City of Rockaway Beach may sue in any court
of competent jurisdiction to obtain judgement and force payment of any license
fee due under this chapter.
(Ord. 01-366B, passed 5-9-2001)
CHAPTER 111: SOCIAL GAMING
Section
   
111.01   Title
   
111.02   Social games permitted
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   License required for social games
   
111.05   Application requirements
   
111.06   Application renewal
   
111.07   License fee
   
111.08   Standards for issuance of license
   
111.09   License not transferable
   
111.10   Responsibilities of licensee
   
111.11   Terms of license
   
111.12   Revocation of license
   
111.13   Suspension of license
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known as the City of Rockaway Beach Social Gaming
Ordinance and may be cited as such.
(Ord. 2005-392, passed 5-11-2005)
§ 111.02 SOCIAL GAMES PERMITTED.
   Social games, other than a lottery, between players in a private business,
private club or in a place of public accommodation where no house player, house
bank or house odds exist, and there is no house take (meaning no house income
from the operation of the social game), are hereby permitted as provided
herein.
(Ord. 2005-392, passed 5-11-2005)
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context requires otherwise, all terms set forth in this chapter
shall have the same meaning as set forth in O.R.S. 167.117.
(Ord. 2005-392, passed 5-11-2005; Am. Ord. 11-415, passed 10-26-2011)
§ 111.04 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR SOCIAL GAMES.
   Any person(s), business, private club, non-profit organization or place of
public accommodation desiring to permit patrons or invitees to engage in any
social game within the City of Rockaway Beach, shall acquire and maintain a
valid license from the city. Licenses shall be granted only upon application to
the city and upon approval by the City Manager.
(Ord. 2005-392, passed 5-11-2005)
§ 111.05 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Before a license for social gaming may be granted by the City Manager, an
applicant must submit an application for a license to the City Manager with the
following information and allow an investigation to be made thereon. A
completed application form must include the true names, dates of birth, social
security numbers and addresses of all persons financially interested in the
business and/or all persons who are either on the Board of Directors of, or
hold offices in the entity or organization. The term persons financially
interested in the business shall include all persons who share in the profits
of the business where the social gaming activity is located, on the basis of
gross or net revenue, including landlords, lessors, lessees and the owners of
the building, fixtures or equipment used in the social game. The application
shall also include the names, dates of birth, Social Security numbers and
addresses of all tournament sponsors if different from persons financially
interested in the business.
(Ord. 2005-392, passed 5-11-2005)
§ 111.06 APPLICATION RENEWAL.
   The grantee of a social gaming license must notify the City Manager within
10 days of any change in persons financially interested in the business or in
the names of any persons who are either on the Board of Directors of, or hold
offices in the entity or organization and request a renewal of its license. At
the time of the request, the applicant shall submit the information required by
§ 8.11.041.
(Ord. 2005-392, passed 5-11-2005)
§ 111.07 LICENSE FEE.
   For each business or other entity or organization licensed, an annual $100
fee per table shall be required.
(Ord. 2005-392, passed 5-11-2005; Am. Ord. 11-415, passed 10-26-2011)
§ 111.08 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Manager shall either approve the application and grant the
license applied for, or deny the application and refuse to grant the license.
   (B)   The license shall not be granted, or it shall be temporarily revoked
or suspended, if any applicant or any person(s) financially interested in the
business, entity or organization have:
      (1)   Supplied any false or misleading information in the application or
omitted any requested information from the application;
      (2)   Pleaded no contest to or been convicted of any felony within the
last 10 years;
      (3)   Had a license in his or her name which was revoked or suspended 3
times by the Oregon Liquor Control Commission, either of which was in the last
5 years;
      (4)   Been convicted and is currently on parole for any crime involving
or related to gambling;
      (5)   Had 2 or more convictions within 5 years for gambling-related
activities; or
      (6)   Violated any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-392, passed 5-11-2005)
§ 111.09 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No license shall be assigned or transferred; any attempt shall void the
license.
(Ord. 2005-392, passed 5-11-2005)
§ 111.10 RESPONSIBILITIES OF LICENSEE.
   It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that:
   (A)   No form of unlawful gambling is permitted upon the licensed premises;
   (B)   Social games are conducted consistent with the provisions of state
law, city ordinances and this section;
   (C)   There shall be no house player, house bank or house odds, and there
shall be no house income from the operation of the social game;
   (D)   All social games shall be open to public inspection during all hours
of operation;
   (E)   There are no off-premises signs advertising gambling, card playing or
social games. However, charitable, fraternal and/or non-profit, tax-exempt
organizations as defined by Oregon and/or United States tax laws are exempt
from this requirement;
   (F)   The playing of all social games shall be so arranged as top provide
equal access and visibility to any interested party;
   (G)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be permitted to participate
in a social game;
   (H)   No charge, other than an entry fee, shall be collected from a player
for the privilege of participating in a game;
   (I)   No participant in a social game shall be charged a price for any
consumer goods which is higher or lower than the price charged non-
participants;
   (J)   The rules social games, and the social gaming licenses shall be posted
in a conspicuous place near the area where the games are being played;
   (K)   The room or enclosure where the social games take place is open to
free and immediate access by law enforcement officers. Doors leading into the
room or enclosure remain unlocked during all hours of operation; and
   (L)   No social game is conducted between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 10:00
a.m.
(Ord. 2005-392, passed 5-11-2005; Am. Ord. 11-415, passed 10-26-2011) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.11 TERMS OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall be for a period of 1 year and shall be
renewed on the first business day of July of each year. Licenses are
nontransferable and must be reapplied for at least 30 days prior to the renewal
date each year accompanied by the appropriate fee. All persons securing a
license after the first business day of July each year shall be required to pay
the total fee of $500 per table. All renewals shall be approved by the City
Manager.
(Ord. 2005-392, passed 5-11-2005)
§ 111.12 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   A license is subject to revocation at any time for violation of this chapter
or any of the provisions of state law related to gambling. If at any time facts
arise or become known to the City Manager which are sufficient to show
violation of this chapter or state law, the City Manager shall notify the
licensee in writing that the license is to be revoked and that all social
gaming activities must cease within 15 days. The violations need not lead to a
conviction, but must establish a reasonable doubt about the licensee’s ability
to perform the licensed activity without danger to property, public health or
safety. The notice of revocation shall state the reason for the revocation, set
a period of no less than 30 days before social gaming activities can recommence
and inform the licensee of the procedures for filing an appeal.
(Ord. 2005-392, passed 5-11-2005)
§ 111.13 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   Upon determining that a licensed activity presents an immediate danger to
person or property, the City Manager may suspend the license for the activity.
The suspension shall take effect immediately on notice being received by the
licensee, or being delivered to the licensee’s business address as stated on
the licensee’s application for the license that is being suspended. The notice
shall be mailed to the licensee and state the reason for the suspension and
inform the licensee of the procedures for filing an appeal. The City Manager
may continue the suspension for as long as the reason for the suspension
exists, or until a decision by the appellate authority on an appeal regarding
the suspension concluded the matter.
(Ord. 2005-392, passed 5-11-2005)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the suspension or revocation of any license hereunder, any
licensee, firm, corporation, association or person(s) associated with the
licensee who violates any provision of this chapter, may, upon conviction, be
fined in the amount not to exceed $500 for each violation. Each day that a
violation is permitted to occur is considered a separate violation.
(Ord. 2005-392, passed 5-11-2005)
CHAPTER 112: MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITIES
Section
   
112.01   Title
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Medical marijuana facilities not permitted; moratorium declared
   
112.04   License required for operation of medical marijuana facility
   
112.05   Enforcement
   
112.06   Remedies not exclusive
§ 112.01 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known as the City of Rockaway Beach Medical
Marijuana Facilities Ordinance and may be cited as such.
(Ord. 14-424, passed 4-30-2014)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITY. Includes any facility that dispenses marijuana
pursuant to O.R.S. 475.314 or any other provision of Oregon law.
(Ord. 14-424, passed 4-30-2014)
§ 112.03 MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITIES NOT PERMITTED; MORATORIUM DECLARED.
   The City of Rockaway Beach hereby prohibits the operation of any medical
marijuana facility in any area subject to the jurisdiction of the city. The
moratorium imposed by this chapter shall be effective until May 1, 2015, unless
rescinded sooner.
(Ord. 14-424, passed 4-30-2014)
§ 112.04 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR OPERATION OF A MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITY.
   (A)   Any person(s), business, private club, non-profit organization or
place of public accommodation desiring to operate a medical marijuana facility
within the city shall acquire and maintain a valid license from the city.
Licenses shall be granted only upon:
      (1)   Application to the city; and
      (2)   Approval by the City Manager.
   (B)   However, no application shall be accepted, nor any such license
granted, by the City Manager during the period of any medical marijuana
facility moratorium.
(Ord. 14-424, passed 4-30-2014)
§ 112.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Manager, by and through the Chief of Police, is charged with
enforcement of the moratorium.
(Ord. 14-424, passed 4-30-2014)
§ 112.06 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies available under Senate Bill 1531 (2014) for a violation of the
moratorium imposed by this chapter are adopted here, and are not exclusive of
any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state and/or local
law. It is within the discretion of the city to seek cumulative remedies for a
violation of the moratorium imposed by this chapter.
(Ord. 14-424, passed 4-30-2014)
CHAPTER 113: SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Short-term rental license application and application procedures
   
113.03   Application and license fees
   
113.04   Short-term rental standards
   
113.05   Violations and penalties
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof which contains separate living
facilities, including provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
A DWELLING UNIT is evidenced by 1 or more of the following features:
      (1)   Refrigeration and cooking capabilities;
      (2)   A sink intended for meal preparation, not including a wet-bar;
      (3)   A dishwashing machine;
      (4)   A separate and distinct entrance door; or
      (5)   A separate utility meter.
   CONDOMINIUM. A building or complex containing a number of individually owned
apartments or houses which share a common point of access.
   LOCAL AGENT. Any person who has been contracted by the owner and has full
authority to act on the owner’s behalf.
   OFF-STREET PARKING. A parking space designated to the dwelling unit not
located in the public right-of-way or street and located within the property
lines of the licensed property.
   OVERNIGHT. A stay at a short-term rental that lasts for the duration of the
evening/night.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly, has title to or an ownership
interest in any dwelling unit to be used as a short-term rental.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association, social or
fraternal organization, corporation, trust, estate, receiver, syndicate, branch
of government, or any group or combination acting as a unit.
   RENTAL UNIT. A single dwelling unit that provides complete and independent
living facilities.
   RENTER. A person or group of persons renting a dwelling unit for a period of
less than 30 consecutive days.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. The use of a residential dwelling unit by any person or
group of persons entitled to occupy the dwelling unit for rent for a period of
less than 30 consecutive days.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL LICENSE. A permit to operate a short-term rental in
accordance with this chapter. The licensing year is July 1 to June 30 of the
following year and the fee of which is not subject to proration.
(Ord. 22-442, passed 8-10-2022)
§ 113.02 SHORT-TERM RENTAL LICENSE APPLICATION AND APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Eligibility to apply for license. A property owner who holds title or
a recorded land sale contract to a property with a dwelling unit may apply for
a short-term rental license. A license application shall not be accepted or
processed until fines related to any violation of the city code related to the
subject property are paid in full. A license application shall not be accepted
or processed until all corrective actions related to any violation of the city
code related to the subject property are completed to the city’s satisfaction.
No person shall occupy, use, operate or manage, or offer or negotiate to use,
lease or rent, a dwelling unit for short-term rental unless issued a short-term
rental license by the city.
   (B)   Application. An application packet for a short-term rental license
shall be completed and submitted to the city by the owner of the dwelling unit
on forms provided by the city. If the dwelling unit is owned by a corporation
or other entity, legal documentation, acceptable to the city, detailing the
names of all persons with any ownership interest in the entity shall be
submitted with the application. At the time of application, an application fee
as determined by resolution of the City Council shall be paid to the city.
Incomplete application packets shall not be accepted or processed. After one
resubmittal, all additional resubmittals for the same property shall require
payment of additional application fees. Failure of the owner to supply complete
information for the short-term rental application process within 30 days of the
initial application submission shall result in the expiration of the
application. Applicants can request in writing for a one-time only 30-day
extension after receiving communication of an incomplete application.
   (C)   Separate licenses. Each dwelling unit shall have a separate short-term
rental license. More than one license may be issued for dwelling units on a
single property. The short-term rental license is issued to the owner and may
be transferred with the sale or conveyance of the property. All short-term
rental license holders must report to the city any change of ownership of their
short-term rental, in whatever form, before the transfer of ownership. New
owners must notify the city of change of ownership within 30 days of closing to
effect a short-term license transfer.
   (D)   License renewals. All short-term rental licenses must apply for
renewal annually for the period of one year from July 1 of the current year to
June 30 of the following year. If an owner seeks renewal, the license will
remain valid during the pendency of the renewal process. Renewals will be
issued so long as all requirements in this chapter continue to be met, a
renewal application is submitted, and applicable fees are paid. If the owner is
out of compliance with the provisions of this chapter or other city code
regulation or requirement related to the licensed property, the city will not
renew the license and the property shall no longer be used as a short-term
rental. A license shall not be renewed if fines related to a violation of this
chapter or transient lodging taxes related to the licensed property are
outstanding. A license shall not be renewed until all corrective actions
related to any violation of the city code related to the licensed property are
completed to the city’s satisfaction.
   (E)   Number of licenses available.
      (1)   The City Council shall establish the total number of licenses
available by Council resolution. Except for licenses that may be granted to
owners under divisions (F) or (H) below, the city will not issue more licenses
than the total number of licenses established by the City Council.
      (2)   For license renewals each year, priority will be given to existing
licenses seeking renewal, so long as a complete renewal application and payment
is received by the city by July 31, or the next business day if July 31 falls
on a day City Hall is closed. After July 31, if existing licenses are below the
total number of licenses established by the City Council, new applications will
be accepted from the new license waiting list.
   (F)   License availability exception. Notwithstanding the number of licenses
established under division (E) above, an owner of a dwelling unit may obtain a
short-term rental license under the following conditions: (1) the applicant was
under contract to purchase the dwelling unit before the effective date of the
2024 amendments to this section; (2) the applicant took ownership of the
dwelling unit within 180 days after the effective date of the 2024 amendments
to this section; and (3) the applicant applies for a short-term rental license
for the dwelling unit within 270 days after the effective date of the 2024
amendments to this section. In addition to a standard application packet for a
short-term rental license, an application submitted under this division (F)
shall also include copies of the following materials related to the dwelling
unit: (1) the property purchase contract executed prior to the effective date
of the 2024 amendments to this section; and (2) the recorded deed or land sale
contract conveying the dwelling unit to the applicant executed within six
months after the effective date of the 2024 amendments to this section. An
eligible owner that submits a complete application meeting the requirements of
divisions (B) and (F) of this section may obtain a short-term rental license
without regard to the number of licenses available under division (E) above.
Licenses issued under this division (F) shall not count against the number of
licenses established by division (E) above and the owner issued a license under
this division (F) may renew the license in subsequent consecutive years.
Failing to timely renew a license in any one year will forfeit the ongoing
renewal preference.
   (G)   New license waiting list.
      (1)   Once the total number of allowed licenses have been issued by the
city, the city will maintain a waiting list for those owners wishing to obtain
a license. An owner of property may submit a waiting list request form with the
city.
      (2)   The city will develop a form for this purpose, requesting basic
information from the owner, including but not limited to the property address,
the owner’s name, and the owner’s contact information. It is each owner’s
responsibility to maintain correct information on file with the city while on
the waiting list.
      (3)   The city will time stamp each complete waiting list request form
submitted to mark the date and time a complete form was received by the city.
The order of owners on the waiting list will be set by the chronological order
of the time stamp on each owner’s completed waiting list request form. The City
Council may establish a fee by resolution for submitting a waiting list
request. The City Manager may develop policies for maintaining the waiting
list. Positions on the waiting list are personal to an owner and non-
transferrable.
      (4)   When the number of issued licenses falls below the total number of
licenses allowed, owners on the waiting list will be contacted in the order in
which their completed waiting list request forms were received. When contacted
at the contact information provided by the owner, the owner will have ten
business days to submit a complete license application. Failure to submit a
complete application within ten business days will forfeit the owner’s
opportunity to submit an application, remove the owner from the waiting list,
and cause the city to move to the next owner on the waiting list.
   (H)   Under-construction waiting list.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the new license waiting list, the city will also
maintain a waiting list for residential properties under-construction. If,
pursuant to a valid city zoning permit issued on or before March 29, 2024, an
owner is actively constructing a residential structure that the owner intends
to use as a short-term rental, the owner may submit a provisional application
with the city and be placed on a waiting list created by the city for such
provision applications. The city will time stamp each complete provisional
application submitted to mark the date and time a complete provisional
application was received by the city. It is each owner’s responsibility to
maintain correct information on file with the city while on the waiting list.
The City Council may establish a fee by resolution for submitting a provisional
application. The City Manager may develop policies for maintaining the under-
construction waiting list. Positions on the under-construction waiting list are
personal to an owner and non-transferrable.
      (2)   Once issued a certificate of occupancy, an owner on the under-
construction waiting list may contact the city in writing and submit a complete
short-term rental license application. Failing to contact the city within 30
days after obtaining a certificate of occupancy will void the provisional
application and the owner will be removed from the under-construction waiting
list. Once a short-term rental license application is submitted and deemed
complete, notwithstanding the license cap established by division (E) above,
the city will issue the owner a license. Licenses issued to owners on the
under-construction wait list may be renewed in subsequent consecutive years
notwithstanding the license cap established by division (E) above. Failing to
timely renew a license in any one year will forfeit the ongoing renewal
preference.
      (3)   An owner on the under-construction waiting list must obtain a
certificate of occupancy for the applicable property and must and submit a
complete short-term rental license application and pay the application fee by
March 29, 2026. After March 29, 2026, the under-construction waiting list will
lapse and any remaining owners on the list will be transferred to the new
license waiting list according to the time their provisional application was
received by the city.
(Ord. 22-442, passed 8-10-2022; Am. Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-14-2024; Am. Ord.
2024-05, passed 5-8-2024)
§ 113.03 APPLICATION AND LICENSE FEES.
   An annual license fee of $250 is due prior to issuance of a short-term
rental license or renewal. By Council resolution, the City Council shall
establish an application fee, a renewal application fee, and any other
appropriate administrative charges for the implementation and operation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 22-442, passed 8-10-2022)
§ 113.04 SHORT-TERM RENTAL STANDARDS.
   Owners shall cause each rental unit to meet the following standards:
   (A)   House number. Each rental unit must have either a house number or
address identifier visible from the street.
   (B)   On-line database. The owner or local agent shall provide and maintain
with the city either an email address or a contact telephone number for the
owner or local agent. The city shall make this information publicly available
through an on-line database. The contact information of all owners and local
agents shall be kept current with the city.
   (C)   Identification sign. The owner or local agent shall provide and
maintain a sign which lists the short-term rental license number, email address
and a contact telephone number for the owner or local agent. Such signage shall
be visible from the street, legible from 10 feet away and shall be no smaller
than 93.5 square inches nor larger than 154 square inches. The contact
information of all owners and local agents shall be kept current with the city.
If the rental unit is within a condominium, the identification sign shall be
placed on the main entrance door of the unit and be visible to other building
occupants.
   (D)   Parking. Each dwelling unit must provide the minimum off-street
parking spaces shown in the chart below, based upon the date the building was
constructed or legally converted to its current use. Parking spaces shall
measure no smaller than 9 feet x 18 feet each. Such spaces shall not be blocked
and shall be available to people using the short-term rental at all times.
Location and design of parking spaces shall comply with all applicable city
standards. Spaces in a garage may count but they must be available for the
renter to park in at all times the rental unit is rented. Trailers for boats
and all-terrain vehicles may be allowed, but must fit within an off-street
parking space allocated to the rental unit used by the owner of the trailer.
Renters shall not block nearby driveways or designated fire lanes. A parking
plan map and notice, identifying the number and location of parking spaces,
shall be posted in a conspicuous place within each short-term rental. Language
shall be included in the notice that parking shall not, under any
circumstances, hinder the path of any emergency vehicle or block neighboring
driveways and that renters may be cited and fined if this requirement is not
satisfied. A diagram of the parking plan and map shall be required as part of a
license application. The maximum number of parking spaces available to the
renter shall be conveyed to each renter before the visit.
 
Date constructed or legally converted Number of spaces required
Prior to 7/30/1974                    No off-street parking requirements
7/30/1974 - 3/24/1980                 One off-street per dwelling unit
On and after 3/25/1980                Two off-street per dwelling unit
 
   (E)   Garbage. During periods of rental unit occupancy, the owner shall
provide adequate covered and secured garbage containers in conformance with all
related guidelines established by the city. Cans must be secured to prevent
animals from knocking them over or getting into them. All garbage must fit
within the can and cannot overflow. Owner shall provide the city with evidence
that the dwelling unit receives garbage service with each application. Garbage
shall be removed a minimum of once per week. The owner or local agent shall
notify renters that all garbage must be kept in the secured containers provided
for that purpose. No garbage or rubbish may be permitted to leak from
containers or vehicles or be strewn upon or scattered over the streets,
sidewalks, or other public ways of the city.
   (F)   Noise. Renters shall not create or cause noise that is offensive to a
person of ordinary sensibilities located on the property line of the licensed
property between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays, and 10:00
p.m. and 10:00 a.m. on weekends.
   (G)   RVs and other temporary shelters. No recreational vehicle is permitted
to be used as a short-term rental unless the recreational vehicle or temporary
shelter has been properly permitted as a dwelling unit in the RMD zone. No
recreational vehicle, travel trailer or other temporary shelter shall be
inhabited or used in conjunction with a short-term rental.
   (H)   Owner and local agent responsibilities. The owner or local agent shall
be able to respond via phone within 30-minutes to complaints and other issues
and be able to access the short-term rental. Once a complaint or issue is
reported by phone or email, the owner or local agent shall immediately make
direct contact with the renter or appropriate entity by phone to resolve the
reported problem. If the problem cannot be resolved or an immediate resolution
is not achieved by phone, the owner or local agent shall make an in-person
visit to the short-term rental to rectify the situation within 30-minutes. The
owner or local agent shall maintain a telephone number listed within the rental
unit and at the city by which to be reached 24 hours a day, 7 days a week,
year-round.
   (I)   Proof of liability insurance coverage. The owner shall provide the
city with proof of liability insurance covering the licensed property. The
liability insurance coverage shall remain active and in effect during the
entire time that the property is licensed as a short-term rental.
   (J)   Emergency information. The owner shall post in the dwelling unit
information to assist renters in dealing with natural disasters, power outages
and other emergencies. The city shall list in the short-term rental license
application the minimum information and equipment to be provided by the owner
in each dwelling unit.
(Ord. 22-442, passed 8-10-2022)
§ 113.05 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   It is a violation of this chapter for any person so required to fail
or refuse to apply for a license, or operate without a license as required in
this chapter. Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter is subject
to a civil penalty of up to $500 per violation, with each day of a continuing
violation constituting a separate violation. The third violation within any
consecutive 12 month period shall result in revocation of the short-term rental
license for 12 months, after which time the owner may reapply for a new
license.
   (B)   Revocation of a short-term rental license shall not constitute a
waiver of short-term rental fees and taxes due at the time of revocation.
(Ord. 22-442, passed 8-10-2022)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY, PERSONS AND MORALS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Curfew hours for minors
   
130.02   Exemptions
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW HOURS FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Curfew hours. No person under the age of 18 years shall be, or remain
in, or upon any street, highway, park, alley or other public place between the
hours specified in this section, except as set forth in §
130.02.
      (1)   For children 14 years of age and under, the hours shall be between
9:00 p.m. Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, and 6:00 a.m. of the
following morning; and between 10:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday, or any day
prior to a legal holiday when no school is scheduled for that day, and 6:00
a.m. of the following morning; except that during the months of June, July and
August, the hours shall be between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following
morning.
      (2)   For children 15 years of age and over, the hours shall be between
10:00 p.m. Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, and 6:00 a.m. of
the following morning; and between 12:00 midnight on Friday and Saturday, or
any day prior to a legal holiday when no school is scheduled for that day, and
6:00 a.m. of the following morning; except that during the months of June, July
and August, the hours shall be between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. of the
following morning.
   (B)   Parental responsibility. No parent, guardian or any person having the
care or custody of any child under the age of 18 years shall permit or by
inefficient control, allow the child to be in or remain in or upon any street,
alley, park or other public place between the hours set forth in division (A)
above and contrary to the provisions of this chapter. Proof that the child was
on any street, alley, park or other public place at a time prohibited shall be
prima facie and sufficient evidence to sustain a conviction of a violation of
this section.
   (C)   Enforcement. If any child is found upon any street, alley, park or
other public place within the city in violation of this chapter, it shall be
the duty of any police officer to take the child into temporary custody; and
for the first violation, he or she shall as soon as practicable thereafter
notify the child's parent, guardian or other person responsible for the child
of the violation and shall take or send the child home and release the child to
the custody of his or her parent or other person responsible. In any case in
which the child under the age of 18 years shall again violate any provisions of
this chapter, the child may be apprehended and taken into temporary custody as
a juvenile offender and delinquent and be subject to the penalties provided in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ord. 111, passed 9-23-1975)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   Section
130.01 does not apply to a minor who is:
   (A)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
   (B)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
   (C)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (D)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
   (E)   Involved in an emergency;
   (F)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
   (G)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
   (H)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
   (I)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed in
accordance with state law.
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of §
130.01 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500, or imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days, or by both fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, Ord. 111, passed 9-23-1975)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY, PERSONS AND MORALS
Section
General Provisions
   
131.001   Definitions
   
131.002   Offenses outside city limits
   
131.003   Soliciting or confederating to violate ordinances
   
131.004   Attempt to commit offenses
   
131.005   Separate violations
   
131.006   Nuisance abatement
   
131.007   Application of state statues
Disorderly Conduct and Related Offenses
   
131.020   Disorderly conduct at fires
   
131.021   Drinking in public places
   
131.022   Loitering
Weapons and Fireworks
   
131.040   Discharge of weapon; weapon discharge permit
Offenses Relating to Property, Minors and Animals
   
131.055   Violating privacy of another
   
131.056   Places of amusement
   
131.057   Livestock prohibited within city limits
Sexual and Related Offenses
   
131.070   Accosting for deviate purposes
   
131.071   Public indecency
Obstructing Governmental Administration
   
131.085   Unsworn falsification
   
131.086   Police and fire communication
Street and Sidewalk Offenses
   
131.100   Obstruction of building entrances
   
131.101   Open cellar doors or grates
   
131.102   Obstruction of fire hydrants
   
131.103   Vending goods on streets or sidewalks
   
131.104   Repair of vehicles
   
131.105   Obstruction of sidewalks
Miscellaneous
   
131.120   Injury to fire apparatus
   
131.121   Lodging
   
131.122   Selling or pledging property of intoxicated persons
   
131.123   Posted notices
   
131.124   Hauling
   
131.125   Offensive littering
   
131.126   Creating a hazard
   
131.127   Travel trailers and other portable structures
Fire and Security Alarm Systems
   
131.130   Definitions
   
131.131   No public duty created
   
131.132   Unlawful intentional activation of alarm system
   
131.133   Unlawful negligent activation of alarm system
   
131.134   Unlawful activation of false duress alarm
   
131.135   False alarm fee, administrative decision; appeal
   
131.136   Alarm systems; prohibited installation, maintenance and use
   
131.137   Violations
   
131.138   Civil penalties
   
131.139   Unpaid civil penalty to become lien
 
   
131.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.001 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The definitions contained in the Oregon Criminal Code are adopted by
reference and made a part of this chapter.
   (B)   Except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning, the
general definitions and the definitions appearing in the definitional and other
sections of particular articles of the code shall be applicable throughout this
chapter.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
§ 131.002 OFFENSES OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   Where permitted by Oregon law, an act made unlawful by this chapter shall
constitute an offense when committed or, any property owned or leased by the
city, even though outside the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
§ 131.003 SOLICITING OR CONFEDERATING TO VIOLATE ORDINANCES.
   No person shall solicit, aid, abet, employ or engage another, or confederate
with another to violate a provision of this or any other ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.004 ATTEMPT TO COMMIT OFFENSES.
   A person who shall attempt to commit any of the offenses mentioned in this
chapter or any ordinance of the city, but who for any reason is prevented from
consummating the act, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
§ 131.005 SEPARATE VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever in this chapter, or any ordinance of the City of Rockaway Beach, an
act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or the
doing of an act is required, or the failure to do an act is declared to be
unlawful or an offense, each day a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
§ 131.006 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   No provisions in this chapter shall preclude the abatement of a nuisance as
provided in the general nuisance ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
§ 131.007 APPLICATION OF STATE STATUTES.
   Provisions of the Oregon Criminal Code, as the same now exists or may
hereafter be amended, relating to defenses and burden of proof, general
principles of criminal liability, parties and general principles of
justification, shall apply to offenses defined and made punishable by this
chapter.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND RELATED OFFENSES
§ 131.020 DISORDERLY CONDUCT AT FIRES.
   (A)   No person at, or near a fire, shall obstruct or impede the fighting of
the fire, interfere with Fire Department personnel or Fire Department
apparatus, behave in a disorderly manner or refuse to observe promptly an order
of a member of the Fire or Police Department.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, members of the Fire Department are
endowed with the same powers of arrest as are conferred upon peace officers for
violations of city ordinances.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.021 DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall drink or consume alcoholic liquor in, or upon a street,
alley, mall, parking lot or structure, motor vehicle, public grounds or other
public places, including beaches, unless licensed for that purpose by the
Oregon Liquor Control Commission.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.022 LOITERING.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Loiter in or near a school building or grounds, not having any reason
or relationship involving custody of, or responsibility for a student, or upon
inquiry by a peace officer or school official, not having a specific legitimate
reason for being there; and
   (B)   Loiter in or about a public place frequented by children, including
swimming pools, school bus stops, playgrounds and parks, and public premises
adjacent thereto, for the purpose of annoying, bothering or molesting children.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
WEAPONS AND FIREWORKS
§ 131.040 DISCHARGE OF WEAPON; WEAPON DISCHARGE PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall fire or discharge a weapon within the corporate limits
of the city or within land owned or controlled by the city.
   (B)   Weapon means any instrument capable of causing serious physical
injury, damage or death to a person or to property by means of, or when used
as, a projectile of any kind. Weapon includes but is not limited to firearms,
bow and arrows, crossbows, spear, sling-shot, pellet and BB guns, knife, ax,
and/or any other substance such as a chemical acid or base. Weapon includes
fireworks meeting the above definition, including Chinese or other
uncontrolled, lighter-than-air lanterns propelled by a candle or other source
of combustion, but excludes fireworks discharged in compliance with Oregon
State Fire Marshal regulations or any applicable local, state or federal permit
or law.
   (C)   Division (A) shall not apply to:
      (1)   A police officer in the performance of his or her duties;
      (2)   Any other person acting in self-defense or the defense of another
human;
      (3)   A person who first obtains from the city a weapon discharge permit
for a limited purpose and upon such terms as are reasonably necessary to
protect the general health, safety and welfare interests of the city and its
citizens;
      (4)   A person participating in any sport connnonly associated with, and
sponsored by, K through 12th grade school athletics;
      (5)   Any person or act authorized by, or protected by, the laws and
constitutions ofthe State of Oregon and/or the United States of America.
   (D)   Limited purposes for a weapon discharge pennit include, but are not
limited to, the lawful harvest or taking of a wild or destructive animal, or
the lawful use of a weapon at a firing range or at any event requiring a pennit
or prior city approval. The City Manager or City Manager's designee and the
permit applicant shall agree on reasonably necessary safety terms as permit
conditions. Otherwise, the permit application shall be referred to the City
Council for a decision. The Council may by resolution establish and amend:
      (1)   A fee or fee schedule; and
      (2)   Standard necessary safety terms for a weapon discharge permit.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002; Am. Ord. 14-423, passed 4-9-2014)
Penalty, see §
131.999
OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY, MINORS AND ANIMALS
§ 131.055 VIOLATING PRIVACY OF ANOTHER.
   No person other than a peace officer performing a lawful duty, shall enter
upon land or into a building used in whole or in part as a dwelling not his or
her own without permission of the owner or person entitled to possession
thereof, and while so trespassing look through or attempt to look through a
window, door or transom of the dwelling or that part of a building used as a
dwelling with the intent to violate the privacy of any other person.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.056 PLACES OF AMUSEMENT.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall enter, visit or loiter in or
about a public cardroom, poolroom or billiard parlor.
   (B)   No person operating or assisting in the operation of a public
cardroom, poolroom, billiard parlor or public place of amusement shall permit a
person under 18 years of age to engage therein in any game of cards, pool,
billiards, dice, darts, pinball, games of like character or games of chance,
either for amusement or otherwise.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to the playing of billiards or pool in a
recreational facility. As used in this section, a RECREATIONAL FACILITY means
an area, enclosure or room in which facilities are offered to the public to
play billiards or pool for amusement only and:
      (1)   Which is clean, adequately supervised, adequately lighted and
ventilated;
      (2)   In which no alcoholic liquor is sold or consumed; and
      (3)   Access to which does not require passing through a room where
alcoholic liquor is sold or consumed.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.057 LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   No person shall bring a horse or other livestock within the city limits,
including that portion of the beach which is within the city limits.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
SEXUAL AND RELATED OFFENSES
§ 131.070 ACCOSTING FOR DEVIATE PURPOSES.
   No person shall, while in a public place, invite or request another person
to engage in deviate sexual intercourse.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.071 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   No person shall, while in or in view of a public place, perform:
   (A)   An act of sexual intercourse;
   (B)   An act of deviate sexual intercourse;
   (C)   An act of exposing his or her genitals with the intent of arousing the
sexual desire of himself, herself or another person; and
   (D)   An act of urination or defecation, except in toilets provided for that
purpose.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
OBSTRUCTING GOVERNMENTAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 131.085 UNSWORN FALSIFICATION.
   No person shall knowingly make any false written statement to a public
servant in connection with an application for any benefit.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.086 POLICE AND FIRE COMMUNICATION.
   No person shall operate any generator or electromagnetic wave, or cause a
disturbance of the magnitude as to interfere with the proper functioning of any
Police or Fire Department radio communication system.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
STREET AND SIDEWALK OFFENSES
§ 131.100 OBSTRUCTION OF BUILDING ENTRANCES.
   No person shall obstruct any entrance to any building, or loiter
unnecessarily about or near any entrance, stairway or hall leading to any
building.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.101 OPEN CELLAR DOORS OR GRATES.
   No owner or person in charge of property shall permit a cellar door or grate
located, in or upon, a sidewalk or public pathway to remain open except when
the entrance is being used and, when being used, there are adequate safeguards
for pedestrians using the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.102 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No owner of property adjacent to a street upon which is located a fire
hydrant shall place, or maintain within 8 feet of the fire hydrant, any bush,
shrub, tree or other obstruction.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.103 VENDING GOODS ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall use or occupy any portion of a street or sidewalk for the
purpose of vending goods, wares or merchandise by public outcry or otherwise,
unless approval has first been obtained from the City Council.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.104 REPAIR OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall service, repair or do any work on any vehicle on any street
or sidewalk within the fire limits except as such may be necessary to remove
the vehicle.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.105 OBSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall place any objects, including but not limited to tables,
chairs or sandwich board signs, which reduces the walking pathway to less than
4 feet.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 131.120 INJURY TO FIRE APPARATUS.
   No person shall lead, ride or drive any animal or operate any vehicle over,
or upon, any fire hose or disturb or injure in any manner any hose, engine,
appliance or apparatus belonging to or used by the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.121 LODGING.
   No person shall lodge in a car, outbuilding or other place not intended for
that purpose without permission of the owner or person entitled to the
possession thereof.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.122 SELLING OR PLEDGING PROPERTY OF INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   No person shall purchase pro person who is in an intoxicated condition or
under the influence of any narcotic drug, or advance or loan money to the
person, or have any dealings with any such person respecting the title of
property.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.123 POSTED NOTICES.
   No person shall affix a placard, bill or poster upon personal or real
property, private or public, without first obtaining permission from the owner
thereof or from the proper public authority.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.124 HAULING.
   No person shall haul sand, gravel, rock, wood or other substances in any
vehicle or conveyance that is so constructed or in the condition as to allow
the sand, gravel, rock, wood, wood products or other substances to fall on and
litter the public streets of the city.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.125 OFFENSIVE LITTERING.
   (A)   No person shall create an objectionable stench or degrade the beauty
or appearance of property or detract from the natural cleanliness or safety of
property by intentionally:
      (1)   Discarding or depositing any rubbish, trash, garbage, debris or
other refuse upon the land of another without permission of the owner, or upon
any public way;
      (2)   Draining, or causing or permitting to be drained, sewage or the
drainage from a cesspool, septic tank, recreational or camping vehicle waste
holding tank, or other contaminated source upon the land of another without
permission of the owner, or upon any public way; and
      (3)   Permit any rubbish, trash, garbage, debris or other refuse to be
thrown from a vehicle which he or she is operating; except that this section
shall not apply to a person operating a vehicle transporting passengers for
hire subject to regulation by the Interstate Commerce Commission or the Public
Utility Commissioner of Oregon or a person operating a school bus subject to
O.R.S. Ch. 825.
   (B)   As used in this section, PUBLICWAY includes, but is not limited to,
roads, streets, alleys, lanes, trails, beaches, parks and all recreational
facilities operated by the city, state or county for use by the general public.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.126 CREATING A HAZARD.
   No person shall create a hazard by:
   (A)   Intentionally maintaining or leaving in a place accessible to children
a container with a compartment of more than 1-1/2 cubic feet capacity and a
door or lid which locks or fastens automatically when closed and which cannot
be easily opened from the inside; or
   (B)   Being the owner or otherwise having possession of property upon which
there is a well, cistern, cesspool, excavation or other hole of a depth of 4
feet or more and a top width of 12 inches or more, intentionally fail or refuse
to cover or fence it with a suitable protective construction.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
§ 131.127 TRAVEL TRAILERS AND OTHER PORTABLE STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall occupy or live in any self-contained travel trailer,
camper vehicle, van, trailer house or other portable or migratory structure
used for living or sleeping purposes within the city unless:
      (1)   It is parked in a campground licensed by the city which is equipped
with sanitary facilities and water for domestic use; or
      (2)   It is parked in conformance with the provisions of the city's
zoning regulations; or
      (3)   It is parked on private property, which is already serviced with
electricity, water and sanitary facilities, by visitors of the owner of the
property and a permit therefor has been obtained from the City Recorder or the
Police Department, or it is parked on private property by the owner of the
property already serviced with electricity, water and sanitary facilities, and
a permit therefor has been obtained by the owner of the property from either
the City Recorder or the Police Department, such permit to be valid for 4 days
and renewable once for 4 days.
   (B)   The parking of any trailer house or other portable or migratory
structure used for living or sleeping purposes mentioned in division (A) above
is violation hereof, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a menace to the
health and well-being of the people of the city and unlawful.
   (C)   Any person or persons violating the provisions of this section shall
be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding $50 for each violation and in default of payment of such fine, be
imprisoned in the city jail one day for each $5 of such fine unpaid.
(Ord. 79, passed 4-14-1970; Am. Ord. 133, passed 8-24-1976)
FIRE AND SECURITY ALARM SYSTEMS
§ 131.130 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM PROVIDER. A person or business which sells, leases, maintains,
installs, monitors, repairs, moves, or replaces a fire and/or security alarm
system in any building, structure, or facility.
   ANNUNCIATOR. That part of a fire and/or security alarm system, other than an
automatic dialer, which communicates the fact that the system has been
triggered.
   AUDIBLE ANNUNCIATOR. An annunciator which gives an alarm by means of a bell,
siren, buzzer, or similar sound-producing device and mounted at some location
other than wholly within a building, or if located wholly within a building,
intended to be clearly audible when activated at a distance of 50 feet or more
outside of the building within which it is mounted.
   AUTOMATIC DIALER. A device which is programmed to select a telephone number
and deliver a verbal warning message or signal over standard telephone lines.
   CENTER. The "911" emergency communications center serving the City of
Rockaway Beach and/or direct communication by any means to the City Police
Department, City Hall and/or Rockaway Beach Fire District office.
   CITY. The municipality of Rockaway Beach, Oregon.
   DURESS ALARM. A manually activated fire and/or security alarm system.
   FALSE ALARM. Activation by any means of a:
      (1)   Security alarm system not resulting from criminal activity or
unlawful entry upon protected premises, which activation results in a
communication to the Center that an alarm has been triggered; or
      (2)   Fire alarm system, where there is no evidence of a fire, whether
such activation is through the mechanical failure, malfunction, improper
installation, improper maintenance of the fire alarm system, or through the
negligent or intentional acts of an owner or any other person.
   FALSE ALARM FEE ("FAF"). See §
131.134.
   FIRE ALARM SYSTEM.  See SECURITY ALARM SYSTEM below.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of the Fire District of the City of Rockaway Beach.
   FIRE CODE OFFICIAL. The Fire Chief or the Fire Chief's designee.
   FIRE PREVENTION CODE. Those provisions of the Oregon Fire Code, and any
modification thereof, as adopted by this ordinance, and all other provisions of
this Rockaway Beach Code, unless otherwise modified by the City Council.
   FIRE PREVENTION PROGRAM. The Fire District program for regulation of
building use and occupancy and the administration and enforcement of the Fire
Prevention Code and/or any local, state and/or federal other fire safety codes,
laws, ordinances, regulations or rules.
   INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE. The 2009 International Fire Code (International
Fire Code Council, Inc. 2009).
   JURISDICTION. The City of Rockaway Beach, Oregon.
   NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE and NEGLIGENTLY. Each mean in their own context the
failure to use the care a reasonable, prudent and careful person would use
under similar circumstances. Each word also means not doing some act which a
reasonable, prudent and careful person would not do under similar
circumstances.
   OREGON FIRE CODE. The International Fire Code, as adopted by the state at
OAR 837-040-0010, and filed with the Oregon Secretary of State on November 19,
2009, as the Oregon Fire Code 2010 Edition, subject to the exclusions therefrom
and amendments thereto as set forth in OAR 837-040-0020. The Oregon Fire Code
is also known as Oregon Fire Code 2010 Edition, or by the initials OFC.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown in the real property records of the
county in which the protected premises is located. OWNER includes any person
having legal control over the protected premises, including but not limited to
an owner's agent, employee, lessee, tenant and/or assign.
   OWNER'S LEGAL DUTY. See §
131.135(A).
   PERMITTEE. The person holding any permit authorized by this code, including
that person's authorized representative.
   PERSON. A natural person, partnership, corporation, limited liability
partnership, limited liability company, co-operative, governmental entity,
association, or other entity in law or fact.
   POLICE CHIEF. The Chief of the Police Department of the City of Rockaway
Beach or his/her designee.
   PRIVATE SECURITY OFFICER. As defined in O.R.S. Chapter 181.
   PROTECTED PREMISES. All buildings, structures, facilities, real property, or
portions thereof protected by a fire and/or security alarm system.
   REMOTE ANNUNCIATOR. An annunciator located at a terminal on the premises of
the Rockaway Beach Police Department, an alarm system provider or other
location not a part of the protected premises.
   SECURITY ALARM SYSTEM and FIRE ALARM SYSTEM. Each means a security or fire
alarm device or system of interconnected devices, including hardware and
related appurtenances, designed to give warning of activities indicative of
criminal conduct and/or unauthorized entry upon, or fire on, protected
premises. A system which does not incorporate an audible annunciator, a remote
annunciator or an automatic dialer to convey such a warning to the public,
police and/or fire officials, and systems owned, maintained and monitored by
any government law enforcement or fire agency in furtherance of law enforcement
or fire protection duties, are not considered security alarm systems for the
purposes of this code.
   SENSOR. That part of an alarm system which is designed to detect the
happening of some event, or existence of some condition, indicative of fire,
criminal activity, or unauthorized entry upon protected premises.
   SILENT ALARM SYSTEM. An alarm system having an automatic dialer, a remote
annunciator, or both, but no audible annunciator.
   STATE FIRE MARSHAL. The Fire Code Official for purposes of enforcing this
code.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person contracting with an alarm system provider to monitor
protected premises and the occupant of the protected premises. For protected
premises having more than one occupant protected by a single security alarm
system, the term SUBSCRIBER means the owner.
(Ord. 16-427, passed 5-11-2016)
§ 131.131 NO PUBLIC DUTY CREATED.
   It is the express purpose of this subchapter, §§
131.130 through
131.139 to provide for and promote the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of the city, but not to create or otherwise establish a duty or
obligation, expressed or implied, of response by the city, its Police
Department, or the Rockaway Beach Fire District. Response may be influenced by
many factors including, but not limited to, the availability of police or fire
units, priority of calls for service, weather conditions, traffic conditions,
emergency conditions, staffing levels and/or prior response history.
(Ord. 16-427, passed 5-11-2016)
§ 131.132 UNLAWFUL INTENTIONAL ACTIVATION OF ALARM SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally activate a security alarm system for the
purpose of summoning the police when no burglary, robbery, or other crime
dangerous to life or property is being committed or attempted on the premises.
   (B)   No person shall intentionally activate a fire alarm except to signal
an actual emergency involving fire or other condition threatening human life or
major property loss.
   (C)   A violation of division (A) or (B) above is punishable as a Class C
misdemeanor, plus restitution of a false alarm fee.
(Ord. 16-427, passed 5-11-2016)
§ 131.133 UNLAWFUL NEGLIGENT ACTIVATION OF ALARM SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person shall negligently activate a security alarm system or fire
alarm system that is a false alarm.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable by a fine up to $1,000, plus
restitution of a false alarm fee.
(Ord. 16-427, passed 5-11-2016)
§ 131.134 UNLAWFUL ACTIVATION OF FALSE DURESS ALARM.
   (A)   No owner of protected premises or other person having authorized
access to protected premises shall activate a duress alarm that is a false
alarm.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable by a fine up to $1,000, plus
restitution of a false alarm fee.
(Ord. 16-427, passed 5-11-2016)
§ 131.135 FALSE ALARM FEE, ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION; APPEAL.
   (A)   False alarm fee. The owner of any premises having a fire and/or
security alarm system shall at owner's sole expense install, operate, maintain
and repair that system to prevent a false alarm (a.k.a. "owner's legal duty").
The owner of any premises that has generated, and/or the person responsible
for, a false alarm shall be liable to the city for the costs incurred by the
city in response to the false alarm at the rate prescribed by City Council
resolution. These costs shall be the false alarm fee ("FAF") as initially
specified in Table I-1 below. The false alarm fee shall be due and payable 30
days after invoice by the Fire Chief or Police Chief for any false alarm of a
fire alarm system or security alarm system, respectively. If no City Council
resolution establishes a false alarm fee rate, then false alarm fee shall be
the costs of responding to a false alarm, including but not be limited to:
      (1)   The pay and benefits accruing to any public employee of the city,
Fire District and/or Police Department for their time responding to, whether or
not present at, the scene of the alarm:
      (2)   The reasonable value for the maintenance and use of fire fighting,
police and support equipment present and available for use at scene; and
      (3)   The reasonable value of each volunteer fire fighter and/or Police
Department volunteer responding which value shall be not less than the
commensurate pay and benefits of a similar public city/Fire District/Police
Department employee.
   (B)   Waiver of false alarm fee. The Fire Chief or Police Chief may waive
all or part of a false alarm fee assessed under division (A) of this section
upon finding one or more of the following that:
      (1)   The alarm system has been regularly inspected by experienced
technicians familiar with its design and operation and the environment in which
it is installed.
      (2)   All repairs, replacements, and preventive maintenance recommended
by the service personnel who inspected the system have been performed.
      (3)   The cause of the false alarm was not the result of misuse or
neglect in the use or maintenance of the system and the cause cannot be
identified despite thorough inspection, testing and analysis by an experienced
technician familiar with its design, operation, and the environment in which it
is installed.
      (4)   An experienced technician familiar with the alarm system's design,
operation, and the environment in which it is installed has provided a written
opinion that the system is unlikely to produce another false alarm from the
same cause.
      (5) The false alarm was not the result of owner error or neglect.
      (6) The cause of the false alarm has been positively identified and
corrected.
      (7)   The false alarm was caused by unauthorized tampering with a fire
alarm system by someone other than the owner.
      (8)   Based on articulated facts, a waiver is otherwise in the best
interests of the city.
   (C)   "Two waivers" limitation. No more than 2 false alarms may be waived
for any person or premises during any consecutive 365-day period, unless the
owner or person provides satisfactory evidence that:
      (1)   In the case of system failure, each component of the fire and/or
security alarm system whose malfunction or failure produced the false alarm
have been replaced or repaired by competent technicians: or
      (2)   In the case of negligent or intentional acts of the owner, the
owner has provided proof of adequate training of all employees and agents in
practices that will prevent the future negligent, intentional and/or accidental
triggering of the fire and/or security alarm system.
   (D)   Appeal to City Manager. An owner who has been assessed a false alarm
fee may appeal all or part of the false alarm fee by filing a written notice of
appeal with the City Manager within 30 days of receiving the false alarm fee
invoice ("FAF invoice"). Owner's notice of appeal shall:
      (1)   State the date owner received the false alarm fee invoice;
      (2)   State the issue or issues being appealed;
      (3)   Cite the rules or laws which apply to the issue;
      (4)   Present or list the facts supporting owner's position to which the
law applies;
      (5)   Present owner's analysis of the facts and law;
      (6)   Present a conclusion; and
      (7)   Specify the remedy or decision requested from the city. The City
manager shall make a decision to affirm, deny or modify the FAF invoice within
30 days of receiving owner's notice of appeal. Prior to the City Manager's
decision here, the City Manager and owner may negotiate and settle the FAF
invoice. Settlement shall be in writing, signed and dated. Any City Manager
decision on owner's appeal shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   State the date City Manager received owner's written notice of
appeal;
         (c)   State the issue or issues being appealed;
         (d)   Cite the rules or laws which apply to the issue;
         (e)   Present or list the facts, law and analysis supporting City
Manager's decision.
   (E)   Appeal to City Council. An owner who does not agree with the City
Manager's decision may appeal that decision to the City Council within 30 days
of receiving the City Manager's decision by filing a notice of appeal to City
Council with the City Manager. Owner must sign and date owner's notice here.
This notice must contain the information in division (D) above and the date
owner received City Manager's decision. This matter shall be set for hearing
and heard before the City Council as soon as practicable, but no later than 60
days from the date of City Manager's decision or the second regular City
Council meeting next following that decision, whichever is later. City shall
notify owner of the date, time and place of the hearing. City Council will
review the FAF invoice and City Manager decision de novo. City Council's
decision shall be reduced to writing and mailed first-class mail to owner
within 30 days.
   (F)   Appeal of City Council decision. Appeal of a City Council decision
shall be by writ of review only, O.R.S. 34.010 et seq.
   Table I-1: False Alarm Fees
Permit     False Alarm Event/Calendar Year Fee
           First                           $0
           Second                          $50
§         Third                           $100
131.135(A) Fourth                          $150
           Fifth                           $200
           Sixth                           $250
 
(Ord. 16-427, passed 5-11-2016)
§ 131.136 ALARM SYSTEMS; PROHIBITED INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE, AND USE.
   (A)   No duress alarm may be installed which has a single action, non-
recessed activation button.
   (B)   No security alarm system incorporating an audible annunciator may be
installed or maintained unless the system is designed so that each audible
annunciator will automatically be silenced within 15 minutes after being
activated, and will not sound again unless a new act or circumstance triggers a
sensor.
   (C)   No automatic dialer, except for government entities, e.g. 911, reverse
911 and public or private schools, may be programmed to select any telephone
line of a user that has not previously given consent to such programming.
   (D)   No person shall install, use, or maintain a security alarm system in
violation of any of the requirements of this code, or ofany applicable local,
state and/or federal code, statute, law, rule or administrative regulation of
the United States of America, the State of Oregon, the City of Rockaway Beach,
or any administrative rule-making body thereof.
   (E)   A violation of this section is punishable by a fine up to $1,000, plus
restitution of a false alarm fee.
(Ord. 16-427, passed 5-11-2016)
§ 131.137 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall make a connection to, or use, any energy, fuel or
power supply, or any equipment regulated by the Fire Prevention Code that has
been disconnected, or ordered disconnected, by the Fire Code Official until the
Fire Code Official specifically authorizes reconnection or use of such supply
or equipment.
   (B)   No owner shall allow:
      (1)   Any building, or part thereof, to be in an unsafe condition; or
      (2)   Any device or safeguard required by the Fire Prevention Code to
fail to conform to the Fire Prevention Code in effect on the date when the
device or safeguard was installed.
   (C)   No person shall perform, or cause to be performed, any work, activity,
storage, or process for which a permit is required under any provision of the
Fire Prevention Code without first obtaining a permit.
   (D)   No person applying for a permit required by the Fire Prevention Code
shall knowingly make any false, incomplete or misleading statement on the
application.
   (E)   No person shall violate any provision of the Fire Prevention Code.
   (F)   No person shall occupy or allow occupancy of a building or structure
prior to the Fire Code Official issuing a permit that indicates that applicable
provisions of the Fire Prevention Code have been met.
   (G)   No person shall disobey any lawful notice or order of the Fire Code
Official of conduct required to achieve compliance with the Fire Prevention
Code.
(Ord. 16-427, passed 5-11-2016)
§ 131.138 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Civil penalty. Any person:
      (1)   Who fails to comply with the requirements of this code, or the
terms of a permit issued hereunder;
      (2)   Who undertakes an activity regulated by this code without first
obtaining a permit; or
      (3)   Who fails to comply with a stop work order issued pursuant to this
code, shall also be subject to a civil penalty, which civil penalty shall not
to exceed $2,000 per violation, exclusive of restitution or false alarm fee.
However, each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (B)   Civil penalty upon alarm system provider. In lieu of or in addition to
any penalty provided by law, a civil penalty may be imposed upon an alarm
system provider whenever the provider, or the provider's officer, agent or
employee, violates §§
131.132,
131.133,
131.134 or
131.135. The civil penalty in division (B) for the first violation in a
calendar year is $300. The civil penalty for the second violation in a calendar
year is $500. The civil penalty for the third violation and each subsequent
violation thereafter in a calendar year is $1,000.
   (C)   Civil penalty appeal. The assessment of civil penalties, and appeals
therefrom, shall follow the procedures set forth in §
131.135.
   (D)   Burden of proof. In any appeal ofthe assessment ofa civil penalty,
there shall be a rebuttable presumption that an alarm was false if the
enforcement officer or official makes a prima facie showing that law
enforcement and/or fire officials:
      (1)   Responded to an alarm;
      (2)   Checked the premises according to standard operating procedure; and
      (3)   Were unable to discover any evidence of unauthorized entry,
criminal activity or fire. If the enforcement officer makes a prima facie
showing, then the burden ofpersuasion shall shift to the appellant to
demonstrate no false alarm occurred.
   (E)   Infraction. In addition to any fines, penalties and/or remedies
authorized by the Fire Prevention Code, a violation of any other provision of
the Fire Prevention Code is an infraction and is a separate offense for each
day the violation continues.
   (F)   Effective date; finality; appeal; stay; undertaking. A notice of civil
penalty shall be effective upon issuance and shall become final upon expiration
of the time for filing an appeal. If a notice of appeal of a civil penalty
decision is timely filed, the penalty shall become final upon expiration of the
time for filing an appeal and, if applicable, the final reviewing body's
written decision concerning the civil penalty. There shall be no stay of
enforcement of the original decision except upon a written request for stay and
an undertaking equal to not less than 125% of the civil penalty assessed. If
the appeal is denied, any undertaking shall be applied to the civil penalty.
City shall also recover its costs and disbursements, if any, for hearing the
appeal. Any undertaking remainder shall then be refunded to appellant. If
appellant prevails, then the undertaking shall be refunded to appellant in
whole or part in like proportion to the decision.
(Ord. 16-427, passed 5-11-2016)
§ 131.139 UNPAID CIVIL PENALTY TO BECOME LIEN.
   If a civil penalty remains unpaid 30 calendar days it becomes final, the
civil penalty shall be entered in the city lien docket. The lien shall bear
interest at the legal interest rate in O.R.S. 82.010, to commence from the date
of entry in the lien docket, and may be foreclosed as provided by law.
(Ord. 16-427, passed 5-11-2016)
§ 131.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter is punishable by a fine not to
exceed $500.
(Prior Code, Ord. 02-378, passed 6-12-2002)
Penalty, see § 131.999
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
   
152.   STRUCTURAL SPECIALITY CODE
   
153.   LOTS
   
154.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
   
155.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of code
   
150.02   Violations
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. As modified by this section, the City of Rockaway Beach
adopts Chapter 70 of the 1988 edition of the Uniform Building Code, with its
appendices, standards and tables.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   General. Fees shall be assessed in accordance with the provisions
of this section or shall be as set forth in the fee schedule adopted by the
city.
      (2)   Plan review fees. When a plan or other data are required to be
submitted, a plan review fee shall be paid at the time of submitting plans and
specifications for review. The plan review fee shall be as set forth in Table A
below. Separate plan review fees shall apply to retaining walls or major
drainage structures as required elsewhere in this code. For excavation and fill
on the same site, the fee shall be based on the volume of excavation or fill,
whichever is greater.
      (3)   Grading permit fees. A fee for each grading permit shall be paid to
the Building Official as set forth in Table B below. Separate permits and fees
shall apply to retaining walls or major drainage structures as required
elsewhere in this code. There shall be no separate charge for standard terrace
drains and similar facilities.
TABLE A: GRADING PLAN REVIEW FEES
Amount Minimum
Amount                             Minimum
50 cubic yards or less             $15
51 to 100 cubic yards              $25
101 to 1000 cubic yards            $30
1001 to 10,000 cubic yards         $50
                                   $50 for the first 10,000 cubic yards, plus
10,001 to 100,000 cubic yards      $15 for each additional 10,000 yards or
                                   fraction thereof
                                   $175 for the first 100,000 cubic yards,
100,001 to 200,000 cubic yards     plus $15 for each additional 10,000 cubic
                                   yards or fraction thereof
                                   $275 for the first 200,000 cubic yards,
200,001 cubic yards or more        plus $10 for each additional 10,000 cubic
                                   yards or fraction thereof
Other Fees:
Additional plan review required by
changes, additions or revisions to $50 per hour* (minimum charge - 1/2 hour)
approve plans
*Or the total hourly cost to the city, whichever is the greatest. This cost
shall include supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly wages and fringe
benefits of the employees involved.
 
TABLE B: GRADING PERMIT FEES
Amount Minimum
Amount                                Minimum
50 cubic yards or less                $25
51 to 100 cubic yards                 $30
                                      $25 for the first 100 cubic yards plus
101 to 1000 cubic yards               $15 for each additional 100 cubic yards
                                      or fraction thereof
                                      $150 for the first 1,000 cubic yards,
1001 to 10,000 cubic yards            plus $10 for each additional 1,000 cubic
                                      yards or fraction thereof
                                      $250 for the first 10,000 cubic yards,
10,001 to 100,000 cubic yards         plus $40.50 for each additional 10,000
                                      cubic yards or fraction thereof
                                      $600 for the first 100,000 cubic yards,
100,001 cubic yards or more           plus $25 for each additional 10,000 cubic
                                      yards or fraction thereof
Other Inspections And Fees:
Inspection outside of normal business $50 per hour 2 (minimum charge - 2 hours)
hours
Reinspection fees assessed under      $50 per hour 2
provisions of Section 305(g)
Inspections for which no fee is       $50 per hour2
specifically indicated
1 The fee for a grading permit authorizing additional work to that under a
valid permit shall be the difference between the fee paid for the original
permit and the fee shown for the entire project.
2 Or the total hourly cost to the city, whichever is the greatest. This cost
shall include supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly wages and fringe
benefits of the employees involved.
 
(Prior Code, Ord. 281, passed - -)
§ 150.02 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to excavate, grade,
or do earthwork construction, including fills and embankments, or cause the
same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, Ord. 281, passed 4-9-1991)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and each such person shall be
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during
which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed,
continued or permitted; and upon conviction of any such violation, such persons
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, Ord. 281, passed 4-9-1991)
CHAPTER 151: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
Section
Notice and Orders of Building Official
   
151.001   General
   
151.002   Recordation of notice and order
   
151.003   Repair, vacation and demolition; standards to be followed
   
151.004   Notice to vacate
Appeal
   
151.020   General
   
151.021   Form of notice of hearing
   
151.022   Subpoenas
   
151.023   Conduct of hearing
   
151.024   Method and form of decision
Enforcement of the Order of the Building Official or the Board of Appeals
   
151.040   Compliance
   
151.041   Extension of time to perform work
   
151.042   Interference with repair or demolition work prohibited
Performance of Work, Repair or Demolition
   
151.055   General
   
151.056   Repair and Demolition Fund
Recovery of Cost of Repair or Demolition
   
151.070   Account of expense, filing of report; contents
   
151.071   Report transmitted to council; set for hearing
   
151.072   Protests and objections; how made
   
151.073   Hearing of protests
   
151.074   Personal obligation or special assessment
   
151.075   Contest
   
151.076   Authority for installment payment of assessments with interest
   
151.077   Lien of assessment
   
151.078   Report to assessor and tax collector; addition of assessment to tax
bill
   
151.079   Filing copy of report with county auditor
   
151.080   Collection of assessment; penalties for foreclosure
   
151.081   Repayment of repair and demolition fund
Editor’s note:
   Ordinance 05-395 adopts the following:
      All references to Tillamook County shall be deemed references to the City
of Rockaway Beach.
      All references to the Board of Appeals of Tillamook County shall be
deemed references to the City Council of the City of Rockaway Beach.
      All references to the Tillamook County Board of Commissioners or “board”
shall be deemed references to the City Council for the City of Rockaway Beach.
      All references to the director of public works shall be deemed references
to the Rockaway Beach City Manager.
      All references to the Tillamook County Clerk shall be deemed reference to
the Rockaway Beach City Manager.
      All references to the Building Official shall be deemed references to
Building Official shall be deemed references to Building Official and/or City
Manager.
NOTICE AND ORDERS OF BUILDING OFFICIAL
§ 151.001 GENERAL.
   (A)   Commencement of proceedings. Whenever the Building Official has
inspected or caused to be inspected any building and has found and determined
that the building is a dangerous building, he or she shall commence proceedings
to cause the repair, vacation or demolition of the building.
   (B)   Notice and order. The Building Official shall issue a notice and order
directed to the record owner of the building. The notice and order shall
contain:
      (1)   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building is located;
      (2)   A statement that the Building Official has found the building to be
dangerous with a brief and concise description of the conditions found to
render the building dangerous under the provisions of Section 302 of this
Ordinance;
      (3)   A statement of the action required to be taken as determined by the
Building Official:
         (a)   If the Building Official has determined that the building or
structure must be repaired, the order shall require that all permits be secured
therefore and the work physically commenced within the time, and completed
within the time as the Building Official shall determine is reasonable under
all of the circumstances;
         (b)   If the Building Official has determined that the building or
structure must be vacated, the order shall require that the building be vacated
within the time as the Building Official shall determine is reasonable; and
         (c)   If the Building Official has determined that the building or
structure must be demolished, the order shall require that the building be
vacated within the time as the Building Official shall determine is reasonable,
not to exceed 60 days from the date of the order; that all required permits be
secured therefore within 60 days from the date of the order, and that the
demolition be completed within the time as the Building Official shall
determine is reasonable.
      (4)   Statements advising that if any required repair or demolition work
(without vacation also being required) is not commenced within the time
specified, the Building Official:
         (a)   Will order the building vacated and posted to prevent further
occupancy until the work is completed; and
         (b)   May proceed to cause the work to be done and charge the costs
thereof against the property or its owner.
      (5)   Statements advising:
          (a)   That any person having any record title or legal interest in
the building may appeal from the notice and order or any action of the Building
Official to the Board of Appeals, provided the appeal is made in writing as
provided in this chapter and filed with the Building Official within 30 days
from the date of service of the notice and order; and
         (b)   That failure to appeal will constitute a waiver of all rights to
an administrative hearing and determination of the matter.
   (C)   Service of notice and order. The notice and order, and any amended or
supplemental notice and order, shall be served upon the record owner and posted
on the property; and 1 copy thereof shall be served on each of the following if
known to the Building Official or disclosed from official public records: the
holder of any mortgage or deed of trust or other lien or encumbrance of record;
the owner or holder of any lease of record; and the holder of any other estate
or legal interest of record in or to the building or the land on which it is
located. The failure of the Building Official to serve any person required
herein to be served shall not invalidate any proceedings hereunder as to any
other person duly served or relieve any the person from any duty or obligation
imposed on him or her by the provision of this section.
   (D)   Method of service.  Service of the notice and order shall be made upon
all persons entitled thereto either personally or by mailing a copy of the
notice and order by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested,
to each person at his or her address as it appears on the last equalized
assessment roll of the county or as known to the Building Official. If no
address of any person so appears or is known to the Building Official, then a
copy of the notice and order shall be so mailed, addressed to the person at the
address of the building involved in the proceedings. The failure of any person
to receive the notice shall not affect the validity of any proceedings taken
under this section. Service by certified mail in the manner herein provided
shall be effective on the date of mailing.
   (E)   Proof of service. Proof of service of the notice and order shall be
certified to at the time of service by a written declaration under penalty of
perjury executed by the persons effecting service, declaring the time, date and
manner in which service was made. The declaration, together with any receipt
card returned in acknowledgment of receipt by certified mail shall be affixed
to the copy of the notice and order retained by the Building Official.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.002 RECORDATION OF NOTICE AND ORDER.
   (A)   If compliance is not had with the order within the time specified
therein, and no appeal has been properly and timely filed, the Building
Official shall file in the office of the County Clerk a certificate describing
the property and certifying:
      (1)   That the building is a dangerous building; and
      (2)   That the owner has been so notified.
   (B)   Whenever the corrections ordered shall thereafter have been completed
or the building demolished so that it no longer exists as a dangerous building
on the property described in the certificate, the Building Official shall file
a new certificate with the County Clerk, certifying that the building has been
demolished or all required corrections have been made so that the building is
no longer dangerous, whichever is appropriate.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.003 REPAIR, VACATION AND DEMOLITION; STANDARDS TO BE FOLLOWED.
   The following standards shall be followed by the Building Official (and by
the Board of Appeals if an appeal is taken) in ordering the repair, vacation or
demolition of any dangerous building or structure.
   (A)   Any building declared a dangerous building under this chapter shall
either be repaired in accordance with the current Building Code or shall be
demolished at the option of the building owner.
   (B)   If the building or structure is in the condition as to make it
immediately dangerous to the life, limb, property or safety of the public or
its occupants, it shall be ordered to be vacated.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.004 NOTICE TO VACATE.
   (A)   Posting. Every notice to vacate shall, in addition to being served as
provided in §
151.001(C), be in substantially the following form:
DO NOT ENTER
UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
It is a misdemeanor to occupy this building, or remove or deface this notice
Building Official
Tillamook County
   (B)   Compliance. Whenever the notice is posted, the Building Official shall
include a notification thereof in the notice and order issued by him or her
under §
151.001(B), reciting the emergency and specifying the conditions which
necessitate the posting. No person shall remain in or enter any building which
has been so posted, except that entry may be made to repair, demolish or remove
the building under permit. No person shall remove or deface any notice after it
is posted until the required repairs, demolition or removal have been completed
and a certificate of occupancy issued pursuant to the provisions of the
Building Code. Any person violating this division shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
Penalty, see § 10.99
APPEAL
§ 151.020 GENERAL.
   (A)   Form of appeal. Any person entitled to service under §
151.001(C) may appeal from any notice and order or any action of the Building
Official under this chapter by filing at the office of the Building Official a
written appeal containing:
      (1)   A heading in words: “Before the Board of Appeals of Tillamook
County”;
      (2)   A caption reading: “Appeal of               ,” giving the names of
all appellants participating in the appeal;
      (3)   A brief statement setting forth the legal interest of each of the
appellants in the building or the land involved in the notice and order;
      (4)   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the specific
order or action protested, together with any material facts claimed to support
the contentions of the appellant;
      (5)   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the relief
sought and the reasons why it is claimed the protested order or action should
be reversed, modified or otherwise set aside;
      (6)   The signatures of all parties named as appellants and their
official mailing addresses;
      (7)   The verification (by declaration, under penalty of perjury) of at
least 1 appellant as to the truth of the matters stated in the appeal; and
      (8)   The appeal shall be filed within 30 days from the date of the
service of the order or action of the Building Official; provided, however,
that the building or structure is in the condition as to make it immediately
dangerous to the life, limb, property or safety of the public or adjacent
property and is ordered vacated and is posted in accordance with §
151.004, the appeal shall be filed within 10 days from the date of the service
of the notice and order of the Building Official.
   (B)   Processing of appeal. Upon receipt of any appeal filed pursuant to
this section, the Building Official shall present it at the next regular or
special meeting of the Board of Appeals.
   (C)   Continuances. The Board may grant continuances for good cause shown;
however, when a hearing examiner has been assigned to the hearing, no
continuances may be granted except by him or her for good cause shown so long
as the matter remains before him or her.
   (D)   Oaths; certification. In any proceedings under this chapter, the
Board, any Board member or the hearing examiner has the power to administer
oaths and affirmations and to certify to official acts.
   (E)   Reasonable dispatch. The Board and its representatives shall proceed
with reasonable dispatch to conclude any matter before it. Due regard shall be
shown for the convenience and necessity of any parties or their
representatives.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.021 FORM OF NOTICE OF HEARING.
   The notice to appellant shall be substantially in the following form, but
may include other information:
      “Your are hereby notified that a hearing will be held before the Board of
Appeals or hearing examiner at                                              on
the                           day of                     ,                    
at the hour                                         , upon the notice and order
served upon you. You may be present at the hearing. You may be, but need not
be, represented by counsel. You may present any relevant evidence and will be
given full opportunity to cross-examine all witnesses testifying against you.
You may request the issuance of subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses
and the production of books, documents or other things by filing an affidavit
therefor with Board of Appeals or hearing examiner.”
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.022 SUBPOENAS.
   (A)   Filing and affidavit. The Board or examiner may obtain the issuance
and service of a subpoena for the attendance of witnesses or the production of
other evidence at a hearing upon the request of a member of the Board or upon
the written demand of any party. The issuance and service of the subpoena shall
be obtained upon the filing of an affidavit therefore which states the name and
address of the proposed witness; specifies the exact things sought to be
produced and the materiality thereof in detail to the issues involved; and
states that the witness has the desired things in his or her possession or
under his or her control. A subpoena need not be issued when the affidavit is
defective in any particular.
   (B)   Cases referred to examiner. In cases where a hearing is referred to an
examiner, all subpoenas shall be obtained through the examiner.
   (C)   Penalties. Any person who refuses without lawful excuse to attend any
hearing or to produce material evidence in his or her possession or under his
or her control as required by any subpoena served upon the person as provided
for herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.023 CONDUCT OF HEARING.
   (A)   Rules. Hearings need not be conducted according to the technical rules
relating to evidence and witnesses.
   (B)   Oral evidence. Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or
affirmation.
   (C)   Hearsay evidence.  Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of
supplementing or explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be sufficient in
itself to support a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in
civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this state.
   (D)   Exclusion of evidence. Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence
shall be excluded.
   (E)   Rights of parties. Each party shall have these rights, among others:
      (1)   To call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the issue
of the hearing;
      (2)   To introduce documentary and physical evidence;
      (3)   To cross-examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing;
      (4)   To impeach any witness regardless of which party first called him
or her to testify;
      (5)   To rebut the evidence against him or her; and
      (6)   To represent himself or herself or to be represented by anyone of
his or her choice who is lawfully permitted to do so.
   (F)   Official notice.
      (1)   What may be noticed. In reaching a decision, official notice may be
taken, either before or after submission of the case for decision, of any fact
which may be judicially noticed by the courts of this state or of official
records of the board or departments and ordinances of the county or rules and
regulations of the Board.
      (2)   Parties to be notified. Parries present at the hearing shall be
informed of the matters to be noticed, and these matters shall be noted in the
record, referred to therein or appended thereto.
      (3)   Opportunity to refute.  Parties present at the hearing shall be
given a reasonable opportunity, on request, to refute the officially noticed
matters by evidence or by written or oral presentation of authority, the manner
of the refutation to be determined by the Board or hearing examiner.
      (4)   Inspection of the premises. The Board or the hearing examiner may
inspect any building or premises involved in the appeal during the course of
the hearing, provided that:
         (a)   Notice of the inspection shall be given to the parties before
the inspection is made;
         (b)   The parties are given an opportunity to be present during the
inspection; and
         (c)   The Board or the hearing examiner shall state for the record
upon completion of the inspection the material facts observed and the
conclusions drawn therefrom. Each party then shall have a right to rebut or
explain the matters so stated by the Board or hearing examiner.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.024 METHOD AND FORM OF DECISION.
   (A)   Hearing before Board itself. Where a contested case is heard before
the Board itself, no member thereof who did not hear the evidence or has not
read the entire record of the proceedings shall vote on or take part in the
decision.
   (B)   Hearing before examiner. If a contested case is heard by a hearing
examiner alone, he or she shall within a reasonable time (not to exceed 90 days
from the date the hearing is closed) submit a written report to the Board. The
report shall contain a brief summary of the evidence considered and state the
examiner's findings, conclusions and recommendations. The report shall also
contain a proposed decision in the form that it may be adopted by the Board as
its decision in the case. All examiner's reports flied with the Board shall be
matters of public record. A copy of each report and proposed decision shall be
mailed to each party on the date they are filed with the Board.
   (C)   Consideration of report by Board; notice.  The Board shall fix the
time, date and place to consider the examiner's report and proposed decision.
Notice thereof shall be mailed to each interested parry not less than 5 days
prior to the date fixed, unless it is otherwise stipulated by all of the
parties.
   (D)   Exceptions to report. No later than 2 days before the date set to
consider the report, any party may file written exceptions to any part or all
of the examiner's report and may attach thereto a proposed decision together
with written argument in support of the decision. By leave of the Board, any
party may present oral argument to the Board.
   (E)   Disposition by the Board. The Board may adopt or reject the proposed
decision in its entirety, or may modify the proposed decision.
   (F)   Proposed decision not adopted. If the proposed decision is not adopted
as provided in division (E) above, the Board may decide the case upon the
entire record before it, with or without taking additional evidence; or may
refer the case to the same or another hearing examiner to take additional
evidence. If the case is reassigned to a hearing examiner, he or she shall
prepare a report and proposed decision as provided in division (B) above after
any additional evidence is submitted. Consideration of the proposed decision by
the Board shall comply with the provisions of this section.
   (G)   Form of decision. The decision shall be in writing and shall contain
findings of fact, a determination of the issues presented, and the requirements
to be complied with. A copy of the decision shall be delivered to the appellant
personally or sent to him or her by certified mail, postage prepaid, return
receipt requested.
   (H)   Effective date of decision. The effective date of the decision shall
be as stated therein.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
ENFORCEMENT OF THE ORDER OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL OR BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 151.040 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   General. After any order of the Building Official or the Board of
Appeals made pursuant to this chapter shall have become final, no person to
whom any order is directed shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any order. Any
person who fails to comply with any order is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Failure to obey order. If, after any order of the Building Official or
Board of Appeals made pursuant to this chapter has become final, the person to
whom the order is directed shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey the order the
Building Official may:
      (1)   Cause the person to be prosecuted under division (A) above; or
      (2)   Institute any appropriate action to abate the building as a public
nuisance.
   (C)   Failure to commence work. Whenever the required repair or demolition
is not commenced within 30 days after any final notice and order issued under
this chapter becomes effective:
      (1)   The Building Official shall cause the building described in the
notice and order to be vacated by posting at each entrance thereto a notice
reading:
DANGEROUS BUILDING
DO NOT OCCUPY
It is a misdemeanor to occupy this building
or to remove or deface this notice.
Building Official, Tillamook County
      (2)   No person shall occupy any building which has been posted as
specified in this division. No person shall remove or deface any notice so
posted until the repairs, demolition or removal ordered by the Building
Official have been completed and a certificate of occupancy issued pursuant to
the provisions of the Building Code.
      (3)   The Building Official may, in addition to any other remedy herein
provided, cause the building to be repaired to the extent necessary to correct
the conditions which render the building dangerous as set forth in the notice
and order; or, if the notice and order required demolition, to came the
building to be sold and demolished or demolished and the materials, rubble and
debris therefrom removed and the lot cleaned. Any repair or demolition work
shall be accomplished and the cost thereof paid and recovered in the manner
hereinafter provided in this chapter. Any surplus realized from the sale of any
building, or from the demolition thereof, over and above the cost of demolition
and of cleaning the lot, shall be paid over to the person or persons lawfully
entitled thereto.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.041 EXTENSION OF TIME TO PERFORM WORK.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application from the person required to conform to
the order and agreement by the person that he or she will comply with the order
if allowed additional time, the Building Official may, in his or her
discretion, grant an extension of time, not to exceed an additional 120 days,
within which to complete the repair, rehabilitation or demolition, if the
Building Official determines that an extension of time will not create or
perpetuate a situation imminently dangerous to life or property.
   (B)   The Building Official's authority to extend time is limited to the
physical repair, rehabilitation or demolition of the premises and will not in
any way affect the time to appeal the notice and order.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.042 INTERFERENCE WITH REPAIR OR DEMOLITION WORK PROHIBITED.
   No person shall obstruct, impede or interfere with any officer, employee,
contractor or authorized representative of Tillamook County or with any person
who owns or holds any estate or interest in any building which has been ordered
repaired, vacated or demolished under the provisions of this chapter; or with
any person to whom the building has been lawfully sold pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, whenever the officer, employee, contractor or
authorized representative of Tillamook County, person having an interest or
estate in the building or structure, or purchaser is engaged in the work of
repairing, vacating and repairing or demolishing any building, pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, or in performing any necessary act preliminary to
or incidental to the work or authorized or directed pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
Penalty, see § 10.99
PERFORMANCE OF WORK, REPAIR OR DEMOLITION
§ 151.055 GENERAL.
   (A)   Procedure. When any work or repair or demolition is to be done
pursuant to §
151.040(C)(3) of this chapter, the Building Official shall issue his or her
order therefore to the Director of Community Development and the work shall be
accomplished by personnel of Tillamook County, in coordination with the
Department of Public Works, or by private contract under the direction of the
director or his or her designee. Plans and specifications therefore may be
prepared by the Director, or he or she may employ the architectural and
engineering assistance on a contract basis as he or she may deem reasonably
necessary. If any part of the work is to be accomplished by private contract,
standard public contractual procedures shall be followed.
   (B)   Costs. The cost of the work within the unincorporated area of
Tillamook County shall be paid from the Tillamook County Repair and Demolition
Fund, and may be made a special assessment against the property involved, or
may be made a personal obligation of the property owner, whichever the Board of
County Commissioners of Tillamook County shall determine is appropriate. The
cost of the work within the incorporated city limits of those cities adopting
this chapter by reference, ratification or other approved manner shall be paid
from a repair and demolition fund established by each contracted city.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.056 REPAIR AND DEMOLITION FUND.
   (A)   General. The Board of County Commissioners of Tillamook County shall
establish a special revolving fund to be designated as the Repair and
Demolition Fund. Payments shall be made out of the fund upon the request of the
Director of Community Development to defray the costs and expenses which may be
incurred by Tillamook County in doing or causing to be done the necessary work
or repair or demolition of dangerous buildings.
   (B)   Maintenance of fund. The Board of County Commissioners may at any time
transfer to the repair and demolition fund, out of any money in the general
fund of Tillamook County, the sums as it may deem necessary in order to
expedite the performance of the work of repair or demolition, and any sum so
transferred shall be deemed a loan to the repair and demolition fund and shall
be repaid out of the proceeds hereinafter provided for. All funds collected
under the proceedings hereinafter provided for shall be paid to the Treasurer
of Tillamook County who shall credit the same to the Repair and Demolition
Fund.
   (C)   City Repair and Demolition Funds. Incorporated cities that have
adopted this chapter by independent action and that are receiving Building
Program Services under inter-governmental agreements shall establish a Repair
and Demolition Fund for its use in the repair or demolition of dangerous
buildings within the incorporated city limits of each.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
RECOVERY OF COST OF REPAIR OR DEMOLITION
§ 151.070 ACCOUNT OF EXPENSE, FILING OR REPORT; CONTENTS.
   The Director of Community Development shall keep an itemized account of the
expense incurred by Tillamook County in the repair or demolition of any
building done pursuant to the completion of the work of repair or demolition,
the Director shall prepare and file with the County Clerk of Tillamook County a
report specifying the work done, the itemized and total cost of the work, a
description of the real property upon which the building or structure is or was
located and the name and addresses of the persons entitled to notice pursuant
to §
151.001(C). Copies of all accounts and reports shall be provided to the City
Administrator for each incorporated city where repair or demolition work is
undertaken and completed.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.071 REPORT TRANSMITTED TO COUNCIL; SET FOR HEARING.
   Upon receipt of the report, the County Clerk of Tillamook County shall
present it to the Board of County Commissioners, and to the City Council if
within incorporated city limits, of Tillamook County for consideration. The
Board of County Commissioners of Tillamook County, and/or the City Council;
shall fix a time, date and place for hearing the report and any protest or
objections thereto. The County Clerk of Tillamook County shall cause notice of
the hearing to be posted upon the property involved, published once in a
newspaper of general circulation in Tillamook County and served by certified
mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the owner of the property as his or her
name and address appearing on the last equalized assessment role of the County,
if such so appear, or as known to the County Clerk. The notice shall be given
at least 10 days prior to the date set for hearing and shall specify the day,
hour and place when the Board of County Commissioners or City Council will hear
and pass upon the Director's report together with any objections or protest
which may be filed as hereinafter provided by any person interested in or
affected by the proposed change.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.072 PROTESTS AND OBJECTIONS; HOW MADE.
   Any person interested in, or affected by the proposed charge, may file
written protests or objections with the County Clerk of Tillamook County at any
time prior to the time set for the hearing on the report of the Director. Each
protest or objection must contain a description of the property in which the
signatory thereof is interested and the grounds of the protest or objection.
The County Clerk of Tillamook County shall endorse on every protest or
objection the date it was received. The County Clerk shall present the protest
or objections to the Board of County Commissioners of Tillamook County, or the
City Council, at the time set for the hearing, and no other protests or
objections shall be considered.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.073 HEARING OF PROTESTS.
   Upon the day and hour fixed for the hearing the Board of County
Commissioners of Tillamook County, or the City Council, shall hear and pass
upon the report of the Director together with any objections or protests. The
Board of County Commissioners, or City Council, may make the revision,
correction or modification in the report or the charge as it may deem just; and
when the Board of County Commissioners, or City Council, is satisfied with the
correctness of the charge, the report (as submitted or as revised, corrected or
modified) together with the charge, shall be confirmed or rejected. The
decision of the Board of County Commissioners of Tillamook County, or the City
Council, on the report and the charge, and on all protest or objections, shall
be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.074 PERSONAL OBLIGATIONS; OR SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   General. The Board of County Commissioners of Tillamook County, or
City Council, may thereupon order that the charge shall be made a personal
obligation of the property owner or assess the charge against the property
involved.
   (B)   Personal obligation. If the Board of County Commissioners of Tillamook
County orders that the charge shall be a personal obligation of the property
owner, it shall direct the County Counsel to collect the same on behalf of
Tillamook County by use of all appropriate legal remedies.
   (C)   Special assessment. If the Board of County Commissioners of Tillamook
County orders that the charge shall be assessed against the property, it shall
confirm the assessment, cause the same to be recorded on the assessment roll
and thereafter the assessment shall constitute a special assessment against and
a lien upon the property.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.075 CONTEST.
   The validity of any assessment made under the provisions of this chapter
shall not be contested in any action or proceeding unless the same is commenced
within 30 days after the assessment is placed upon the assessment roll as
provided herein. Any appeal from a final judgement in the action or proceeding
must be perfected within 30 days after the entry of the judgement.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.076 AUTHORITY FOR INSTALLMENT PAYMENT OR ASSESSMENTS WITH INTEREST.
   The Board of County Commissioners of Tillamook County, in its discretion,
may determine that assessments in amounts of $500 or more shall be payable in
not to exceed 5 equal installments. The Board of County Commissioners'
determination to allow payment of the assessments in installments, the number
of installments, whether they shall earn interest, and the rate thereof shall
be by a resolution adopted prior to the confirmation of the assessment.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.077 LIEN OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Priority. Immediately upon its being placed on the assessment roll the
assessment shall be deemed to be complete, the several amounts assessed shall
be payable, and the assessments shall be liens against the lots or parcels of
land assessed, respectively. The lien shall be subordinate to all existing
special assessment liens previously imposed upon the same property and shall be
paramount to all other liens except for state, county and property taxes with
which it shall be upon a parity. The lien shall continue until the assessment
and all interest due and payable thereon are paid.
   (B)   Interest. All the assessments remaining unpaid after 30 days from the
date of recording on the assessment roll shall become delinquent and shall bear
interest at the rate of 9% per annum from and after the date.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.078 REPORT TO ASSESSOR AND TAX COLLECTOR; ADDITION OF ASSESSMENT TO TAX
BILL.
   After confirmation of the report, certified copies of the assessment shall
be given to the assessor and the tax collector for Tillamook County, who shall
add the amount of the assessment to the next regular tax bill levied against
the parcel.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.079 FILING COPY OF REPORT WITH COUNTY AUDITOR.
   If the County Assessor and the County Tax Collector assess property and
collect taxes for Tillamook County, a certified copy of the assessment shall be
filed with the County Auditor on or before August 10. The descriptions of the
parcels reported shall be those used for the same parcels on the County
Assessor's map books for the current year.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.080 COLLECTION OF ASSESSMENT; PENALTIES FOR FORECLOSURE.
   (A)   The amount of the assessment shall be collected at the same time and
in the same manner as ordinary property taxes are collected; and shall be
subject to the same penalties and procedure and sale in case of delinquency as
provided for ordinary property taxes. All laws applicable to the levy,
collection and enforcement of property taxes shall be applicable to the
assessment.
   (B)   If the Board of County Commissioners has determined that the
assessment shall be paid in installments, each installment and any interest
thereon shall be collected in the same manner as ordinary property taxes in
successive years. If any installment is delinquent, the amount thereof is
subject to the same penalties and procedure for sale as provided for ordinary
property taxes.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
§ 151.081 REPAYMENT OF REPAIR AND DEMOLITION FUND.
   All money recovered by payment of the charge or assessment from the sale of
the property at foreclosure sale shall be paid to the Treasurer of Tillamook
County who shall credit the same to the repair and demolition fund.
(Ord. 97-342, passed 5-25-2005)
CHAPTER 152: STRUCTURAL SPECIALITY CODE
Section
   
152.01   State codes adopted
   
152.02   City code administration
   
152.03   Footings
   
152.04   Local interpretation
   
152.05   Unsafe buildings
   
152.06   Board of Appeals
   
152.07   New house construction
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 STATE CODES ADOPTED.
   The city adopts the technical and specialty codes of the state, pursuant to
O.R.S. Chapter 455, as modified by this chapter.
§ 152.02 CITY CODE ADMINISTRATION.
   The city shall provide for the administration of a plan checking, permit and
inspection program for structural but not for plumbing and electrical work.
This city program is applicable to public as well as private building.
(Prior Code, Ord. 236, passed 7-23-1985)
§ 152.03 FOOTINGS.
   Because of unusual soil conditions in the city, base footings larger than
set forth in Table 29-A of the Structural Specialty Code shall be used in
locations deemed necessary by the Building Official. In such instances, the
required soils classification and footing design may be waived by the Building
Official if the footing is 18 inches wide by 8 inches thick for 1-story
buildings and 24 inches wide by 9 inches thick for 2-story buildings. The
footings shall have not less than 2 No. 4 one-half inch steel reinforcing bars
imbedded a minimum of 2 inches from any outside edge of the footing or the
additional reinforcing required by the Building Official, depending upon the
condition of the building site.
(Prior Code, Ord. 236, passed 7-23-1985)
§ 152.04 LOCAL INTERPRETATION.
   In addition to the provisions of § 106 of the Structural Specialty Code and
similar provisions of other specialty codes, the Building Official may approve
a material or a method of construction not specifically prescribed by this
section, provided that he or she finds that the proposed design is satisfactory
and that the material, method or work offered is for the purpose intended at
least the equivalent of that specifically prescribed by this chapter in
quality, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability, safety and energy
conservation, and that the Director of the Department of Commerce has not
issued a report disapproving the material or method for the purpose. The
Building Official may refer the proposed design to the City Board of Appeals,
and a person affected by a ruling of the Building Official may appeal the
ruling to the Board of Appeals within 30 days of the date of the ruling. The
provisions of this section shall not be interpreted to preclude a person from
requesting a ruling from the Director of the Department of Commerce prior to
submitting an application to the city for a permit or after withdrawing a
previously submitted application.
(Prior Code, Ord. 236, passed 7-23-1985)
§ 152.05 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   The law referred to in § 203 of the Structural Specialty Code is the
ordinance of this city providing for the abatement of building nuisances.
(Prior Code, Ord. 236, passed 7-23-1985)
§ 152.06 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   For application in this city, § 204 of the Structural Specialty Code is
replaced with the following:
   “In order to determine the suitability of alternate materials and methods of
construction and to provide for reasonable interpretations of the provisions of
standards applicable to building and related activities administered through
this city, there is created a board of appeals consisting of three voting
members who are qualified by experience and training to pass upon matters
pertaining to building and related activities. The Building Official shall be
an ex officio nonvoting member and shall act as secretary of the board. The
board of appeals shall be appointed by the mayor and hold office at the mayor's
pleasure. The board shall adopt reasonable rules and regulations for conducting
its investigations and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to
the Building Official with a duplicate copy to the appellant. The administrator
of the State Building Code Division shall be furnished copies of decisions
interpreting state building code requirements.”
(Prior Code, Ord. 236, passed 7-23-1985)
§ 152.07 NEW HOUSE CONSTRUCTION.
   Prior to the issuance of a building permit for any new house construction,
or where the construction would increase the square footage of an existing
house, the applicant shall submit a survey by licensed, registered surveyor of
the State of Oregon whereon the improvement is to be constructed or enlarged.
(Prior Code, Ord. 236, passed 7-23-1985)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure in the city, or cause
the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and each person shall be
deemed guilty of separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof
during which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is
committed, continued or permitted; and upon conviction of any such violation,
the persons shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, Ord. 236, passed 7-23-1985)
CHAPTER 153: LOTS
Section
   
153.01   Sale of single lots
   
Appendix A:    Exhibit A; On Reference
   
Appendix B:    Single lot sales policy for surplus city-owned real property
§ 153.01 SALE OF SINGLE LOTS.
   (A)   In accordance with O.R.S. 221.727 and 221.725, the City Council, after
public notice and hearing, does adopt the procedure set forth in division (C)
below for the sale of individual lots acquired by the City of Rockaway Beach by
deed in lieu of foreclosure or foreclosure undertaken pursuant to O.R.S.
223.505 et seq. for foreclosure of delinquent assessments under the Bancroft
Bonding Act.
   (B)   This chapter amends Ord. 246 adopted April 14, 1987.
   (C)   Those individual lots more particularly described and set forth in
Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference shall be sold in
accordance with the procedure and program set forth and more particularly
described in Appendix B attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Additional lots may be added to Appendix A by the City Council.
   (D)   To the extent required by O.R.S. 271.310, the City Council finds that
there is no public need for the city to retain the individual lots and in fact,
the public need is best served and furthered by the sale in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   All proceeds from the sale of the properties as shown on Exhibit A
shall be receipted into the city's Bancroft Redemption Fund to pay principal
and interest on the original Bancroft bonds and expenses associated with the
foreclosure and holding cost of the properties.
(Prior Code, Ord. 258, passed 12-13-1988)
Appendix A: Exhibit A; on reference
   Exhibit A on file for reference at City Hall.
(Prior Code, Ord. 258, passed 12-13-1988)
Appendix B: Single Lot Sales Policy For Surplus City-Owned Real Property
   This policy amends the Lot Sales Program for surplus city-owned real
property as passed by the Rockaway Beach City Council on April 14, 1987. It
authorizes the City Recorder to sell selected properties without further
Council action. This policy provides the mechanism whereby city staff can
market and sell surplus city-owned real property (as itemized in the ordinance)
to the public. This policy is being formed in response to public inquiries
about buying lots and from the Council's desire to actively pursue surplus
property sales.
   I.   Marketing commissions.
      A.   City staff will disseminate marketing information through mechanisms
such as mailings, advertisements, press releases and area real estate brokers.
      B.   The city will offer these properties directly in the capacity of a
listing broker. City staff will cooperate with selling brokers by paying a 5%
selling commission when a selling broker is involved in the sale.
      C.   Staff will selectively place signs on individual properties and
rotate the signs periodically.
   II.   Sale prices.
      A.   For each individual lot, the city staff shall post a price list.
Individual lots will be priced based on a pricing formula which includes 2
components. One component is 100% of the city's costs (which includes
assessments outstanding, interest, taxes, foreclosure and maintenance costs and
title insurance). The second component is an adjusted benchmark appraised
valued based on City of Rockaway Beach comparable lot sales.
      B.   Annually staff will index upward, not downward, any increase in the
fair market value of lots using the City of Rockaway Beach comparable lot sales
for comparison. The price list shall be posted after each adjustment and shall
be subject to approval of the City Council.
      C.   Prospective purchasers will be informed of the possibility of
easements, covenants, conditions or restrictions on the properties. They will
be sold free and clear of title encumbrances, liens and back taxes.
   III.   Lots included.
      A.   Exhibit A* shall constitute the lots included in the Single Lot
Sales Program.
   IV.   Financing.
      The city will offer financing of lot sales to individuals only excluding
partnerships, associations and corporations, upon the following conditions:
         (1)   A minimum down payment of 20% of the purchase price or the
outstanding property taxes, whichever is greater;
         (2)   A minimum of 10% per annum fixed rate of interest adjusted
periodically to match commercial mortgage lending rates;
         (3)   Maximum 10 year amortization period;
         (4)   Monthly payments;
         (5)   Land Sale Contract in form approved by the City Attorney and
signed by the purchaser;
         (6)   A credit check or other evidence of the purchaser's ability to
pay, which if unsatisfactory, will be grounds to reject the financing of the
sale;
         (7)   Any monthly collection charges by the escrow agent chosen by the
city shall be paid by the purchaser; and
         (8)   Prepayments will be encouraged and no prepayment penalty will be
charged.
   V.   Closings.
      A.   All sales will be closed through escrow.
      B.   City staff and the City Attorney will handle arrangements for
earnest money agreements, title reports and land sale contracts.
      C.   The city staff is provided the discretion to employ title companies
for the provision of title reports, title insurance and escrow closing and
escrow collection. Title companies shall be selected with consideration and
emphasis on the following 2 criteria:
         1.   The cooperation and willingness of the title company to provide
title insurance for lots acquired in the city foreclosure process; and
         2.   Costs to the city (including administrative costs).
      D.   All documents hereinbefore mentioned shall be signed by the City
Recorder.
   VI.   Exceptions.
      A.   Those persons who may be interested in individual lot or multiple
lot sales upon terms and conditions which do not comply with this procedure and
program are encouraged to contact the City Recorder. The Council reserves the
right to make exceptions to this policy on a case-by-case basis after
compliance with O.R.S. 221.725 or 221.727, whichever may be applicable.
   VII.   Reporting.
      A.   The city staff will report sales activity to the Council monthly.
      B.   The city staff will report to the City Council the results of the
financing program including a comparison to sales made without financing.
(Prior Code, Ord. 258, passed 12-13-1988)
CHAPTER 154: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
154.01   Comprehensive Plan; adopted by reference
§ 154.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The City of Rockaway Beach’s Comprehensive Plan is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 194, passed 12-9-1980; Am. Ord. 95-330, passed 12-13-1995; Am. Ord. 2000-
358, passed 4-12-2000; Am. Ord. passed 5-9-2001; Am. Ord. passed 9-12-2001; Am.
Ord. 08-405, passed 2-22-2008; Am. Ord. 16-429, passed 12-14-2016; Am. Ord. 19-
435, passed 6-10-2020; Am. Ord. 21-439, passed 8-11-2021)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING CODE
Section
   
155.01   Zoning Code; adopted by reference
§ 155.01 ZONING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The City of Rockaway Beach’s Zoning Code is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 92, passed 9-10-1974; Am. Ord. 95-325A, passed 5-10-1995; Am. Ord. 01-
369, passed 9-12-2001; Am. Ord. 01-371, passed 9-12-2001; Am. Ord. 02-381,
passed 10-9-2002; Am. Ord. 07-399A, passed 4-25-2007; Am. Ord. 09-407, passed
10-14-2009; Am. Ord. 13-416, passed 2-27-2013; Am. Ord. 14-422, passed 8- -
2014; Am. Ord. 14-424, passed 4-30-2014; Am. Ord. 18-431, passed 9-12-2018; Am.
Ord. 19-433, passed 7-10-2019; Am. Ord. 18-432, passed 2-12-2020; Am. Ord. 19-
435, passed 6-10-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   ANNEXATIONS
   
II.   FRANCHISES
   
III.   INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS
   
IV.   STREET VACATIONS
   
V.   MISCELLANEOUS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Territory lying north of NE 12th to NE 15th between Lake
94-321   12-14-1994  Street and Tillamook Avenue and north of NE 12th to NE
                     14th between Tillamook Avenue and Necarney Avenue and Lots
                     5, 6, 7 and 8, Block 16 of Manhattan Beach
95-322   1-25-1995   Lying north of the present city limits along Highway 101
00-362   9-13-2000   Area contiguous to its boundaries
379-B    9-11-2002   Contiguous to its boundaries, known as Neah-Kah-Nie High
                     School
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
96-334   7-10-1996   Granting a franchise to Falcon Cable Systems
98-351   4-29-1998   Transfer to the franchise of Falcon Systems Company II,
                     L.P. to Falcon Telecable
99-356   8-25-1999   Transfer of control of the franchise of Falcon Systems
                     Company II, L.P. to Charter Communications Holding Company
04-385   2-25-2004   Granting a franchise to Falcon Telecable to build,
                     construct, operate and maintain a cable television system
04-386   - - 2004    Granting a nonexclusive telecommunications franchise to
                     United Telephone Company
 
TABLE III: INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Agreeing to name change and re-statement of
96-341   12-11-1996  intergovernmental agreement for North Coast Senior
                     Services
98-349   2-11-1998   Adopting agreement to participate in Tillamook County
                     Economic Development Council
 
TABLE IV: STREET VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
96-332   6-12-1996   Partial street vacation of South Marine Street
96-336   8-14-1996   Vacate NW 24th Street from the westerly boundary of Block
                     1
98-353   9-23-1998   Vacation of Evergreen Street
02-377   6-26-2002   Vacation of North Coral Street, north of North 6th Avenue
                     Vacation of a portion of Dolphin Street (formerly known
09-406   1-14-2009   and platted as Wallace Avenue and a portion of Easy Street
                     (formerly known and platted as Woodbury Avenue and
                     establishing that vacated area as part of the city park
13-421   12-11-2013  Vacating 15-foot wide right-of-way which bisects property
                     at 275 s. Pacific Street
14-425   4-30-2014   Reaffirming Ord. 13-421
18-430   3-14-2018   Vacation of a portion of South Second Street created on
                     the plat of Rockaway Beach
19-434   10-9-2019   Vacation (in part) of N. 24th Street, Block 2, Manhattan
                    
 
TABLE V: MISCELLANEOUS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
99-  12-8-  Change of street names in Donneumuir Subdivision
357  1999
03-  10-8-  Approving dedesignation and merger for North Coast Senior Services
384  2003
21-  8-11-  Approving the rezone of real property within the city’s urban growth
440  2021   boundary
           
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oregon Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OREGON CODE
O.R.S. Cite Code Section
O.R.S. Cite     Code Section
34.010 et seq.  131.135
                34.67;
34.010–34.100 50.18;
                93.34
82.010          131.139
153.005         95.04
167.117         111.03
181             131.130
181.555         35.01
192             34.17
221.725         153.01
221.727         153.01
223             50.12;
                52.19
223.208         50.12
223.297–233.3150.18
223.300–223.2993.36
223.405–223.4893.42
223.505 et seq. 153.01
244             33.02
271.310         153.01
288.515–288.5593.35;
                93.36
297             34.15
305.220         34.09
305.620         34.01
305.620(6)      34.16
314.400         34.09
320.350         34.15
368.001(5)      93.66
368.001(6)      93.66
414.115         30.17
414.125         30.17
414.135         30.17
414.145         30.17
445             152.01
448.315         53.55
471.610         30.03
475.314         112.02
476.005         30.18
480.111         90.02
496.004         91.01
609.205         91.01
614, § 1       34.51
652.050         30.18
801.355         70.056
819.110         92.04
819.120         92.04;
                92.07
819.210         92.04
819.220         92.04
825             131.125
                
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
05-395   - -         Ch. 151
56       1-20-1959   93.25-
                     93.43
57       1-20-1959   93.01–
                     93.10
59       8-11-1959   90.03
                     53.50-
73       9-13-1966   53.55,
                     53.99
76       4-14-1970   131.127
78       8-12-1969   51.01–
                     51.05
92       9-10-1974   155.01
108      7-22-1975   30.03
111      9-23-1975   130.01;
                     130.99
                     94.001;
                     94.015-
                     94.018;
                     94.035-
                     94.043;
112      9-23-1975   94.060-
                     94.062;
                     94.075;
                     94.090-
                     94.096;
                     94.999
116      11-25-1975  31.01
                     70.001–
                     70.003;
                     70.015-
                     70.019;
                     70.035-
                     70.039;
129      8-24-1976   70.055-
                     70.063;
                     70.080-
                     70.085;
                     70.100-
                     70.104;
                     70.999
133      8-24-1976   131.127
135      9-14-1976   92.20–
                     92.31
137      9-28-1976   93.28-
                     93.29
140      5-24-1977   70.056
151      8-22-1978   93.36
170      10-11-1979  93.35-
                     93.36
                     34.01–
                     34.03;
176      1-9-1980    34.06–
                     34.16;
                     34.99
194      12-9-1980   154.01
202      4-28-1981   93.35–
                     93.36
230      9-27-1983   91.15–
                     91.34
                     152.02–
236      7-23-1985   152.07;
                     152.99
238      9-10-1985   51.04
241      2-11-1986   94.042
                     153.01;
258      12-13-1988  Ch. 153, App. A,
                     B
                     70.080–
263      5-23-1989   70.082;
                     70.999
266      7-12-1990   34.15
273      7-24-1990   94.999
                     150.01;
281      4-9-1991    150.02;
                     150.99
285      6-25-1991   32.01
289      10-8-1991   34.01
291      3-25-1992   34.15
                     52.01–
93-297   1-13-1993   52.24;
                     52.99
93-307   9-22-1993   30.02
94-310   6-8-1994    50.35-
                     50.44
94-321   12-14-1994  TSO I
95-324   1-11-1995   90.02
95-322   1-25-1995   TSO I
95-326   2-22-1995   70.056,
                     90.01
95-325A  5-10-1995   155.01
95-327   6-14-1995   34.18
95-330   12-13-1995  154.01
96-332   6-12-1996   TSO IV
96-334   7-10-1996   TSO II
96-336   8-14-1996   TSO IV
96-340   12-11-1996  90.02
96-341   12-11-1996  TSO III
97-343   4-23-1997   94.043
97-344   5-28-1997   94.018
                     34.01–
                     34.03;
97-348   11-12-1997  34.06–
                     34.16;
                     34.99
98-349   2-11-1998   TSO III
98-351   4-29-1998   TSO II
98-353   9-23-1998   TSO IV
99-355   6-23-1999   91.24;
                     91.32
99-356   8-25-1999   TSO II
99-357   12-8-1999   TSO V
2000-359 4-1-2000    91.01;
                     91.34
2000-358 4-12-2000   154.01
                     34.02;
00-361   7-26-2000   34.15;
                     34.16
00-362   9-13-2000   TSO I
                     110.01-
01-366B  5-9-2001    110.10,
                     110.99
01-369   9-12-2001   155.01
01-371   9-12-2001   155.01
–      5-9-2001    154.01
–      9-12-2001   154.01
                     92.01–
372      9-26-2001   92.07;
                     92.99
                     131.001–
                     131.007;
                     131.020-
                     131.023;
                     131.040-
                     131.041;
                     131.055-
                     131.057;
02-378   6-12-2002   131.070-
                     131.071;
                     131.085-
                     131.086;
                     131.100-
                     131.105;
                     131.120-
                     131.022;
                     131.999
02-377   6-26-2002   TSO IV
379-B    9-11-2002   TSO I
02-380   9-25-2002   94.090
02-381   10-9-2002   155.01
03-384   10-8-2003   TSO V
04-386   - -         TSO II
04-385   2-25-2004   TSO II
                     52.99;
04-388   7-14-2004   53.99;
                     90.99
04-390   8-25-2004   94.062;
                     94.999
                     111.01–
2005-392 5-11-2005   111.13;
                     111.99
                     151.001–
                     151.004;
                     151.020-
                     151.024;
97-342   5-25-2005   151.040-
                     151.042;
                     151.055;
                     151.056;
                     151.070-
                     151.081
                     91.15;
                     91.18;
                     91.19;
                     91.21;
05-396   6-21-2005   91.23;
                     91.27;
                     91.28,
                     91.33;
                     91.34
06-398   7-26-2006   50.01–
                     50.20
                     53.01–
                     53.11;
06-399   10-25-2006  53.13-
                     53.36;
                     53.99
07-399A  4-25-2007   155.01
07-400   5-23-2007   93.55
                     34.01–
                     34.04;
07-402   7-9-2007    34.06–
                     34.16;
                     34.99
                     33.01;
07-403   10-24-2007  33.02;
                     33.03
07-404   10-24-2007  31.02
08-405   2-22-2008   154.01
09-407   10-14-2009  155.01
09-406   1-14-2009   TSO IV
09-408   10-14-2009  93.65–
                     93.73
09-409   10-14-2009  53.65–
                     53.75
10-410   6-9-2010    70.004
10-411   10-27-2010  31.01
10-413   12-15-2010  30.10–
                     30.28
11-414   8-14-2011   94.040
                     111.03;
11-415   10-26-2011  111.07;
                     111.10
13-416   2-27-2013   155.01
13-418   2-27-2013   31.03
13-419   10-9-2013   34.02;
                     34.15
13-420   10-9-2013   33.03
13-421   12-11-2013  TSO IV
14-422   8- -2014    155.01
14-423   4-9-2014    53.51;
                     131.040
                     112.01–
14-424   4-30-2014   112.06;
                     155.01
14-425   4-30-2014   TSO IV
15-426   1-13-2016   34.50–
                     34.54
16-427   5-11-2016   131.130–
                     131.139
16-428   5-11-2016   35.01–
                     35.06
16-429   12-14-2016  154.01
18-430   3-14-2018   TSO IV
18-431   9-12-2018   155.01
18-432   2-12-2020   155.01
                     34.01–
                     34.04;
19-432   6-12-2019   34.06–
                     34.16;
                     34.99
19-433   7-10-2019   155.01
19-434   10-9-2019   TSO IV
19-435   6-10-2020   154.01;
                     155.01
                     95.01–
19-436   10-9-2019   95.14;
                     95.99
19-437   10-9-2019   96.01–
                     96.05
19-438   12-11-2019  34.60–
                     34.68
21-439   8-11-2021   154.01
21-440   8-11-2021   TSO V
                     34.01–
21-441   11-10-2021  34.04;
                     34.99
21-442   8-10-2022   113.01–
                     113.05
                     90.02;
22-443   7-12-2023   90.99;
                     95.07
                     33.01;
22-444   7-12-2023   33.02;
                     33.03
2024-01  2-14-2024   113.02
2024-02  2-14-2024   36.01–
                     36.03
2024-03  7-17-2024   91.01
2024-04  9-11-2024   31.01
2024-05  5-8-2024    113.02
2024-07  9-11-2024   97.01-
                     97.07
2025-01  2-12-2025   34.15
                    
 
