CITY OF SHADY COVE, OREGON
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current with legislation passed through January 20, 2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 256
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SHADY COVE ADOPTING CODIFICATION OF THE CITY OF
SHADY COVE’S ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of Shady
Cove were inadequately arranged and classified and were insufficient in form
and substances for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Oregon empower and
authorize the city to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any existing
ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to
incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the League of Oregon Cities, Ordinance Services Program, and
Program Partner American Legal Publishing Corporation, in their efforts to
promote better and more efficient municipal government, were willing to
undertake the codification of the City of Shady Cove’s ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Shady Cove on April 2, 2009 adopted
Resolution No. 09-10 authorizing codification and legal review of the ordinance
of the City of Shady Cove.
THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SHADE COVE ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION 1: The City of Shady Cove Code of Ordinances attached as Exhibit “A”,
is hereby adopted.
SECTION 2: All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
SECTION 3: This Ordinance is adopted as an emergency Ordinance and shall become
effective immediately.
ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Shady Cove, this 20th day of May,
2010.
   Approved:                           Attest:
    /s/           /s/
   Ronald Holthusen                        Debby Jermain
   Mayor                              Deputy City Recorder
   Council Vote:
   Councilor Bradburn      Yes            Councilor Hughes      Yes
   Councilor Hayes      Yes            Councilor Kyle      Yes
   Mayor Holthusen      Yes
CITY CHARTER OF SHADY COVE, JACKSON COUNTY, OREGON
Section
Preamble
Chapter I. Names and Boundaries
   
Section 1.   Title of Charter
   
Section 2.   Name of City
   
Section 3.   Boundaries
Chapter II. Powers
   
Section 4.   Powers of the City
   
Section 5.   Construction of Powers
   
Section 6.   Distribution of Powers
Chapter III. Form of Government
   
Section 7.   Council
   
Section 8.   Councilors
   
Section 9.   Mayor
   
Section 10.   Terms of Office
   
Section 11.   Appointive Office
Chapter IV. Council
   
Section 12.   Rules
   
Section 13.   Meetings
   
Section 14.   Quorum
   
Section 15.   Record of Proceedings
   
Section 16.   Proceedings to Be Public
   
Section 17.   Mayor's Function at Council Meetings
   
Section 18.   President of the Council
   
Section 19.   Vote Required
   
Section 20.   Vacancies
   
Section 21.   Filling Vacancies
Chapter V. Powers and Duties of Officers
   
Section 22.   Mayor and Council
   
Section 23.   City Administrator
   
Section 24.   Municipal Court and Judge
Chapter VI. Personnel
   
Section 25.   Qualifications
   
Section 26.   Compensation
   
Section 27.   Oath
Chapter VII. Elections
   
Section 28.   State Law
   
Section 29.   Nominations
   
Section 30.   Non-partisan Elections
   
Section 31.   Tie Votes
Chapter VIII. Ordinances
   
Section 32.   Ordaining Clauses
   
Section 33.   Adoption by Council
   
Section 34.   Effective Date
Chapter IX. Public Improvements
   
Section 35.   Improvements
   
Section 36.   Special Assessments
Chapter X. Miscellaneous Provisions
   
Section 37.   Bids
   
Section 38.   Debt
   
Section 39.   Continuation of Ordinances
   
Section 40.   Repeal
   
Section 41.   Severability
   
Section 42.   Time of Effect
PREAMBLE
   We, the people of the City of Shady Cove, Oregon, in order to avail
ourselves of self-determination in municipal affairs to the fullest extent now
or hereafter possible under the constitutions and laws of the United States and
the state of Oregon, enact this charter to confer upon the City the following
powers, subject it to the following restrictions, prescribe for it the
following procedures and governmental structure, and repeal all previous
charter provisions of the City.
CHAPTER I. NAMES AND BOUNDARIES
SECTION 1. TITLE OF CHARTER.
   This charter may be referred to as the 1998 Shady Cove Charter.
SECTION 2. NAME OF CITY.
   The city of Shady Cove, Oregon, continues under this charter to be a
municipal corporation with the name City of Shady Cove.
SECTION 3. BOUNDARIES.
   The city includes all territory within its boundaries as they now exist or
hereafter are modified pursuant to state law. The custodian of the city's
records shall keep an accurate, current description of the boundaries and make
a copy of it available for public inspection in the city during regular city
office hours.
CHAPTER II. POWERS
SECTION 4. POWERS OF THE CITY.
   The city has all powers that the constitutions, statutes, and common law of
the United States and of the state now or hereafter expressly or impliedly
grant or allow the city, as fully as though this charter specifically
enumerated each of those powers.
SECTION 5. CONSTRUCTION OF POWERS.
   In this charter, no specification of a power is exclusive or restricts
authority that the city would have if the power were not specified. The charter
shall be liberally construed, so that the city may exercise fully all its
powers possible under this charter and under United States and Oregon law. All
powers are continuing unless a specific grant of power clearly indicates the
contrary, included but not limited to the city home rule provisions of the
Oregon Constitution.
SECTION 6. DISTRIBUTION OF POWERS.
   Except as this charter prescribes otherwise and as the Oregon Constitution
reserves municipal legislative power to the voters of the city, all powers of
the city are vested in the council.
CHAPTER III. FORM OF GOVERNMENT
SECTION 7. COUNCIL.
   The council consists of a mayor and four councilors nominated and elected
from the city at large, or, in case of one or more vacancies in the council,
the council members who are still in office shall constitute the council.
SECTION 8. COUNCILORS.
   The term of office of a councilor in office when this charter is adopted is
the term of office for which the councilor has been elected before adoption of
the charter. Two councilors shall be elected for a four-year term at the time
of the adoption of this charter. At each general election after the adoption,
two councilors shall be elected, each for a four-year term.
SECTION 9. MAYOR.
   The term of office of the Mayor in office when this charter is adopted
continues until the beginning of the first odd-numbered year after that time. A
Mayor will be elected for a two-year term at the time this charter is adopted.
At each general election, a mayor shall be elected for a two-year term.
SECTION 10. TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of an elective officer who is elected at a general
election begins at the first council meeting of the new year immediately after
the election.
SECTION 11. APPOINTIVE OFFICE.
   A majority of the council may appoint and may remove a city administrator.
The majority may:
   1)   Create, abolish, and combine additional appointive offices.
   2)   Except as the majority prescribes otherwise, fill such offices by
appointment and vacate them by removal.
   3)   Appointees to standing committees may serve on more than one (1)
standing committee. Definition of Standing Committee is defined as Planning
Commission and Budget Committee.
CHAPTER IV. COUNCIL
SECTION 12. RULES.
   The council shall, by resolution, prescribe rules to govern its meetings and
proceedings.
SECTION 13. MEETINGS.
   The council shall meet in the city regularly at least once a month at a time
and place designated by council rules, and may meet at other times in
accordance with its rules. The Mayor upon his own motion may, or at the request
of three councilors shall, by giving notice thereto to all members of the
council then in the city, call a special meeting of the council.
SECTION 14. QUORUM.
   A majority of members of the council shall constitute a quorum for its
business, but a smaller number may meet and compel the attendance of absent
members in a manner provided by Council rules.
SECTION 15. RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS.
   A record of council proceedings shall be kept and authenticated in a manner
prescribed by the council. The yes or no upon any question before the council
shall be taken, and a record of the vote reflected in the record. The same
record of votes shall be added to all ordinances and resolutions by individual
names of the members.
SECTION 16. PROCEEDINGS TO BE PUBLIC.
   No action by the council shall have legal affect unless the motion for the
action and the vote by which it is disposed of takes place at proceedings open
to the public, and all within the provisions of the Oregon Open Meetings Law.
SECTION 17. MAYOR'S FUNCTION AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The Mayor shall be chairperson of the council and preside over its
deliberations. The Mayor shall have a vote on all questions before the council.
The Mayor shall have authority to preserve order, enforce the rules of the
council and determine the order of business under the rules.
SECTION 18. PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL.
   At its first meeting of each odd-numbered year, the council shall elect a
President from its membership. In the Mayor's absence from a council meeting,
the President shall preside over said meeting(s), and shall have all power of
the Mayor as set forth as Section
17 of this Charter. Whenever the Mayor is unable to perform the functions of
the office, the President shall act as Mayor.
SECTION 19. VOTE REQUIRED.
   The expressed concurrence of a majority of the council members present and
voting and constituting a quorum is necessary to decide a question before the
council.
SECTION 20. VACANCIES.
   The office of a member of the council becomes vacant:
   (1)   Upon the incumbent's:
      (a)   Death
      (b)   Adjudicated incompetence, or
      (c)   Recall from the office.
   (2)   Upon declaration by the council of the vacancy in case of the
incumbent's:
      (a)   Failure, following election or appointment to the office, to
qualify as specified in Section
25, for the office within ten days after the time for his/her term of office to
begin,
      (b)   Unexplained absence from all meetings of the council within a 45-
day period.
      (c)   Ceasing to reside in the city.
      (d)   Ceasing to be a qualified elector under state law.
      (e)   Conviction of a public offense punishable by loss of liberty.
      (f)   Resignation from the office.
SECTION 21. FILLING VACANCIES.
   In the event of vacancy in the council, the remaining council members may
appoint a member to serve until the next available election date, at which time
the position will be filled by election for the balance of the unexpired term.
CHAPTER V. POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS
SECTION 22. MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
   The Mayor and council shall appoint:
   (1)   Members of committees and commissions established by council, and
   (2)   Other persons required by the council to act in an advisory capacity
to the council or its appointed committees and commissions.
   (3)   The Mayor shall sign all approved records of proceedings of the
council, and countersign all orders of the treasury.
   (4)   The Mayor shall have no veto power and shall sign all Ordinances and
Resolutions passed by the council within seven (7) working days after their
passage. After the council approves a bond of a city officer, or a bond for a
license, contract or proposal, the Mayor shall endorse the bond.
SECTION 23. CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (1)   The city Administrator is the administrative head of the city
government
   (2)   A majority of the council shall appoint and may remove the
Administrator. The appointment shall be without regard to political
considerations and solely on the basis of administrative qualifications.
   (3)   The Administrator need not reside in the city.
   (4)   Upon accepting the appointment, the Administrator shall furnish the
city a bond in an amount and a surety approved by the council. The city shall
pay the bond premium.
   (5)   The Administrator shall:
      (a)   Attend all council meetings unless excused by the council or Mayor;
      (b)   Keep the council advised of the affairs and needs of the city;
      (c)   See that the provisions of all ordinances are administered to the
satisfaction of the council;
      (d)   See that all terms of franchises, leases, contracts, permits, and
privileges granted by the city are fulfilled;
      (e)   Appoint, discipline and remove appointive personnel, except
appointees of the Mayor or council;
      (f)   Supervise and control the Administrator's appointees in their
service to the city;
      (g)   Organize and reorganize the departmental structure of city
government;
      (h)   Prepare and transmit to the council an annual city budget;
      (i)   Supervise city contracts;
      (j)   Supervise operation of all city-owned public utilities and
property; and
      (k)   Perform other duties as the council prescribes and consistent with
this charter.
   (6)   The Administrator may not control:
      (a)   The council;
      (b)   The municipal Judge in the Judge's judicial functions; or,
      (c)   Except as the council authorizes, appointive personnel of the city
whom the Administrator does not appoint.
   (7)   The Administrator and other personnel whom the council designates may
sit with the council but may not vote on questions before it. The Administrator
may take part in all council discussions.
   (8)   When the Administrator is absent from the city or disabled from acting
as Administrator, or when the office of Administrator becomes vacant, the
council shall appoint a manager pro tem, who has the powers and duties of
Administrator, except that the Administrator pro tern may appoint or remove
personnel only with approval of the council.
   (9)   Except in council meetings, and/or executive sessions, neither the
Mayor nor any council member may directly or indirectly, by suggestion or
otherwise, attempt to influence the Administrator or a candidate for the office
of Administrator in the appointment, discipline, or removal of personnel or in
decisions regarding city property or contracts. A violator of this prohibition
may be removed from office by a court of competent jurisdiction. In council
meeting, members of the council may discuss with, or suggest to, the
Administrator anything pertinent to city affairs.
SECTION 24. MUNICIPAL COURT AND JUDGE.
   (1)   If the council creates the office of municipal judge and fills it by
appointment, the appointee shall hold, within the city at a place and times
that the council specifies, a court known as the Municipal Court for the City
of Shady Cove, Jackson County, Oregon.
   (2)   Except as this charter or city ordinance prescribes to the contrary,
proceedings of the court shall conform to general laws of this state governing
justices of the peace and justice courts.
   (3)   All area within the city, and to the extent provided by state law,
area outside the city is within the territorial jurisdiction of the court.
   (4)   The Municipal Court has original jurisdiction over every offense that
an ordinance of the city makes punishable. The Court may enforce forfeitures
and other penalties that such ordinances prescribe.
   (5)   The Municipal Judge may:
      (a)   Render judgments and, for enforcing them, impose sanctions on
persons and property within the Court's territorial jurisdiction;
      (b)   Order the arrest of anyone accused of an offense against the city;
      (c)   Commit to jail, or admit to bail, anyone accused of such an
offense;
      (d)   Issue and compel obedience to subpoenas;
      (e)   Compel witnesses to appear and testify in the trial matters before
the Court.
      (f)   Penalize contempt of Court;
      (g)   Issue process necessary to effectuate judgments and orders of the
court;
      (h)   Issue search warrants; and
      (i)   Perform other judicial and quasi-judicial functions prescribed by
Ordinance.
   (6)   The Municipal Judge shall transfer jury cases to the court of
appropriate jurisdiction.
   (7)   The council may authorize the Municipal Judge to appoint Municipal
Judges pro tem for terms of office set by the Judge or the council.
   (8)   Notwithstanding this section, the council may transfer some or all of
the functions of the Municipal Court to an appropriate state court.
CHAPTER VI. PERSONNEL
SECTION 25. QUALIFICATIONS.
   (1)   An elective city officer shall be a qualified elector under the state
constitution and shall have resided in the city during the twelve (12) months
immediately before submitting petition, or appointment to the office. In this
subsection "city" means area inside the city limits at the time of the election
or appointment.
   (2)   No person may be a candidate at a single election for more than one
elective city office.
      (a)   An elective officer may be employed in a city position that is
substantially volunteer in nature.
      (b)   Except as subsection (1) of this section provided to the contrary,
the council is the final judge of the election and qualifications of its
members.
      (c)   The qualifications of appointive officers of the city are whatever
the council prescribes or authorizes.
SECTION 26. COMPENSATION.
   Neither the Mayor nor any councilor may receive compensation for service in
that capacity. The council shall prescribe the compensation of city officers.
The council may prescribe a plan for reimbursing city personnel, including
Mayor and any councilor, for expenses that they incur in serving the city.
SECTION 27. OATH.
   Before assuming city office, an officer shall take an oath or shall affirm
the faithful performance of the duties of the office and support the
constitution and laws of the United States, the state of Oregon, and the City
of Shady Cove.
CHAPTER VII. ELECTIONS
SECTION 28. STATE LAW.
   Except as this charter or a city ordinance prescribes to the contrary, a
city election shall conform to state law applicable to the election.
SECTION 29. NOMINATIONS.
   A qualified elector who shall have resided in the City during the twelve
(12) months immediately preceding a nomination, may be nominated for an
elective city positive. Nomination shall be by petition specifying the position
sought in a form prescribed by the Council. Such petition shall be signed by
not fewer than 20 electors. All elections shall conform to applicable state
law.
SECTION 30. NON-PARTISAN ELECTIONS.
   All elections under this charter shall be non-partisan.
SECTION 31. TIE VOTES.
   In the event of a tie vote for candidates for an elective office, the office
shall be declared vacant and set for election at the next available election
date.
CHAPTER VII. ORDINANCES
SECTION 32. ORDAINING CLAUSES.
   The ordaining clause of an ordinance shall read:
   (1)   In case of adoption by the council alone, "The council of the City of
Shady Cove ordains as follows:".
   (2)   In case of adoption or ratification by the voters of the city, "The
people of the City of Shady Cove ordain as follows:".
SECTION 33. ADOPTION BY COUNCIL.
   (1)   An ordinance shall be fully and distinctly read in open council
meeting on two (2) different days before being adopted by the council. Except
as subsection (2) of the section allows adoption at a single meeting and
subsection (3) of this section allows reading by title only.
   (2)   The council may adopt an emergency ordinance at a single meeting by
the express unanimous votes of all council members present, provided the
ordinance is read first in full and then by title. Except as subsection (3) of
this section allows reading by title only.
   (3)   A reading of an ordinance may be by title only if:
      (a)   No council member present at the reading requests that the
ordinance be read in full, or
      (b)   At least 72 hours before the reading:
         (i)   A copy of the ordinance is provided for each council member,
         (ii)   Three (3) copies of the ordinance are available for public
inspection in the office of the custodian of city records, and
         (iii)   Notice of their availability is given by written notice posted
at the city hall and two (2) other public places in the city.
   (4)   An ordinance read by title only has no legal effect if it differs
substantially from its terms as it was filed prior to the reading unless each
section so differing is read fully and distinctly in open council meeting
before the council adopts the ordinance.
   (5)   Upon the adoption of an ordinance, the ayes and nays of the council
members shall be entered in the record of council proceedings.
   (6)   After adoption of an ordinance, the custodian of city records shall
endorse it with its date of adoption and the endorser's name and title of
office.
SECTION 34. EFFECTIVE DATE.
   A non-emergency ordinance takes effect on the thirtieth day after its
adoption or on a later day the ordinance prescribes. An ordinance adopted to
meet an emergency may take effect as soon as adopted.
CHAPTER IX. PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION 35. IMPROVEMENTS.
   The procedure for making, altering, vacating or abandoning a public
improvement shall be governed by general ordinance, or, to the extent not so
governed, by the applicable general laws of the State of Oregon. Action in any
proposed public improvement, except an improvement unanimously declared by the
council to be needed at once because of an emergency, which shall state the
exact harm to the City if the improvement is not made, shall be suspended for
six months upon a remonstrance thereto by the owners of two thirds of the
property to be specially assessed therefor. For the purpose of this section,
"owner" shall mean the record holder of legal title to the land, except that if
there is a purchaser of the land according to a recorded land sale contract or
according to a verified writing by the record holder of legal title to the land
filed with the City Recorder, the said purchaser shall be deemed the owner.
SECTION 36. SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The procedure for levying, collecting, and enforcing the payment of special
assessments for public improvements or other services to be charged against
real property shall be governed by general ordinance.
CHAPTER X. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION 37. BIDS.
   Bidding procedures shall follow Oregon state law.
SECTION 38. DEBT.
   The city's indebtedness may not exceed debt limits imposed by state law. A
city officer or employee who creates or officially approves indebtedness in
excess of this limitation is jointly and severally liable for the excess.
SECTION 39. CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   Insofar as consistent with this charter, and until amended or repealed, all
ordinances in force when the charter takes effect retain the effect they have
at that time.
SECTION 40. REPEAL.
   All charter provisions enacted before this charter takes effect are hereby
repealed.
SECTION 41. SEVERABILITY.
   The terms of this charter are severable. If a part of the charter is held
invalid, that invalidity does not affect another part of the charter, except as
the logical relation between the two parts requires.
SECTION 42. TIME OF EFFECT.
   This charter takes effect upon the date of having been certified by the
voters.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
"Shady Cove City Code", for which designation "code of ordinances", "codified
ordinances" or "code" may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Shady Cove,
Oregon. The term CITY, when used in this code, may also be used to refer to the
City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code, as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Jackson County, Oregon.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof and, as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oregon.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the city shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or", if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body shall take effect as provided
in the City Charter.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to the indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any amending ordinances are listed following
the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 161, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 170,
passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 180, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 185, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (O.R.S. 192.410) (Ord. 180, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 185, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see O.R.S. 192.420
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this code for which no other
specific penalty is provided shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not
to exceed $500, subject to division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this code which is identical to
a state statute containing a penalty shall, upon conviction, be punished by the
penalty prescribed by state statute.
   (C)   Each calendar date on which a violation occurs constitutes a separate
violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
         
31.   CONTRACT AND PURCHASING CODE
         
32.   DEFERRED IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENTS
         
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
         
34.   PUBLIC SAFETY
         
35.   BUDGET, ACCOUNTS, FEES
CHAPTER 30: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
30.01   Planning Commission
   
30.02   Contract Review Board
§ 30.01 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   This section may be referred to as the "Shady Cove Planning Commission
Ordinance".
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor shall appoint, with Council approval, a five-member
Planning Commission. Positions will be identified by numbers one through five.
      (2)   Terms will be for four years. Terms will expire on June 30 of even
numbered years for even numbered positions and odd numbered years for odd
numbered positions.
      (3)   Appointments to fill vacancies due to normal term expiration will
be made effective July 1 of the respective year. Appointments may be made as
vacancies occur in the event of resignations during the course of a term.
      (4)   Planning Commissioners must maintain their primary residence within
the city limits and be a registered voter.
(Ord. 168, passed 12-17-1998; Ord. 244, passed 8-16-2007)
§ 30.02 CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   Pursuant to provisions of O.R.S. 279A.060, the City Council is hereby
designated as the local Contract Review Board and relative to contract concerns
of the city shall have all the powers granted to the State Public Contract
Review Board.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD. The local Contract Review Board, as established in division (A)
above.
      PUBLIC CONTRACT. Any purchase, lease or sale by the city of personal
property, public improvements or services other than agreements which are
exclusively for personal services.
      PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any construction of improvements on real property by
or for the city.
(Ord. 49, passed 6-21-1979)
CHAPTER 31: CONTRACT AND PURCHASING CODE
Section
   
31.01   Contract Review Board
   
31.02   Definitions
   
31.03   Public contracts for goods and services
   
31.04   Public improvement contracts
   
31.05   Bidder disqualification
   
31.06   Personal services contracts
   
31.07   Disposition of personal property
   
31.08   Adoption of code and rules
Cross-reference:
   Budget, Accounts, Fees, see
Ch. 35
§ 31.01 CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   The City Council is designated to as the local Contract Review Board
of the city and shall have all of the rights, powers and authority necessary to
carry out the provisions of O.R.S. Chapters 279A, 279B, and 279C (the "Public
Contracting Code").
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the City Administrator,
or his or her designated Purchasing Agent, is designated as the city’s
Contracting Agency for purposes of contracting powers and duties assigned to
the city as a contracting agency under the Public Contracting Code.
(Ord 252, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 31.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following words or phrases shall have the
following meanings. All words and phrases not defined in this section shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Public Contracting Code or the Model
Rules adopted by the Oregon Attorney General (Model Rules):
   FORMAL QUOTE. Procedure pursuant to which written offers are solicited by
advertising or other writing stating the quantity and quality of goods or
services to be acquired, and which offers are received by the Contracting
Agency on or before a stated date. In soliciting formal quotes, the Contracting
Agency shall seek quotes from a sufficiently large number of potential bidders
to insure sufficient competition to meet the best interests of the city. An
award based on less than three formal quotes may be made provided the
Contracting Agency makes a written record of the effort to obtain quotes.
   INFORMAL QUOTE. Procedure pursuant to which written or verbal offers are
gathered by correspondence, telephone or personal contact stating the quantity
and quality of goods or services to be acquired. In soliciting informal quotes,
the Contracting Agency shall seek quotes from a sufficiently large number of
potential bidders to insure sufficient competition to meet the best needs of
the city. An award based on less than three quotes may be made, provided the
Contracting Agency makes a written record of the effort to obtain quotes.
   PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACT. A contract to retain the services of an
independent contractor, including architects, engineers, land surveying and
related services. The contract shall be predominantly for services requiring
special training or certification, independent judgment, skill and experience.
   SOLE SOURCE PROCUREMENT. A contract for goods or services, or a class of
goods or services, available from only one source.
   WORKS OF ART. All forms of original creations of visual art, including but
not limited to:
      (1)   Painting: all media, including both portable and permanently
affixed or integrated works such as murals;
      (2)   Sculpture: in the round, bas-relief, high relief, mobile, fountain,
kinetic, electronic, etc., in any material or combination of materials.
      (3)   Miscellaneous art: prints, clay, drawings, stained glass, mosaics,
photography, fiber and textiles, wood, metal, plastics and other materials or
combination of materials, calligraphy, and mixed media, any combination of
forms of media, including collage.
(Ord 252, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 31.03 PUBLIC CONTRACTS FOR GOODS AND SERVICES.
   This section applies to public contracts, including lease-purchase
contracts, that are not contracts for public improvements or contracts for
personal services. A public contract shall not be artificially divided or
fragmented to qualify for a different award procedure than that provided by
this section.
   (A)   Generally. The following classes of public contracts and respective
award procedures are created:
      (1)   Public contracts valued at less than $5,000: A public contract for
an amount which is valued at less than $5,000 shall be awarded by the
Contracting Agency based on informal quotes. Amendments to public contracts
under this section may not cause the contract price to exceed $6,000.
      (2)   Public contracts valued above $5,000 but less than $25,000: A
public contract for an amount which is valued above $5,000 but less than
$25,000, shall be awarded by the City Council based on formal quotes.
Amendments to public contracts under this section may not cause the contract
price to exceed an amount that is greater than 25% of the original contract
price.
      (3)   Public contracts at or above $25,000: A public contract for an
amount which is valued at $25,000 or more shall be awarded by the City Council
based on competitive sealed bidding or competitive sealed proposals pursuant to
the Public Contracting Code.
   (B)   Exemptions. The requirements of division (A) do not apply to the
following classes of public contracts:
      (1)   Sole source procurements pursuant to O.R.S. 279B.075.
      (2)   Emergency procurements pursuant to O.R.S. 279B.080.
      (3)   Purchases through federal programs pursuant to O.R.S. 279A.180.
      (4)   Contracts for products or supplies under $5,000.
      (5)   Contracts for the purchase or commissioning of works of art.
      (6)   Amendments to contracts exceeding the limits in division (A) above
if the City Council determines that it is not reasonably feasible to require
additional competitive procurement to complete the purpose of the contract;
otherwise the Council shall direct additional competitive procurement and the
competitive procurement procedure required for the amendment.
      (7)   By resolution, the City Council may exempt other public contracts
or classes of public contracts from the requirements of division (A) pursuant
to O.R.S. 279B.085.
      (8)   Contracts for information technology such as hardware, software,
upgrades, maintenance and training.
(Ord 252, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 31.04 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT CONTRACTS.
   A public improvement contract is defined pursuant to the Public Contracting
Code and does not include contracts for minor alterations, ordinary repair and
maintenance of public improvements, contracts for projects for which no funds
of the city are directly or indirectly used except for participation that is
incidental or related primarily to project design or inspection, and does not
include any other construction contract that is not defined as a public
improvement under the Public Contracting Code. A public improvement contract
shall not be artificially divided to qualify for a different award procedure
than that provided by this section.
   (A)   Generally. All public improvement contracts shall be awarded by the
City Council based on competitive sealed bids pursuant to the Public
Contracting Code.
   (B)   Exemptions. The requirements of division (A) do not apply to the
following classes of public improvement contracts.
      (1)   Public improvement contracts valued at less than $5,000: Public
improvement contracts valued at less than $5,000 shall be awarded by the
Contracting Agency based on informal quotes.
      (2)   Public improvement contracts valued at $5,000 or more but less than
$25,000: Public improvement contracts valued at $5,000 or more but less than
$25,000 shall be awarded by the City Council based on formal quotes.
      (3)   (a)   Emergency public improvement contracts may be exempted from
competitive bidding if the Contracting Agency determines that an emergency
exists and that conditions require the prompt execution of a contract.
Emergency public improvement contracts shall be awarded in accordance with the
Public Contracting Code.
         (b)   The Contracting Agency shall provide the City Council with a
written statement indicating the nature of the emergency and stating with
particularity the emergency conditions and why they pose an imminent threat to
the public health, safety or welfare. The contracting agency shall not declare
the same emergency more than two times in any 90-day period.
      (4)   By resolution, the City Council may exempt from competitive bidding
a public improvement contract or class of public improvement contracts not
otherwise exempt under this section pursuant to O.R.S. 279C.335.
      (5)   When an exemption allows for award of the contract through
competitive proposals, the provisions of O.R.S. 279C.400 to 279C.410 shall
apply.
   (C)   Amendments. Amendments to public improvement contracts shall comply
with the Public Contracting Code.
   (D)   Performance and payment bonds. The performance and payment bonds
requirements and exceptions of the Public Contracting Code shall apply to all
public improvement contracts.
   (E)   Public improvement; least cost to city. The City Council or
contracting agency may undertake to construct a public improvement using its
own equipment and personnel if doing so will result in the least cost to the
city or public. For purposes of this section, resurfacing of roads at a depth
of two or more inches and at an estimated cost of more than $125,000 is a
public improvement. If the City Council or Contracting Agency decides to
construct a public improvement estimated to cost more than $125,000 using its
own personnel and equipment, it shall prepare adequate plans and specifications
and the estimated unit cost of each classification of work, and maintain an
accurate accounting in accordance with O.R.S. 279C.305.
   (F)   Exceeding budget and price negotiation. If all responsive offers on a
public improvement contract exceed the budget for the project, the Contracting
Agency may, prior to contract award, negotiate for a price within the budget
under the following procedures:
      (1)   Negotiations shall start with the lowest responsive, responsible
bidder, If negotiations are not successful, then the contracting agency may
negotiate with the second lowest responsive, responsible bidder, and so on.
      (2)   Negotiations may include value engineering and other options to
attempt to bring the project cost with in the budgeted amount.
      (3)   A contract may not be awarded under this section if the scope of
the project is significantly changed from the description in the original
solicitation documents.
      (4)   The records of a bidder used in contract negotiations under this
section are not subject to public inspection until after the negotiated
contract has been awarded or the negotiation process has been terminated.
(Ord 252, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 31.05 BIDDER DISQUALIFICATION.
   (A)   The City Council or Contracting Agency, whoever is awarding a public
contract, may disqualify any person as a bidder on a contract if:
      (1)   The person does not have sufficient financial ability to perform
the contract. Evidence that the person can acquire a surety bond in the amount
and type required shall be sufficient to establish financial ability;
      (2)   The person does not have available equipment to perform the
contract;
      (3)   The person does not have key personnel of sufficient experience to
perform the contract; or
      (4)   The person has breached previous contractual obligations.
   (B)   The provisions of the Public Contracting Code regarding
disqualification of persons shall apply In addition to this section with
respect to public improvement contracts.
   (C)   A person who has been disqualified as a bidder may appeal the
disqualification to the City Council in accordance with O.R.S. 279B.425.
(Ord 252, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 31.06 PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The following procedures shall apply to the award of personal services
contracts:
      (1)   Personal service contracts to $5,000: Personal services contracts
involving an anticipated fee of up to $5,000 per fiscal year shall be awarded
by the Contracting Agency following solicitation of offers for personal
services by written invitation or advertisement in sufficient number to provide
a choice for the city from among qualified service providers. The Contracting
Agency shall determine the selection criteria to be included in the written
invitation or advertisement and shall have authority to negotiate and enter
into the contract.
      (2)   Personal service contracts above $5,000: Personal services
contracts to which division (A)(1) does not apply and having an anticipated fee
above $5,000 shall be awarded by the City Council following solicitation of
offers based on the procedure and selection criteria adopted by the City
Council before offers are solicited.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in the Public Contracting Code, for
all other personal services contracts, including amendments to and annual
renewals of existing contracts and emergencies, the contracting agency may
enter into the contract without a solicitation of offers. A personal services
contract shall not be artificially divided or fragmented to qualify for the
award procedures provided by this subdivision.
   (B)   The following criteria shall be considered in the evaluation and
selection of a personal services contractor. This section does not preclude the
use of other additional criteria:
      (1)   Total cost to the agency for delivery of services.
      (2)   Expertise of the contractor in the area of specialty called for.
      (3)   References from successfully completed projects managed by the
contractor.
      (4)   Utilization of locally procured goods, services, or personnel.
      (5)   Other services provided by the contractor not specifically listed
in the request for proposal.
      (6)   Timeliness of delivery of services.
      (7)   Other criteria specially listed in the solicitation document on a
case by case basis.
(Ord 252, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 31.07 DISPOSITION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall have the authority to determine when
personal property owned by the city is surplus.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall select the method of disposal which
maximizes the value the city will realize from disposal of the surplus
property. Surplus personal property shall be disposed of as follows:
      (1)   Sold to the highest qualified buyer meeting the sale terms when the
value of each item so offered is less than $2,000 and the sale has been
advertised at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the Shady
Cove area not less than one week prior to the sale;
      (2)   Traded in on the purchase of replacement equipment or supplies;
      (3)   Sold at public auction advertised at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the Shady Cove area not less than one week prior to the
auction. The published notice shall specify the time, place and terms upon
which the personal property shall be offered and a general description of the
personal property to be sold;
      (4)   Sold at a fixed price retail sale if doing so will result in
substantially greater net revenue to the city; or
      (5)   Contracted for use, operation or maintenance by one or more private
or public entities. Prior to approval of such a contract, the City
Administrator shall determine that the contract will promote the economic
development of the city.
   (C)   All personal property sold pursuant to this section shall be sold as-
is without any warranty, either express or implied, of any kind.
   (D)   Sales of surplus personal property may be conducted electronically.
(Ord 252, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 31.08 ADOPTION OF CODE AND RULES.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided in this chapter, public contracts
shall be awarded, administered and governed according to the Public Contracting
Code and the Model Rules, as they now exist and may be amended in the future.
   (B)   In the event of a conflict between any provisions of this chapter and
the Public Contracting Code or Model Rules, the provisions of the Public
Contracting Code or Model Rules shall prevail.
(Ord 252, passed 1-7-2010)
CHAPTER 32: DEFERRED IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENTS
Section
   
32.01   Scope
   
32.02   Estimated cost
   
32.03   Payment
   
32.04   Street improvements
   
32.05   Accounting
   
32.06   Retaining regulations
Cross-reference:
   Annexations, see
TSO Table
I
§ 32.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   Deferred improvement agreements will apply only to land partitions,
minor or major.
   (B)   Deferred improvement agreements will not be applicable to
subdivisions, multiple lot annexations and other similar land use applications
involving property in excess of partitions. In those instances, the applicant
will be required, at the discretion of city management, to either make the
identified improvement or post a bond for the improvement. If it is determined
that a bond is appropriate, it will be posted within ten days of application
approval. Failure to comply negates approval.
   (C)   If an applicant attempts to circumvent the subdivision requirement by
proposing a series of partitions, or it is readily apparent to city management
that application of a series of partitions is likely, then subdivision
requirements will apply.
   (D)   Deferred improvement agreements will apply only to lots which front on
city, county or state streets or highways.
(Ord. 175, passed 5-20-1999; Ord. 190, passed 6-1-2000)
§ 32.02 ESTIMATED COST.
   (A)   Cost associated with deferred improvement agreements will be the
equivalent of 25% of the City Engineer's per-foot estimate for street
construction to full city standards. The cost will be applied to deferred
improvement agreements as a frontage foot cost.
   (B)   The Engineer's estimate will be reviewed annually and updated as
appropriate.
   (C)   The cost applied to deferred improvement agreements will be adopted by
resolution.
(Ord. 175, passed 5-20-1999; Ord. 190, passed 6-1-2000)
§ 32.03 PAYMENT.
   (A)   The cost of a deferred improvement agreement will be identified to the
applicant at the time of application for the partition of a tax lot.
   (B)   The applicant will be offered two payment options:
      (1)   Payment in full, up front; or
      (2)   A payment schedule with a 20% down payment and 20 equal, semi-
annual, payments over ten years at 9% interest. This debt will be secured by a
property lien.
   (C)   Payment will be required following approval of the partition, but
before that approval is filed with the county.
   (D)   The deferred improvement agreement document will reflect the cost
associated with the agreement and payment option selected. If a payment
schedule is selected, the payment amount and dates will be reflected, as well
as language referencing a property lien.
(Ord. 175, passed 5-20-1999; Ord. 190, passed 6-1-2000)
§ 32.04 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Acceptance of deferred improvement agreement payments implies that the
street fronting the subject property will eventually be improved. However, a
time commitment is not implied.
   (B)   (1)   Street improvements will not be made until:
         (a)   The city has accumulated sufficient funds to properly improve
the street; and
         (b)   Improvement of that street works its way to the top of the
city's priority list.
      (2)   Acquisition of funding may include deferred improvement agreements,
grants and system development charges.
(Ord. 175, passed 5-20-1999; Ord. 190, passed 6-1-2000)
§ 32.05 ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   All deferred improvement agreement payments will be received in the
Transportation System Development Charge Fund.
   (B)   An accounting document, by street, will be established upon receipt of
the first deferred improvement agreement payment. The documents will be
included every year with the city's budget.
(Ord. 175, passed 5-20-1999; Ord. 190, passed 6-1-2000)
§ 32.06 RETAINING REGULATIONS.
   With the passage of Ord. 190, Ord. 175 is retained in its entirety.
(Ord. 175, passed 5-20-1999; Ord. 190, passed 6-1-2000)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Declaration and ratification of emergency
   
33.03   Succession of authority
   
33.04   Authority of Emergency Manager
   
33.05   Authority of Incident Commander
   
33.06   Termination of state of emergency
   
33.07   Due process
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator or City Administrator's designee.
   EMERGENCY. Any human-caused or natural event or circumstances causing or
threatening loss of life, injury to person or property, human suffering or
financial loss, and includes, but is not limited to, fire, explosion, flood,
severe weather, drought, earthquake, spills or releases of oil or hazardous
material, contamination, disease, blight, infestation, civil disturbance or
riot.
(Ord. 213, passed 11-6-2003)
§ 33.02 DECLARATION AND RATIFICATION OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   When the Mayor determines that a state of emergency exists, the Mayor
shall make a written declaration to that effect, and within 24 hours, call a
special meeting of the City Council to ratify the declaration of emergency, or
if a quorum of the Council is not available, then as soon as a quorum can be
assembled.
   (B)   By declaration, the Emergency Management Plan is activated.
      (1)   The state of emergency declaration shall specify:
         (a)   The nature of the emergency;
         (b)   The geographical boundaries of the area subject to the emergency
management procedures; and
         (c)   Any special regulations imposed as a result of the state of
emergency.
      (2)   The ratification by the City Council may also authorize additional
specific emergency powers for the duration of the emergency period set forth in
the declaration.
(Ord. 213, passed 11-6-2003)
§ 33.03 SUCCESSION OF AUTHORITY.
   In the event the Mayor is not available or unable to perform his or her
duties under this chapter, the succession of authority for those duties shall
be as follows:
   (A)   Council President;
   (B)   Senior Council member;
   (C)   City Administrator; and
   (D)   Incident Commander.
(Ord. 213, passed 11-6-2003)
§ 33.04 AUTHORITY OF EMERGENCY MANAGER.
   During a declared emergency, the Emergency Manager shall have authority to
exercise, within the area designated in the proclamation, all plenary powers
vested in the city by the State Constitution, City Charter and city ordinances
in order to reduce the vulnerability of the city to loss of life, injury to
persons or property and human suffering and financial loss resulting from
emergencies, and to provide for recovery and relief assistance for the victims
of emergencies.
(Ord. 213, passed 11-6-2003)
§ 33.05 AUTHORITY OF INCIDENT COMMANDER.
   During a declared emergency, the Incident Commander shall have customary
authority, duties and responsibilities.
(Ord. 213, passed 11-6-2003)
§ 33.06 TERMINATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   The Mayor shall terminate the state of emergency by proclamation when the
emergency no longer exists or when the threat of an emergency has passed.
(Ord. 213, passed 11-6-2003)
§ 33.07 DUE PROCESS.
   Any person claiming a deprivation of liberty or property to this chapter
shall be entitled to a hearing before the Municipal Court Judge. The hearing
shall be held as soon as practical after execution of the questioned order. The
aggrieved party shall have the right to appear in person and/or by counsel and
may present evidence to support his or her grievance. The city shall present
evidence in support of its action. The Judge shall determine whether the
questioned action was lawful and proper and shall be empowered to restore any
property or other rights of which the grievant was unlawfully deprived. The
Judge shall not have authority to award monetary compensation or damages.
Claims for compensation or damages shall be made in the manner otherwise
provided by law. The city or any aggrieved party shall have the right to appeal
the judge's decision. The appeal shall be taken and perfected in the manner
provided by law taking appeals from justice courts and as prescribed in O.R.S.
221.359.
(Ord. 213, passed 11-6-2003)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be a crime punishable by a fine not
exceeding $500 and imprisonment not exceeding 30 days.
(Ord. 213, passed 11-6-2003)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
   
34.01   Public Safety Act; fees and charges
   
34.02   Specific police policies
§ 34.01 PUBLIC SAFETY ACT; FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The Public Safety Act, attached to the ordinance codified herein, is
adopted as a means of providing adequate Police Department and public safety
services throughout the city.
   (B)   The fees and charges set out in the Act are not intended to be taxes,
nor are they subject to the property tax limitations of Article XI, § 11(b), of
the State Constitution.
(Ord. 242, passed 4-19-2007; Ord. 264, passed 6-21-2012)
Cross-reference:
   Systems development charges, see §§
35.10 through
35.28
§ 34.02 SPECIFIC POLICE POLICIES.
   Specific police policies are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as if set out in full.
CHAPTER 35: BUDGET, ACCOUNTS, FEES
Section
   
35.01   [Reserved]
   
35.02   Police officer training resources
   
35.03   Fee schedule
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES
   
35.10   Purpose
   
35.11   Definitions
   
35.12   System development charge established
   
35.13   Methodology
   
35.14   Authorized expenditures
   
35.15   Expenditure restrictions
   
35.16   Improvement plan
   
35.17   Collection of charge
   
35.18   Installment payments
   
35.19   Exemptions
   
35.20   Credits
   
35.21   Notice
   
35.22   Segregation and use of revenue
   
35.23   Refunds
   
35.24   Appeal procedure
   
35.25   Prohibited connection
   
35.26   Construction
   
35.27   Severability
   
35.28   Classification
 
   
35.99   Penalty
§ 35.01 [RESERVED].
§ 35.02 POLICE OFFICER TRAINING RESOURCES.
   (A)   Short title. This section may be referred to as the “Shady Cove Police
Officer Training Allocation Ordinance”.
   (B)   Allocation.
      (1)   An amount not less than 3% of the budgeted resource from traffic
bails and fines will be budgeted, each year, for police officer travel and
training.
      (2)   Any unused portion of the money budgeted for police officer travel
and training, each year, will not be carried over to a subsequent year.
(Ord. 164, passed 11-19-1998)
§ 35.03 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Short title. This section may be referred to as the “Fee Ordinance of
Shady Cove”.
      (1)   Collection and distribution of land use application fees.
         (a)   Fees for land use applications are established and periodically
revised to reflect average actual cost, as established through tracking
studies.
         (b)   Twenty-five percent of each developer fee will be retained for
administrative costs. Seventy-five percent of every fee will be used to pay for
the City Planning Consultant, City Engineer, City Attorney and any actual
incurred costs. When city costs exceed the initial fees collected, the city
shall invoice the applicant for all additional costs associated with project
completion. These costs shall begin accruing at the time of application
submittal and include, but not be limited to, publishing of legal notices,
postage, recordings and attorney, engineering and planning consultant fees. All
money that is owed to the city shall be paid in full before any planning action
is finalized by the city.
      (2)   Land use application fee refunds.
         (a)   If the city accepts money for a land use application fee, and it
is found that the city should not have accepted that application because of a
mistake on the part of the city, or the employees representing the city, or if
an applicant withdraws his or her application, a refund may be appropriate.
         (b)   If professional (billable costs to the city) services have been
performed, a refund, less those charges, plus a 25% administrative fee, will be
deducted from the fee and the balance refunded.
         (c)   If no professional (billable costs to the city) services have
been performed, the full amount of the fee, less an administrative fee equal to
15% of the fee, will be refunded. The administrative fee of 15% will not apply
if acceptance of the application was an error on the part of the city, or the
employees representing the city.
      (3)   Collection of fees for administrative services and miscellaneous
applications. The fees for administrative services include a charge for time
spent by city staff to perform specific services and charge for materials used
to complete the service.
      (4)   Collection of sewer connection fees.
         (a)   A fee for the physical connection to the wastewater collection
system is appropriate to cover the cost of materials, inspection and
administration, when done individually (one or two at a time). The connection
fee is in addition to the established system development charge.
         (b)   A connection fee is not appropriate for subdivisions or other
developments with multiple connections (three or more) made simultaneously. The
material is provided by the developer, inspection is covered by the inspection
fee schedule and administrative cost is provided in the administrative overhead
component of the land use application fee.
         (c)   1.   When sewer service is discontinued, whether long or short
term, the connection may be maintained through monthly payment of usage fee
applicable to the prevailing single dwelling unit.
            2.   If the current monthly usage fee, for the customer who is
discontinuing service, is less than the fee applicable to a single dwelling
unit, then their existing rate and any subsequent increase to that rate, will
be applicable.
            3.   It remains the option of the customer to forego the required
payment when service is discontinued. However, if payment is not made for a
six-month period, the city may disconnect service.
            4.   When service is disconnected under the foregoing circumstance,
reconnection will require payment of the connection fee, as well as the
prevailing system development charge.
      (5)   Service outside city limits.
         (a)   Persons who apply for connection to the waste water system, for
property not located within the city limits, will deposit upon application:
            1.   The appropriate system development charge and connection fee;
and
            2.   An amount equal to six months, monthly usage fee. If approved,
the deposit will be held for 24 months, after which it will be applied to
monthly usage.
         (b)   If the application is approved, the applicant shall:
            1.   Pay all costs related to the connection, including, but not
limited to, extension of the main line and appurtenances, if so determined, by
the City Engineer or Public Works Department, engineering costs, surveys,
inspections and the like;
            2.   Pay monthly usage fees equal to one and one-half of the
prevailing monthly usage fee for the type of service being connected. The
additional one-half will offset debt service paid through property tax for
property located within the city limits; and
            3.   Deed main-line extensions and relative appurtenances to the
city, as well as a 20-foot easement over the main-line extension and relative
appurtenances.
         (c)   The City Administrator will have the authority to approve
connections to the waste water system, for property located outside the city
limits.
      (6)   Plant unit reservation charge. All reference to plant unit
reservation charge (PURC) is superseded by the appropriate systems development
charge and sewer connection fee.
      (7)   Collection of sewer usage fees.
         (a)   Sewer usage fees are collected to provide for ongoing operations
and maintenance as well as to accrue replacement reserve funds.
         (b)   Any advance payments made by customers will be applied to the
current monthly sewer usage fee. However, they do not constitute payment in
full if a sewer usage fee increase occurs during the time any unused portion of
the advance payment is still reflected on the customer’s account. The customer
will pay the full amount of the revised fee.
      (8)   Suspension of sewer usage fees.
         (a)   Consideration for the suspension of sewer usage fees may be
given if an improvement to the waste water system is removed or destroyed.
Written notification is required of the property owner, with confirmation noted
by the Public Works Director.
         (b)   If the conditions, set forth in division (A)(7)(a) above, are
met, the City Administrator, or designee, may offer the applicant a choice of
one of the following:
            1.   Suspend payment of monthly usage fees until an improvement is
reconnected to the waste water system. At the time of application for
reconnection, the appropriate system development charge and connection fee will
be applied.
            2.   Continue payment of monthly usage fees. At the time of
application for reconnection, the only charge shall be the appropriate fee for
inspection of the connection.
         (c)   When an improvement for a different use (such as a residence
replaced by a business) is reconnected to the waste water system, the
appropriate system development charge shall apply, as well as an inspection
fee.
      (9)   Collection of inspection fees.
         (a)   With city staff, or through direct contract, the city performs
inspections of street, sanitary sewer, storm drainage and water line
construction, as well as street light and other underground utility placement.
A fee schedule is established to offset the cost of those inspections.
         (b)   Fees for inspection will be charged to the application fee. When
inspection fees, along with other appropriate charges, exhaust the application
fee, the applicant will be invoiced for the additional inspection fees.
         (c)   Payment to the city, for inspections, is due within 30 days of
the date of invoice. Payments made beyond 30 days will be assessed a penalty of
1.5% of the unpaid balance, compounded monthly.
         (d)   The final plat will not be approved until all fees and penalties
have been paid.
         (e)   A copy of this section of this section, along with the
inspection fee resolution, will be provided to each land use applicant for
which street or storm drainage construction, sewer and water main extension or
street light and underground utility placement is required.
         (f)   The City Council shall have the authority to identify public
works activities and services, which are not otherwise delineated in current
ordinances, and establish fees for the services, from time to time, by
resolution.
      (10)   Public works activities.
         (a)   Fees authorized.
            1.   Fees for public works activities and services are hereby
authorized.
            2.   The appropriate fees will be established and revised, as
required, by resolution.
         (b)   Charges for public works labor.
            1.   The hourly rate for public works employees will be fully
burdened with all overhead costs.
            2.   The hourly rate for public works employees will be revised
annually, to reflect cost identified in the most current budget.
   (B)   Fee adoption by resolution. The amount of each fee shall be adopted by
Council resolution. Changes in the amounts shall also be adopted by resolution,
including those changes resulting solely from inflationary cost impacts.
(Ord. 155, passed 4-16-1998; Ord. 182, passed 12-2-1999; Ord. 189, passed 5-18-
2000; Ord. 196, passed 1-18-2001; Ord. 200, passed 3-21-2002; Ord. 208, passed
5-1-2003)
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES
§ 35.10 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the system development charge is to impose a portion of the
cost of capital improvements for parks, wastewater, flood control, and streets
upon those developments and redevelopments that create the need for increase
the demands on parks, wastewater, stormwater, and streets.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.11 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply to this subchapter:
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS. Public facilities or assets used for the following
systems:
      (1)   Parks and recreation;
      (2)   Wastewater collection, transmission, treatment, or disposal or any
combination;
      (3)   Drainage or flood control; or
      (4)   Transportation.
   CONTIGUOUS. In a public way which abuts the parcel.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Shady Cove, Oregon.
   DEVELOPMENT. All improvements on a site, including buildings, other
structures, parking and loading areas, landscaping, paved or graveled areas,
and areas devoted to exterior display, storage or activities. DEVELOPMENT
includes redevelopment of property. DEVELOPMENT includes improved open areas
such as plazas and walkways, but does not include natural geologic forms or
unimproved lands.
   IMPROVEMENT FEE. A fee for costs associated with capital improvements to be
constructed after the date the fee is adopted pursuant to §
35.12.
   OWNER. The owner or owners of record title or the purchaser or purchasers
under a recorded land sales agreement, and other persons having an interest of
record in the described real property.
   PARCEL OF LAND. A lot, parcel, block or other tract of land that in
accordance with city regulations is occupied or may be occupied by a structure
or structures or other use, and that includes the yards and other open spaces
required under the zoning, subdivision, or other development ordinances.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom a building permit, development permit, a
permit or plan approval to connect to the sewer or water system, or right-of-
way access permit is issued.
   QUALIFIED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. A capital improvement that is:
      (1)   Required as a condition of development approval;
      (2)   Identified in the plan adopted pursuant to §
35.16; and
      (3)   Either:
         (a)   Not located on or contiguous to a parcel of land that is the
subject of the development approval; or
         (b)   Located in whole or in part on or contiguous to property that is
the subject of development approval and required to be built larger or with
greater capacity than is necessary for the particular development project to
which the improvement fee is related.
   REIMBURSEMENT FEE. A fee for costs associated with capital improvements
constructed or under construction on the date the fee is adopted pursuant to §
35.12, and for which the Council determines capacity to exist.
   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE. A reimbursement fee, an improvement fee or a
combination thereof assessed or collected at the time of increased usage of
capital improvements, at the time of issuance of a development permit or
building permit, or at the time of connection to the capital improvement. A
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE does not include fees assessed or collected as part
of a local improvement district or a charge in lieu of a local improvement
district assessment, or the cost of complying with requirements or conditions
imposed by a land use decision.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.12 SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE ESTABLISHED.
   System development charges shall be established and may be revised by
resolution of the Council. The resolution shall set the amount of the charge,
the type of permit to which the charge applies, and, if the charge applies to a
geographic area smaller than the entire city, the geographic area subject to
the charge.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.13 METHODOLOGY.
   (A)   Reimbursement fee. The methodology used to establish or modify the
reimbursement fee shall, where applicable, be based on the cost of then-
existing facilities including without limitation design, financing and
construction costs, prior contributions by then-existing users, gifts or grants
from federal or state government or private persons, the cost of the unused
capacity of existing facilities, rate-making principals employed to finance
publicly owned capital improvements, and other relevant factors identified by
the Council. The methodology shall promote the objective that future system
users shall contribute no more than an equitable share of the cost of then-
existing facilities.
   (B)   Improvement fee. The methodology used to establish or modify the
improvement fee shall, where applicable, demonstrate consideration of the
estimated cost of projected capital improvements needed to increase the
capacity of the systems to which the fee is related. The methodology shall be
calculated to obtain the cost of capital improvements for the projected need
for available system capacity for future system users.
   (C)   Fees set by Council resolution. The methodology used to establish or
modify the improvement fee or the reimbursement fee, or both, shall be
contained in a resolution adopted by the Council.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.14 AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   Reimbursement fees shall be applied only to capital improvements
associated with the system for which the fees are assessed, including
expenditures relating to repayment of indebtedness. Improvement fees shall be
spent only on capacity increasing capital improvements associated with the
system for which the fee is assessed, including expenditures relating to
repayment of future debt for the improvements. An increase in system capacity
occurs if a capital improvement increases the level of performance or service
provided by existing facilities or providing new facilities. The portion of the
capital improvements funded by improvement fees must be related to demands
created by current or projected development. A capital improvement being funded
wholly or in part from revenues derived from the improvement fee shall be
included in the plan adopted by the city pursuant to §
35.16.
   (B)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, system development
charge revenues may be expended on the direct costs of complying with the
provisions of this subchapter, including the costs of developing system
development charge methodologies and providing an annual accounting of system
development expenditures.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.15 EXPENDITURE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   System development charges shall not be expended for costs associated
with the construction of administrative office facilities that are more than an
incidental part of other capital improvements.
   (B)   System development charges shall not be expended for costs of the
operation or routine maintenance of capital improvements.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.16 IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Prior to the establishment of a system development charge, the Council
shall adopt a plan that includes a list of:
      (1)   The capital improvements that the Council intends to fund in whole
or in part with improvement fee revenues; and
      (2)   The estimated cost and time of construction of each improvement and
the percentage of that cost eligible to be funded with improvement fee
revenues; and
      (3)   A description of the process for modifying the plan.
   (B)   In adopting this plan, the Council may incorporate by reference all or
a portion of any public facilities plan, master plan, capital improvements plan
or similar plan that contains the information required by this section.
   (C)   The Council may modify such plan and list at any time. If a system
development charge will be increased by a proposed modification to the list the
Council will:
      (1)   At least 30 days prior to adoption of the proposed modification,
provide written notice to persons who have requested notice pursuant to §
35.21; and
      (2)   Hold a public hearing if a written request for a hearing is
received within seven days of the date of the proposed modification.
   (D)   A change in the amount of a reimbursement fee or an improvement fee is
not a modification of the system development charge if the change in amount is
based on the periodic application of one of the construction cost indices
published by the Engineering News Record.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.17 COLLECTION OF CHARGE.
   (A)   The system development charge is payable upon the issuance of:
      (1)   A building permit; or
      (2)   A development permit; or
      (3)   A development permit for development not requiring the issuance of
a building permit; or
      (4)   A permit or approval to connect to the sewer system; or
      (5)   A right-of-way access permit.
   (B)   If no building, development, or access permit is required, the system
development charge is payable at the time the usage of the capital improvement
is increased based on the changes in the use of the property unrelated to
seasonal or ordinary fluctuations in usage.
   (C)   If development is commenced or connection is made to the sewer system
without an appropriate permit, the system development charge is immediately
payable upon the earliest date that a permit was required.
   (D)   The City Administrator shall collect the applicable system development
charge from the permittee when a permit that allows building or development of
a parcel is issued.
   (E)   The City Administrator shall not issue such permit or allow such
connection until the charge has been paid in full, or until a provision for
installment payments has been made pursuant to §
35.18, or unless an exemption is granted pursuant to §
35.19.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.18 INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS.
   (A)   When a system development charge is due and collectible, the owner of
the parcel of land subject to the system development charge may apply for
payment in 20 semiannual installments, to include interest on the unpaid
balance, in accordance with O.R.S. 223.208.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall provide application forms for installment
payments, which shall include a waiver of all rights to contest validity of the
lien, except for the correction of computational errors.
   (C)   An applicant for installment payments shall have the burden of
demonstrating the applicant’s authority to assent to the imposition of a lien
on the parcel and that the property interest of the applicant is adequate to
secure payment on the lien.
   (D)   The City Administrator shall docket the lien in the lien docket. From
that time the city shall have a lien upon the described parcel for the amount
of the system development charge, together with interest on the unpaid balance
at the rate established by the council. The lien shall be enforceable in the
manner provided in O.R.S. Chapter 223.
   (E)   The City Administrator is authorized to cancel assessments of system
development charges, without further Council action, when the development
approved by the building permit is not constructed and the building permit is
cancelled.
   (F)   For property that has been subject to a cancellation of assessment of
system development charges, a new installment payment contract shall be subject
to the code provisions applicable to system development charges and installment
payment contracts on file on the date the new contract is received by the city.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.19 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Structures and uses established and legally existing on or before the
effective date of this subchapter are exempt from a system development charge
to the extent of the structure or use then existing and to the extent of the
parcel of land as it is constituted on that date. Structures and uses affected
by this section shall pay the sewer charges pursuant to the terms of this
subchapter upon the receipt of a permit to connect to the sewer system.
Additions to single-family dwellings that do not constitute the addition of a
dwelling unit, as defined by the State Uniform Building Code, are exempt from
all portions of the system development charge.
   (B)   An alteration, addition, replacement or change in use that does not
increase the parcel’s or structure’s use of the capital improvements are exempt
from all portions of the system development charge.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.20 CREDITS.
   (A)   When a development occurs that is subject to a system development
charge, the system development charge for the existing use, if applicable,
shall be calculated and, if it is less than the system development charge for
the use that will result from the development, the difference between the
system development charge for the existing use and the system development
charge for the proposed use shall be the system development charge. If the
change in use results in the system development charge for the proposed use
being less than the system development charge for the existing use, no system
development charge shall be required. No refund or credit shall be given unless
provided by another division of this section.
   (B)   A credit shall be given to the permittee for the cost of a qualified
public improvement upon acceptance by the city of the public improvement. The
credit shall not exceed the improvement fee even if the cost of the capital
improvement exceeds the applicable improvement fee and shall only be for the
improvement fee charged for the type of improvement being constructed.
   (C)   If a qualified public improvement is located in whole or in part on or
contiguous to the property that is the subject of the development approval and
is required to be built larger or with greater capacity than is necessary for
the particular development project, a credit shall be given for the cost of the
portion of the improvement that exceeds the city’s minimum standard facility
size or capacity needed to serve the particular development project or
property. The applicant shall have the burden of demonstrating that a
particular improvement qualifies for credit under this division (C). The
request for credit shall be filed in writing no later than 60 days after
acceptance of the improvement by the city. The city may deny the credit
provided for in this division (C) if the city demonstrates that the application
does not meet the requirements of this section or if the improvement for which
credit is sought was not included in the improvement plan pursuant to §
35.16.
   (D)   When the construction of a qualified public improvement located in
whole or in part or contiguous to the property that is the subject of
development approval gives rise to a credit amount greater than the improvement
fee that would otherwise be levied against the project, the credit in excess of
the improvement fee for the original development project may be applied against
improvement fees that accrue in subsequent phases of the original development
project.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the previous divisions of this section, when
establishing a methodology for a system development charge, the city may
provide for a credit against the improvement fee, reimbursement fee, or both,
for capital improvements constructed as part of the development which reduce
the development’s demand upon existing capital improvements and/or the need for
future capital improvements, or a credit based upon any other rationale the
Council finds reasonable.
   (F)   Credits shall not be transferable from one development to another.
   (G)   Credits shall not be transferable from one type of system development
charge to another.
   (H)   Credits shall be used within ten years from the date the credit is
given.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.21 NOTICE.
   (A)   The city shall maintain a list of persons who have made a written
request for notification prior to adoption or modification of a methodology for
any system development charge. Written notice shall be mailed to persons on the
list at least 90 days prior to the first hearing to establish or modify a
system development charge. The methodology supporting the system development
charge shall be available at least 60 days prior to the first hearing to adopt
or amend a system development charge. The failure of a person on the list to
receive a notice that was mailed does not invalidate the action of the city.
   (B)   The city may periodically delete names from the list, but at least 30
days prior to removing a name from the list, the city must notify the person
whose name is to be deleted that a new written request for notification is
required if the person wishes to remain on the notification list.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.22 SEGREGATION AND USE OF REVENUE.
   (A)   All funds derived from the system development charge described in this
chapter are to be segregated by accounting practices from all funds of the
city. Those system development charges collected under this chapter shall be
used for no purpose other than set forth in §
35.14.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall provide the Council with an annual
accounting, by January 1 of each year, for system development charges showing
the total amount of system development charge revenues collected for each type
of facility and the projects funded from each account in the previous fiscal
year. A list of the amount spent on each projected funded in whole or in part
with system development charge revenues shall be included in the annual
accounting.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.23 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Refunds may be given by the City Administrator upon finding that there
was a clerical error in the calculation of a system development charge.
   (B)   Refunds shall not be allowed for failure to timely claim credit or for
failure to timely seek an alternative system development charge rate
calculation at the time of submission of an application for a building permit.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.24 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A person challenging the propriety of an expenditure of system
development charge revenues may appeal the decision or the expenditure to the
City Council by filing a written request with the Finance Director describing
with particularity the decision of the Finance Director and the expenditure
from which the person appeals. An appeal of an expenditure must be filed within
two years of the date of the alleged improper expenditure.
   (B)   After providing notice to the appellant, the Council shall determine
whether the City Administrator’s decision or the expenditure is in accordance
with this chapter and the provisions of O.R.S. 223.297 to 223.214 and may
affirm, modify, or overrule the decisions. If the Council determines that there
has been an improper expenditure of system development charge revenues, the
Council shall direct that a sum equal to the misspent amount shall be deposited
within one year to the credit of the account or fund from which it was spent.
The decision of the Council shall be reviewed only as provided in O.R.S. 34.010
to 34.100, and not otherwise.
   (C)   A legal action challenging the methodology adopted by the Council
under this chapter shall not be filed later than 60 days after adoption. A
person shall contest the methodology used for calculating a system development
charge only as provided in O.R.S. 34.010 to 34.100 and not otherwise.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.25 PROHIBITED CONNECTION.
   No person may connect to the sewer system of the city unless the appropriate
system development charge has been paid or the lien or installment payment
method has been applied for and approved.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.26 CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purposes of administration and enforcement of this chapter, unless
otherwise stated in this chapter, the following rules of construction shall
apply:
   (A)   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text
of this chapter and any caption, illustration, summary table, or illustrative
table, the text shall control.
   (B)   The word, “shall,” is always mandatory and not discretionary; the
word, “may,” is permissive.
   (C)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural and the singular, unless
the context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (D)   The phrase, “used for,” includes “arranged for,” “designed for,”
“maintained for,” or “occupied for.”
   (E)   Where a regulation involves two or more connected items, provisions,
or events:
      (1)   “And” indicates that all the connected terms, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply; and
      (2)   “Or” indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or
events may singly or in any combination.
   (F)   The word, “includes,” shall not limit a term to the specific example,
but is intended to extend its meaning to all other instance of like kind or
character.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.27 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are severable, and it is the intention to
confer the whole or any part of the powers herein provided for. If any clause,
section or provision of this chapter shall be declared unconstitutional or
invalid for any reason or cause, the remaining portion of this chapter shall be
in full force and effect and be valid as if such invalid portion thereof had
not been incorporated herein. It is hereby declared to be the Council’s intent
that this chapter would have been adopted had such an unconstitutional
provision not been included herein.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.28 CLASSIFICATION.
   The Council determines that any fee, rates or charges imposed by this
chapter are not a tax subject to the property tax limitations of Article XI,
section 11(b) of the Oregon Constitution.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-21-2015)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Collection procedures; penalty assessments
   
50.02   Reconnection of service
Use Regulations
   
50.15   Short title
   
50.16   Definitions
   
50.17   Purpose
   
50.18   Scope
   
50.19   Administration
   
50.20   Use required
   
50.21   Hauled wastewater
   
50.22   Building sewers and connections
   
50.23   Abandoned sewers and sewage disposal facilities
   
50.24   Use of public sewers
   
50.25   Infiltration and inflow
   
50.26   Protection from damage
   
50.27   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
50.28   Enforcement
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 COLLECTION PROCEDURES; PENALTY ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Notice. Advance written notification by City Administrator or
designee, to all sewer usage accounts, explaining ordinances, effective date of
collection procedures and penalties that will occur if delinquency is
determined.
   (B)   Monthly billing procedures.
      (1)   Sewer usage statements shall be mailed approximately last day of
each month for which service is provided.
      (2)   One, or both, of the following notices shall be included in the
message section of each monthly sewer usage statement:
         (a)   Payment is due by the fifteenth day of the following month; and/
or
         (b)   Delinquent accounts are subject to penalty
   (C)   Delinquency determined. Accounts will be considered delinquent if they
are 60 days past due.
   (D)   Penalty assessment. Penalty assessment fee to be set by resolution.
   (E)   Collection procedures.
      (1)   Once a sewer usage account is determined to be delinquent, a
“utility delinquent notice” will be mailed on or about the tenth of the month.
The notice will request remittance by the twenty-fifth day of the month, and
will include the following:
         (a)   Account number, amount in arrears and date payment due.
         (b)   Balance due including assessed late penalties
      (2)   Interest will continue to accrue at the current assessed late
penalty.
      (3)   Should all collection steps fail, the city may enforce the
collection of delinquent sewer charges by any means provided by state and local
law, and any delinquency may be certified to the Jackson County Department of
Assessment and taxation for collection in the manner provided by state and
local law. Thereafter, property owner will be mailed a “Notice of Tax
Certification” requesting remittance prior to the date of certification and
include the following:
         (a)   Account number, amount in arrears and date payment due.
         (b)   All accounts with outstanding balances of 90 days or more and
have been properly noticed will result in the unpaid balances, including
penalties, certified to the County Tax Assessor to be collected as other taxes
are collected.
(Ord. 263, passed 5-17-2012)
§ 50.02 RECONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Disconnection. Once staff has made the determination to disconnect a
customer from the sanitary sewer system, for non-payment, the procedure
outlined in Administrative Policy and Procedure No. 98-01, effective 1-12-1998,
will be followed.
   (B)   Labor cost for disconnection and reconnection.
      (1)   Public works labor to disconnect and reconnect a customer to the
sanitary sewer system, will be tracked as an actual cost in one-half hour
increments. That cost will reflect at least two persons portal to portal.
      (2)   The hourly rate for public works personnel will be that reflected
on the most current resolution reflecting public works fees.
   (C)   Reconnection. Reconnection of a customer to the sanitary sewer service
may be effected following payment of all assessments.
   (D)   Deposit.
      (1)   A deposit will be in an amount equal to six months of the
appropriate current monthly usage fee.
      (2)   A deposit will be held for 24 months, after which it will be
applied to monthly usage.
   (E)   Assessment. The cost for reconnection of a customer, to the sanitary
sewer system, who has been disconnected for nonpayment, will include at least
the following:
      (1)   All outstanding monthly usage fees;
      (2)   All outstanding interest and penalties applied to those outstanding
monthly usage fees;
      (3)   Actual cost to disconnect and reconnect service as described in
division (B) above; and
      (4)   Deposit described in division (D) above.
(Ord. 197, passed 1-18-2001)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 50.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be referred to as the "Sewer Ordinance of Shady Cove".
(Ord. 157, passed 6-18-1998)
§ 50.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act, as amended.
   APWA. The American Public Works Association.
   ASTM. The American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BOD (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams
per liter (mg/l)).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the property line
or right-of-way line and connected with the public sewer service connection.
   CITY. The City of Shady Cove.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use (such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration) to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DAY. The 24-hour period beginning at 12:01 a.m.
   DEQ. The Department of Environmental Quality.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   GARBAGE. The solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of
produce.
   GROUND WATER. Water within the earth.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INFILTRATION. The water other than sewage, which enters the sewer system
from the surrounding soil, typically from broken pipes or defective joints in
pipe and manhole walls.
   INFLOW. Water from stormwater runoff, which directly enters the sewerage
system only during or immediately after rainfall. Typical points of entry
include connections with roof and area drains, storm drain connections and
holes in manhole covers in flooded areas.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the municipal wastewater system, its treatment
processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
      (2)   Therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the NPDES
permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or
of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with the
following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued thereunder (or
more stringent state or local regulations; § 405 of the Clean Water Act, being
33 U.S.C. § 1345, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) [including Title II, more
commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and
including state regulations contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA], the Clean Air Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act and the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuaries Act.
   MANAGER. The Public Works Director/Public Works Manager of the city's
wastewater system or his or her authorized representative.
   MAY. Permissible.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or any
other body of surface or groundwater.
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit program,
whether administered by the EPA or by the State Department of Environmental
Quality.
   OWNER. The person or persons who legally own, lease or occupy private
property with wastewater facilities that discharge, or will discharge, to the
city's wastewater facilities.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the treatment plant effluent into
waters of the United States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in
conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a
violation of any requirement of the city's NPDES permit (including an increase
in the magnitude or duration of a violation).
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, partnership,
corporation, municipality or other similar organization, agency or group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed in grams per liter of solution.
   POTW. Publicly-owned treatment works.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater before discharge to the city's wastewater facilities.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that has been shredded so that all
particles will be carried freely under flow conditions normally prevailing in
the wastewater sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer controlled by the city to which all owners of abutting
properties shall have equal rights to make connection and to use, subject to
rules, regulations, code provisions and ordinances of the city.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. A public sewer, which has been constructed to the
property line or right-or-way line, whichever is closest, from a public sewer
lateral or main for the sole purpose of providing a connection for the building
sewer.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   STANDARD METHODS. The latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination
of Water and Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, Water Environment Federation and American Water Works Association.
   STATE. The State or Commonwealth of Oregon.
   STORM SEWER (sometimes termed STORM DRAIN). A sewer designed to carry only
stormwater, surface runoff, street wash waters and drainage.
   SURFACE WATER. Water that occurs when the rate of precipitation exceeds the
rate at which water may percolate into the soil.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in, water or wastewater, or other liquids, and
which are removable by laboratory filtering.
   TOXICS. Any of the pollutants designed by federal regulations pursuant to §
307(a)(1) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317a.
   USER. Any person who contributes, or causes or allows the contribution of
sewage or industrial wastewater into the municipal wastewater facility,
including persons who contribute the wastes from mobile sources.
   WASTEWATER. A combination of liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industries and institutions, together with
any ground water, surface water or storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITY. The combination of wastewater sewers and treatment
facilities.
   WASTEWATER SEWER. The structures, processes, equipment and arrangements
necessary to collect and transport the wastewater to the treatment facility.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY. The structures, processes, equipment and
arrangements necessary to treat and discharge wastewater.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WEF. The Water Environment Federation.
(Ord. 157, passed 6-18-1998)
§ 50.17 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the maximum possible
beneficial public use of the city's wastewater facilities through regulation of
sewer construction, sewer use and wastewater discharges; and to provide
procedures for complying with the requirements contained herein.
(Ord. 157, passed 6-18-1998)
§ 50.18 SCOPE.
   (A)   The definitions of terms used in this subchapter are found in §
50.15. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the discharge of all
wastewater to facilities of the city. This subchapter provides for use of the
city's wastewater facilities, regulations of sewer construction, control of the
quantity and quality of wastewater discharged, wastewater pretreatment, sewer
construction plans, issuance of wastewater discharge permits, minimum sewer
construction standards and conditions and penalties and other procedures in
cases of violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside the
city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city's
wastewater sewers or wastewater treatment facilities.
(Ord. 157, passed 6-18-1998)
§ 50.19 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Manager of the city's wastewater
systems shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 157, passed 6-18-1998)
§ 50.20 USE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal and
treatment of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now
located, or may in the future be located, a public sanitary sewer of the city,
is required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities.
Connection shall be made directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter within 90 days after date of official
notice to do so; provided that, the public sewer is within 500 feet of the
property line.
   (E)   The city, within its judgment, may provide that area or areas within
the city, not now served by a wastewater sewer, but desiring to be served, may
allow the owners of the area or areas to construct the wastewater sewer on the
properties all in accordance with plans and specifications as approved by the
Manager, City Engineer, the Department of Environmental Quality and installed
in a manner satisfactory to and approved by the Manager or his or her
authorized representative or City Engineer.
   (F)   In all those areas where a wastewater sewer is constructed by private
persons under the supervision of the Manager or his or her authorized
representative and/or the City Engineer as provided for in this section, the
Manager and City Engineer shall be given a 48-hour notice of work to begin and,
upon completion of the work and acceptance by the city, all sewer mains,
laterals and connections shall be turned over to the city free and clear of any
and all expenses for the construction and installation thereof. A final map
shall be provided of the public wastewater sewer extension and connections.
(Ord. 157, passed 6-18-1998) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste (septage) shall not be received into the municipal
wastewater facilities, except as authorized by the nearest regional office of
the Department of Environmental Quality. Authorization from DEQ requires a
properly designed receiving structure and treatment capacity.
   (B)   Subject to approval by the Department of Environmental Quality, septic
tank waste (septage) will be accepted into the municipal wastewater facilities
at a designated receiving structure within the treatment plant area, and at
such times as are established by the Manager; provided, the wastes do not
contain toxic or hazardous pollutants, and provided the discharge does not
violate any other requirements established by the city. The Manager shall issue
permits for individual vehicles to use the facilities.
      (1)   All waste haulers, regardless of the origin of the hauled wastes,
shall be considered "industrial users" for the purposes of this subchapter. The
Manager may require any information as necessary, including laboratory tests,
to determine the type of waste. Cost of providing data shall be borne by waste
haulers.
      (2)   The discharge of industrial wastes as "industrial septage" requires
prior approval and a wastewater permit from the city. The Manager shall have
authority to prohibit the disposal of the wastes, if the disposal would
interfere with the treatment plant operation.
      (3)   Fees for the discharge of septage will be established as part of
the user charge system.
(Ord. 157, passed 6-18-1998) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.22 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with
or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
      (2)   No contractors shall be allowed to make connections of private
sewers to the public sewers of the city on behalf of any owners of property
therein without first:
         (a)   Obtaining a business license; and
         (b)   Providing proof of bonding or posting with the city a bond in
the sum of $1,000, indemnifying the city and the inhabitants thereof against
any loss or damage which the city or the inhabitants thereof might suffer by
reason of the action of the contractors in making the connection.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial services; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Manager. A permit and inspection
fee (which will be set by resolution) shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incident to the installation of the building
sewer shall be borne by the owner, the owner shall indemnify the city from any
loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building. However, the building sewer for multiple unit complexes shall be
sized in accordance with the Uniform Plumbing Code.
   (E)   Existing building sewers should normally be replaced. Alternatively, a
cleanout may be installed near the building foundation and the building sewer
may be tested. Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
or new building sewers only when they are found, on examination and testing by
the Manager and/or City Engineer, to meet all requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules, regulations and standards
of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) and the American Public Works
Standards (APWA) shall apply.
   (G)   The building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation
below the basement floor whenever possible. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer and/or the public sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which, in turn, is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable
rules, regulations, and standards of the city, or procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and APWA. All connections shall be made
gastight and watertight. The Manager and/or City Engineer must approve any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Manager
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Manager or his
or her authorized representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 157, passed 6-18-1998) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 ABANDONED SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   In the event that any house, building or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, which is connected to the
wastewater sewer, is destroyed or removed, the owner shall file a certificate
with the City Recorder and/or Administrator stating the date of destruction or
removal. All service charges due shall be paid up to the date of destruction or
removal, and thereafter, there shall be no monthly service charge made to the
property until new improvements are placed on the properties and connected to
the wastewater sewer.
   (B)   The City Recorder or Administrator, upon receipt of a certificate of
destruction or removal of improvements to property connected to the wastewater
sewer shall present the certificate at the next Council meeting and the Council
shall then consider the matter. Upon adoption of a resolution removing the
property from the sewer service charge rolls, the City Recorder or
Administrator shall make the proper notation in the proper records of the city
and remove the property from the monthly sewer charges until the property is
again connected to the wastewater sewer.
   (C)   Every abandoned building sewer, or part thereof, shall be plugged or
capped in an approved manner within five feet (1.5 meters) of the property line
or right-of-way line. The abandonment shall be made under the supervision of
the Manager or his or her authorized representative.
   (D)   It is further provided that, in the event at any time in the future,
there shall be additional territory taken into the city or areas outside the
city shall be served by the wastewater facilities every cesspool, septic tank
and seepage pit which has been abandoned or has been discontinued otherwise
from further use or to which no waste or soil pipe from a plumbing fixture is
connected, shall have the sewage removed therefrom and be completely filled
with earth, sand, gravel, concrete or other approved material.
      (1)   The top cover or arch over the cesspool, septic tank or seepage pit
shall be removed before filling and the filling shall not extend above the top
of the vertical portions of the sidewalls or above the level of any outlet pipe
until inspection has been called and the cesspool, septic tank or seepage pit
has been inspected by the Manager or his or her authorized representative.
After the inspection, the cesspool, septic tank or seepage pit shall be filled
to the level of the top of the ground.
      (2)   No person owning or controlling any cesspool, septic tank or
seepage pit on the premises of the person or in that portion of any public
street, alley or other public property abutting the premises, shall fail,
refuse or neglect to comply with the provisions of this section or upon receipt
of notice so to comply from the department having jurisdiction.
      (3)   Where disposal facilities are abandoned consequent to connecting
any premises with the public sewer, the permittee making the connection shall
fill all abandoned facilities as required by the administrative authority
within 30 days from the time of connecting to the public sewer.
(Ord. 157, passed 6-18-1998) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   Prohibited discharges.
      (1)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will cause interference or pass
through. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the municipal
wastewater system whether or not the user is subject to categorical
pretreatment standards or any other national, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements. Furthermore, no user may contribute the following
substances to the system:
         (a)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes
having:
            1.   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300
milligrams per liter (mg/l) by weight; or
            2.   Containing more than 350 milligrams per liter (mg/l) by weight
of suspended solids.
         (b)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient, either alone or by interaction with other
substances, to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
municipal wastewater system. Included in the prohibition are wastestreams with
a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods
prescribed in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
         (c)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause
interference with the flow in a sewer, but in no case solids greater than one-
half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any dimension;
         (d)   Any fats, oils or greases, including, but not limited to,
petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral oil
origin, in amounts exceeding 100 milligrams per liter or that will cause
interference or pass through;
         (e)   Any wastewater having a pH less than six or more than nine, or
which may otherwise cause corrosive structural damage to the system, city
personnel or equipment;
         (f)   Any wastewater containing pollutants in sufficient quantity
(flow or concentration), either singly or by interaction with other pollutants,
to pass through or interfere with the municipal wastewater facility, any
wastewater treatment or sludge process or constitute a hazard to humans or
animals;
         (g)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair. This includes
dissolved hydrogen sulfide concentrations exceeding 0.1 milligrams per liter
(mg/l);
         (h)   Any substances which may cause the treatment plant effluent or
any other residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for reclamation and
reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case, shall a
substance discharged to the system cause the city to be in noncompliance with
sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under § 405 of the Clean
Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345, the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air
Act, the Toxic Substance Control Act or the state requirements applicable to
the sludge use and disposal practices being used by the city;
         (i)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by
the treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plants
effluent thereby violating the city's NPDES permit. Color (in combination with
turbidity) shall not cause the treatment plant effluent to reduce the depth of
the compensation point for photosynthetic activity by more than 10% from the
seasonable established norm for aquatic life;
         (j)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (55°C),
or which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
         (k)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive waste or isotopes
except as specifically approved by the Manager in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations;
         (l)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapor or fumes within the system in a quantity that may cause worker health and
safety problems;
         (m)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the city in accordance with §
50.21;
         (n)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Manager. (NOTE: Certain of these waters may require an NPDES
permit from DEQ if discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet.);
         (o)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment
of industrial wastes;
         (p)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Manager in a wastewater permit;
         (q)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts or other
chelating agents, which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the
municipal treatment system;
         (r)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to
demonstrate toxicity to test species during a biomonitoring evaluation;
         (s)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy; and
         (t)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal treatment system.
      (2)   Wastes prohibited by this section shall not be processed or stored
in a manner that these wastes could be discharged to the municipal treatment
system.
   (B)   Federal categorical pretreatment standards. Users subject to
categorical pretreatment standards are required to comply with applicable
standards as set out in 40 C.F.R. Ch. I, Subch. N, parts 405 through 471 and
incorporated herein.
   (C)   State requirements. Users are required to comply with applicable state
pretreatment standards and requirement set out in O.A.R. Ch. 340. These
standards and requirements are incorporated herein.
   (D)   Specific pollutant limitations.
      (1)   No nonresidential user shall discharge wastewater containing
restricted substances into the wastewater sewer in excess of limitations
specified in its wastewater discharge permit or published by the Manager. The
Manager may publish and revise, from time to time, standards for specific
restricted substances.
      (2)   At his or her discretion, the Manager may impose mass limitations
in addition to or in place of the concentration-based limitations referenced
above.
   (E)   Rejection and the like.
      (1)   If any wastewater is discharged or is proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated above and which in the judgment of the Manager may
have a deleterious effect upon the treatment works, processes, equipment or
receiving waters, or which may otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute
a public nuisance, the Manager may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing sewer charges.
      (2)   If the Manager permits the pretreatment of equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Manager and/or City Engineer, and subject to
the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (F)   Maintenance. Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities
are provided for any wastewater, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (G)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors. Grease, oil and sand interceptors
shall be provided when, in the opinion of the Manager, they are necessary for
the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or
any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients. However, the
interceptors shall not be required for private residences. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Manager and/or City Engineer,
and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   (H)   Sampling.
      (1)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be
determined in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136 or, if 40 C.F.R. part 136 does
not contain sampling of analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, in
accordance with procedures approved by the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA), DEQ and the city.
      (2)   Except as indicated below, wastewater samples collected for
purposes of determining compliance with standards and requirements of this
subchapter must be obtained using flow proportional composite collection
techniques. In the event that flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the
Manager may authorize the use of time proportional or grab sampling.
      (3)   Samples for fats, oil and grease (FOG), temperature, pH, cyanide,
phenols, sulfides and volatile organic chemicals must be obtained using grab
collection techniques.
   (I)   Agreements. No statement contained in this section shall be construed
to prohibit an agreement between the city and any person whereby a discharge of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment. An
agreement may be made when, in the opinion of the Manager, special
circumstances justify the agreement; provided that, no interference or pass
through result from the discharge and no additional costs are incurred by the
city without recompense by the person. Federal and state pretreatment standards
and requirements shall not be waived by any special agreement of the parties.
(Ord. 157, passed 6-18-1998) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 INFILTRATION AND INFLOW.
   (A)   All property owners identified by the city as contributors to
excessive or improper infiltration or inflow into the wastewater facilities
shall be advised of their infiltration and inflow problems.
   (B)   All situation properties shall be provided a 60-day grace period in
which to correct the infiltration and inflow problems as identified. The 60-day
grace period to extend from the date of notification.
   (C)   By the end of the 60-day grace period, each property owner shall
notify the city that corrective action has been taken or is in progress, which
actions shall be specified in the notification to the city.
   (D)   A property owner failing to notify the city of corrective actions
prior to the end of the 60-day grace period shall be subject to termination of
service, without further notice, and water service, if provided by the city,
shall be immediately discontinued and shut off until the violation shall have
been corrected in accordance with federal, state and city regulations.
   (E)   In the event any instance of excessive or improper infiltration or
inflow into the wastewater facilities of the city shall continue beyond the 60-
day grace period, it is hereby declared that the continuing infiltration or
inflow is a public nuisance, that the city shall have the right to abate the
public nuisance and to enter upon any private property within the city for the
purpose and shall access the cost of the abatement as a lien against the
property upon which the continuing infiltration and inflow occurs and shall
access the cost of the abatement to the property or properties to be assessed,
together with the names of the owner(s) thereof with the City Recorder or
Administrator, whereupon the City Recorder or Administrator shall forthwith
enter the assessment as a lien against the property in the city lien docket of
the city.
(Ord. 157, passed 6-18-1998)
§ 50.26 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 157, passed 6-18-1998) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Manager or his or her authorized representative, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all private
property at reasonable times, through which the city holds an easement for the
purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and
maintenance of any of the city's wastewater facilities within the easement. All
and any subsequent work on the easement shall be done in full accordance with
the terms of the easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   (B)   (1)   While performing the necessary work on private properties
referred to in division (A) above, the Manager or his or her authorized
representative shall observe all safety rules established by the owner or
occupant of the property and applicable to the premises.
      (2)   The owner or occupant shall be held harmless for injury or death to
the city employees and the city shall indemnity the owner or occupant against
loss or damage to its property by city employees and against liability claims
and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the owner
or occupant and growing out of the operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the owner or occupant to maintain safe conditions as
required by this section.
   (C)   The city shall have the right to enter the facilities of any user to
ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements
are being complied with. Users shall allow the Manager or his or her
representative ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, record examination and copying, and the performance of
any additional duties.
      (1)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, personnel from the city, state and EPA will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
      (2)   The city, state and EPA shall have the right to set up or require
installation of, on the user’s property, devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user’s operations.
      (3)   The city may require the user to install monitoring equipment, as
necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained
at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user at the user’
      (4)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the industrial facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly
removed by the industrial user at the written or verbal request of the Manager
and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing the access shall be borne by
the user.
      (5)   Unreasonable delays in allowing city personnel access to the user’s
premises shall be a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 157, passed 6-18-1998; Ord. 283, passed 3-16-2017)
§ 50.28 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of this subchapter, or any permit
or condition issued pursuant to this subchapter, shall be served by the city
with written notice stating the nature of the violations). This notification
may contain additional requirements or conditions, including schedules of
compliance, determined to be necessary by the city to correct the violation(s).
This notice shall be in addition to, and in no way limit, any additional
enforcement actions that the city deems necessary.
   (B)   (1)   The city may suspend the wastewater service and/or a wastewater
permit when the suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the city, in order
to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, to
the environment, causes interference to the POTW or causes the city to violate
any condition of its NPDES permit.
      (2)   Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater service and/
or the wastewater permit should immediately stop or eliminate the contribution.
In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the city shall take the steps as deemed necessary including
immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to
the wastewater facilities or endangerment to any individuals. The city shall
reinstate the wastewater service upon proof of the elimination of the non-
complying discharge.
   (C)   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes
into the city's wastewater facilities contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, federal or state pretreatment requirements, or any order of the
city, the City Attorney may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or
equitable relief in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 157, passed 6-18-1998)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who is found to have violated any provisions of §§
50.15 through
50.28, its wastewater discharge permit, or an order of the city shall be liable
to the city for a civil penalty of not less than $100, nor more than $1,000,
for each day of each violation. In addition to the penalties provided herein,
the city may recover reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs, court reporters'
fees and other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the
person found to have violated §§
50.15 through
50.28 or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder.
(Ord. 157, passed 6-18-1998)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Speed limits
   
70.02   State criminal code adopted
   
70.03   Definitions
   
70.04   Parking on public streets and rights-of-way
   
70.05   Parking and storing vehicles on private property
   
70.06   Agreement with State of Oregon and Jackson County
   
70.07   Vehicle towing and impound regulations and procedures
   
70.08   Violation
   
70.09   Saving and severability
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   After approval by the State Transportation Commission, where the approval is
required by motor vehicle laws of the state, and for the best use of the
streets, in the public interest, the City Council may designate by resolution
speed limits on various streets, or portions thereof, within the city limits.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-3-2020)
§ 70.02 STATE CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The provisions of O.R.S. Ch. 161 relating to defenses, burdens of proof,
general principles of criminal liability, parties to a crime or offense and
general principles of justification and responsibility apply to offenses
defined and made punishable by this chapter.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-3-2020)
§ 70.03 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following words, except where the context
clearly indicates otherwise, mean:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. A vehicle that appears to be inoperable and has any
characteristics that include but are not limited to expired license plate,
missing rear vehicle license plate, flat tire(s), broken windshield, extensive
body damage or rust, wrecked or partially dismantled and has been left on any
public way for a period in excess of 72 hours without authorization by statute
or local ordinance.
   ALLEY. Any public right-of-way for the secondary access of a property not
intended for general traffic use.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle the principal use of which is the
transportation of commodities, merchandise, produce, freight, animals, or
passengers for hire or a vehicle marked and directly used in association with a
licensed business or a truck or tractor/trailer that is 10,000 pounds or more
gross weight, and/or 20 feet or more in length, and/or eight feet or more in
width.
   ELECTRIC VEHICLE. A vehicle which is powered by an electric motor drawing
current from rechargeable storage batteries, fuel cells, or other portable
sources of electrical current, and which may include a nonelectrical source of
power designed to charge batteries and components thereof. ELECTRIC VEHICLE may
include a battery electric vehicle, a plug-in hybrid vehicle, a neighborhood
electric vehicle, and a medium-speed electric vehicle.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. A vehicle which has been left out of an enclosed
structure on private property for more than 30 days; has a broken or missing
window, windshield, wheels or tires; lacks an engine or has an inoperable
engine; or lacks a transmission or has an inoperable transmission.
   LEGAL OWNER. The person or entity with a financial interest in the vehicle
and whose name is on the title of the vehicle; the person who is entitled to
the possession and use of the vehicle under a security agreement including a
lease agreement.
   PLANTING STRIPS. That portion of the roadway lying between the constructed
curb, or edge of the roadway, and the property line exclusive of the sidewalk
area.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, bridge, bicycle lane, or public sidewalk in which the municipality has
an interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel purposes and
utility easements.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A motorized vehicle designed primarily for
recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use which has its own motive power or
is mounted on or towed by another vehicle, including but not limited to motor
home, bus, van, truck camper, travel trailer, camping trailer, tent trailer,
camper mounted on a vehicle, fifth wheel, and boat on trailer.
   REGISTERED OWNER. The person in whose name title to a vehicle is issued, and
who is entitled to possession and use of the vehicle.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is marked or indicated
by painted marks, signs, buttons standards or otherwise, so as to be plainly
discernible.
   SHOULDER. That area of the roadway between the traveled portion of the
roadway and the planting strip or other area commonly for use by pedestrians,
for the accommodation of stopped vehicles and for emergency use.
   STANDING. Halting of a vehicle whether occupied or not, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
   STORING. The keeping of a vehicle on the public right-of-way in excess of 72
consecutive hours.
   STREET. The portion of a public right-of-way owned, improved, and maintained
by a public entity for vehicular traffic exclusive of the shoulder; also
described as a road, roadway or highway.
   VEHICLE. Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway including but not limited to any
car, truck, motorcycle, motor home, trailer including utility trailer, towed
object, or other motorized automobile.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-3-2020)
§ 70.04 PARKING ON PUBLIC STREETS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Parking or standing a vehicle shall be permitted in a street parallel
with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of lawful traffic
movement, with curbside wheels within 12 inches of the edge of the curb, except
where the street is marked for angle parking.
   (B)   Parking is prohibited:
      (1)   Where the street/road surface is less than 20 feet wide.
      (2)   Where a time limitation or parking restriction is marked by traffic
markers, yellow or orange stripes, or otherwise, so as to be plainly
discernible.
      (3)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked on the edge or
curb of a street.
      (4)   On a sidewalk, planting strip, or bike lane.
      (5)   Within 20 feet of an intersection or crosswalk.
      (6)   Where official signs or barricades are placed prohibiting parking.
      (7)   Upon a bridge or other elevated structure.
      (8)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway.
      (9)   Within a fire zone, a fire exit, or within 15 feet of a fire
hydrant, or 30 feet of a fire station driveway entrance.
      (10)   Within five feet of a public or private driveway.
      (11)   Where stopping or parking a vehicle would obstruct traffic or
adequate view of an intersection.
      (12)   Where stopping or parking a vehicle cannot be done without
compromising safety.
   (C)   A person commits the offense of unlawful parking in a space reserved
for persons with disabilities if the person parks a vehicle in any parking
space that is on private or public property and that is marked or signed to
provide parking for persons with disabilities and the vehicle does not
conspicuously display a disabled person parking permit described in O.R.S.
811.602 or 811.606 or a disabled parking permit issued by another jurisdiction.
   (D)   No person shall park, store, abandon, or display for sale a vehicle of
any kind on a public right-of-way in excess of 72 hours.
   (E)   No person shall park on any street or public right-of-way:
      (1)   A vehicle selling merchandise except when authorized by the City of
Shady Cove.
      (2)   Trailers of any kind disconnected from a motor vehicle unless they
are securely blocked to prevent movement.
      (3)   Campers or canopies of any kind not on a vehicle.
      (4)   Boats not on a trailer designed for transporting boats.
   (F)   Exceptions from prohibitions of parking on public streets or rights-
of-way are:
      (1)   When applicable, school buses and worker transport buses may stop
on a roadway to load or unload children or workers, providing flashing school
bus safety lights are operating.
      (2)   When applicable, vehicles may stop, stand, or park momentarily to
pick up or discharge a passenger.
      (3)   When applicable, vehicles may stop, stand, or park momentarily for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers.
      (4)   When applicable, publicly-owned vehicles may stop, stand, or park
to perform maintenance or repair work on a roadway.
      (5)   When applicable, the driver of an unavoidably disabled vehicle may
stop and temporarily leave the vehicle to seek assistance.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-3-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 PARKING AND STORING VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The following regulations shall be applicable to vehicles parked, stored, or
maintained in an R-1, R-2, R-3, or G-C zone, or any other property utilized for
residential purposes.
   (A)   Subject to the requirements of division (B) of this section,
automobiles, buses, motor homes, motor trucks, vans, campers/camper shells
mounted on a vehicle, camp trailers, boats on trailers, and tent trailers may
be parked in a portion of a yard clearly visible to a public right-of-way
provided that the vehicles are:
      (1)   Fully operable, completely assembled, supported by inflated tires,
and not supported by blocks, jacks, or similar supports, except that such
vehicles may be safely leveled to maintain the proper flow of propane or other
gas to built-in appliances.
      (2)   Currently registered for operation on public streets.
      (3)   Located entirely on the subject property with no overhang or
encroachment permitted into the public right-of-way or adjacent private
property.
      (4)   Parked or stored on an approved residential parking space or on an
approved residential driveway.
   (B)   Subject to the requirements of division (A) of this section, buses,
motor homes, unmounted campers, camper shells mounted on a vehicle, camp
trailers, boats on trailers, and tent trailers may be parked in a front or side
yard if there is no access to the rear yard and no other approved location can
be made available on the property for parking, and:
      (1)   Buses have a maximum capacity of no more than 18 adult persons.
      (2)   Unmounted camper stored on dollies or jacks must have lockable
wheels with the lowest portion of such camper not to exceed a height of 12
inches above ground level.
      (3)   Any area used for parking or storing vehicles or equipment shall be
graveled or paved with concrete or asphalt.
      (4)   No portion of any vehicle or equipment is located on that part of a
corner lot within a front or side yard in a manner that will obstruct clear
view of the intersection.
   (C)   Authorized emergency vehicles or tow trucks, as determined by the
Oregon Vehicle Code, Chapter 801, may be parked in a yard if:
      (1)   The operator or owner of the tow truck possesses a towing permit
that has been approved by the city.
      (2)   An overweight vehicle permit has been obtained from the city for
vehicles which exceed a maximum gross weight of three tons.
      (3)   The operator or owner of the vehicle possesses a valid contract
with the Oregon State Police Department, Jackson County Sheriff Department, or
an insurance company to provide emergency service on a 24-hour basis.
   (D)   Exceptions from prohibitions of parking and storage of vehicles on
private property are:
      (1)   Antique vehicles as defined in Oregon Vehicle Code § 801.125 and
registered as required by Oregon Vehicle Code § 805.010.
      (2)   Vehicles of special interest as defined in Oregon Vehicle Code §
801.605 and registered as required by Oregon Vehicle Code § 805.020.
      (3)   Vehicles or portions of vehicles used as part of a landscape plan
approved by the city.
      (4)   Vehicles not designed for street use (race cars, off road vehicles)
or trailers not requiring a license, such as golf carts, utility trailers, etc.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-3-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 AGREEMENT WITH STATE OF OREGON AND JACKSON COUNTY.
   (A)   City Council by its enactment hereby authorizes and endorses the State
of Oregon to make such mutually agreeable traffic regulations upon Highway 62
as may be agreed to by the city and the state. Oregon Vehicle Code Chapter 811
defines, establishes and limits parking on state and federal land within Shady
Cove.
   (B)   City Council by its enactment hereby authorizes and endorses Jackson
County to make such mutually agreeable traffic regulations upon county-owned
roadways and easements as may be agreed to by the city and the county. Jackson
County Codified Ordinances Chapter 440 defines, establishes and limits parking
on county facilities within Shady Cove.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-3-2020)
§ 70.07 VEHICLE TOWING AND IMPOUND REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A vehicle may be impounded subject to the provisions of O.R.S.
809.725, or successor statutes.
   (B)   If a vehicle is parked, abandoned, stored, displayed, or is otherwise
in violation of any provision of this chapter, any person authorized to issue
citations under this chapter may cause the vehicle to be towed or impounded
pursuant to the provisions of O.R.S. 819.110 and O.R.S. 819.120.
   (C)   Upon payment of an administrative fee to the City of Shady Cove, (as
established by resolution and contained within the city fee resolution), the
owner/ agent may receive a release from the city.
   (D)   After acquiring a release from the City of Shady Cove, the owner/agent
may then retrieve his/her vehicle from the tow company upon satisfaction of the
accrued towing, impound, and storage fees.
   (E)   Any hearings related to towing and impounding of vehicles under this
division, shall be provided by the Jackson County Sheriff’s Department to which
the authority is hereby granted to make final disposition of the issues as
prescribed by Jackson County Codified Ordinance 440.04.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-3-2020)
§ 70.08 VIOLATION.
   (A)   No person shall cause or permit any vehicle owned or controlled by
him/her to be parked in violation of any provision of this chapter; violators
will suffer any disability or legal disadvantage based upon conviction thereof.
   (B)   Parking violations under this chapter may be charged by an unsworn
written notice subject to the provisions of O.R.S. 221.333.
   (C)   Citations or notices charging parking violations may be issued by the
Jackson County Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff, or any other officer or employee of the
Jackson County Sheriff Department designated by the Shady Cove City
Administrator for this purpose.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-3-2020)
§ 70.09 SAVING AND SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   Effect of repeal of code sections and ordinances. Repeal of a code
section or ordinance does not revive a code section or ordinance in force
before or at the time the repealed code section or ordinance took effect. The
repeal does not affect a punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took
effect, not a suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal
for an offense committed under the repealed code section or ordinance.
   (B)   Severability. Invalidity of a section or part of a section of this
chapter shall not affect the validity of the remaining sections or parts of
sections.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-3-2020)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found in violation under this chapter shall be subject to, as
applicable, provisions of Jackson County Codified Ordinance 440.99 and state
statute.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-3-2020)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   NUISANCES AND OFFENSES
         
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
92.   PUBLIC EVENTS
         
93.   (RESERVED)
         
94.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
         
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES AND OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Nuisances declared
   
90.03   Nuisances and offenses prohibited
   
90.04   Complaint
   
90.05   Abatement notice
   
90.06   Abatement by owner
   
90.07   Abatement by city
   
90.08   Summary abatement
   
90.09   Assessment of costs
   
90.10   Appeal
Chronic Nuisance Property
   
90.25   Definitions
   
90.26   Violation
   
90.27   Procedure; notice
   
90.28   Commencement of action; remedies
   
90.29   Emergency closure during pendency of action
   
90.30   Enforcement; costs
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following mean:
   ABATEMENT. The process of eliminating a condition that adversely affects the
health and safety.
   ANIMAL HUSBANDRY. The keeping or raising of farm animals including, but not
limited to horses, cattle, sheep, goats and pigs, except as approved as a
conditional use permit, defined in the City’s Zoning Ordinance.
   CAMPING. No person shall camp in or on public property that is not
specifically designated for such purpose. Camping shall include staying for all
or part of a night in the open or in temporary lodging, such as cars, tents,
campers, trailers or motor homes.
   CURFEW. No person under the age of 18 shall idle, wander, stroll, or play in
or upon the public streets, sidewalks, parks, playgrounds or other unsupervised
places, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m. unless:
      (1)   The person is accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
      (2)   The person is engaged in a lawful activity which requires the
person’s presence after the hours noted above.
      (3)   The person is emancipated pursuant to O.R.S. 419B.550 to 419B.558.
   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS. Buildings in such a condition to affect public health,
safety and/or welfare including but not limited to:
      (1)   A structure that, for lack of proper repairs, or because of age and
dilapidated condition, or of poorly installed or defective wiring, plumbing,
gas, or other utilities, or for any other reason, is liable to cause fire, and
which is situated or occupied in a manner that endangers other property or
human life;
      (2)   A structure containing combustible or explosive material or
inflammable substances liable to cause fire or danger to the safety of the
building, premises or to human life;
      (3)   A structure that is in a filthy or unsanitary condition liable to
cause the spread of contagious or infectious disease;
      (4)   A structure in such weak, dilapidated or deteriorated condition
that it endangers a person or property because of the probability of partial or
entire collapse.
   DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS. The firing, dis-charging or use of a gun, weapon,
slingshot, crossbow, bow and arrow, or weapon, by any person other than a peace
officer, or person(s) designated by a police officer, that propels a projectile
by force of pressurized air or gas or gun powder or other explosive, jet or
rocket propulsion within the city.
   DOG CONTROL. The owner or keeper of a dog shall not allow the dog to become
a public nuisance. A dog is a nuisance if it:
      (1)   Is not on the premises of its owner or keeper, if not on a leash.
      (2)   Bites, injures or causes injury to a person.
      (3)   Chases or threatens vehicles or persons.
      (4)   Damages or destroys property other than that of its owner or
keeper.
      (5)   Scatters garbage.
      (6)   Trespasses onto private property.
      (7)   Disturbs other persons by frequent or prolonged barking or other
noises.
      (8)   Is rabid.
      (9)   Obstructs the reasonable use of public or private property.
   DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
      (1)   No person shall drink or consume alcoholic liquor in or on a motor
vehicle, public sidewalk, street, alley, mall, parking lot or structure, school
property or other public place unless the place has been licensed for that
purpose by the Oregon Liquor Control Commission.
      (2)   This shall not prohibit the consumption of alcoholic liquor in the
above listed public places during special events for which the operators(s)
have obtained a special permit from the city and have obtained a special permit
from the Oregon Liquor Control Commission.
   EXOTIC ANIMALS. The keeping or raising of wild or exotic animals including,
but not limited to lions, tigers, other big cats, deer, bear, antelope, wolves,
snakes, buffalo, alligators, wild reptiles, dangerous animals or insects.
   ILLEGAL LODGING. No person shall lodge in, or occupy a car, outbuilding or
other place not intended for that purpose.
   LODGING IN RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. The following regulations pertain to
recreational vehicles parked outside of recreational vehicle parks, mobile home
or manufactured home parks, or other areas that are specifically designated for
such vehicles.
      (1)   No person shall occupy a recreational vehicle for sleeping or
living purposes on a public street or right-of-way.
      (2)   No person having ownership, or other responsibility for property in
Shady Cove, shall occupy or allow the occupancy of any recreational vehicle
upon the premises as a permanent living quarters, unless approved for such use
by the Shady Cove City Council.
      (3)   A recreational vehicle may be parked on private property and used
for sleeping and cooking purposes by guests of the residents of the premises
for a period not to exceed 30 days within any three-month period of the year,
provided the vehicle has self contained sewage facilities or the vehicle’s
occupants are utilizing the facilities in their host’s residence, unless
approved for a longer period in advance, by the Shady Cove City Council.
      (4)   Any unoccupied recreational vehicle shall not be stored on any
roadway or within any public right-of-way.
      (5)   A recreational vehicle shall not occupy a space within an approved
mobile home park unless that space has been specifically approved by the city
for short-term recreational vehicle use.
   NOXIOUS VEGETATION. The presence of vegetation on property outside of the
Riparian Zone or in the right-of-way of a street, alley, or sidewalk abutting
the property, anytime during the year including:
      (1)   Weeds or grass more than ten inches high.
      (2)   Blackberry bushes that extend into a public thoroughfare or across
a property line.
      (3)   Poison oak or ivy.
      (4)   Vegetation that is a health hazard, a fire hazard or other hazard
because it is near other combustibles, or a traffic hazard because it impairs
the view of the public thoroughfare or otherwise makes use of the thoroughfare
hazardous for pedestrians and/or vehicles.
      (5)   Vegetation within defined Riparian Zones will be maintained per the
Riparian Ordinance.
   NUISANCES AND OFFENSES. Conditions that adversely affect public health,
safety or welfare.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation,
whether acting as an individual for themselves, or as the clerk, servant,
employee or agent of another.
   PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY. An owner, agent, occupant, lessee, contract
purchaser or other person having possession or control of property or
supervision of a construction project.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE. The owner or the person in charge of the property.
   PUBLIC INDECENCY. An act of urination or defection, except in toilets
provided for that purpose.
   TEMPORARY SIGNS. Temporary signs include, but are not limited to election,
campaign, and yard/ garage sale signs.
   UNENUMERATED NUISANCES AND OFFENSES. Nuisances and offenses not specifically
enumerated in this chapter including a substance or act that is determined to
be injurious to public health, safety, or welfare.
   UNNECESSARY NOISE. Any unreasonably frequent and prolonged noise which
interferes with the health and/or public welfare, including, but not limited
to:
      (1)   The keeping of any bird or animal which, by causing frequent or
prolonged continuous noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person
in the vicinity.
      (2)   The use of a vehicle engine, either stationary or moving, so out of
repair, loaded or operated as to create any loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise.
      (3)   The sounding of a horn or signaling device on a vehicle on a
street, or public or private place, except as necessary warning of danger.
      (4)   The use of mechanical devices operated by compressed air, steam or
otherwise, unless the noise thereby created is effectively muffled.
      (5)   The use of a gong or siren upon a vehicle, other than police, fire
or other emergency vehicle.
      (6)   Noise from construction activities including erection, excavation,
demolition, alteration, repair between 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., except in case
of urgent necessity in the interest of the public welfare and safety as
determined by the city.
      (7)   The owner of a property may conduct such activities on property
occupied by the owner between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. providing
such activity does not unnecessarily affect the public health, safety and/or
welfare.
      (8)   The creation of excessive noise on a street adjacent to a school,
institution of learning, church or court of justice while same are in use, or
adjacent to a hospital or institution for the care of the sick or infirm, which
unreasonably interferes with the operation of such institution, or which unduly
disturbs or annoys patients, and clients.
      (9)   The discharge of the exhaust of a steam engine, internal combustion
engine, motorboat or motor vehicle except through a muffler or other device
which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises and the emission of
annoying smoke.
      (10)   The use or operation of an automatic or electric piano,
phonograph, radio, television, loudspeaker or any instrument for sound
producing or any sound amplifying device as to disturb person in the vicinity
thereof or in such a manner as renders the use thereof a nuisance. Upon
application to the city, permits may be granted to responsible persons or
organizations for the broadcast or amplification of programs of music, news,
speeches or general entertainment as part of a public event, festival or
outstanding event of a noncommercial nature. The amplification shall not be
audible at a distance of more than 1,000 feet from the source of amplification,
and in no event shall a permit be granted where any obstruction to the free and
uninterrupted traffic, both vehicular and pedestrian, will result.
      (11)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of a garage within 100
feet of a residential unit in such a manner as to cause loud or disturbing
noises between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (12)   The making of a noise by crying, calling or shouting or by means
of a whistle, rattle, bell, gong, clapper, horn, hammer, drum, musical
instrument or other device for the purpose of advertising goods, wares or
merchandise or of attracting attention or inviting patronage of a person to a
business.
(Ord. 304, passed 1-20-2022)
§ 90.02 NUISANCES DECLARED.
   (A)   The following conditions are declared to be nuisances affecting public
health and are therefore not allowed.
      (1)   Accumulation of debris, rubbish, manure and other refuse that are
not removed within a reasonable time.
      (2)   Stagnant water that affords a breeding place for mosquitoes and
other insect pests.
      (3)   Pollution of a body of water, well, spring, stream or drainage
ditch by sewage, industrial waste or other substance placed in or near the
water in a manner that will cause harmful material to pollute the water.
      (4)   Decayed or unwholesome food offered for human consumption.
      (5)   Liquid waste drained from private premises.
      (6)   Mastics, oil, grease or petroleum products allowed to be introduced
in the sewer system by a user.
      (7)   Animal carcasses on streets or private or public property.
      (8)   Animals or birds maintained, kept or housed in such a number to
create offensive odors or noise.
      (9)   An open vault or privy constructed and maintained within the city,
except those constructed or maintained in connection with construction projects
in accordance with the Oregon State Board of Health regulations.
      (10)   The keeping or raising of farm animals including, but not limited
to horses, cattle, sheep, goats and pigs, and roosters except as approved as a
conditional use permit, defined in the city’s Zoning Ordinance. This does not
include chickens kept in a non-commercial manner.
   (B)   The following conditions are declared to be nuisances affecting public
safety.
      (1)   Woodpiles, wood, lumber, rocks, bricks, blocks or metal within the
streets, alleys or sidewalks for a period of time longer than 24 hours of
placement of such material without first obtaining a permit from the city.
      (2)   A container with a compartment of more than one cubic foot of
capacity with a door or lid that locks or fastens automatically when closed
that cannot be easily opened from the inside, maintained, or left, in a place
accessible to children
      (3)   A well, cistern, cesspool, excavation, or other hole of a depth of
four feet or more and a top width of 12 inches or more uncovered, not fenced or
without a suitable protective construction.
      (4)   Unguarded machinery, equipment or other devices placed or stored in
a manner to be appealing, dangerous and accessible to children.
      (5)   Lumber, logs or piling placed or stored in a manner to be
appealing, dangerous and accessible to children.
      (6)   Noxious vegetation.
      (7)   The presence of combustible materials stored in such a manner as to
constitute a fire hazard.
      (8)   Dumping on public or private property of rubbish, trash, debris,
refuse or any substance that would mar the appearance, create a stench or fire
hazard, detract from the cleanliness or safety of the property or would likely
injure a person, animal or vehicle traveling on a public way.
      (9)   Trees, bushes or shrubs on property abutting a street, alley or
sidewalk that interfere with vehicle or pedestrian traffic.
         (a)   The person in charge of the property shall keep all trees,
bushes or shrubs on the premises, including the adjourning parking strip,
trimmed so that any overhanging portions are at least eight feet above the
sidewalk, and at least 14 feet above the roadway, public right-of-way, or
parking area.
      (10)   Snow, ice or rain water which adversely affects the safety of
users and which falls from the building or structure onto a street or public
walkway or right-of-way or is allowed to remain thereon.
         (a)   The person in charge of the property shall install and maintain
in a proper state of repair, adequate drainpipes or drainage systems so that
the overflow water accumulating on the roof or about the building is not
carried across or on the sidewalk or other property.
   (C)   The following conditions are declared to be nuisances affecting public
welfare.
      (1)   Operation of an electrical, mechanical or other device, apparatus,
instrument or machine that causes reasonably preventable interference with
radio or television reception by a radio or television receiver of good
engineering design.
      (2)   Accumulation of any old or scrap copper, brass, pipe, rope, wire,
rags, batteries, paper, plastic, trash, rubber, debris, waste, or junked,
dismantled, wrecked, scrapped or ruined appliances, motor vehicles or other
vehicles or appliances, motor vehicle or other vehicles parts, iron, steel, or
other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous material, metal or nonmetal materials
on private property within the sight of the public.
   (D)   Unnecessary noise is declared to be a nuisance which affects public
health, safety and/or welfare.
(Ord. 304, passed 1-20-2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 NUISANCES AND OFFENSES PROHIBITED.
   No person, person in charge of, or person responsible for a parcel of real
property shall allow or permit a nuisance or offense to occur on that parcel as
defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 304, passed 1-20-2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 COMPLAINT.
   Any person who believes a violation of this chapter exists may file a
complaint with the city. The City of Shady Cove will investigate and make a
determination for complaints of violation, including complaints involving fire
hazards and noxious vegetation. A citizen may sign a citation if that
individual is willing to testify and present evidence to nuisances and offenses
which are not witnessed by an individual with police powers.
(Ord. 304, passed 1-20-2022)
§ 90.05 ABATEMENT NOTICE.
   (A)   When a nuisance or offense is determined to exist, the city will place
a notice on the premises in question directing the offending party to abate the
nuisance or offense. If the occupant is not the property owner or person in
charge of the property, a copy of the notice will be provided to such
individual as well as to the property owner, either in person or by certified
mail, at the property owner’s last known address.
   (B)   An error in the name or address of the owner or person in charge of
the property or the use of a name other than that of the owner or other person
or failure of the owner to pick up his or her mail will not make the notice
void, and in such case the posted notice will be sufficient. The abatement
notice will include:
      (1)   The address or other description of the real property involved.
      (2)   A description of the nuisance or offense.
      (3)   A demand that the nuisance or offense be abated within 14 days or
such other period of time as the City of Shady Cove may determine to be
appropriate.
      (4)   Notice that failure to comply may result in the city abating the
nuisance or offense at the offending party’s expense.
      (5)   Notice that the offending party has ten days to file an appeal of
the abatement notice, in writing, with the city.
(Ord. 304, passed 1-20-2022)
§ 90.06 ABATEMENT BY OWNER.
   The owner, or person in charge of the property, will remove the nuisance or
offense in accordance with the abatement notice, or show that no nuisance or
offense exists.
(Ord. 304, passed 1-20-2022)
§ 90.07 ABATEMENT BY THE CITY.
   (A)   If the nuisance or offense is not abated within the time allowed, the
city may authorize abatement by whatever means are appropriate. This action may
be enforced by a law enforcement officer. Necessary personnel will have the
right, at reasonable times, to enter into, or upon, the involved property.
   (B)   The city will keep an accurate record of the expenses incurred by the
city for abatement costs and will add, separately noted, a charge of 25% of the
expenses for administrative overhead.
(Ord. 304, passed 1-20-2022)
§ 90.08 SUMMARY ABATEMENT
   Where an immediate threat to life or property exists, any law enforcement
officer, or their agent may cause the nuisance or offense to be abated without
written notice.
(Ord. 304, passed 1-20-2022)
§ 90.09 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   The city will send to the responsible party and involved property owner a
notice showing the total cost of abatement, including administrative overhead.
The notice will also state that the total amount of the assessment is due to
the city within 30 days. If the assessment is not paid on time, it will become
a lien on the property, and that unpaid assessments will incur interest at the
rate of 1.5% per month.
(Ord. 304, passed 1-20-2022)
§ 90.10 APPEAL.
   (A)   The owner, or person in charge protesting that no nuisance or offense
exists, shall file with the city, a written statement which will specify the
basis for the protest. The statement will be referred to the City Council or
Municipal Court Judge, as appropriate, as part of the next scheduled meeting or
court date. At the time set for consideration of the abatement, the owner or
other person may appear and be heard and the Council or Municipal Court Judge,
as appropriate will thereupon determine whether or not a nuisance or offense,
in fact, exists. If it is determined that it does exist, the owner, or other
person shall, within ten days of that determination complete the abatement.
   (B)   If the owner, or person in charge of the property, objects to the
assessment for abatement, a written objection may be heard by the City Council
in the manner descried in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 304, passed 1-20-2022)
CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY
§ 90.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
if the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY. Property on which two or more nuisance activities
have occurred during any 30-day period; property on which, or within 200 feet
of, any person associated with the property has engaged in two or more nuisance
activities during any 30-day period; or property which, upon request for
execution of a search warrant, has been the subject of a determination by a
court that probable cause that possession, manufacture, or delivery of a
controlled substance or related offenses under Oregon law have occurred within
the previous 30 days; and the execution of the search warrant has resulted in
the discovery of such controlled substances.
   CONTROL. The ability to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract or govern
conduct that occurs on a property.
   NUISANCE ACTIVITIES. Any of the following activities, behaviors or criminal
conduct, as defined under Oregon state law: harassment; intimidation;
disorderly conduct; assault or menacing; sexual abuse, contributing to the
delinquency of a minor, or sexual misconduct; public indecency; prostitution or
related offenses; alcoholic liquor violations; theft; arson or related
offenses; possession, manufacture, or delivery of a controlled substance or
related offenses; illegal gambling; criminal mischief; any attempt to commit
(as defined by O.R.S. 161.405), or conspiracy to commit (as defined by O.R.S.
161.455), any of the above offenses; unlawful discharge of a firearm; unlawful
operation of sound-producing or reproducing equipment or unnecessary noise.
   PERMIT. To suffer, allow, consent to, acquiesce by failure to prevent, or
expressly assent or agree to the commission of an act.
   PERSON. Any natural person, agent, association, firm, partnership or
corporation capable of owning, occupying or using property in the City of Shady
Cove.
   PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH. Any person who, on the occasion of a nuisance
activity, has entered, patronized, visited, or attempted to enter, patronize or
visit, or waited to enter, patronize or visit a property or person present on a
property, including without limitation any officer, director, customer, agent,
employee, or any independent contractor of a property, person in charge, or
owner thereof.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. Any person, in actual or constructive possession of a
property, including but not limited to an owner or occupant of property under
his or her dominion, ownership or control.
   PROPERTY. Any property, including land and that which is affixed, incidental
or appurtenant to land, including but not limited to any business or
residential premises, room, house, parking area, loading area, landscaping,
building or structure or any separate part, unit or portion thereof, or any
business equipment, whether or not permanent. For property consisting of more
than one unit, PROPERTY is limited to the unit or the portion of the property
on which any nuisance abatement has occurred or is occurring, but includes
areas of the property used in common by all units of property including without
limitation other structures erected on the property and areas used for parking,
loading and landscaping.
(Ord. 274, passed 8-6-2015)
§ 90.26 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any property within the City of Shady Cove which is a chronic nuisance
property is in violation of these provisions and subject to the remedies
prescribed herein. A property is not in violation of these provisions if an
occupant of the property is the victim of a crime constituting the nuisance
activity or an innocent occupant’s family member is the victim of such crime.
   (B)   Any person in charge who permits property to be a chronic nuisance
property shall be in violation of these provisions and subject to the remedies
prescribed herein. Any person in charge who is a victim of a crime constituting
the nuisance activity or any innocent person in charge whose family member is
the victim of such crime shall not be in violation of these provisions.
(Ord. 274, passed 8-6-2015)
§ 90.27 PROCEDURE; NOTICE.
   (A)   When the City Administrator receives a police report documenting the
occurrence of a nuisance activity on or within 200 feet of a property within
the city, the City Administrator or the City Administrator’s designee shall
independently review such reports to determine whether they describe any acts
enumerated under nuisance activities above. Following such review, the City
Administrator may notify the person in charge in writing that the property is
in danger of becoming chronic nuisance property. The notice shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identification of the property.
      (2)   A statement that the City Administrator has information that the
property may be chronic nuisance property, with a concise description of the
nuisance activities that may exist or that have occurred. The City
Administrator shall offer the person in charge an opportunity to propose a
course of action that the City Administrator agrees will abate the nuisance
activities giving rise to the violation.
      (3)   Demand that the person in charge respond to the City Administrator
within ten days to discuss the nuisance activities.
   (B)   After notification of nuisance activities to a person in charge, when
the City Administrator receives a police report documenting the occurrence of a
second nuisance activity at or within 200 feet of a property and determines
that the property has become a chronic nuisance property, the City
Administrator shall notify the person in charge in writing that the property
has been determined to be a chronic nuisance property. The notice shall contain
the following information:
      (1)   The street address or legal description sufficient for
identification of the property.
      (2)   A statement that the City Administrator has determined the property
to be a chronic nuisance property with a concise description of the nuisance
activities leading to his or her findings.
      (3)   Demand that the person in charge respond within ten days to the
City Administrator and propose a course of action that the City Administrator
agrees will abate the nuisance activities giving rise to the violation.
      (4)   Service shall be made either personally or by first class mail,
postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the person in charge at
the address of the property, or such other place which is likely to give the
person in charge notice of the determination by the City Administrator.
      (5)   A copy of the notice shall be served on the owner at such address
as shown on the tax rolls of the county, and/or the occupant at the address of
the property, if these persons are different than the person
in charge, and shall be made either personally or by first class mail, postage
prepaid.
      (6)   A copy of the notice shall also be posted at the property if ten
days have elapsed from the service or mailing of the notice to the person in
charge and the person in charge has not contacted the City Administrator.
      (7)   The failure of any person to receive notice that the property may
be a chronic nuisance property shall not invalidate or otherwise affect the
proceedings under these provisions.
   (C)   If after the notification, but prior to the commencement of legal
proceedings by the city pursuant to these provisions, a person in charge
stipulates with the city administrator that the person in charge will pursue a
course of action the parties agree will abate the nuisance activities giving
rise to the violation, the City Administrator may agree to postpone legal
proceedings for a period of not less than ten nor more than 30 days.
   (D)   Concurrent with any notification procedures set forth above, the City
Administrator shall send copies of the notice, as well as any other
documentation which supports legal proceedings against the property, to the
City Attorney.
   (E)   When a person in charge makes a response to the City Administrator,
any conduct or statements made in connection with the furnishing of that
response shall not constitute an admission that any nuisance activities have or
are occurring. This section does not require the exclusion of any evidence
which is otherwise admissible or offered for any other purpose.
(Ord. 274, passed 8-6-2015)
§ 90.28 COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION; REMEDIES.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution after affording the person in
charge of the property an opportunity to be heard before the Council, authorize
the City Attorney to commence legal proceedings in a court of competent
jurisdiction to enjoin or abate chronic nuisance property and to seek closure,
the imposition of civil penalties against any or all of the persons in charge
thereof, and any such other relief deemed appropriate. Proof shall be by a
preponderance of the evidence.
   (B)   If, after the commencement but prior to the trial of any action or
suit brought by the city, a person in charge of chronic nuisance property
stipulates with the city that he or she will pursue a course of action the
parties agree will abate the nuisance activities giving rise to the violation,
the city may agree to stay proceedings for a period of not less than ten nor
more than 60 days, except in the case of nuisance activity involving drugs
where a search warrant was executed at the property. The person in charge or
the city may thereafter petition the court for such additional periods of time
as may be necessary to complete the action(s) to abate the nuisance activities.
However, in the event that the city reasonably believes the person in charge of
a property is not diligently pursuing the action(s) necessary to abate the
nuisance activities, the city may seek such relief as is deemed appropriate.
   (C)   It is a defense to an action for chronic nuisance property that the
person in charge at all material times could not, in the exercise of reasonable
care or diligence, determine that the property had become chronic nuisance
property, or could not, in spite of the exercise of reasonable care and
diligence, control the conduct leading to the determination that the property
is chronic nuisance property.
   (D)   In the event a court determines property to be chronic nuisance
property, the court shall order that the property be closed and secured against
all access, use and occupancy for a period of not less than six months, nor
more than one year. The court shall retain jurisdiction during any period of
closure. The person in charge may petition the court for an order reducing the
period of closure if the person in charge and the city stipulate that the
nuisance has been and will continue to be abated.
   (E)   If a property is found to be chronic nuisance property, the person in
charge of the chronic nuisance property is subject to a civil penalty of up to
$100 per day for each day nuisance activities occurred on the property
following notice.
   (F)   In establishing the amount of any civil penalty requested, the court
may consider any of the following factors and shall cite those found
applicable:
      (1)   The actions taken by the person in charge to mitigate or correct
the nuisance activities at the property;
      (2)   The financial condition of the person in charge;
      (3)   Whether the problem at the property was repeated or continuous;
      (4)   The magnitude or gravity of the problem;
      (5)   The cooperativeness of the person in charge with the city;
      (6)   The cost of the city of investigating and correcting or attempting
to correct the nuisance activities; and
      (7)   Any other factor deemed by the court to be relevant.
   (G)   Nothing in these provisions shall require any conviction for criminal
activities prior to the commencement of any action provided herein.
(Ord. 274, passed 8-6-2015)
§ 90.29 EMERGENCY CLOSURE DURING PENDENCY OF ACTION.
   If warranted, the city may seek emergency closure of the property. Any
emergency closure proceeding initiated under this provision shall be based on
evidence showing that nuisance activities have occurred on the property and
that emergency action is necessary to avoid an immediate threat to public
welfare and safety. Proceedings to obtain an order of emergency closure shall
be governed by the provisions of Oregon Rule of Civil Procedure 79 for
obtaining temporary restraining orders. In such an event the notification
procedures set forth above need not be complied with.
(Ord. 274, passed 8-6-2015)
§ 90.30 ENFORCEMENT; COSTS.
   (A)   The court may authorize the city to physically secure the property
against all access, use or occupancy in the event that the person in charge
fails to do so within the time specified by the court. In the event that the
city is authorized to secure the property, all costs reasonably incurred by the
city to physically secure the property shall be paid to the city by the person
in charge and may be included in the city’s money judgment. As used in this
section, COSTS means those costs actually incurred by city for physically
securing the property, as well as tenant relocation costs pursuant to this
section.
   (B)   The city department(s) physically securing the property shall prepare
a statement of costs and the city shall thereafter submit that statement to the
court for its review. If no objection to the statement is made within the
period prescribed by Oregon Rule of Civil Procedure 68, the statement of costs
shall be included in the city’s money judgment.
   (C)   Judgments imposed by this chapter shall bear interest at the rate of
9% per year from the date the judgment is entered.
   (D)   Any person who is assessed the costs of physically securing the
property by the court shall be personally liable for the payment thereof to the
city.
   (E)   The person in charge shall pay reasonable relocation costs of a tenant
as defined by O.R.S. 90.100(31) if, without actual notice, the tenant moved
into the property after either:
      (1)   A person in charge received a notice from the City Administrator’s
determination that the property may be nuisance property; or
      (2)   A person in charge received notice of an action brought to close a
chronic nuisance property.
(Ord. 274, passed 8-6-2015)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to the cost and assessments provided in this
chapter, a violation may be prosecuted in the Municipal Court of the City of
Shady Cove, and be punished by a fine or not more than $500.
      (2)   Each day’s violation constitutes a separate violation. The
abatement shall not constitute a penalty for violating the chapter.
      (3)   The remedies specified herein will not be deemed exclusive and the
city may, at its option, seek to enforce the provisions of this chapter by
exercising its legal or equitable remedies in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
      (4)   When an offense has been committed that results in ascertainable
damages to any person, based upon conviction thereof, in addition to any other
sentence, the court may order that the defendant make restitution to the
victim.
   (B)   Neither party shall have the right to a jury trial at the trail of any
infraction.
(Ord. 304, passed 1-20-2022)
CHAPTER 91: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Aunt Caroline's Park
   
91.01   Short title
   
91.02   Purpose
   
91.03   Rules established by resolution
   
91.04   State Criminal Code adopted
   
91.05   Violation
 
   
91.99   Penalty
AUNT CAROLINE'S PARK
§ 91.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter will be commonly referred to as the "Aunt Caroline's Park
Ordinance".
(Ord. 216, passed 11-20-2003)
§ 91.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the use of Aunt Caroline's
Park.
(Ord. 216, passed 11-20-2003)
§ 91.03 RULES ESTABLISHED BY RESOLUTION.
   The rules controlling use of Aunt Caroline's Park will be established by
resolution.
(Ord. 216, passed 11-20-2003)
§ 91.04 STATE CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The provisions of O.R.S. Ch. 161, relating to defenses, burdens of proof,
general principles of criminal liability, parties to a crime or offense and
general principles of justification and responsibility apply to offenses
defined and made punishable by this subchapter.
(Ord. 216, passed 11-20-2003)
§ 91.05 VIOLATION.
   A person commits an infraction by violating provisions of this subchapter
and will suffer any disability or legal disadvantage based upon conviction
thereof.
(Ord. 216, passed 11-20-2003) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A person violating any provision of this subchapter and the
rules authorized and established pursuant to this subchapter shall, upon
conviction in the Municipal Court for the city, be punished by a fine of not
more than $500.
      (2)   Each day's violation of a provision of this subchapter constitutes
a separate offense.
      (3)   The remedies specified herein shall not be deemed exclusive, and
the city may, at its option, seek to enforce the provisions of this subchapter
by exercising its legal or equitable remedies in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
      (4)   Neither party shall have the right to a jury trial at the trial of
any infraction.
   (B)   When an offense has been committed that results in ascertainable
damage to any person or property, in addition to any other sentence, the court
may order the defendant make restitution to the victim and to the city.
(Ord. 216, passed 11-20-2003)
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC EVENTS
Section
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Procedures established by resolution
   
92.03   State Criminal Code adopted
   
92.04   Violation
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure public safety during public events
and establish policy by which civic, social and public organizations may use
city-owned property or public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 212, passed 11-6-2003)
§ 92.02 PROCEDURES ESTABLISHED BY RESOLUTION.
   Public event policies and procedures will be established by resolution.
(Ord. 212, passed 11-6-2003)
§ 92.03 STATE CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The provisions of O.R.S. Ch. 161, relating to defenses, burdens of proof,
general principles of criminal liability, parties to a crime or offense and
general principles of justification and responsibility apply to offenses
defined and made punishable by this chapter.
(Ord. 212, passed 11-6-2003)
§ 92.04 VIOLATION.
   A person commits an infraction by violating provisions of this chapter and
will suffer any disability or legal disadvantage based upon conviction thereof.
(Ord. 212, passed 11-6-2003) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person violating any provision of this chapter and the rules
authorized and established pursuant to this chapter shall, upon conviction in
the Municipal Court for the city, be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
   (B)   Each day's violation of a provision of this chapter constitutes a
separate offense.
   (C)   The remedies specified herein shall not be deemed exclusive, and the
city may, at its option, seek to enforce the provisions of this chapter by
exercising its legal or equitable remedies in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   Neither party shall have the right to a jury trial at the trial of any
infraction.
   (E)   When an offense has been committed that results in ascertainable
damage to any person or property, in addition to any other sentence, the court
may order the defendant make restitution to the victim and to the city.
(Ord. 212, passed 11-6-2003)
CHAPTER 93: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
Section
Fire Safety
   
94.01   Authority
   
94.02   Declaration of necessity
Open Burning
   
94.15   Short title
   
94.16   Management
   
94.17   Prohibitions
   
94.18   Exceptions
   
94.19   Complaint
   
94.20   Enforcement
Fireworks
   
94.35   Definitions
   
94.36   Violation
   
94.37   Exceptions
   
94.38   Effective date
 
   
94.99   Penalty
FIRE SAFETY
§ 94.01 AUTHORITY.
   The Chief of County Fire District Number 4 is authorized to restrict any
activity that may create an unreasonable public health or safety risk;
specifically, a fire hazard. The restriction may include implementation of
federal, state or county fire regulations and prohibitions. This subchapter
supersedes any other city ordinance during the period designated in the
declaration of necessity.
(Ord. 237, passed 9-7-2006)
§ 94.02 DECLARATION OF NECESSITY.
   (A)   A regulation and restriction shall be implemented upon a declaration
of necessity, prepared, executed, and submitted by the Fire Chief to the city.
   (B)   The declaration of necessity will describe the nature of the necessity
(i.e., extreme fire danger), the applicable regulations and the proposed
duration of the application of the regulations restricting activities injurious
to public health and safety.
(Ord. 237, passed 9-7-2006)
OPEN BURNING
§ 94.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be referred to as the "Shady Cove Open Burning
Ordinance".
(Ord. 172, passed 5-20-1999)
§ 94.16 MANAGEMENT.
   Open burning is allowed, except as prohibited in §
94.17. Fires must be maintained during daylight hours only, by a competent
adult, and will be extinguished prior to darkness, unless continued burning is
specifically authorized in writing by the local Fire Chief. The local Fire
Chief may also restrict open burning to limited daylight hours.
(Ord. 172, passed 5-20-1999)
§ 94.17 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Open burning of any kind is prohibited on all days of the year when
the maximum ventilation index is below 400.
   (B)   Open burning of any wet garbage, plastic, wire insulation, automobile
parts, asphalt, petroleum product, petroleum treated material, rubber product,
animal remains or animal or vegetable matter resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking or service of food or of any other material which normally
emits dense smoke or noxious odors, is prohibited.
   (C)   Burning of any of the materials listed in division (B) above, in a
solid fuel burning device, is prohibited.
   (D)   Open burning is prohibited during the "fire season", (typically June
through October), as established by the local Fire District.
   (E)   Open burning is prohibited on all commercial property, including
mobile home parks.
(Ord. 172, passed 5-20-1999) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18 EXCEPTIONS.
   Barbecues, properly protected camp fires and ceremonial fires are exempt
from the prohibitions identified in §
94.17.
(Ord. 172, passed 5-20-1999)
§ 94.19 COMPLAINT.
   Any person who believes a violation of this subchapter exists, may file a
complaint with the city.
(Ord. 172, passed 5-20-1999)
§ 94.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department and the local Fire District have the authority to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 172, passed 5-20-1999)
FIREWORKS
§ 94.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. A device consisting of explosives and combustibles, set off to
generate color, lights, smoke and noise.
(Ord. 241, passed 3-15-2007)
§ 94.36 VIOLATION.
   Discharging any type of fireworks within the jurisdiction of the city is
prohibited. The sale of any type of fireworks within the jurisdiction of the
city is prohibited.
(Ord. 241, passed 3-15-2007) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.37 EXCEPTIONS.
   The City Council, may upon submittal of a written request for consideration
of an exception to this subchapter, elect to consider the request on a case by
case basis (i.e., for special events, cultural or religious purposes).
(Ord. 241, passed 3-15-2007)
§ 94.38 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective 30 days after the date of adoption.
(Ord. 241, passed 3-15-2007)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Penalties for violation of designated regulations in §§
94.01 and
94.02 shall be consistent with those provided by the designated regulating
agency.
   (C)   (1)   A violation of §§
94.15 through
94.20 may be prosecuted in the Municipal Court and be punished by a fine of not
more than $500 for each offense.
      (2)   The city may, at its option, seek to enforce the provisions of §§
94.15 through
94.20 by exercising its legal or equitably remedies in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   A violation of §§
94.35 through
94.38 may be prosecuted in the Municipal Court and result in a fine of not more
than $500 for each offense. The city may, at its option, seek to enforce the
provisions of §§
94.35 through
94.38 by exercising its legal or equitable remedies in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 172, passed 5-20-1999; Ord. 237, passed 9-7-2006; Ord. 241, passed 3-15-
2007)
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Streets and Ways
   
95.01   Creation of streets and ways
   
95.02   Streets generally
   
95.03   Streets and pedestrian ways
   
95.04   Definitions
   
95.05   Annual street maintenance
   
95.06   Excavation of new streets prohibited
Design Standards
   
95.15   Applicability
   
95.16   Types of design standards
Street Access and Circulation
   
95.30   Intent
   
95.31   Vehicular access and circulation
   
95.32   Pedestrian access and circulation
   
95.33   Design and construction
Vehicle and Bicycle Parking
   
95.45   Vehicle parking location and shared parking
   
95.46   Vehicle parking stall standard dimensions and compact car parking
   
95.47   Disabled persons vehicle parking spaces
   
95.48   Bicycle parking requirements
Public Facilities
   
95.60   Purpose and applicability
   
95.61   Transportation standards
   
95.62   Storm drainage
   
95.63   Utilities
   
95.64   Easements
   
95.65   Construction plan approval and assurances
   
95.66   Installation
Street Maintenance, Repair or Improvement
   
95.75   Maintenance, repair or improvement
   
95.76   Pot holes
STREETS AND WAYS
§ 95.01 CREATION OF STREETS AND WAYS.
   The establishment of streets is declared essential for the purpose of
general traffic circulation. Partitioning of land is an incidental effect
rather than the primary objective of the street. This chapter shall apply to
all public streets within the city and to all properties that abut these
streets.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004)
§ 95.02 STREETS GENERALLY.
   (A)   The location, width and grade of streets shall be considered in their
relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions as they
relate to drainage and the operation of the water, sewer systems, to public
convenience and safety and their appropriate relation to the proposed use of
the land to be served by the streets.
   (B)   The arrangement of streets shall:
      (1)   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing
principal streets in surrounding areas;
      (2)   Conform to the plan for the neighborhood approved or adopted by the
Planning Commission to meet a particular situation where topographical or other
conditions make continuance or conformance to existing streets impractical;
      (3)   Normally allow a maximum of two accesses regardless of the number
of lots or businesses served. If access off of a secondary street is possible,
then access should not be allowed onto the state highway. If access off of a
secondary street becomes available, then conversion to that access is
encouraged, along with closing the state highway access;
      (4)   Discourage new direct accesses to individual one- and two-family
dwellings from Highway 62, subject to ODOT (Oregon Department of
Transportation) regulations; and
      (5)   Connect minor collector and local residential access streets with
surrounding streets to permit the convenient movement of traffic between
residential neighborhoods or facilitate emergency access and evacuation.
Connections shall be designed to avoid or minimize through traffic on local
streets.
      (6)   Off-site street improvements shall be required of the developer(s)
when deemed necessary by the city to ensure access streets to and from the
planned development are uniform and current to city codes and standards. Such
improvements as set forth herein shall be considered necessary for the general
use of the property owner(s) of the development, the local neighborhood and the
city’s traffic and drainage needs including, but not limited to, grading and
surfacing of streets and access ways, installation of facilities to supply
domestic water, construction of storm and sanitary drainage and treatment
facilities, and other improvements as hereafter set forth.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004; Ord. 255, passed 2-18-2010)
§ 95.03 STREETS AND PEDESTRIAN WAYS.
   (A)   All streets, alleys, and shared private drives serving more than one
tax lot shall be:
      (1)   Cut to the grade and cross-section design approved by the City
Engineer, having due regard to drainage, the grade of adjoining streets and
properties, making allowance for required base and paving material;
      (2)   Improved by the placing of an adequate rock base of sufficient
depth on the portion designed for vehicular traffic; and
      (3)   Paved with a minimum of three inches of asphalt concrete.
   (B)   Where the Planning Commission determines that the public interest
requires it, the Planning Commission may require asphalt surfacing of all or
any part of any street or alley, whether or not the same is already required.
   (C)   All street improvements shall be constructed to city standards for
permanent street and alley construction. Catch basins shall be installed and
connected to drainage leading to storm sewers or drainage ways as approved by
the City Engineer. Upon completion of the street improvement, monuments shall
be reestablished.
   (D)   The Planning Commission may approve street improvements alternate to
the standards found in Table 6.B.1 when deemed appropriate.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004; Ord. 294, passed 2-20-2020)
§ 95.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING. Adjoining with a common boundary line.
   ACCESS. A way or means of approach to provide pedestrian, bicycles or motor
vehicular entrance to a property.
   ADJOIN (ADJOINING). The same as ABUTTING.
   ALLEY. A public or private way permanently reserved as a means of access to
abutting property, usually with principal access from another street.
   APWA. American Public Works Association.
   ARTERIAL HIGHWAYS. Highway 62, which carries nearly all vehicle trips
entering, leaving or passing through the city area.
   BUFFER. A land area or physical barrier such as a wall, hedge, fence,
waterway or other feature that has been established for the purpose of reducing
or mitigating the adverse effects of a land use upon another land use.
   COLLECTOR STREETS. These provide both access and circulation within
residential neighborhoods and commercial areas.
   CONTIGUOUS. Same as ABUTTING or ADJOINING.
   CORNER CLEARANCE. The distance from an intersection of a public or private
road to the nearest access connection, measured from the closest edge of the
pavement of the connection along the traveled way.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and having a turn-around at
the opposite end.
   DOUBLE-FRONTAGE LOTS. Lots which have frontage on two or more streets.
   DRAINAGE WAY. A natural or artificial watercourse, including adjacent
riparian vegetation, that has the specific function of transmitting natural
stream water or storm runoff water from a point of higher elevation to a point
of lower elevation "drainage".
   EASEMENT. A right that a person has to use someone's land for a specific
purpose such as access or utilities.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and adjacent land areas that must
be reserved exclusively to discharge the waters of a base flood.
   GARAGE. A building or portion thereof in which a motor vehicle containing
flammable liquids or gas in its tank is intended to be stored, repaired or
kept.
   LOCAL ACCESS STREETS. The primary function is to provide access to
immediately adjacent land. Service to through-traffic movement on local streets
is discouraged.
   LOT. A parcel of land lawfully created in accordance with the land division,
partitioning or subdivision regulations in effect at the time of its creation.
   ODOT. Oregon Department of Transportation.
   OFF-SITE PARKING. Other than residential which is within reasonable walking
distance of subject property.
   RETAINING WALL. A wall designed to resist the lateral displacement of soil
or other materials.
   SETBACK. The distance from a right-of-way, easement boundary of a road or
access way, or from a lot line to any point of a building (minimum setback
distances, as required for each zoning district, are sometimes referred to as
YARD AREAS or PROTECTION STANDARDS).
   STREET. A public or private way that is created to provide ingress or egress
for persons to one or more lots, parcels, areas or tracts of land and including
the terms road, highway, lane, avenue, alley or similar designations.
   STRUCTURES. Anything constructed or built which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having a location on the ground including
swimming pools, covered patios, fences and walls; but not including, normal
plants and landscaping materials, paved outdoor areas, walks, driveways and
similar improvements.
   SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. All natural and constructed facilities used
to regulate the quantity and quality of surface water, including drainage
easements, culverts, storm drains, catch basins, drainage ditches, natural
drainage ways, stream corridors, rivers, ponds, wetlands and impoundments. A
surface or storm water facility serves on or more of three primary functions.
      (1)   DETENTION FACILITY. A facility to temporarily store storm water
runoff and subsequently release it at a slower rate than would otherwise occur.
      (2)   RETENTION FACILITY. A facility to collect and hold storm water
runoff with no surface outflow.
      (3)   WATER QUALITY FACILITY. A facility, which physically, chemically or
biologically removes pollutants and sediments from storm water before reaching
natural wetlands or streams.
   TEMPORARY. Unless otherwise defined or specified, such as a condition of
approval of a particular land use, TEMPORARY shall mean 30 days or less within
any 12-month period.
   UBC. Uniform Building Code.
   YARD. An open space, other than a court, that is unobstructed from the
ground upward, except where specifically provided by the UBC (Uniform Building
Code). Required yard areas are those portions of a lot that lie between the
exterior property lines and the "building envelope" defined by the setback
distances from those property lines.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004)
§ 95.05 ANNUAL STREET MAINTENANCE.
   All street maintenance shall be conducted according to Administrative
Policies and Procedures No. 00-01; Maintenance of City Streets.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004)
§ 95.06 EXCAVATION OF NEW STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibition. There shall be no excavation in newly paved or resurfaced
streets by anyone, including the departments of the City of Shady Cove, for a
period of five years from the date of such paving or resurfacing.
   (B)   Notification of utilities and city departments. At least 90 days
before any streets are paved or resurfaced, the City Administrator shall give
notice of such plans to any utility company or department of the city that has
requested of him to be so notified.
   (C)   Notification of property owners; accommodations for anticipated
development.
      (1)   At least 90 days before any streets are paved or resurfaced, the
City Administrator or his/her designee will give notice to affected property
owners to determine if they plan to develop or redevelop in a manner that would
require street excavation within the five-year period. The planner will advise
on whether or not the anticipated development is feasible.
      (2)   As such cases are found and at the discretion of city staff, the
locations of potential utility stub-outs or curb cuts will be determined as
best as possible and included in the paving or resurfacing project.
      (3)   The cost of these accommodations will be payable by the benefitting
property owner either immediately or by the attachment of a lien on the
property.
   (D)   Waiver. The City Council may permit excavation within the five-year
period if in its judgment the reason for the excavation was not reasonably
foreseeable to the utility or department of the city involved at the time the
street was newly paved or resurfaced. In the event a waiver is granted, the
restoration of the excavated portion will be done in
accordance with current City Standard Details and be approved by the City
Administrator. Where an emergency involving the public health or safety require
immediate excavation, the City Administrator may permit such excavation, and
fully report to the City Council at its next Council meeting.
   (E)   Distribution of departments. The City Administrator is hereby directed
to furnish a copy of this section to each department of the City of Shady Cove
and to each public utility or similar agency that does business in the City of
Shady Cove.
   (F)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating the
provisions of this section shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000, or
by imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both such fine and imprisonment, plus
the cost of resurfacing.
(Ord. 290, passed 1-3-2019)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 95.15 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   All developments within the city must comply with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Some developments such as major projects requiring land division and/
or site design review approval, may require detailed findings demonstrating
compliance with each zoning regulation or
Chapter 153 of this code.
   (C)   For smaller, less complex projects, fewer code provisions may apply.
   (D)   Though some projects will not require land use or development permit
approval (e.g., building of single-family houses on platted lots, that are not
subject to sensitive lands provisions), they are still required to comply with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004)
§ 95.16 TYPES OF DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   The city's development design standards are contained in the most
recent ODOT/APWA Standard and/or specific city standards. It is important to
review those documents and all relevant sections to determine which standards
apply. The city may prepare checklists to assist property owners and applicants
in determining which sections apply.
   (B)   The design standards contained within the following sections apply
throughout the city, for all land use types:
      (1)   Street access and circulation;
      (2)   Vehicle and bicycle parking;
      (3)   Public facilities standards; and
      (4)   Other design standards (signs and the like).
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004)
STREET ACCESS AND CIRCULATION
§ 95.30 INTENT.
   (A)   Chapters
153 and
154 of this code provide design standards that are specifically tailored to
each district. For example, the residential district contains building design
guidelines that are different than those provided in the downtown district, due
to differences in land use, building types and compatibility issues. In
addition, each district provides special standards that are meant to address
the impacts or characteristics of certain land uses.
   (B)   The intent of this section is to manage vehicle access through a
connected street system, while preserving the flow of traffic in terms of
safety, roadway capacity and efficiency. Access shall be managed to maintain an
adequate “level of service” and to maintain the “functional classification” of
roadways. Major roadways, including highways, arterial and collectors, serve as
the primary system for moving people and goods. “Access management” is a
primary concern on these roads. Local streets and alleys provide access to
individual properties. If vehicular access and circulation are not properly
designed, these roadways will be unable to accommodate the needs of development
and serve their transportation function. This section attempts to balance the
right of reasonable access to private property with the right of the citizens
of the city and the state to safe and efficient travel. It also requires all
developments to construct planned streets (arterial and collectors) and to
extend local streets. All off-site improvements conditions of approval shall be
based on information and formulas derived from “Justifying Exaction: Recent
cases and mechanisms for implementing viable conditions of approval,” December
1, 2006, to compare the exaction to the level of impact.
   (C)   The city mapped state and local roadways, by function, and classified
them for access purposes based upon their level of importance and function.
Regulations have been applied to these roadways for the purpose of reducing
traffic accidents, personal injury and property damage attributable to access
systems, and to thereby improve the safety and operation of the roadway
network. This will protect the substantial public investment in the existing
transportation system and reduce the need for expensive remedial measures.
These regulations also further the orderly layout and use of land, protect
community character and conserve natural resources by promoting well-designed
road and access systems and discouraging the unplanned subdivision of land.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004; Ord. 255, passed 2-18-2010)
§ 95.31 VEHICULAR ACCESS AND CIRCULATION.
   (A)   Applicability. This chapter shall apply to all public streets within
the city and to all properties that abut these streets.
   (B)   Access permit. Access to a public street may require an access permit
in accordance with the following procedures:
      (1)   Permits for access to city streets shall be subject to review and
approval by the city based on the standards and provisions of the most recent
applicable ODOT/APWA standards and/or specific city standards. An access permit
may be in the form of a letter to the applicant, or it may be attached to a
land use decision notice as a condition of approval.
      (2)   Permits for access to the state highways shall be subject to review
and approval by the State Department of Transportation (ODOT) except when ODOT
has delegated this responsibility to the city. In that case, the city or county
shall determine whether access is granted based on its adopted standards.
      (3)   Permits for access to county highways shall be subject to review
and approved by county roads, except where the county has delegated this
responsibility to the city in which case the city shall determine whether
access is granted based on adopted county standards.
   (C)   Conditions of approval. The city or other agency with access permit
jurisdiction may require the closing or consolidation of existing curb cuts or
other vehicle access points, recording of reciprocal access easements (i.e.,
for shared driveways), development of a frontage street, installation of
traffic control devices, and/or other mitigation as a condition of granting an
access permit, to ensure the safe and efficient operation of the street and
highway system. Access to and from off-street parking areas shall not permit
backing into a public street.
   (D)   Access methods. When vehicle access is required for development (i.e.,
for off-street parking, delivery, service, drive-through facilities and the
like), access shall be provided by one of the following methods (a minimum of
ten feet per lane is required). A developer/subdivider may use one of the
following methods unless the city requires a specific method:
      (1)   Access is from an existing or proposed alley or mid-block lane. If
a property has access to an alley or lane, direct access to a public street is
not permitted;
      (2)   Access is from a private street or driveway connected to an
adjoining property that has direct access to a public street (i.e., "shared
driveway"). A public access easement covering the driveway shall be recorded in
this case to assure access to the closest public street for all users of the
private street/drive; and
      (3)   Access is from a public street adjacent to the development parcel.
If practicable, the owner/developer may be required to close or consolidate an
existing access point as a condition of approving a new access. Street accesses
shall comply with the access spacing standards.
   (E)   Subdivisions fronting onto an arterial street. New residential
divisions fronting onto an arterial street shall be required to provide alleys
or secondary (local or collector) streets for access to individual lots. When
alleys or secondary streets cannot be constructed due to topographic or other
physical constraints, access may be provided by consolidating driveways for
clusters of two or more lots (e.g., includes flag lots and mid-block lanes).
   (F)   Double frontage lots.
      (1)   (a)   When a lot has a frontage onto two or more streets, access
shall be provided first from the street with the lowest classification.
         (b)   For example, access shall be provided from a local street before
a collector or arterial street.
         (c)   Except for corner lots, the creation of new double-frontage lots
shall be prohibited in the residential district, unless topographic or physical
constraints require the formation of the lots.
         (d)   When double-frontage lots are permitted in the residential
district, a landscape buffer with trees and/or shrubs and ground cover not less
than ten to 20 feet wide shall be provided between the back yard fence/wall and
the sidewalk or street; maintenance shall be assured by the owner (i.e.,
through the homeowner's association and the like).
      (2)   Other sections and ordinances may require buildings placed at or
near the front property line and driveways and parking areas oriented to the
side or rear yard. The city may require the dedication of public right-of-way
and construction of a street (e.g., frontage road, alley or other street) when
the development impact is proportionate to the need for a street.
   (G)   Access spacing. Driveway accesses shall be separated from other
driveways and street intersections in accordance with the following standards
and procedures.
      (1)   Local streets. A minimum of 50 foot separation as measured from the
sides of the driveway/street shall be required on local streets (i.e., streets
not designated as collectors or arterial), except as provided in division (G)
(3) below.
      (2)   Arterial and collector streets. Access spacing on collector and
arterial streets shall be determined by the city.
      (3)   Special provisions for all streets.
         (a)   Direct street access may be restricted for some land uses.
         (b)   For example, access consolidation, shared access and/or access
separation greater than that specified by divisions (G)(1) and (2) above may be
required by the city, county or ODOT for the purpose of protecting the
functions, safety and operation of the street for all users (see driveway
openings).
         (c)   Where no other alternatives exist, the permitting agency may
allow construction of an access connection along the property line farthest
from an intersection.
         (d)   In such cases, directional connections (i.e., right in/out,
right in only or right out only) may be required.
   (H)   Number of access points.
      (1)   (a)   One access point is permitted per lot for single-family
(detached and attached), two-family, and three-family housing types, when alley
access cannot otherwise be provided.
         (b)   Two access points may be permitted for two-family and three-
family housing on corner lots (i.e., no more than one access per street),
subject to the access spacing standards in access spacing.
      (2)   (a)   The number of street access points for multiple-family,
commercial, industrial and public/institutional developments shall be minimized
to protect the function, safety and operation of the street(s) and sidewalk(s)
for all users.
         (b)   Shared access may be required, in conformance with the shared
driveways division, in order to maintain the required access spacing, and
minimize the number of access points.
   (I)   Shared driveways.
      (1)   The number of driveway and private street intersections with public
streets shall be minimized by the use of shared driveways with adjoining lots
where feasible.
      (2)   The city shall require shared driveways as a condition of land
division or site design review, as applicable, for traffic safety and access
management purposes.
      (3)   Shared driveways and frontage streets may be required to
consolidate access onto a collector or arterial street. When shared driveways
are required, they shall be stubbed to adjacent developable parcels to indicate
future extension.
      (4)   Access easements (i.e., for the benefit of affected properties)
shall be recorded for all shared driveways, including pathways, at the time of
final plat approval. (Ref. Private Road Maintenance and Access Agreement-
Subdivision Ordinance).
      (5)   (a)   Shared driveways are not required when existing development
patterns or physical constraints (e.g., topography, parcel configuration and
similar conditions) prevent extending the street/driveway in the future.
      (b)   Cul-de-sacs may be required.
   (J)   Street connectivity and formation of blocks. In order to promote
efficient vehicular and pedestrian circulation throughout the city, land
divisions and large site developments shall produce complete blocks bounded by
a connecting network of public and/or private streets, in accordance with the
following standards:
      (1)   Block length and perimeter shall conform to city standards and
policies;
      (2)   Public and private streets shall conform to city standards; and
      (3)   Exceptions to the above standards may be granted by the city.
   (K)   Driveway openings and street cuts. Driveway openings (or curb cuts)
and street cuts shall conform to the most recent ODOT/APWA standards and/or
specific city standards, and approved by the city. A permit will be required to
perform all work within the public right-of-way.
   (L)   Fire access and parking area turn-around. A fire equipment access
drive shall be provided for any portion of an exterior wall of the first story
of a building that is located more than 150 feet from an existing public street
or approved fire equipment access drive. Parking areas shall provide adequate
aisles or turn-around areas for service and delivery vehicles so that all
vehicles may enter the street in a "forward manner".
   (M)   Vertical clearances. Driveways, private streets, aisles, turn-around
areas and ramps shall have a minimum vertical clearance of 13 feet, six inches,
for their entire length and width.
   (N)   Vision clearance. No signs, structures or vegetation in excess of
three feet in height shall be placed in "vision clearance areas", as shown in
Figure 95-4 below. The minimum vision clearance area may be increased by the
city upon finding that more sight distance is required (i.e., due to traffic
speeds, roadway alignment and the like).
Figure 95-4: Vision Clearance
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1636a0df48b6a27c8aba7e42893962fa27c1b602/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1127.jpg]
 
   (O)   Construction. The following development and maintenance standards
shall apply to all driveways and private streets, (except that the standards do
not apply to driveways serving one single-family detached dwelling):
      (1)   Surface options. Driveways, parking areas, aisles, and turnaround
may be paved with asphalt, concrete or comparable surfacing or a durable non-
paving material may be used to reduce surface water runoff and protect water
quality. Paving surfaces shall be subject to review and approval by the city.
      (2)   Surface water management. When a paved surface is used, all
driveways, parking areas, aisles and turn-around shall manage surface water as
approved by the city to eliminate sheet flow of such waters onto public rights-
of-way and abutting property. Surface water facilities shall be constructed in
conformance with the most recent ODOT/APWA standards and/or specific city
standards.
      (3)   Driveway aprons. When driveway approaches or "aprons" are required
to connect driveways to the public right-of-way, they shall conform to the most
recent ODOT/APWA standards and/or specific city standards.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004)
§ 95.32 PEDESTRIAN ACCESS AND CIRCULATION.
   To ensure safe, direct and convenient pedestrian circulation, all
developments, except single-family detached housing (i.e., on individual lots),
shall provide a continuous pedestrian and/or multi-use pathway system.
(Pathways only provide for pedestrian circulation. Multi-use pathways
accommodate pedestrians and bicycles.). Sidewalks may be required on one or
both sides of public streets when the Planning Commission finds that they are
necessary or desirable for public safety. The system of pathways shall be
designed based on the standards in divisions (A) and (B) below.
   (A)   Continuous pathways. The pathway system shall extend throughout the
development site, and connect to all future phases of development, adjacent
trails, public parks and open space areas whenever possible. The developer may
also be required to connect or stub the pathway(s) to adjacent streets and
private property, in accordance with the provisions of §
95.31.
   (B)   Safe, direct and convenient pathways.
      (1)   Pathways within developments shall provide safe, reasonably direct
and convenient connections between primary building entrances and all adjacent
streets, based on the following definitions.
         REASONABLY DIRECT. A route that does not deviate unnecessarily from a
straight line or a route that does not involve a significant amount of out-of-
direction travel for likely users.
         SAFE AND CONVENIENT.
            1.   Bicycle and pedestrian routes that are reasonably free from
hazards and provide a reasonably direct route of travel between destinations.
            2.   If appropriate to the extension of a system of bicycle routes,
existing or planned, the Planning Commission may require the installation of
separate bicycle lanes within streets and separate bicycle paths.
      (2)   (a)   For commercial, industrial, mixed use, public, and
institutional buildings, the "primary entrance" is the main public entrance to
the building.
         (b)   In the case where no public entrance exists, street connections
shall be provided to the main employee entrance.
      (3)   (a)   For residential buildings the "primary entrance" is the front
door (i.e., facing the street).
         (b)   For multi-family buildings in which each unit does not have its
own exterior entrance, the "primary entrance" may be a lobby, courtyard or
breeze-way which serves as a common entrance for more than one dwelling.
   (C)   Connections within development. For all developments subject to site
design review, pathways shall connect all building entrances to one another. In
addition, pathways shall connect all parking areas, storage areas, recreational
facilities and common areas (as applicable), and adjacent developments to the
site, as applicable.
   (D)   Street connectivity. Pathways (for pedestrians and bicycles) shall be
provided at or near mid-block where the block length exceeds the length
required by §
95.31(J). Pathways shall also be provided where cul-de-sacs or dead-end streets
are planned, to connect the ends of the streets together, to other streets,
and/or to other developments, as applicable. Pathways used to comply with these
standards shall conform to all of the following criteria.
      (1)   Multi-use pathways are no less than ten feet wide and located
within a 20-foot wide right-of-way or easement that allows access for emergency
vehicles.
      (2)   If the streets within the subdivision or neighborhood are lighted,
the pathways shall also be lighted.
      (3)   Stairs or switchback paths using a narrower right-of-way/easement
may be required in lieu of a multi-use pathway where grades are steep.
      (4)   The city may require landscaping within the pathway easement/right-
of-way for screening and the privacy of adjoining properties.
      (5)   The city may determine, based upon facts in the record, that a
pathway is impracticable due to: physical or topographic conditions (e.g.,
freeways, extremely steep slopes, sensitive lands and similar physical
constraints); buildings or other existing development on adjacent properties
that physically prevent a connection now or in the future, considering the
potential for redevelopment; and sites where the provisions of recorded leases,
easements, covenants, restrictions or other agreements recorded as of the
effective date of this chapter prohibit the pathway connection.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.33 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Vehicle/pathway separation. Where pathways are parallel and adjacent
to a driveway or street (public or private), they shall be raised six inches
and curbed, or separated from the driveway/street by a five-foot minimum strip
with bollards, a landscape berm or other physical barrier. If a raised path is
used, the ends of the raised portions must be equipped with curb ramps.
   (B)   Housing/pathway separation. Pedestrian pathways shall be separated a
minimum of five feet from all residential living areas on the ground-floor,
except at building entrances. Separation is measured from the pathway edge to
the closest dwelling unit. The separation area shall be landscaped in
conformance with city standards. No pathway/building separation is required for
commercial, industrial, public or institutional uses.
   (C)   Crosswalks. Where pathways cross a parking area, driveway or street
("crosswalk"), they shall be clearly marked with contrasting paving materials,
humps/raised crossings or painted striping. An example of contrasting paving
material is the use of a concrete crosswalk through an asphalt driveway. If
painted striping is used, it shall consist of therm-o-plastic striping or
similar type of durable application.
   (D)   Pathway surface. Pathway surfaces shall be concrete, asphalt, brick/
masonry pavers or other durable surface, at least six feet wide, and shall
conform to ADA (American with Disabilities Act) requirements. Multi-use paths
shall be the same materials, at least ten feet wide.
   (E)   Accessible routes. Pathways shall comply with ADA which requires
accessible routes of travel.
VEHICLE AND BICYCLE PARKING
§ 95.45 VEHICLE PARKING LOCATION AND SHARED PARKING.
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   Vehicle parking is allowed only on approved parking shoulders
(streets), within garages, carports and other structures, or on driveways or
parking lots that have been developed in conformance with this chapter.
      (2)   Specific locations for parking are indicated for some land uses
(e.g., the requirement that parking be located to side or rear of buildings,
with access from alleys, for some uses).
      (3)   See also, access and circulation standards.
   (B)   Off-site parking.
      (1)   Single-family dwelling parking spaces required may be located on
another parcel of land; provided, the parcel is within a reasonable walking
distance of the use it serves.
      (2)   The right to use the off-site parking must be evidenced by a
recorded deed, lease, easement or similar written instrument.
   (C)   Mixed uses.
      (1)   If more than one type of land use occupies a single structure or
parcel of land, the total requirements for off-street automobile parking shall
be the sum of the requirements for all uses, unless it can be shown that the
peak parking demands are actually less (i.e., the uses operate on different
days or at different times of the day).
      (2)   In that case, the total requirements may be reduced accordingly.
   (D)   Shared parking.
      (1)   Required parking facilities for two or more uses, structures or
parcels of land may be satisfied by the same parking facilities used jointly.
      (2)   The owners or operators must show that the need for parking
facilities does not materially overlap (e.g., uses primarily of a daytime
versus nighttime nature); and, provided that, the right of joint use is
evidenced by a recorded deed, lease, contract or similar written instrument
establishing the joint use.
      (3)   The right to use the off-site parking must be evidenced by a
recorded deed, lease, easement or similar written instrument.
   (E)   Availability of facilities.
      (1)   Owners of off-street parking facilities may post a sign indicating
that all parking on the site is available only for residents, customers and/or
employees, as applicable.
      (2)   Signs shall conform to the standards of §§
154.350 through
154.362.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004)
§ 95.46 VEHICLE PARKING STALL STANDARD DIMENSIONS AND COMPACT CAR PARKING.
   (A)   All off-street parking stalls shall be improved to conform to the most
recent ODOT/APWA standards and/or specific city standards.
   (B)   Disabled person parking spaces shall conform to ADA Standards for
Accessible Design (28 C.F.R. part 36).
Minimum Parking Space and Aisle Dimensions
Angle (A) (in Type Width (B) Curb Length  1-Way Aisle 2-Way Aisle Stall Depth
degrees)                     (C)          Width (D)   Width (D)   (E)
Minimum Parking Space and Aisle Dimensions
Angle (A)                     Curb Length  1-Way Aisle 2-Way Aisle Stall Depth
(in        Type     Width (B) (C)          Width (D)   Width (D)   (E)
degrees)
           Standard 8 feet    22 feet, 6   12 feet     24 feet     8 feet
0                             inches
(Parallel) Compact  7 feet, 6 19 feet, 6   12 feet     24 feet     7 feet, 6
           Disabled inches    inches                               inches
           Standard 9 feet    18 feet      12 feet     24 feet     17 feet
30         Compact  7 feet, 6 15 feet      12 feet     24 feet     14 feet
           Disabled inches
           Standard 9 feet    12 feet, 6   12 feet     24 feet     19 feet
45                            inches
           Compact  7 feet, 6 10 feet, 6   12 feet     24 feet     16 feet
           Disabled inches    inches
           Standard 9 feet    10 feet, 6   18 feet     24 feet     20 feet
60                            inches
           Compact  7 feet, 6 8 feet, 6    15 feet     24 feet     16 feet, 6
           Disabled inches    inches                               inches
           Standard 9 feet    9 feet       24 feet     24 feet     19 feet
90         Compact  7 feet, 6 7 feet, 6    22 feet     24 feet     15 feet
           Disabled inches    inches
 
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004)
§ 95.47 DISABLED PERSONS VEHICLE PARKING SPACES.
   The following parking shall be provided for disabled persons, in conformance
with the American with Disabilities Act. Disabled parking is included in the
minimum number of required parking spaces as required by ADA standards.
Minimum Number of Accessible Parking Spaces
ADA Standards for Accessible Design
Total Number of    Total Number of     Van Accessible      Accessible Parking
Parking Spaces     Accessible Parking  Parking Spaces with Spaces with Minimum
Provided (per lot) Spaces (60" and 90" Minimum 96" Wide    60" Wide Access
                   aisles)             Access Aisle        Control
                   Column A
Minimum Number of Accessible Parking Spaces
ADA Standards for Accessible Design
Total Number of    Total Number of      Van Accessible      Accessible Parking
Parking Spaces     Accessible Parking   Parking Spaces with Spaces with Minimum
Provided (per lot) Spaces (60" and 90"  Minimum 96" Wide    60" Wide Access
                   aisles)              Access Aisle        Control
                   Column A
1 to 25            1                    1                   0
26 to 50           2                    1                   1
51 to 75           3                    1                   2
76 to 100          4                    1                   3
101 to 150         5                    1                   4
151 to 200         6                    1                   5
201 to 300         7                    1                   6
301 to 400         8                    1                   7
401 to 500         9                    2                   7
501 to 1,000       2% of total parking  1/8 of Column A*    7/8 of Column A**
                   provided in each lot
1,001 and over     20, plus 1 for each  1/8 of Column A*    7/8 of Column B**
                   100 over 1,000
* - 1 out of every 8 accessible spaces
** - 7 out of every 8 accessible parking spaces
 
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004)
§ 95.48 BICYCLE PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   All uses which are subject to site design review are encouraged to provide
bicycle parking, in conformance with the following standards which are
evaluated during site design review.
   (A)   Number of bicycle parking spaces. A minimum of two bicycle parking
spaces per use is recommended for all uses with greater than ten vehicle
parking spaces. The following additional standards are recommended for specific
types of development.
      (1)   Multi-family residences. Every residential use of four or more
dwelling units provides at least one sheltered bicycle parking space for each
dwelling unit. Sheltered bicycle parking spaces may be located within a garage,
storage shed, basement, utility room or similar area. In those instances in
which the residential complex has no garage or other easily accessible storage
unit, the bicycle parking spaces may be sheltered from sun and precipitation
under an eave, overhang and independent structure, or similar cover.
      (2)   Parking lots. All public and commercial parking lots and parking
structures provide a minimum of one bicycle parking space for every ten motor
vehicle parking spaces.
      (3)   Schools. Elementary and middle schools, both private and public,
provide one bicycle parking space for every ten students and employees. High
schools provide one bicycle parking space for every five students and
employees. All spaces shall be sheltered under an eave, overhang, independent
structure or similar cover.
      (4)   Colleges and trade schools. Provide one bicycle parking space for
every ten motor vehicle spaces, plus one space for every dormitory unit. Fifty
percent of the bicycle parking spaces shall be sheltered under an eave,
overhang, independent structure or similar cover.
      (5)   Downtown/Main Street District. Within the district, bicycle parking
for customers shall be provided along the street at a rate of at least one
space per use. Individual uses may provide their own parking, or spaces may be
clustered to serve up to six bicycles. Bicycle parking spaces shall be located
in front of the stores along the street, either on the sidewalks or in
specially constructed areas such as pedestrian curb extensions. Inverted, "U"
style racks are recommended. Bicycle parking shall not interfere with
pedestrian passage, leaving a clear area of at least 36 inches between bicycles
and other existing and potential obstructions. Customer spaces may or may not
be sheltered. When provided, sheltered parking (within a building, or under an
eave, overhang or similar structure) shall be provided at a rate of one space
per employee, with a minimum of one space per store.
      (6)   Multiple uses. For buildings with multiple uses (such as commercial
or mixed use center), bicycle parking standards shall be calculated by using
the total number of motor vehicle parking spaces required for the entire
development. A minimum of one bicycle parking space for every ten motor vehicle
parking spaces is recommended.
   (B)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to single-family, two-family
and three-family housing (attached, detached or manufactured housing), home
occupations, agriculture and livestock uses, or other developments with fewer
than ten vehicle parking spaces.
   (C)   Location and design. Bicycle parking shall be conveniently located
with respect to both the street right-of-way and at least one building entrance
(e.g., no farther away than the closest parking space). It should be
incorporated whenever possible into building design and coordinated with the
design of street furniture when it is provided. Street furniture includes
benches, street lights, planters and other pedestrian amenities.
   (D)   Visibility and security. Bicycle parking may be visible to cyclists
from street sidewalks or building entrances, so that it provides sufficient
security from theft and damage.
   (E)   Options for storage. Bicycle parking requirements for long-term and
employee parking can be met by providing a bicycle storage room, bicycle
lockers, racks or other secure storage space inside or outside of the building.
   (F)   Lighting. Bicycle parking shall be lit, at least as well as vehicle
parking, for security.
   (G)   Reserved areas. Areas set aside for bicycle parking may be clearly
marked and reserved for bicycle parking only.
   (H)   Hazards. Bicycle parking may not impede or create a hazard to
pedestrians. Parking areas shall be located so as to not conflict with vision
clearance standards.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
PUBLIC FACILITIES
§ 95.60 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   The purpose of this section is to provide planning and design
standards for public and private transportation facilities and utilities.
Streets are the most common public spaces, touching virtually every parcel of
land. Therefore, one of the primary purposes of this section is to provide
standards for attractive and safe streets that can accommodate vehicle traffic
from planned growth, and provide a range of transportation options, including
options for driving, walking and bicycling.
      (2)   The city requires that streets provide direct and convenient
access, including regular intersections.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided, the standard specifications for
construction, reconstruction or repair of transportation facilities, utilities
and other public improvements within the city shall occur in accordance with
the standards of this section. No development may occur unless the public
facilities related to development comply with the public facility requirements
established in this section.
   (C)   The city shall establish standard construction specifications
consistent with the design standards of this section and application of
engineering principles. They are incorporated in this chapter by reference.
   (D)   No development may occur unless required public facilities are in
place or guaranteed, in conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
Improvements required as a condition of development approval, when not
voluntarily accepted by the applicant, shall be roughly proportional to the
impact of development. Findings in the development approval shall indicate how
the required improvements are roughly proportional to the impact.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.61 TRANSPORTATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Development standards. No development shall occur unless the
development has frontage or approved access to a public street, in conformance
with the provisions of §§
95.30 through
95.33, and the following standards are met.
      (1)   Streets within or adjacent to a development shall be improved in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Development of new streets, and additional street width or
improvements planned as a portion of an existing street, shall be improved in
accordance with this section and public streets shall be dedicated to the city.
      (3)   New streets and drives connected to a collector or arterial street
shall be paved.
      (4)   The city may accept a future improvement guarantee (e.g., owner
agrees not to remonstrate (object) against the formation of a local improvement
district in the future) in lieu of street improvements if one or more of the
following conditions exist:
         (a)   A partial improvement may create a potential safety hazard to
motorists or pedestrians;
         (b)   Due to the developed condition of adjacent properties it is
unlikely that street improvements would be extended in the foreseeable future
and the improvement associated with the project under review does not, by
itself, provide increased street safety or capacity, or improved pedestrian
circulation;
         (c)   The improvement would be in conflict with an adopted capital
improvement plan; or
         (d)   The improvement is associated with an approved land partition on
property zoned residential and the proposed land partition does not create any
new streets.
   (B)   Variances. A variance may be granted under this section only if a
required improvement is not feasible due to topographic constraints or
constraints posed by sensitive lands.
   (C)   Creation of rights-of-way for streets and related purposes. Streets
shall be created through the approval and recording of a final subdivision or
partition plat; except, the city may approve the creation of a street by
acceptance of a deed; provided that, the street is deemed essential by the City
Council for the purpose of implementing the Comprehensive Plan/Transportation
Plan, and the deeded right-of-way conforms to the standards of this chapter.
All deeds of dedication shall be in a form prescribed by the City Administrator
and shall name "the public" as grantee.
   (D)   Creation of access easements. The city may approve and access easement
established by deed when the easement is necessary to provide for access and
circulation in conformance with §§
95.30 through
95.33. Access easements shall be created and maintained in accordance with the
Uniform Fire Code, § 10.207.
   (E)   Street location, width and grade. Except as noted below, the location,
width and grade of all streets shall conform to an approved street plan or
subdivision plat. Street location, width and grade shall be determined in
relation to existing and planned streets, topographic conditions, public
convenience and safety and in appropriate relation to the proposed use of the
land to be served by the streets:
      (1)   Street grades shall be approved by the City Engineer in accordance
with approved design standards; and
      (2)   Where the location of a street is not shown in an existing street
plan, the location of streets in a development shall either:
         (a)   Provide for the continuation and connection of existing streets
in the surrounding areas, conforming to the street standards of this section;
or
         (b)   Conform to a street plan adopted by the City Council/Planning
Commission, if it is impractical to connect with existing street patterns
because of particular topographical or other existing conditions of the land. A
plan shall be based on the type of land use to be served, the volume of
traffic, the capacity of adjoining streets and the need for public convenience
and safety.
   (F)   Minimum rights-of-way and street sections. Street rights-of-way and
improvements shall be the widths in the table below. A variance shall be
required to vary the standards in this table. Where a range of width is
indicated, the width shall be determined by the decision-making authority based
upon the following factors:
      (1)   Street classification;
      (2)   Anticipated traffic generation;
      (3)   On-street parking needs;
      (4)   Sidewalk and bikeway requirements based on anticipated level of
use;
      (5)   Requirements for placement of utilities;
      (6)   Street lighting;
      (7)   Minimize drainage, slope and sensitive lands impacts;
      (8)   Street tree location;
      (9)   Protection of significant vegetation;
      (10)   Safety and comfort for motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians;
      (11)   Street furnishings, (e.g., benches, lighting, bus shelters and the
like), when provided;
      (12)   Access needs for emergency vehicles; and
      (13)   Transition between different street widths (i.e., existing streets
and new streets), as applicable.
      (14)   Table 6.B.1 (Right-of-way and Street Design Standards).
Table 6.B.1 - Right-of-Way and Street Design Standards
        Ave.            Curb-to- Within Curb-
Type of Daily Right-of- Curb     to-Curb Area Curb on    Planting   Sidewalks
Street  Tips  Way Width Pavement              both sides Strip on   on both
        (ADT)           Width                            both sides sides
                                   Within Curb-to-Curb
            Ave.          Curb-to- Area                  Curb  Planting
Type of     Daily  Right- Curb     Motor   Bike          on    Strip on Sidewalks
Street      Tips   of-Way Pavement Vehicle Lane  On      both  both     on both
            (ADT)  Width  Width    Travel  on    Street  sides sides    sides
                                   Lanes   both  Parking
                                           sides
Arterial    8,000
Streets     to     61'-                    2 at
Boulevards: 30,000 87'    34'      11'     6'    8' bays 6"    7'-8'1   6'-10'2
2-Lane      ADT                            each
Boulevard
Avenue:     3,000                          2 at
2-Lane      to     59'-   32-33'   10'-    6'    8' bays 6"    7'-8'    6'-10'
Avenue      10,000 86'             10.5'   each
            ADT
Collector
Streets
Residential
No Parking         49'-   22'      11'           None    6"    8'       5'-6'
                   51'
Parking One        50'-   25'-27'  9'-10'        7' lane 6"    7'-8'    5'-6'
Side               56'
Parking            57'-   32'-34'  9'-10'        7'      6"    7'-8'    5'-6'
Both Sides         63'                           lanes
Commercial: 1,500
Parallel    to     55'-                    NA3
Parking One 5,000  65'    28'      10'           8' lane 6"    7'-8'    6'-10'
Side        ADT
Parallel           63'-                          8'
Parking            73'    36'      10'           lanes   6"    7'-8'    6'-10'
Both Sides
Diagonal           65'-
Parking One        74'    37'      10'           Varies  6"    7'-8'    6'-10'
Side
Diagonal           81'-
Parking            91'    54'      10'           Varies  6"    7'-8'    6'-10'
Both Sides
Local
Residential Less
Streets4    than
Parking One 1,500  47'-   22'      15'     NA    One 7'  6"    7'-8'    5'-6'
Side        ADT    51'
Parking            50'-   25'-8'   11'-14'       Two 7'  6"    7'-8'    5'-6'</
Both Sides         57'             Queuing       lanes                  ce>
                                   Within Curb-to-Curb
            Ave.          Curb-to- Area                  Curb  Planting
Type of     Daily  Right- Curb     Motor   Bike          on    Strip on Sidewalks
Street      Tips   of-Way Pavement Vehicle Lane  On      both  both     on both
            (ADT)  Width  Width    Travel  on    Street  sides sides    sides
                                   Lanes   both  Parking
                                           sides
                          12'-16'
                          paved
                   16'-   width,
Alleys      NA     20'    1'-2'    NA      NA    none    none  none     none
                          strips
                          on both
                          sides
                          6'-10'
                          paved
Accessways         10'-   width,
& Multi-    NA     18'    2'-4'    NA      NA    none    none  none     none
Use Paths                 strips
                          on both
                          sides
Private
Drives      NA     NA     20'      NA      NA    NA      6"    none     none
serving 2-
6 lots
1   Hardscape planting strip with tree wells shall be used in commercial and
mixed-use development areas (where on-street parking is provided;
2   5'-6' Sidewalk shall be installed in residential areas, 8'-10' sidewalk shall
be installed in commercial areas;
3   Bike lanes are generally not needed on low volume (less than 3,000 ADT) and/
or low travel speed (less than 25 mph) streets;
4   Option for residential street with 22-feet of pavement width, and 4-foot wide
sidewalks or pathways, separated from roadway by drainage swale (no curb).
[Sidewalks may not be required on some existing local streets when existing and
future traffic volumes are low; e.g. less than 500 ADT, or 10 dwellings.]
 
   (G)   Traffic signals and traffic calming features.
      (1)   Traffic-calming features, such as traffic circles, curb extensions,
narrow residential streets and special paving may be used to slow traffic in
neighborhoods and areas with high pedestrian traffic.
      (2)   Traffic signals shall be required with development when traffic
signal warrants are met, in conformance with the Highway Capacity Manual and
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices. The location of traffic signals
shall be noted on approved street plans. Where a proposed street intersection
will result in an immediate need for a traffic signal, a signal meeting
approved specifications shall be installed. The developer's cost and the timing
of improvements shall be included as a condition of development approval.
   (H)   Future street plan and extensions of streets.
      (1)   A future street plan shall be filed by the applicant in conjunction
with an application for a subdivision in order to facilitate orderly
development of the street system. The plan shall show the pattern of existing
and proposed future streets from the boundaries of the proposed land division
and shall include other parcels withing 400 to 600 feet surrounding and
adjacent to the proposed land division. The street plan is not binding; rather,
it is intended to show potential future street extensions with future
development.
      (2)   Streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the parcel or
tract to be developed, when the Planning Commission determines that the
extension is necessary to give street access to, or permit a satisfactory
future division of, adjoining land. The point where the streets temporarily end
shall conform to divisions (H)(2)(a) through (c) below.
         (a)   These extended streets or street stubs to adjoining properties
are not considered to be cul-de-sacs since they are intended to continue as
through streets when the adjoining property is developed.
         (b)   A barricade (e.g., fence, bollards, boulders or similar vehicle
barrier) shall be constructed at the end of the street by the subdivider and
shall not be removed until authorized by the city or other applicable agency
with jurisdiction over the street. The cost of the barricade shall be included
in the street construction cost.
         (c)   Temporary turnarounds (e.g., hammerhead or bulb-shaped
configuration) shall be constructed for stub streets over 150 feet in length.
   (I)   Street alignment and connections.
      (1)   Staggering of streets making "T" intersections at collectors and
arterial shall not be designed so that jogs of less than 300 feet on the
streets are created, as measured from the centerline of the street.
      (2)   Spacing between local street intersections shall have a minimum
separation of 125 feet, except where more closely spaced intersections are
designed to provide an open space, pocket park, common area or similar
neighborhood amenity. This standard applies to four-way and three-way (off-set)
intersections.
      (3)   All local and collector streets which abut a development site shall
be extended within the site to provide through circulation unless prevented by
environmental or topographical constraints, existing development patterns or
compliance with other standards in this chapter. This exception applies when it
is not possible to redesign or reconfigure the street pattern to provide
required extensions. Land is considered topographically constrained if the
slope is greater than 15% for a distance of 250 feet or more. In the case of
environmental or topographical constraints, the mere presence of a constraint
in not sufficient to show that a street connection is not possible. The
applicant must show why the environmental or topographical constraint precludes
some reasonable street connection.
      (4)   Proposed streets or street extensions shall be located to provide
direct access to existing or planned commercial services and other neighborhood
facilities, such as schools, shopping areas and transit facilities.
      (5)   In order to promote efficient vehicular and pedestrian circulation
throughout the city, the design of subdivisions and alignment of new streets
shall conform to §§
95.30 through
95.33, and the maximum block length shall not exceed:
         (a)   Six hundred feet in the Residential District;
         (b)   Four hundred feet in the Downtown/Main Street District;
         (c)   Not applicable to the General Industrial District; and
         (d)   Six hundred to 800 feet in the Light Industrial District.
   (J)   Sidewalks, planter strips, bicycle lanes. Sidewalks, planter strips
and bicycle lanes shall be installed in conformance with the standards in the
table above, applicable provisions of the Transportation Plan, the
Comprehensive Plan and adopted street plans. Maintenance of sidewalks, curbs
and planter strips is the continuing obligation of the adjacent property owner.
   (K)   Intersection angles. Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect at
an angle as near to a right angle as practicable, except where topography
requires a lesser angle or where a reduced angle is necessary to provide an
open space, pocket park, common area or similar neighborhood amenity. In
addition, the following standards shall apply:
      (1)   Streets shall have at least 25 feet of tangent adjacent to the
right-of-way intersection unless topography requires a lesser distance;
      (2)   Intersections which are not at right angles shall have a minimum
corner radius of 20 feet along the right-of-way lines of the acute angle; and
      (3)   Right-of-way lines at intersections with arterial streets shall
have a corner radius of not less than 20 feet.
   (L)   Existing rights-of-way. Whenever existing rights-of-way adjacent to or
within a tract are of less than standard width, additional rights-of-way shall
be provided at the time of subdivision or development.
   (M)   Cul-de-sacs. A dead-end street shall be no more than 200 feet long,
shall not provide access to greater than four dwelling units, and shall only be
used when environmental or topographical constraints, existing development
patterns or compliance with other standards in this chapter preclude street
extension and through circulation.
      (1)   All cul-de-sacs shall terminate with a circular or hammer-head
turnaround. Circular turnarounds shall have a radius of no less than 30 feet,
and not more than a radius of 40 feet (i.e., from center to edge of pavement);
except that turnarounds may be larger when they contain a landscaped island or
parking bay in their center. When an island or parking bay is provided, there
shall be a fire apparatus lane of 20 feet in width; and
      (2)   The length of the cul-de-sac shall be measured along the centerllne
of the roadway from the nearside of the intersecting street to the farthest
point of the cul-de-sac.
   (N)   Grades and curves. Grades shall not exceed 10% on arterial, 12% on
collector streets or 12% on any other street (except that local or residential
access streets may have segments with grades up to 15% for distances of no
greater than 250 feet), and:
      (1)   Centerline curve radii shall not be less than 700 feet on arterial,
500 feet on major collectors, 350 feet on minor collectors or 100 feet on other
streets; and
      (2)   Streets intersecting with a minor collector or greater functional
classification street, or streets intended to be posted with a stop sign or
signalization, shall provide a landing averaging 5% or less. Landings are that
portion of the street within 20 feet of the edge of the intersecting street at
full improvement.
   (O)   Curbs, curb cuts, ramps and driveway approaches. Concrete curbs, curb
cuts, wheelchair, bicycle ramps and driveway approaches shall be constructed in
accordance with the most recent ODOT/APWA standards and meet the standards
shown in §§
95.30 through
95.33.
   (P)   Alleys, public or private. Alleys shall conform to the standards in
the table above. While alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall
be avoided, the corners of necessary alley intersections shall have a radius of
not less than 12 feet.
   (Q)   Private streets. Private streets shall not be used to avoid
connections with public streets. Design standards for private streets shall
conform to the provisions of the table above.
   (R)   Street names. No street name shall be used which will duplicate or be
confused with the names or existing streets in the city, except for extensions
of existing streets. Street names, signs and numbers shall conform to the
established pattern in the surrounding area, except as requested by emergency
service providers.
   (S)   Survey monuments. Upon completion of a street improvement and prior to
acceptance by the city, it shall be the responsibility of the developer's
registered professional land surveyor to provide certification to the city that
all boundary and interior monuments shall be reestablished and protected.
   (T)   Street signs. The city, county or state jurisdiction shall install all
signs for traffic control and street names. The cost of signs required for new
development shall be the responsibility of the developer. Street name signs
shall be installed at all street intersections. Stop signs and other signs may
be required.
   (U)   Mail boxes. Plans for mail boxes to be used shall be approved by the
United States Postal Service.
   (V)   Street light standards. Street lights shall installed in accordance
with city standards.
   (W)   Street cross-sections. The final lift of asphalt or concrete pavement
shall be placed on all new constructed public roadways prior to final city
acceptance of the roadway and within one year of the conditional acceptance of
the roadway unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
      (1)   Sub-base and leveling course shall be of select crushed rock;
      (2)   Surface material shall be of Class C or B asphaltic concrete;
      (3)   The final lift shall be Class C asphaltic concrete as defined by
the most recent ODOT/APWA standard specifications; and
      (4)   No lift shall be less than one and one-half inches in thickness.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004; Ord. 294, passed 2-20-2020)
§ 95.62 STORM DRAINAGE.
   (A)   General provisions. A grading and drainage plan shall be submitted for
review and approval prior to commencing construction. All development of one
acre or larger parcels shall comply with Phase II Storm Drain Regulations (DEQ
1200 C Permit).
   (B)   Accommodation of upstream drainage. Culverts and other drainage
facilities shall be large enough to accommodate potential runoff from the
entire upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the development. The
facilities shall be subject to review and approval by the City Engineer.
   (C)   Effect on downstream drainage. Where it is anticipated by the City
Engineer that the additional runoff resulting from the development will
overload an existing drainage facility, the city shall withhold approval of the
development until provisions have been made for improvement of the potential
condition or until provisions have been made for storage of additional runoff
caused by the development in accordance with city standards.
   (D)   Easements. Where a development is traversed by a watercourse, drainage
way, channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or
drainage right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of the
watercourse and the further width as will be adequate for conveyance and
maintenance.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004)
§ 95.63 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Underground utilities. All utility lines including, but not limited
to, those required for electric, communication, lighting and cable television
services and related facilities shall be placed underground, except for surface
mounted transformers, surface mounted connection boxes and meter cabinets which
may be placed above ground, temporary utility service facilities during
construction and high capacity electric lines operating at 50,000 volts or
above. The following additional standards apply to all new subdivisions, in
order to facilitate underground placement of utilities.
      (1)   The developer shall make all necessary arrangements with the
serving utility to provide the underground services. Care shall be taken to
ensure that all above ground equipment does not obstruct vision clearance areas
for vehicular traffic.
      (2)   The city reserves the right to approve the location of all surface
mounted facilities.
      (3)   All underground utilities, including sanitary sewers and storm
drains installed in streets by the developer, shall be constructed prior to the
surfacing of the streets.
      (4)   Stubs for service connections shall be long enough to avoid
disturbing the street improvements when service connections are made.
   (B)   Easements. Easements shall be provided for all underground utility
facilities.
   (C)   Exception to under-grounding requirement. The standard applies only to
proposed subdivisions. An exception to the under-grounding requirement may be
granted due to physical constraints, such as steep topography, sensitive lands
or existing development conditions.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.64 EASEMENTS.
   Easements for sewers, storm drainage and water quality facilities, water
mains, electric lines or other public utilities shall be dedicated on a final
plat, or provided for in the deed restrictions. The developer or applicant
shall make arrangements with the city, the applicable district and each utility
franchise for the provision and dedication of utility easements necessary to
provide full service to the development. The city's standard width for public
main line utility easements shall be 12 feet unless otherwise specified by the
utility company, applicable district or City Engineer.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.65 CONSTRUCTION PLAN APPROVAL AND ASSURANCES.
   No public improvements, including sanitary sewers, storm sewers, streets,
sidewalks, curbs, lighting, parks or other requirements shall be undertaken
except after the plans have been approved by the city, permit fee paid, and
permit issued. The permit fee is required to defray the cost and expenses
incurred by the city for construction and other services in connection with the
improvement. The permit fee shall be set by City Council. The city may require
the developer or subdivider to provide bonding or other performance guarantees
to ensure completion of required public improvements.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.66 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Conformance required. Improvements installed by the developer either
as a requirement of these regulations or at his or her own option, shall
conform to the requirements of this chapter, approved construction plans, and
to improvement standards and specifications adopted by the city.
   (B)   Adopted installation standards. The most recent ODOT/APWA standards
and specifications shall be a part of the city's adopted installation standard
(s); other standards may also be required upon recommendation of the City
Engineer.
   (C)   Commencement. Work shall not begin until the city has been notified in
advance.
   (D)   Resumption. If work is discontinued for more than one month, it shall
not be resumed until the city is notified.
   (E)   City inspection. Improvements shall be constructed under the
inspection and to the satisfaction of the city. It may require minor changes in
typical sections and details if unusual conditions arising during construction
warrant such changes in the public interest. Modifications requested by the
developer shall be subject to review by the City Engineer. Any monuments that
are disturbed before all improvements are completed by the subdivider shall be
replaced prior to final acceptance of the improvements.
   (F)   Engineer's certification and as-built plans. A registered engineer
shall provide written certification in a form required by the city that all
improvements, workmanship and materials are in accord with current and standard
engineering and construction practices, conform to approved plans and
conditions of approval, and are of high grade, prior to city acceptance of the
public improvements, or any portion thereof, for operation and maintenance. The
developer's engineer shall provide three set(s) of "as-built" plans, in
conformance with the City Engineer's specifications, for permanent filing with
the city.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-18-2004)
STREET MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND IMPROVEMENT
§ 95.75 MAINTENANCE, REPAIR OR IMPROVEMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY ROAD. A parcel of land deeded to the city for vehicular travel that
has a native material surface.
      CITY STREET. A parcel of land deeded to the city for vehicular travel
that has a surface of some material in addition to the native material.
      COUNTY ROAD. A parcel of land deeded to Jackson County for road purposes
and accepted for County maintenance.
      PRIVATE ROAD. An easement for restricted use of vehicular traffic across
private parcels of land.
      PUBLIC ROAD. An easement for the unrestricted use of vehicular traffic
across private or public parcels of land.
      PUBLIC STREET. A parcel of land deeded or dedicated to Jackson County for
road purposes but not accepted for county maintenance.
      REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE. The act of repairing or maintaining a street or
road surface to a safe, durable condition without upgrading that surface to one
of higher value, e.g., chip seal surfaces will be repaired with chip seal
patching or surfacing; shale surfaces will be repaired with shale patching or
surfacing; gravel with gravel etc.
      STATE HIGHWAY. Highway 62.
      STREET OR ROAD IMPROVEMENT. The act of upgrading an existing surface to a
more durable surface, e.g., chip seal upgraded to asphalt, shale upgraded to
chip seal, etc.
   (B)   Abutting property. Citizens of the city who own property abutting a
street or road may petition the city to maintain, repair, or improve said
street or road. Every such petition shall contain the signatures of at least
75% of the abutting property owners. Only abutting property owners may petition
the city for such work and such petitions shall also set forth the nature of
the work desired and considered necessary and designate one of the petitioners
as chief petitioners.
   (C)   Public hearing. The City Council will hold a public hearing before
signing any agreement. The decision as to whether or not such petitions shall
be granted shall be at the discretion of the City Council. The city and the
petitioners must agree on the extent of the street or road work to be done, the
surface material to be used and the total cost of the project. The city may
require deeds to the roadway before work begins as a part of the project
agreement. All agreements will be in writing and signed by the city and the
designated chief petitioner.
   (D)   Payment. As part of the agreement, city and petitioners shall pay:
 
                      Repair and Maintenance Improvement
                      City Petitioners       City Petitioners
City Street or (Road) 75%  25%               50%  50%
Public Street         60%  40%               40%  60%
Public Roads          40%  60%               25%  75%
 
   (E)   Petition requirements. Every petition shall be accompanied by $25 from
each petitioner as part payment of their pro-rata share of the cost of such
street or road work at the time the petition is submitted to the city. The
balance of the petitioner's share shall be paid before the work begins. In the
event no agreement is reached, the $25 will be refunded. All petitions must be
accepted prior to work being done.
   (F)   City to have no obligation. The city has no obligation to perform work
on private roads, county roads or the state highway.
(Ord. 97, passed 2-6-1986)
§ 95.76 POT HOLES.
   Nothing in §
95.75 shall prevent the city from filling pot holes on city roads or on public
roads provided that:
   (A)   The filling of the pot holes is done at city expense;
   (B)   The filling of the pot holes is done in a way that does not upgrade
the road surface; and
   (C)   The filling of the pot holes is done pursuant to priorities
established by the Common Council of the city or the committee to which the
Common Council of the city has delegated the task of street maintenance.
(Ord 97-01, passed 9-3-1987)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROCEDURES
         
111.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, TEMPORARY VENDORS
         
112.   TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY
         
113.   RAFT RENTALS
         
114.   LIQUOR LICENSES
         
115.   SECOND-HAND DEALERS
         
116.   MARIJUANA PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROCEDURES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Purpose and scope
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Business license required
   
110.04   License applications
   
110.05   Two or more businesses on same premises
   
110.06   Two or more business premises
   
110.07   Contractor responsibility
   
110.08   Residential/home occupation
   
110.09   License fee schedule
   
110.10   Business license exemptions
   
110.11   Temporary uses
   
110.12   Examining books, records or persons
   
110.13   Appeals
   
110.14   Evidence of doing business
   
110.15   Fees set by resolution
Revocation, Reinstatement
   
110.25   Short title
   
110.26   Revocation
   
110.27   Reinstatement and fee
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The business license imposed by the terms of this subchapter are for revenue
purposes only. Neither the acceptance of the prescribed tax nor the issuance of
the applicable license shall be construed to constitute a regulation of any
business activity or a permit to engage in any activity otherwise prohibited by
law or ordinance, or a waiver of any regulatory licensing requirement or fee
imposed by any ordinance or other sections of this code. A revenue license is
simply a receipt for payment of the license tax.
(Ord. 96-07-597, passed 5-15-1997)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUCTIONEER. Any person whose business it is to offer property for sale at
public outcry to the highest bidder.
   BUSINESS. All professions, trades, rental activity, occupations and
activities, carried on with the intent:
      (1)   A profit be realized therefrom; and
      (2)   The profit, if any, insure to the benefit of the owner or owners of
the activity.
   CANVASSERS, SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS, HAWKERS. An individual, whether a resident
of the city or not, traveling from place to place, house to house or street to
street, carrying for sale, or offering or exposing for sale, or contacting city
residents by telephone or taking, or attempting to take, orders for, or to sell
goods, wares, merchandise, personal property, produce or services to be
performed or furnished now or at some time in the future, for which a price is
asked.
   CARNIVAL. Any traveling show having two or more shows, exhibitions,
entertainments or amusements separately or in combination at one location;
provided that merry-go-round, Ferris wheel, or similar amusement ride charging
a cash fee per ride but not operated in connection or conducted with a circus
show, tent show or side show, shall not be included within the definition of
carnival.
   CIRCUS. Every traveling show where feats of horsemanship or acrobatic sports
or menageries are exhibited.
   DOING OR TRANSACTING BUSINESS. Any act or series of acts performed in the
course or pursuit of a business activity.
   EDUCATION PROGRAM. A seminar or course of study given in the city for a fee
by a person or an organization which does not maintain a place of business in
the city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any individual who performs service for another individual or
organization having the right to control the employee as to the services to be
performed and as to the manner of performance. For purposes of this subchapter,
EMPLOYEE also means a licensed real estate sales person or associate real
estate broker who engages in professional real estate activities only as an
agent of a real estate broker or organization.
   EXPENSE. The cost of goods sold, the expense of services rendered and all
other expenses or disbursements, accrued or otherwise, ordinarily incidental to
the operation of the business.
   OWNER. A person having an interest in a business, and actively engaged in
the operation of the business.
   PERSON. Includes a person, co-partner, partnership of any kind, domestic and
foreign corporations, associations, joint adventures, and individuals
transacting or carrying on any business in the city. Under this subchapter, the
term PERSON shall not include canvassers, solicitors, peddlers, hawkers,
auctioneers and operators of temporary uses.
   PREMISE. One building, a single piece of real estate, house or building.
   PROFIT. The excess gross receipts over expense.
   RENTAL ACTIVITY. A person who accepts payment for the use of two or more
properties.
   SIDEWALK CAFES, VENDORS. As used in this subchapter, this would include, but
not be limited to, espresso coffee vendors, hot dog stands and the like.
(Ord. 96-07-597, passed 5-15-1997)
§ 110.03 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons for themselves, or as agent or employee
of another, to transact and carry on any business, trade, profession, calling
or occupation within the city, unless:
   (A)   The business activity has been duly licensed, as herein provided; and
   (B)   The license is valid at the time of the transaction.
(Ord. 96-07-597, passed 5-15-1997) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for business licenses shall be submitted on forms to be
provided by the city. Every application shall be signed by the owner or a duly
authorized agent and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name of person or persons owning business; if a corporation, the
name of an authorized officer;
      (2)   Assumed business name and phone number, if any;
      (3)   Address of business premises and mailing address and phone number;
      (4)   Nature of business;
      (5)   Number of employees (full time and part time), if applicable; and
      (6)   Emergency contact name and telephone.
   (B)   Where the business includes activities classifiable in two or more
categories, the primary or predominate activity should be designated.
   (C)   Where the business premises of an applicant are situated outside the
city, the application shall specify the number of employees to be engaged in
the transaction of the business within the city, and the license issued on the
basis thereof, shall be valid only to permit the specified number of employees
to transact business within the city at any one time.
   (D)   License fees shall be computed on the basis of information contained
in the application and it shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to sign or
submit a business license application containing false information.
   (E)   The city shall prepare blank applications and make them available at
City Hall upon request. Failure to receive or secure a form shall not relieve
any person from the obligation to pay a license fee and obtain a license under
this subchapter.
(Ord. 96-07-597, passed 5-15-1997)
§ 110.05 TWO OR MORE BUSINESSES ON SAME PREMISES.
   (A)   If two or more, differently named businesses are carried on, in the
same premise, each business must have a separate license, regardless of
ownership.
   (B)   Any business activity leased, under concession to, or owned wholly or
in part by a different person or persons, on the same premises must be
separately licensed.
(Ord. 96-07-597, passed 5-15-1997) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 TWO OR MORE BUSINESS PREMISES.
   (A)   The conducting of a business or business at two or more separate
premises shall, for the purposes hereof, be deemed to be separate businesses,
and each shall be subject to the license fee herein provided for, except that
rental properties, warehouses and distributing plants used in connection with,
and incidental to a business licensed under the provisions of the chapter shall
not be deemed to be separate places of business, branch establishments or
separate types of businesses.
   (B)   A person engaged in the rental or leasing of real estate is not
required to have more than one license, unless he or she has more than one
business office in the city.
(Ord. 96-07-597, passed 5-15-1997) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITY.
   All general contractors, homeowners and the like, who contract with, or
hire, sub-contractors to perform tasks, deliver materials or any job on a
construction site, are responsible to insure that all sub-contractors or
suppliers are properly licenses to work in the city.
(Ord. 96-07-597, passed 5-15-1997)
§ 110.08 RESIDENTIAL/HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the intent of the residential/home occupation license
to provide for a limited business activity which is conducted in a manner that
the residential character of the buildings and the neighborhood is preserved.
The license shall not be transferable and the privileges it grants shall be
limited to the person named in the permit to the location and activity for
which the license is issued. The issuance of a home occupation license is
required before and in addition to any other requirement to obtain a business
license or satisfy any other requirement contained in any other ordinance now
or hereafter adopted by the city.
   (B)   Permit issuance. The city shall issue a home occupation license if it
is found that all of the following criteria are, and will be, met by the
individual applicant, the license may include conditions setting an expiration
date, requiring periodic review and renewal, requiring the applicant to sign an
acknowledgment of conditions or other conditions specifically dealing with the
property use involved, where the conditions are found by the city to be
reasonably necessary to maintain the purposes and regulations defined below.
   (C)   Regulations.
      (1)   The occupation shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling in
question, garage or accessory building.
      (2)   The occupation must be conducted only by members of the family
occupying the dwelling.
      (3)   The outside residential character of all building must be
preserved.
      (4)   No sign larger than four square feet identifying the business shall
be permitted, except as required by law.
      (5)   No occupation creating loud and unusual sounds, or causing smoke or
odors, or other nuisances detrimental to the residential character of the
neighborhood shall be permitted.
      (6)   No home occupation license shall be permitted which, in the
determination of the city will unduly increase traffic, parking or storage of
any vehicles on, or adjacent to, the premises for which the license is
requested.
      (7)   No residential/home occupation license shall be permitted which, in
the determination of the city will unduly increase traffic, parking or storage
of any vehicles on or adjacent to the premises for which the permit is
requested, unless the city further determines that any increased parking or
storage may be adequately screened from public view, including from adjacent
properties.
   (D)   Revocation. The city reserves the right to nullify (revoke) this
license for violation of any conditions outlined in this section. The city,
before revoking this permit, shall give the permit holder 14 days' notice to
abate the violation.
   (E)   Existing home/residential occupations.
      (1)   Persons currently engaged in home/residential occupations lawfully
in existence on the effective date of this section may continue to operate, but
shall be required to secure a license.
      (2)   Home/residential occupations not in conformance with this section
must obtain a license, but shall not be permitted to expand or enlarge and
shall be removed or terminated upon a change of use, occupancy or sale of the
premises.
   (F)   Growers' market in commercial zones. A GROWERS' MARKET shall be
defined as an association of five or more local agriculturalists organized for
the purpose of providing a single location for the sale of locally grown
produce and crafts directly to the consumer. Crafts shall be limited to those
made by the vendor with a purpose or theme interactive with agriculture and
composed of locally grown agricultural products or by-products.
(Ord. 96-07-597, passed 5-15-1997) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   A person licensed under this subchapter shall pay a license fee in an
amount established by resolution.
   (B)   Licenses may be issued based upon the number of individuals conducting
business and for specific business categories as enumerated by resolution.
   (C)   In arriving at the number of individuals carrying on a business, the
city shall count the proprietors, officers, partners and associates actively
engaged in the business, either full or part time.
   (D)   Licenses issued after December 31 may be prorated for the remainder of
the year. The fee is due for the full month in which it is purchased,
regardless of the date purchased, in addition to each month for the balance of
the fiscal year. To be eligible for proration, a license must also be
purchased, in full for the following year, at the time the prorated fee is
collected.
   (E)   Annual license fees shall be in effect from July 1 through June 30.
Fees shall be due and payable on July 1 of each year for the license commencing
with the date and shall be delinquent on August 1 of that year.
   (F)   There shall be a penalty of 20% added to all business license fees
paid later than 30 days after they are due.
   (G)   A duplicate license will be issued upon application and payment of a
fee to replace the license previously issued which was lost or destroyed.
   (H)   No transfer or assignment of any license issued under this subchapter
is valid or permitted, except that when a person sells or transfers a business
for which the license has been issued, the purchaser is not required to pay an
additional license fee for the remainder of the fiscal year; provided, the
person selling the business notifies the city in writing of the transfer of the
business. This is only applicable if the location and nature of the business is
unchanged.
   (I)   At all times after the issuance of the business license, the licensee
shall cause it to be posted in a conspicuous place upon the business premises,
available for inspection by the public and by employees and prospective
employees of the business.
(Ord. 96-07-597, passed 5-15-1997; Ord. 206, passed 5-1-2003) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 BUSINESS LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
   The following persons are exempt from the license requirements imposed by
the business license law:
   (A)   Persons whom the city is prohibited from licensing or taxing under the
constitution or laws of the United States, the Constitution or laws of the
state or the Charter of the city;
   (B)   Non-profit or charitable, religious or educational organizations which
have received a tax exempt certificate from the Internal Revenue Service, and
which devote the net proceeds from the sale of good or services to the purpose
of the organization;
   (C)   Sales activities which are part of public school sponsored or approved
activities or events taking place on school property such as sporting events,
fund raising activities for youth groups, seasonal bazaars or carnivals;
   (D)   The sale of personal property acquired for household or other personal
use by the seller; provided that, the total length of sale is fewer than two
days in any one calendar year;
   (E)   The operation of a display space, booth or table maintained for
displaying or selling merchandise at any trade show, convention, festival,
fair, market or swap meet provided that the sponsor of the event is licensed to
do business;
   (F)   Any unincorporated business activity carried on by individuals under
the age of 16 within 100 feet of their primary place of residence; and/or
   (G)   Any babysitter who goes into a home of a child to give care during the
temporary absence of the parent, legal guardian or custodian.
(Ord. 96-07-597, passed 5-15-1997)
§ 110.11 TEMPORARY USES.
   Temporary uses shall be subject to, and shall conform with, the following
requirements.
   (A)   One-day permit is limited to a single vendor stand, selling specific
items, i.e. handmade crafts.
   (B)   A business licensed under this subchapter may obtain a permit for more
than one day, but less than 30 consecutive days.
   (C)   The use shall not occupy more than 1,000 feet of ground area and there
shall be no less than 500 square feet of available and contiguous parking area
in addition to the area occupied by the use itself.
   (D)   The use shall not be located closer than 200 feet from any other
temporary uses.
   (E)   The use shall not create traffic congestion, nor increase traffic
hazards, nor shall it create undue noise, dust, debris or other significant
visual or esthetic impacts or other nuisances.
   (F)   The use shall be located in a land use zone allowing commercial uses.
   (G)   The operator of the use shall have written permission to conduct the
use from the property owner of the land upon which the use is located.
   (H)   Any violation of this section shall be subject to all penalties cited
in this subchapter.
(Ord. 96-07-597, passed 5-15-1997; Ord. 206, passed 5-1-2003) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 EXAMINING BOOKS, RECORDS OR PERSONS.
   The city, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness of any license
application, or for the purpose of estimating the license fee, may examine or
may cause to be examined, by an agent or representative designated by it, any
books, papers or payroll records, state or federal payroll reports, bearing
upon the matter.
(Ord. 96-07-597, passed 5-15-1997)
§ 110.13 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any determination of the city, with respect to
any penalties imposed, if any, may appeal to the City Council by filing within
15 days of the serving or mailing of the notice.
   (B)   The Council shall fix a time and place for hearing the appeal, and the
City Recorder shall give five days' notice in writing thereof, to the person at
the last known address.
   (C)   The findings of the Council shall be final and conclusive and shall be
served upon the appellant, in the manner prescribed above for the service of
notice of hearing.
   (D)   Any amount to be due shall be immediately due and payable upon the
service of notice.
(Ord. 96-07-597, passed 5-15-1997)
§ 110.14 EVIDENCE OF DOING BUSINESS.
   In the trial of any alleged violation of the subchapter, evidence of
advertisements by newspapers, radio, television or other medium or by signs
displayed for public view, that the business was being conducted expressly or
impliedly offering to sell goods or services to the public or any segment
thereof, shall constitute prima facie evidence that the defendant was
transacting business within the city on the day or date during which the
representations were made.
(Ord. 96-07-597, passed 5-15-1997)
§ 110.15 FEES SET BY RESOLUTION.
   The City Council shall establish license fees by resolution.
(Ord. 206, passed 5-1-2003)
REVOCATION, REINSTATEMENT
§ 110.25 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter will be knows as the "Business License Revocation
Ordinance".
(Ord. 159, passed 9-17-1998)
§ 110.26 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Failure to pay taxes and fees due to the city in a timely manner as
specified in the appropriate ordinance, resolution or failure to comply with
conditions of land use approval, may result in the revocation of a city
business license.
   (B)   Taxes and fees include, but are not limited to, raft rental tax,
transient tax and sewer usage fees.
   (C)   City business license revocation is in addition to, not in lieu of,
action authorized by other documents for failure to pay respective taxes and
fees.
(Ord. 159, passed 9-17-1998)
§ 110.27 REINSTATEMENT AND FEE.
   (A)   A city business license may be reinstated upon full payment of all
taxes, fees and penalties due, and compliance with all conditions of land use
approval, but will not be reinstated until payment is made in full, or all land
use conditions met in the approved manner.
   (B)   A reinstatement fee of $25 will be charged if all taxes, fees and
penalties are paid in full, or conditions of land use approval met, within ten
days of written notification that the city business license will be revoked due
to nonpayment of taxes, fees and penalties due, or noncompliance with all
conditions of land use approval.
   (C)   A reinstatement fee, equal to the prevailing cost for a city business
license, will be charged if payment of all taxes, fees and penalties due to the
city are not received, or conditions of land use approval are not met, within
ten days of written notification of the revocation of the city business
license, due to nonpayment of taxes, fees, penalties due or failure to comply
with conditions of land use approval.
(Ord. 159, passed 9-17-1998)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any persons(s) violating any of the provisions of §§
110.01 through
110.15 shall, upon conviction, in the Municipal Court for the city, be punished
by a fine of not more than $250.
      (2)   Every full business day during which any business activity
continues to be conducted in violation of §§
110.01 through
110.15 shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (3)   The remedies specified herein shall not be deemed exclusive, and
the city may, at its option, seek to enforce the provisions of §§
110.01 through
110.15 by exercising its legal or equitable remedies in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   Operation of a business, without benefit of a city business
license, may, per §§
110.25 through
110.27, upon conviction in the Municipal Court for the city, be punished by a
fine of not more than $250.
      (2)   Every full day during which any business activity continues,
without benefit of a city business license, shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 96-07-597, passed 5-15-1997; Ord. 159, passed 9-17-1998)
CHAPTER 111: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, TEMPORARY VENDORS
Section
   
111.01   Short title
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Temporary vendors
   
111.04   Exceptions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter will be knows as the "Temporary Vendor Ordinance".
(Ord. 201, passed 5-2-2002)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE, TRANSIENT OR TEMPORARY VENDOR. Any vendor who can roll, tow or drive
the business off of the site at the close of business each day.
   PERMANENT BUSINESS. Any business that does not meet the criteria in the
definition of "mobile, transient or temporary vendor" above.
(Ord. 201, passed 5-2-2002)
§ 111.03 TEMPORARY VENDORS.
   Where permitted, a temporary unit shall meet the following standards.
   (A)   Temporary units shall be permitted only in commercial zones.
   (B)   The temporary unit shall meet all other development requirements of
the General Commercial Zone.
   (C)   Applicant(s) shall submit a site plan with temporary unit dimensions
and location shown in detail.
   (D)   The exterior length and width dimensions of the temporary unit, when
multiplied, shall enclose no more than 128 square feet.
   (E)   The temporary unit shall be located no closer than 100 feet from
another unit.
   (F)   The temporary unit shall be located on an improved surface (i.e.,
asphalt or concrete).
   (G)   If the temporary unit is located on, or adjacent to, a public or
private walkway, the minimum remaining unobstructed walkway width shall be six
feet.
   (H)   (1)   A minimum of three paved off-street parking spaces shall be
provided in conjunction with the use.
      (2)   Spaces shall be in addition to the minimum number required for any
existing use on the property.
   (I)   A trash receptacle shall be located within ten feet of the temporary
unit.
   (J)   If the temporary unit is located on property not owned by the
applicant, written consent from the property owner shall be provided.
   (K)   Paving of property in order to accommodate temporary units is
considered to be development of that property and shall require a site
development plan application and associated SDC fee requirements.
   (L)   A city business license is required. If the use is for a single day,
weekend or special event, a day permit shall be obtained.
   (M)   Temporary food units shall provide evidence of compliance with Health
Department standards.
   (N)   All food shall be in ready-to-eat condition when sold.
   (O)   A temporary unit that remains in constant use on the same site or tax
lot will be considered permanent. The units may not be replaced with another
temporary use without full compliance with this chapter.
   (P)   Any deviance from the above standards shall require application for a
conditional use permit.
   (Q)   Hours of operation are daylight only.
   (R)   The mobile unit must be rolled, towed or driven off the site at the
close of business each day.
(Ord. 201, passed 5-2-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   A mobile vendor at a special event is not required to meet the
criteria as long as it remains in a designated location during the special
event.
   (B)   Flea markets/yard sales are allowed in a commercial or public zone if
the flea market/yard sale is conducted by the property owner or business owner.
The sales are limited to a maximum of two days in any 90-day period.
   (C)   City-wide yard sale.
(Ord. 201, passed 5-2-2002)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Operation by a temporary vendor, without compliance with any portion
of this chapter, may, upon conviction in the Municipal Court for the city, be
punished by a fine of not more than $250.
   (B)   Every full day during which any business activity continues, without
full compliance of this chapter, shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 201, passed 5-2-2002)
CHAPTER 112: TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Tax imposed
   
112.03   Exemptions; procedure
   
112.04   Operator's duties
   
112.05   Registration
   
112.06   Reporting and remitting
   
112.07   Penalties and interest
   
112.08   Failure to collect and report tax; determination of tax by City
Recorder
   
112.09   Appeal
   
112.10   Records
   
112.11   Actions to collect
   
112.12   Violations; infractions
   
112.13   Confidentiality
   
112.14   Revenue
   
112.15   Examining books, records or persons
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTEL. Any structure, or any portion of any structure which is occupied, or
intended or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home or motel.
   OPERATOR. The person who is the proprietor and/or agent of the motel or
recreational vehicle/camping park, or service. Where the operator is a
corporation, the term operator shall be the local manager.
   PERSON. Any individual, joint partnership, joint venture, joint stock
company, or corporation.
   RECORDER. The recorder of the city, or designee.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE/CAMPING PARK. A development designed principally for
the transient housing of travel trailers, mobile homes, tent trailers, motor
homes and for tent camping.
   RENT. The consideration charged for the use of space in a motel or
recreational vehicle/camping park, or utilizes a service, valued in money,
whether to be received in money, goods, labor or otherwise, including all
receipts, cash, credits and property and services of any kind or nature,
without any deduction there from whatsoever. Rent is the total consideration
paid by another for use of a room, space or service.
   TRANSIENT. Any person who exercises use in a motel or recreational vehicle/
camping park by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or
agreement for a period of 30 consecutive calendar days or less, counting
portions of calendar days as full days, Any such person exercising space in a
motel or recreational vehicle/camping park or utilize a service, shall be
deemed to be a transient until the period of 30 days has expired unless there
is an agreement in writing between the operator and the user providing for a
longer period of use.
   USE. The right of possession, for a fixed period of time, in any motel or
recreational vehicle/camping park.
(Ord. 140, passed 2-16-1995)
§ 112.02 TAX IMPOSED.
   In any motel, recreational vehicle park or business, each transient is
subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of 6% of the rent, in addition to
the rent charged and collected by the operator. The tax constitutes a debt owed
by the transient to the city which is extinguished only by payment to the
operator at the time the rent is paid.
(Ord. 140, passed 2-16-1995)
§ 112.03 EXEMPTIONS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   No tax shall be imposed upon any person as to whom, or any occupancy
as to which, it is beyond the power of the city to impose the tax herein as
provided.
   (B)   No exemption shall be granted except upon a written claim therefore
made at the time rent is collected and under penalty of perjury upon a form
prescribed by the City Recorder.
(Ord. 140, passed 2-16-1995)
§ 112.04 OPERATOR'S DUTIES.
   (A)   Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter, to the
same extent and at the same time as the rent is collected from every transient.
   (B)   The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the amount of the
rent charged and each transient shall upon demand receive a receipt for payment
from the operator.
   (C)   Every operator required to collect the tax imposed herein shall be
entitled to retain 5% of the total taxes collected to defray the costs of
collections and remittance.
(Ord. 140, passed 2-16-1995)
§ 112.05 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the effective date of adoption of this chapter or
within 30 days after commencing business, whichever is later, each operator of
any motel or recreational vehicle/camping park, shall register the motel or
recreational vehicle/camping park, with the City Recorder and obtain a
transient registration certificate to be at all times posted a conspicuous
place on the premises.
   (B)   The certificate shall, among other things, state the following:
      (1)   The name of the operator;
      (2)   The address of the business;
      (3)   The date upon which the certificate was issued; and
      (4)   The following statement:
         "This Transient Use Registration Certificate signifies that the person
named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of this part by
registering with the City Recorder for the purpose of collecting from
transients, the transient use tax and remitting said tax to the city. This
certificate does not authorize any person to conduct any unlawful business or
to condone any lawful business in an unlawful manner, nor to operate such
businesses without strictly complying with all local applicable laws of the
city. This certificate does not constitute a permit."
(Ord. 140, passed 2-16-1995)
§ 112.06 REPORTING AND REMITTING.
   (A)   Each operator will, on or before the tenth day of each month, make a
return to the city, on forms provided by the city, of the total rents charged
and received and the amount of tax collected for transient use, for the
previous month.
   (B)   At the time the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected
or earned during the previous month, less 5%, will be remitted to the city.
Shorter periods may be established for any certificate holder if deemed
necessary in order to ensure collection of the tax.
   (C)   Additional information may also be required, in the return, relevant
to payment of the liability.
   (D)   All taxes collected by operators pursuant to this chapter will be held
in trust for the account of the city until payment is made to the city.
(Ord. 140, passed 2-16-1995; Ord. 171, passed 1-21-1999)
§ 112.07 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Original delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any portion of
any tax imposed by this chapter, within the time required, shall pay a penalty
of 10% of the amount of the tax, in addition to the amount of the tax.
   (B)   Continued delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent
remittance on or before a period of 30 days following the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penalty of
10% of the amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax and the 10%
penalty first imposed.
   (C)   Fraud. If the City Recorder determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of 25% of the
amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in
divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   Interest. In addition to specified penalties, any operator who fails
to remit any tax imposed by this chapter will pay interest at the rate of 1.5%
per month, or fraction of a month, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent, until
paid.
   (E)   Penalties merged with tax. Every penalty imposed and the interest as
accrued under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax
herein required to be paid.
(Ord. 140, passed 2-16-1995; Ord. 171, passed 1-21-1999)
§ 112.08 FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX; DETERMINATION OF TAX BY CITY
RECORDER.
   If any operator should fail to keep adequate records or refuse to collect
the tax or to make, within the time provided by this chapter, any report and
remittance of the tax or any portion thereof required by this chapter, the City
Recorder shall proceed in a manner according to law.
(Ord. 140, passed 2-16-1995)
§ 112.09 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any operator who disagrees with a decision rendered by the city staff,
with respect to the amount of tax, interest and penalties, may appeal the
decision to the City Council.
   (B)   A written appeal must be received, by the city, within ten days of
notification, to the operator, of the tax, interest and penalties due.
   (C)   The City Council will hear the appeal at its next convenient regular
meeting and may affirm, cancel or modify the decision of the city staff.
(Ord. 140, passed 2-16-1995; Ord. 162, passed 11-5-1998)
§ 112.10 RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment
to the city of any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a
period of three years, all records as are required by law for the appropriate
time.
(Ord. 140, passed 2-16-1995)
§ 112.11 ACTIONS TO COLLECT.
   Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the provisions of the
chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient to the city. Any tax
collected by an operator which has not been paid to the city shall be deemed a
debt owed by the operator to the city. Any person owing money to the city under
the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name
of the city for the recovery of an amount.
(Ord. 140, passed 2-16-1995)
§ 112.12 VIOLATIONS; INFRACTIONS.
   Any operator or other person who fails or refuses to register as required
herein, or to furnish any return required to be made, or fails or refuses to
furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the City Recorder, or
who renders a false or fraudulent return or claim, is guilty of an infraction.
(Ord. 140, passed 2-16-1995)
§ 112.13 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Except as otherwise required by law, it shall be unlawful for the city, any
officer, employee or agent to divulge, release or make known in any manner any
financial information submitted or disclosed to the city under the terms of
this chapter.
(Ord. 140, passed 2-16-1995)
§ 112.14 REVENUE.
   The revenue from this account shall be placed in the General Fund.
(Ord. 140, passed 2-16-1995)
§ 112.15 EXAMINING BOOKS, RECORDS OR PERSONS.
   The city, for the purpose of determining the correctness of any transient
occupancy tax return, or for the purpose of an estimate of taxes due, may
examine or may cause to be examined by an agent or representative designed by
it for that purpose, any books, papers, records or memoranda, bearing upon the
matter of the transient occupancy return.
(Ord. 140-01, passed 5-18-1995)
CHAPTER 113: RAFT RENTALS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Tax imposed
   
113.03   Operator duties
   
113.04   Registration
   
113.05   Reporting and remitting
   
113.06   Penalties
   
113.07   Failure to collect and report tax
   
113.08   Appeal
   
113.09   Records to be kept
   
113.10   Business license renewal/reinstatement
   
113.11   Confidentiality
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INVENTORY. A periodic and randomly scheduled physical count of all rafts.
   OPERATOR. The person who is the proprietor and/or agent of the raft rental
business. Where the operation is a corporation, the term OPERATOR shall be the
local manager.
   PERSON. Individual, partnership, joint venture, joint stock company or
corporation.
   RAFT. Any floating device used by one or more persons for conveyance on
water; however, this does not apply to personal floatation units worn on the
body.
   RAFT SHUTTLE. Any trailer or vehicle used to transport rafts owned by the
operator or transported on behalf of other operators or individuals/groups.
   RECORDER. The City Recorder or any other city employee designated by the
City Council or City Administrator.
   RENT. The total consideration paid for the use of a raft for a fixed period
of time. Consideration will include the granting of the use of rafts at no
charge to individuals, friends, family members, operators, charitable, civic,
religious or social organizations.
   RENTER. An individual or group that wishes to rent a raft for a fixed period
of time.
   USE. The right of possession, for a fixed period of time, for any raft.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-2-1996; Ord. 199, passed 12-20-2001)
§ 113.02 TAX IMPOSED.
   In any raft rental business, each individual rental, whether for money or
given as gift by the operator, is subject to, and will pay a tax in the amount
of $3 per raft, per rental or free use, in addition to any rent charged and
collected by the operator. The tax constitutes a debt owed by the renter,
regardless of whether the rental is for money or given as a gift by the
operator, to the city which is extinguished only by payment to the operator at
the time the rent is paid or the free use of the raft is provided.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-2-1996; Ord. 199, passed 12-20-2001; Ord. 232, passed 3-16-
2006)
§ 113.03 OPERATOR DUTIES.
   Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter, to the same
extent and at the same time as the rent is collected from every transient. The
amount of tax shall be separately stated from the amount of the rent charged,
and each transient shall upon demand receive a receipt for payment from the
operator. Every operator required to collect the tax imposed herein shall be
entitled to retain 5% of the total taxes collected to defray the costs of
collections and remittance.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-2-1996)
§ 113.04 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the effective date of adoption of this chapter or
within 30 days after commencing business, whichever is later, each operator of
any raft rental business shall register the business with the City Recorder and
obtain a raft rental registration certification to be at all times posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises.
   (B)   The certificate shall, among other things, state the following:
      (1)   The name of the operator;
      (2)   The address of the business;
      (3)   The date upon which the certificate was issued; and
      (4)   The following statement:
"This Raft Rental Registration Certificate signifies that the person named on
the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of this part by registering with
the City Recorder for the purpose of collecting from raft renters, the Raft
Rental Tax and remitting said tax to the City. This certificate does not
authorize any person to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct any lawful
business in any unlawful manner nor to operate such business without strictly
complying with all local applicable laws of this City. This certificate does
not constitute a permit."
(Ord. 147, passed 5-2-1996)
§ 113.05 REPORTING AND REMITTING.
   (A)   Each operator will, on or before 10:00 a.m., of the second Tuesday of
each calendar month, make a return to the City Recorder, on forms provided by
the city, identifying the following for each day of the previous month:
      (1)   The total number of rafts rented, including rafts provided for use
at no charge;
      (2)   The total rents charged and received; and
      (3)   The amount of tax collected for raft rental use, including tax on
all raft rentals provided at no charge.
   (B)   (1)   At the time the return is filed, the full amount of the tax
collected or earned during the month will be remitted to the City Recorder.
      (2)   The City Recorder may establish a different return period for any
holder, if deemed necessary, in order to ensure collection of the tax.
   (C)   (1)   The City Recorder may require further information in the return
relevant to payment of the liability.
      (2)   Returns and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business
for any reason.
      (3)   All taxes collected by operators pursuant to this chapter will be
held in trust for the account of the city until payment thereof is made to the
City Recorder.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-2-1996; Ord. 199, passed 12-20-2001)
§ 113.06 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Original delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any portion of
any tax imposed by this chapter, within the time required, shall pay a penalty
of 10% of the amount of the tax, in addition to the amount of the tax.
   (B)   Continued delinquency.
      (1)   Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent remittance on or
before a period of 30 days following the date on which the remittance first
became delinquent shall be considered to be in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   The City Recorder shall send a written notice to the business
operator, indicating that a violation has occurred. If the delinquent tax is
not paid in full within ten working days of the date of the letter, the City
Recorder shall revoke the business license.
      (3)   For each day the business operator continues to operate a raft
rental business after a business license has been revoked under this section,
the operator shall pay a penalty. A raft rental business license shall not be
reinstated until the operator makes full payment to the city of the delinquent
tax and penalties.
   (C)   Fraud. A random physical inventory will be conducted on a periodic and
unscheduled basis to identify the number of rafts shuttled on raft shuttles.
This physical inventory will be contrasted with the remittance paid for all
rafts, whether rented for money or provided free use. If the City Recorder
determines that the nonpayment of any remittance due under this chapter is
because of fraud, as evidenced by a discrepancy between the operator's
remittance and the physical inventory, a penalty will be added to the amount of
the tax, in addition to the penalties stated in divisions (A) and (B) above.
The penalty for fraud will be as follows: the discrepancy between the reported
number of rafts upon which tax is paid and the physical inventory count will be
assessed to the operator at the rate of $2 per unreported raft and multiplied
by the number of days of operation in the reporting period. Example:
      5 unreported rafts x $2.00 x 31 days of operation = $310 penalty
(Ord. 147, passed 5-2-1996; Ord. 199, passed 12-20-2001)
§ 113.07 FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX.
   If any operator should fail to keep adequate records or refuse to collect
the tax or to make, within the time provided by this chapter, any report and
remittance of the tax, or any portion thereof, the operator shall be subject to
the penalties outlined in §
113.06.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-2-1996)
§ 113.08 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any operator who disagrees with a decision rendered by the city staff,
with respect to the amount of tax, interest and penalties, may appeal the
decision to the City Council.
   (B)   A written appeal must be received, by the city, within ten days of
notification, to the operator, of the tax, interest and penalties due.
   (C)   The City Council will hear the appeal at its next convenient regular
meeting and may affirm, cancel or modify the decision of the city staff.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-2-1996; Ord. 161, passed 11-5-1998)
§ 113.09 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every operator for the collection and payment
to the city of any raft rental tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve
all records as are required by law for a period of three years.
   (B)   The city, for the purposes of determining the correctness of any raft
rental tax return, or for the purpose of estimating taxes due, may examine, or
may cause to be examined by an agent or representative designed for that
purpose, any books, papers, records or memoranda bearing upon the matter of the
raft rental tax return.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-2-1996)
§ 113.10 BUSINESS LICENSE RENEWAL/REINSTATEMENT.
   Any tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the city, shall
be deemed a debt owed by the operator to the city. Any operator owing money to
the city under the provisions of this subchapter shall be liable for remitting
the balance due. If no payment is received to cover the delinquent taxes owed
to the city, the operator will not be issued a business license for the
following raft rental season. Only upon full payment of the total debt owed to
the city, including penalties, shall the City Recorder re-issue a business
license for any given year.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-2-1996)
§ 113.11 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Except as otherwise required by law, it shall be unlawful for the city, any
officer, employee or agent to divulge, release or make known in any manner any
financial information submitted or disclosed to the city under the terms of
this chapter.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-2-1996) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any portion of this chapter will, upon conviction
in the Municipal Court for the city, be guilty of committing an infraction, and
will be punished by fine, not to exceed $250 per incident. This fine will be in
addition to any amount identified in §
113.06(C) relating to fraud.
   (B)   Every business day during which any business activity continues in
violation of this chapter will be a separate offense. The remedies specified
are not exclusive and the city may enforce the provisions of this chapter by
exercising its legal or equitable remedies in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-2-1996; Ord. 199, passed 12-20-2001)
CHAPTER 114: LIQUOR LICENSES
Section
   
114.01   Forms
   
114.02   Temporary licenses
   
114.03   Regular licenses
   
114.04   Investigation
   
114.05   Police Chief recommendation
   
114.06   Council review
   
114.07   Contents of public hearing notice
   
114.08   Publication of public hearing notice
   
114.09   Public hearing procedures
   
114.10   Recommendation to OLCC
   
114.11   Resubmission of applications
   
114.12   Application fees
§ 114.01 FORMS.
   (A)   Applicants for OLCC licenses shall submit to the City Recorder all of
the appropriate OLCC license application forms.
   (B)   The Police Chief may require additional information as appropriate for
conducting the investigations required to enable the City Council to make an
informed recommendation.
(Ord. 123, passed 8-6-1992)
§ 114.02 TEMPORARY LICENSES.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council is authorized to approve applications for
temporary OLCC licenses such as special events, special beer and special wine
licenses.
      (2)   The applications may be processed after the fee established by
Council has been paid.
      (3)   The City Council may make an unfavorable recommendation to the OLCC
if the City Council finds that the applicant does not meet any of the criteria
established by §
114.05.
   (B)   Either the applicant or a member of the City Council may refer an
application for a public hearing before the City Council.
(Ord. 123, passed 8-6-1992)
§ 114.03 REGULAR LICENSES.
   (A)   The city shall accept applications for regular OLCC liquor licenses
only when the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The fee established by the Council has been paid;
      (2)   All required forms are properly completed and in order;
      (3)   The applicant has obtained a valid city business license; and
      (4)   The appropriate processing fee established by Council resolution
has been paid.
   (B)   Change of ownership applications shall, to the extent applicable, be
processed in the same way as an application for a regular license.
(Ord. 123, passed 8-6-1992)
§ 114.04 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The City Recorder shall coordinate an investigation of each applicant
to determine the appropriate city recommendation to the OLCC.
   (B)   The City Recorder shall provide a copy of each application to the
Police Department and any other appropriate city department for investigation
and report.
   (C)   Reports from these departments shall be accompanied by a
recommendation to the Council from that department.
(Ord. 123, passed 8-6-1992)
§ 114.05 POLICE CHIEF RECOMMENDATION.
   The Police Chief may make an unfavorable or conditionally favorable
recommendation to the Council on any application if:
   (A)   The applicant has a record of violations of state alcoholic liquor
laws;
   (B)   The applicant has a record of use of controlled substances or
excessive use of alcoholic beverages;
   (C)   The applicant has a record of violations of criminal law or ordinances
connected in time, place and manner with a liquor establishment or which
demonstrate a disregard for law;
   (D)   The applicant has maintained, or allowed to exist, an establishment
which creates or is a public nuisance, or other violation of the city code, or
federal or state law which causes, permits or suffers disorderly or violent
acts, litter, noise, vandalism, vehicular or pedestrian traffic congestion, or
other locational problems, in the proximity of the establishment;
   (E)   The applicant has not maintained the premises in accordance with the
applicable building, fire and safety codes;
   (F)   The applicant seeks licensing of premises which would not be
consistent with city land use designations;
   (G)   The applicant has demonstrated an unwillingness or inability to
cooperate with the city or neighbors to resolve driving under the influence of
liquor concerns or community disputes related to a licensed establishment; or
   (H)   There is any other specific reason consistent with the purposes of
these provisions which the Police Chief concludes warrant an adverse
recommendation to the Council based upon public health, safety, welfare,
convenience or necessity.
(Ord. 123, passed 8-6-1992)
§ 114.06 COUNCIL REVIEW.
   (A)   All regular OLCC liquor license original applications and renewals
shall be included on a Council agenda.
   (B)   If the Police Chief makes an unfavorable or conditionally favorable
recommendation, or if a Councilor requests, a public hearing shall be held to
allow all interested parties a reasonable opportunity to be heard by the
Council.
(Ord. 123, passed 8-6-1992)
§ 114.07 CONTENTS OF PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE.
   (A)   Before the Council recommends denial of a liquor license application,
notice of the public hearing must be given to the applicant either personally
or by certified mail postmarked not later than ten days prior to the hearing.
   (B)   The notice shall contain:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   A copy of the recommendation of the Police Chief together with all
supporting reports and documents; and
      (3)   A statement that information about procedures and rights of parties
may be obtained from the office of the City Recorder.
(Ord. 123, passed 8-6-1992)
§ 114.08 PUBLICATION OF PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE.
   If a public hearing is scheduled, the city shall post at the City Hall and
three other prominent locations within the city, a notice specifying the time,
date and location of the hearing and business name and address of the
applicant. The notice shall inform the public that testimony may be given for
or against the applicant.
(Ord. 123, passed 8-6-1992)
§ 114.09 PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURES.
   When a public hearing before the Council is held:
   (A)   The applicant and the Police Chief or his or her designate shall have
the right to present written and oral evidence and shall have the right to
rebut opposing evidence;
   (B)   The hearing shall be limited to production of evidence relevant to the
recommendation of the Police Chief, unless the Council decides to hear
additional evidence; and
   (C)   After consideration of all relevant evidence, the Council shall make
its recommendation. The recommendation shall be based on substantial evidence
relative to §
114.05's criteria and shall be final. In the case of an adverse recommendation,
the Council shall make findings of fact which shall be forwarded to the OLCC
along with the Council recommendation against the application.
(Ord. 123, passed 8-6-1992)
§ 114.10 RECOMMENDATION TO OLCC.
   If the Council finds that an applicant does not meet the criteria
established by §
114.05, it may make a favorable recommendation with a letter of warning. The
City Recorder shall deliver to the applicant in person or by certified mail a
summary of the reports relating to the application, and a notice to correct the
problems cited. A copy of this notice and summary shall be sent to OLCC. During
the following license period, the Police Chief shall monitor the progress of
the applicant in correcting the problems and report to the Council. At the time
of the next license renewal, the applicant shall have the burden of proof to
establish that the license should receive a favorable recommendation for
renewal. If the Council finds that the applicant has not made sufficient
progress in correcting the conditions which resulted in the letter of warning,
then the Council may make an unfavorable recommendation to OLCC without further
public hearing.
(Ord. 123, passed 8-6-1992)
§ 114.11 RESUBMISSION OF APPLICATIONS.
   If the Council makes an unfavorable recommendation on any license
application, the Council shall not consider a new application from the same
applicant while an administrative or court appeal relating to the license is
pending. The applicant may resubmit an application within less than six months
from the date of a Council unfavorable recommendation only if the conditions
which caused the recommendation have been remedied.
(Ord. 123, passed 8-6-1992)
§ 114.12 APPLICATION FEES.
   The City Council may establish by resolution, from time to time, application
fees for temporary and regular liquor licenses as well as applications for
change of ownership.
(Ord. 123, passed 8-6-1992)
CHAPTER 115: SECOND-HAND DEALERS
Section
   
115.01   Scope
   
115.02   Purpose
   
115.03   Definitions
   
115.04   Business license required
   
115.05   Records required
   
115.06   Report forms
   
115.07   Property held ten days
   
115.08   Property held on order of Police Department
   
115.09   Merchandise tags required
   
115.10   Enforcement
   
115.11   Denials or suspensions of business license; fines; procedures
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall apply only to those second-hand dealers within the city
limits.
(Ord. 91, passed 5-16-1985)
§ 115.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide regulations of certain business
activities which the City Council finds present an extraordinary risk in
concealing criminal behavior involving the theft of property and its possible
resale. The risk is present, despite the best efforts of legitimate dealers in
the second-hand market, because of the large volume of goods and materials that
are processed in the businesses without systematic identification of the goods
and/or persons subject to criminal prosecution. Therefore, this chapter is
intended to reduce this type of criminal activity, providing more timely police
awareness of the business transactions and by imposing certain restrictions.
The City Council finds that the regulations provided herein are necessary to
provide for the protection of the citizens and their property in the city.
(Ord. 91, passed 5-16-1985)
§ 115.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MERCHANDISE. The following: guns, jewelry, serialed and marked items,
silverware or silver or silver-plated items, goldware, gold or gold-plated
items, cameras or camera equipment, bicycles, coins, musical instruments, chain
saws, tools and electronic equipment of any kind including, but not limited to,
tape recorders, stereos and stereo components, computers, computer software and
sporting goods.
   PEACE OFFICER. A member of the State Police, Sheriff, Constable, Marshal,
municipal police officers or investigator of the Criminal Justice Division of
the Department of Justice of the state.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Chief and duly authorized representatives of the
Police Department.
   PROPER IDENTIFICATION. Motor vehicle operator's license or state issued
identification cards.
   SECOND-HAND BUSINESS. A business engaged in conducting, managing or carrying
on the business of buying and selling, or otherwise dealing in second-hand
specified merchandise.
   SECOND-HAND DEALER.
      (1)   A person, on his or her account or as an agent of another,
including employees, partnerships, associations and corporations, engaged in
conducting, managing or carrying on the business of buying, selling or
otherwise dealing in, second-hand specified merchandise, and all persons listed
as owners of the second-hand business on the business license applications.
Excluded from this definition are isolated sales not in the regular course of
any business and occasional garage sales held at the same location on less than
four days during any 30-day period.
      (2)   All SECOND-HAND DEALERS shall be responsible for the acts of their
employees, and any violation of this chapter by any employee shall be put to
the employer and/or second-hand business, and the employer and/or second-hand
business may suffer any of the penalties provided in this chapter, as the
result of employee violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 91, passed 5-16-1985)
§ 115.04 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Second-hand dealers, as described above, shall be required to
purchase annually a business license for operation of a second-hand business.
      (2)   The fee for the license shall be set by order of the City Council.
The City Council may revise the fee from time to time as it deems appropriate.
   (B)   (1)   The license shall be issued by the City Recorder or the
designate on application confirming with this section.
      (2)   The application shall be signed by, and shall list, the true name
and address of each owner of the business and the address of any premises on
which the business maintains its specified merchandise, its office and the
records required by this chapter. If any interest in the business changes
ownership, or the location of the business changes, a report of the change
shall be delivered to the City Recorder before any further business is
transacted, and on or before the same day, as any change in ownership or
location. The report shall be in writing and signed by all owners of the
business. It shall be unlawful for any person to own or operate or to have any
ownership interest in a business regulated under this chapter, or for any
person to work in a business as an employee, unless there is a valid current
license for the business. The business license shall be displayed in view of
the public inside the place of business. It shall be unlawful for anyone
knowingly to submit a false application or report, or to falsify any record,
required under this chapter.
   (C)   If any dealer or owner listed on the business license application has
a record of a conviction of a property crime involving burglary or theft-
related crimes in the last five years, they will not be eligible for a business
license.
   (D)   Upon a conviction as described above by any dealer or owner listed on
the business license application, the business license shall be revoked for a
period of five years.
   (E)   (1)   In addition to the penalties provided in §
115.99, the City Council or its designate may suspend a business license, after
conviction, for any violation of this chapter if it finds the violation to be
reckless or willful.
      (2)   The business license may be suspended for a period not to exceed
six months upon a finding of reckless or willful violation of this chapter.
   (F)   In no event shall a business license be issued to one whose name did
or should have appeared on the application for business license or on a report
of change of ownership, to continue the operation of any business, for which a
license has been suspended or revoked during the period of the suspension or
revocation.
(Ord. 91, passed 5-16-1985) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Second-hand dealers, at the time of purchasing specified merchandise,
shall complete a form, to be provided by the Police Department, with the data
as is required by this chapter. The form shall be filled out in clear, legible
printing, in English. Any specified merchandise must be listed in detailed
description. Specified merchandise regulated pursuant to this chapter shall
only be purchased by the dealer after the seller has presented proper
identification and signed the completed form. The records shall, at all
reasonable times, be open to the inspection of the Police Department or any
peace officer whose primary assignment or agency of employment is in the
county. All records shall be kept on the premises of the business of the
second-hand dealer.
   (B)   A dealer's copy of all forms shall be retained on the premises of the
second-hand dealer's business for a period of not less than one year, and shall
be available for inspection upon request by the Police Department.
   (C)   No second-hand dealer shall be required to furnish reports in
connection with the purchases of specified merchandise acquired from
manufacturers, wholesalers or other distributors or dealers having established
businesses; provided, however, that, the second-hand dealer shall keep and
maintain bills of sale, receipts or other evidence of the purchases for a
period of one year and make them available for inspection upon request of the
Police Department.
(Ord. 91, passed 5-16-1985) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06 REPORT FORMS.
   (A)   All forms, for the purpose of making reports to the Police Department
required by this chapter, shall be furnished by the Police Department free of
charge upon request.
   (B)   All report forms shall be printed and subdivided as the Police
Department may direct to contain space with proper captions for furnishing of
all information required by this chapter.
   (C)   The second-hand dealer shall complete each form, which shall include a
merchandise tag number for specified merchandise; the hour and day when the
articles were purchased; the number of articles of specified merchandise
purchased; the description of the specified merchandise including any brand
names, model number, serial number, inscriptions; complete name, address,
identification including driver's license number or detailed description of
seller, signature of seller and the name of authorized buyer/clerk.
   (D)   Each second-hand dealer shall, on each Tuesday of a calendar week,
deliver to the Police Department, the completed forms of all specified
merchandise purchased during the prior calendar week. This does not preclude
the second-hand dealer from delivering or mailing the form daily if he or she
so desires.
   (E)   All completed forms furnished to the Police Department by the terms of
this chapter shall be retained by the Police Department in a secure place and
may be destroyed after one year.
(Ord. 91, passed 5-16-1985)
§ 115.07 PROPERTY HELD TEN DAYS.
   All specified merchandise acquired by any second-hand dealer shall be held
in possession of the second-hand dealer for a period of not less than ten
calendar days prior to any sale, transfer or other disposition. The specified
merchandise shall be maintained in substantially the same form as purchased and
shall not be changed so as to preclude identification during the ten-day
holding period.
(Ord. 91, passed 5-16-1985)
§ 115.08 PROPERTY HELD ON ORDER OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Police Department upon reasonable belief that the
specific specified merchandise is the subject of theft, notifies in writing any
second-hand dealer not to dispose of any specifically designated specified
merchandise purchased, the specified merchandise shall be retained in
substantially the same form and shall not be sold, exchanged, dismantled or
otherwise disposed of for a period of time not to exceed 30 days as determined
by the Police Department.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provision of division (A) above, all specified
merchandise shall be retained by the second-hand dealer for an additional 30
days, as may be required by the Police Department for further investigation
and/or criminal court proceedings; provided that, written notice of the
additional retention period has been given. Any notice of this section shall be
effective from the time of actual delivery to any second-hand dealer, his or
her employees or agent.
(Ord. 91, passed 5-16-1985)
§ 115.09 MERCHANDISE TAGS REQUIRED.
   A second-hand dealer receiving specified merchandise shall affix to the
merchandise a tag, upon which shall be written a number in clear, legible
characters, which number shall correspond with the number on the form required
to be kept as provided in §
115.05.
(Ord. 91, passed 5-16-1985)
§ 115.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department is designated to enforce any violation of any
provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 91, passed 5-16-1985)
§ 115.11 DENIALS OR SUSPENSIONS OF BUSINESS LICENSE; FINES; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   If the designate of the City Council, in writing, denies or suspends
any business license pursuant to this chapter, the applicant or person(s) to
whom the business license was issued shall have the right to appeal the
decision to the City Council. The appeal shall be filed with the City Recorder
within ten days from the date of the decision of the designate of the City
Council. If the tenth day falls on a city holiday or weekend, the last day to
file any appeal shall be the next city working day.
   (B)   Each appeal shall be filed with an attached written statement of the
grounds for the appeal.
   (C)   No appeal shall be deemed filed unless the grounds therefore are
attached, in writing, to the appeal.
   (D)   No appeal shall be heard unless an appeal has been filed within the
time specified in division (A) above.
(Ord. 91, passed 5-16-1985)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation for any provision of this chapter is punishable, upon
conviction, by a fine of $500.
   (B)   Upon a second conviction of any violation of any provision of this
chapter, the Court may impose a fine not to exceed $1,000. In addition, the
City Council or its designate may suspend the second-hand dealer's license for
a period not to exceed 30 days, subject to §
115.04.
   (C)   Upon subsequent conviction of any violation of any requirement imposed
by this chapter, the Court may impose a fine not to exceed $1,000. In addition
the City Council or its designate may suspend the second-hand dealer's license
for a period not to exceed six months, subject to §
115.04.
   (D)   The Court may impose a fine of $200 per day upon any second-hand
dealer whose license has been suspended or revoked, when the second-hand dealer
continues to operate or cause to be operated the second-hand business for which
the license has been suspended or revoked, during the period of the suspension
or revocation.
(Ord. 91, passed 5-16-1985)
CHAPTER 116: MARIJUANA PROVISIONS
Section
Marijuana and Marijuana
Infused Product Tax
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Levy of tax
   
116.04   Deductions
   
116.05   Seller responsible for payment of tax
   
116.06   Penalties and interest
   
116.07   Failure to report and remit tax; determination of tax by City
Administrator
   
116.08   Appeal
   
116.09   Refunds
   
116.10   Actions to collect
   
116.11   Confidentiality
   
116.12   Audit of books, records or persons
   
116.13   Forms and regulations
Medical Marijuana Facility
Business License
   
116.25   Findings and purpose
   
116.26   Definitions
   
116.27   Medical marijuana facility business license
   
116.28   Approval of application
   
116.29   Medical marijuana use allowed in identified zones
   
116.30   Signs and advertising
   
116.31   Parking
   
116.32   Security requirements
   
116.33   Report of disturbances and unlawful activity
   
116.34   Visibility of activities; control of emissions
   
116.35   No city liability; indemnification
   
116.36   City Administrator rules and regulations
   
116.37   Reporting requirements
   
116.38   Appeal process
   
116.39   State law provisions adopted by reference
Ban on Recreational Marijuana Producers,
Processors, Wholesalers and/or Retailers
   
116.50   Definitions
   
116.51   Ban declared
   
116.52   Exception
Outdoor Growth of Recreational and
Medical Marijuana Plants
   
116.60   Intent; purpose
   
116.61   Definitions
   
116.62   Recreational and medical marijuana subject to regulation
   
116.63   Public nuisance remedy
   
116.64   Violation
   
116.65   Conflict of laws
 
   
116.99   Penalty
MARIJUANA AND MARIJUANA
INFUSED PRODUCT TAX
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, every person who sells marijuana,
medical marijuana or marijuana-infused products in the City of Shady Cove is
exercising a taxable privilege. The purpose of this subchapter is to impose a
tax upon the retail sale of marijuana, medical marijuana, and marijuana-infused
products.
(Ord. 268, passed 9-4-2014)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   When not clearly otherwise indicated by the context, the following words and
phrases as used in this subchapter shall have the following meanings:
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator of the City of Shady Cove or his
or her designee.
   GROSS TAXABLE SALES. The total amount received in money, credits, property
or other consideration from sales of marijuana, medical marijuana and
marijuana-infused products that is subject to the tax imposed by this
subchapter.
   MARIJUANA. All parts of the plant of the Cannabis family Moraceae, whether
growing or not; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant
or its resin. It does not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber
produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any
other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the
mature stalks (except the resin extracted there from), fiber, oil, or cake, or
the sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germination.
   MARIJUANA INFUSED PRODUCTS. Products infused with usable marijuana that is
intended for use, ingestion or consumption other than by smoking, including but
not limited to edible products, ointments, and tinctures.
   MEDICAL USE OF MARIJUANA. The production, possession, delivery, distribution
or administration of marijuana, or paraphernalia used to administer marijuana,
as necessary for the exclusive benefit of a person to mitigate the symptoms or
effects of the person's debilitating medical condition.
   OREGON MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROGRAM. The office within the Oregon Health
Authority that administers the provisions of O.R.S. 475.300 through 475.346,
the Oregon Medical Marijuana Act, O.R.S. 475.300 through 475.346, and all
policies and procedures pertaining thereto.
   PERSON. Natural person, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
association, club, company, corporation, business, trust, organization, or any
group or combination acting as a unit, including the United States of America,
the State of Oregon and any political subdivision thereof, or the manager,
lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any of them.
   PURCHASE OR SALE. The acquisition or furnishing for consideration by any
person of marijuana or marijuana infused products within the city.
   PURCHASER. Any person who acquires marijuana from a seller for any valuable
consideration.
   REGISTRY IDENTIFICATION CARDHOLDER. A person who has been diagnosed by an
attending physician with a debilitating medical condition and for whom the use
of medical marijuana may mitigate the symptoms or effects of the person's
debilitating medical condition, and who has been issued a registry
identification card by the Oregon Health Authority.
   RETAIL SALE. The transfer of goods or services in exchange for any valuable
consideration.
   SELLER. Any person who is required to be licensed or registered or has been
licensed or registered by the State of Oregon to provide marijuana or
marijuana-infused products to purchasers for money, credit, property or other
consideration.
   TAX. Either the tax payable by the purchaser or the aggregate amount of
taxes a seller is required to remit during the period for which the seller is
required to report collections under this subchapter.
   TAXPAYER. Any person obligated to account to the City Administrator for
taxes collected or to be collected, or from whom a tax is due, under the terms
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 268, passed 9-4-2014)
§ 116.03 LEVY OF TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and shall be paid a tax by every purchaser
exercising the taxable privilege of purchasing marijuana and marijuana-infused
products as defined in this subchapter.
   (B)   The amount of tax levied is as follows:
      (1)   Five percent of the gross sale amount paid to the seller by a
registry identification cardholder.
      (2)   Ten percent of the gross sale amount paid to the seller of
marijuana and marijuana-infused products by individuals who are not purchasing
marijuana under the Oregon Medical Marijuana Program.
   (C)   The purchaser shall pay the tax to the seller at the time of the
purchase or sale of marijuana.
(Ord. 9-4-2014) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04 DEDUCTIONS.
   The following deductions shall be allowed against sales received by the
seller providing marijuana:
   (A)   Refunds of sales actually returned to any purchaser;
   (B)   Any adjustments in sales which amount to a refund to a purchaser,
providing such adjustment pertains to the actual sale of marijuana or
marijuana-infused products and does not include any adjustments for other
services furnished by a seller.
(Ord. 268, passed 9-4-2014)
§ 116.05 SELLER RESPONSIBLE FOR PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Every seller shall, on or before the fifteenth day of each month make
a report to the City Administrator, on forms provided by the city, specifying
the total sales subject to this subchapter and the amount of tax collected
under this subchapter. A report shall not be considered filed until it is
actually received by the City Administrator.
   (B)   At the time the report is filed, the full amount of the tax collected
by the seller shall be remitted to the City Administrator.
   (C)   Payments shall be applied in the order of the oldest liability first,
with the payment credited first toward any accrued penalty, then to interest,
then to the underlying tax until the payment is exhausted. If the City
Administrator, in his or her sole discretion, determines that an alternative
order of payment application would be in the best interest of the city in a
particular tax or factual situation, the City Administrator may order such a
change. The City Administrator may establish shorter reporting periods for any
seller if the City Administrator deems it necessary in order to ensure
collection of the tax. The City Administrator also may require additional
information in the report relevant to payment of the liability. When a shorter
reporting period is required, penalties and interest shall be computed
according to the shorter reporting period. Reports and payments are due
immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. All taxes collected by
sellers pursuant to this subchapter shall be held in trust for the account of
the city until payment is made to the City Administrator. A separate trust bank
account is not required in order to comply with this provision.
   (D)   For good cause, the City Administrator may extend the time for filing
a report or paying the tax for not more than one month. Further extension may
be granted only by the City Council. A seller to whom an extension is granted
shall pay interest at the rate of 1% per month on the amount of tax due,
without proration for a fraction of a month. If a report is not filed and if
the tax and interest due are not paid by the end of the extension granted, the
interest shall become a part of the tax for computation of penalties prescribed
in §
116.06.
   (E)   Every seller required to remit the tax imposed in this subchapter
shall be entitled to retain 5% of all taxes due to defray the costs of
bookkeeping and remittance.
   (F)   Every seller must keep and preserve in an accounting format
established by the City Administrator records of all sales made by the seller
and such other books or accounts as may be required by the City Administrator.
Every seller must keep and preserve for a period of three years all such books,
invoices and other records. The City Administrator shall have the right to
inspect all such records upon request.
(Ord. 268, passed 9-4-2014) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.06 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Any seller who fails to remit any portion of any tax imposed by this
subchapter within the time required shall pay a penalty of 10% of the amount of
the tax.
   (B)   Any seller who fails to remit any delinquent remittance on or before a
period of 60 days following the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent, shall pay an additional delinquency penalty of 15% of the amount of
the tax in addition to the amount of the tax and the penalty first imposed.
   (C)   If the City Administrator determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this subchapter is due to fraud, a penalty of 25% of the
amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in
divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties imposed, any seller who fails to remit
any tax imposed by this subchapter shall pay interest at the rate of 1% per
month or fraction thereof on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties,
from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent until paid.
   (E)   Every penalty imposed, and such interest as accrues under the
provisions of this section, shall become a part of the tax required to be paid.
   (F)   A seller who fails to remit the tax within the required time may
petition the City Council for waiver and refund of the penalty or a portion of
it. The Council may, if good cause is shown, direct a refund of the penalty or
a portion of it. Any such hearing will be conducted under the procedures
described in §
116.08.
(Ord. 268, passed 9-4-2014) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.07 FAILURE TO REPORT AND REMIT TAX; DETERMINATION OF TAX BY CITY
ADMINISTRATOR.
   If any seller should fail to make, within the time provided in this
subchapter, any report of the tax required by this subchapter or if the City
Administrator questions the accuracy of a report, the City Administrator shall
proceed in such manner as deemed best to obtain facts and information on which
to base the estimate of tax due. As soon as the City Administrator shall
procure such facts and information as is able to be obtained, upon which to
base the assessment of any tax imposed by this subchapter and payable by any
seller, the City Administrator shall proceed to determine and assess against
such seller the tax, interest and penalties provided for by this subchapter. In
case such determination is made, the City Administrator shall give a notice of
the amount so assessed by having it served personally or by depositing it in
the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the seller so assessed at
the last known place of address. Such seller may appeal such determination as
provided in §
116.08. If no appeal is filed, the City Administrator's determination is final
and the amount thereby is immediately due and payable.
(Ord. 268, passed 9-4-2014)
§ 116.08 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any seller aggrieved by any decision of the City Administrator with
respect to the amount of such tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal
to the City Council by filing a notice of appeal with the City Administrator
within 15 days of mailing of the notice of the City Administrator's decision.
The City Administrator shall fix a time and place for hearing the appeal, as
prescribed by the City Council, and shall give the appellant 15 days’ written
notice of the time and place of the hearing before the City Council.
   (B)   The appellant shall pay a nonrefundable appeal fee to facilitate the
appeal. Appeal fees shall be set at $150 for each decision appealed, and may be
adjusted by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   The parties shall be entitled to appear personally and by counsel and
to present such facts, evidence and arguments as may tend to support the
respective positions on appeal.
   (D)   The City Council shall afford the parties an opportunity to be heard
at an appeal hearing after reasonable notice. The City Council shall take such
action upon the appeal it sees fit.
      (1)   The City Council shall hear and consider any records and evidence
presented bearing upon the City Administrator's determination of amount due,
and make findings affirming, reversing or modifying the determination.
      (2)   Informal disposition may be made of any appeal by stipulation,
agreed settlement, consent order or default.
   (E)   The action of the City Administrator shall be stayed pending the
outcome of an appeal properly filed pursuant to this section.
   (F)   Failure to strictly comply with the applicable appeal requirements,
including but not limited to the required elements for the written notice of
appeal, time for filing of the notice of appeal, and payment of the applicable
appeal fee, shall constitute jurisdictional defects resulting in the summary
dismissal of the appeal.
   (G)   The findings of the City Council shall be final and conclusive, and
shall be served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed above for service
of notice of hearing. Any amount found to be due by the City Council shall be
immediately due and payable upon the service of notice.
(Ord. 268, passed 9-4-2014)
§ 116.09 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid
or paid more than once, or has been erroneously collected or received by the
city under this subchapter, it may be refunded as provided in division (B)
below, provided a claim in writing, stating under penalty of perjury the
specific grounds upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the City
Administrator within one year of the date of payment. The claim shall be on
forms furnished by the City Administrator.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall have 20 calendar days from the date of
receipt of a claim to review the claim and make a determination in writing as
to the validity of the claim. The City Administrator shall notify the claimant
in writing of the City Administrator's determination. Such notice shall be
mailed to the address provided by claimant on the claim form. In the event a
claim is determined by the City Administrator to be a valid claim, in a manner
prescribed by the City Administrator a seller may claim a refund, or take as
credit against taxes collected and remitted, the amount overpaid, paid more
than once or erroneously collected or received. The claimant shall notify the
City Administrator of claimant's choice no later than 15 days following the
date City Administrator mailed the determination. In the event claimant has not
notified the City Administrator of claimant's choice within the 15-day period
and the seller is still in business, a credit will be granted against
claimant's tax liability for the next reporting period. If the seller is no
longer in business, a refund check will be mailed to the seller at the address
provided in the claim form.
   (C)   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless
the claimant established the right to a refund by written records showing
entitlement to such refund and the City Administrator has acknowledged the
validity of the claim.
(Ord. 268, passed 9-4-2014)
§ 116.10 ACTIONS TO COLLECT.
   Any tax required to be paid by any seller under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the seller to the city. Any such tax
collected by a seller which has not been paid to the city shall be deemed a
debt owed by the seller to the city. Within three years after the tax becomes
payable or within three years after a determination becomes final, the city may
bring an action in the name of the city in the courts of this state, another
state or the United States to collect the tax owing as well as penalties and
interest. In lieu of filing an action for the recovery, the city, when taxes
due are more than 30 days delinquent, may submit any outstanding tax to a
collection agency. So long as the city has complied with the provisions set
forth in O.R.S. 697.105, in the event the city turns over a delinquent tax
account to a collection agency, it may add to the amount owing an amount equal
to the collection agency fees.
(Ord. 268, passed 9-4-2014) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.11 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Except as otherwise required by law, the city shall endeavor not to divulge,
release or make known in any manner any financial information submitted or
disclosed to the city under the terms of this subchapter. Nothing in this
section shall prohibit:
   (A)   The disclosure of general statistics in a form which would not reveal
an individual seller's financial information; or
   (B)   Presentation of evidence to the court, or other tribunal having
jurisdiction in the prosecution of any criminal or civil claim by the City
Administrator or an appeal from the City Administrator for amount due the city
under this subchapter; or
   (C)   The disclosure of information when such disclosure of conditionally
exempt information is ordered under public records law procedures; or
   (D)   The disclosure of records related to a business' failure to report and
remit the tax when the report or tax is in arrears for over six months or the
tax exceeds $5,000. The City Council expressly finds and determines that the
public interest in disclosure of such records clearly outweighs the interest in
confidentiality under O.R.S. 192.501(5).
(Ord. 268, passed 9-4-2014)
§ 116.12 AUDIT OF BOOKS, RECORDS OR PERSONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every seller liable for the collection and
payment to the city of any tax imposed by this subchapter to keep and preserve,
for a period of three years and six months, all records, books, reports, income
tax reports and other matters required by this subchapter as may be necessary
to determine the amount of such tax as the seller may have been liable for the
collection of and payment to the city, which records the City Administrator
shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable times as set forth below.
Every seller shall maintain records of marijuana purchase and sales, accounting
books and records of income. Sellers must, at a minimum, maintain a cash
receipt and deposit journal, and a cash disbursements journal/check register
for all authorized deductions. These records and books shall reconcile to the
tax reports and be auditable. If the City Administrator finds the books and
records of the seller are deficient in that they do not provide adequate
support for tax reports filed, or the seller's accounting system is not
auditable, it shall be the responsibility of the seller to improve its
accounting system to the satisfaction of the City Administrator.
   (B)   The city, for the purpose of determining the correctness of any tax
return, or for the purpose of an estimate of taxes due, may examine or may
cause to be examined by an agent or representative designated by the city for
that purpose, any books, papers, records, or memoranda, including copies of
seller's state and federal income tax return, bearing upon the matter of the
seller's tax reports. All books, invoices, accounts and other records shall be
made available within the city limits and be available at any time during
regular business hours for examination by the City Administrator or an
authorized agent of the City Administrator. If any seller refuses to
voluntarily furnish any of the foregoing information when requested, the City
Administrator may immediately seek a subpoena from the Jackson County Circuit
Court to require that the seller or a representative of the seller attend a
hearing or produce any such books, accounts and records for examination.
(Ord. 268, passed 9-4-2014) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.13 FORMS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The City Administrator is hereby authorized to prescribe forms and
promulgate rules and regulations to aid in the making of reports, the
ascertainment, assessment and collection of said marijuana sales tax and in
particular and without limiting the general language of this subchapter, to
provide for:
      (1)   A form of report on sales and purchases to be supplied to all
sellers;
      (2)   The records which sellers providing marijuana and marijuana-infused
products are to keep concerning the tax imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 268, passed 9-4-2014)
MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITY
BUSINESS LICENSE
§ 116.25 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Council adopts all of the following "whereas" sections of Ord. 270
as findings to support this subchapter:
      (1)   Whereas, the Oregon Health Authority (OHA) established a
registration system for medical marijuana facilities for transferring usable
marijuana and immature plants from registry cardholders, caregivers, or growers
to medical marijuana facilities and from medical marijuana facilities to
registry identification cardholders or designated primary caregivers of
registry identification cardholders; and
      (2)   Whereas, the OHA adopted rules to prohibit the establishment of
medical marijuana facilities within 1,000 feet of the real property comprising
a public or private elementary, secondary or career school attended primarily
by minors, outlines background check requirements, describes the security
requirements, recordkeeping requirements, identifies a mechanism for
enforcement of violations, describes the process for quality assurance testing,
the requirements for packaging and labeling, explains the process for licensing
suspension, revocation and penalties for violations; and
      (3)   Whereas, Oregon SB 1531 section 2, which became effective March 1,
2014, allows governing bodies of a city to adopt ordinances that impose
reasonable regulations on the operation of medical marijuana facilities
registered, or applying for registration, under O.R.S. 475.314 that are located
in the area subject to the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to license medical marijuana
facilities and to describe the restrictions upon such uses. In addition to
compliance with this subchapter, every medical marijuana facility shall be
compliant and follow all existing rules and regulations as outlined in the city
business license in this Title 11.
   (C)   No part of this subchapter is intended to or shall be deemed to
conflict with federal law, including but not limited to, the Controlled
Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. Section 800 et seq., the Uniform Controlled
Substances Act (chapter 69.50 RCW) nor to otherwise permit any activity that is
prohibited under either Act, or any other local, state or federal law, statute,
rule or regulation. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to supersede
Oregon state law prohibiting the acquisition, possession, manufacture, sale or
use of medical marijuana in any manner not authorized by city code. Nothing in
this subchapter shall be construed to supersede legislation prohibiting persons
from engaging in conduct that endangers others, or that creates a nuisance, as
defined herein. It is the intention of the City Council that this subchapter be
interpreted to be compatible with state enactments and in furtherance of the
public purposes that those enactments encompass.
(Ord. 270, passed 4-2-2015)
§ 116.26 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The city adopts the definitions in O.R.S. 475.300 to 475.346 and OAR
333-008-1000 through 333-008-1290.
   (B)   EMPLOYEE means any supervised volunteers, paid associates, agents,
business owners, managers, and coordinators that work any hours per week in the
medical marijuana facility.
(Ord. 270, passed 4-2-2015)
§ 116.27 MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITY BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   A valid, current license is required from the Oregon Health Authority
for operation of a medical marijuana facility. A copy of this license shall be
submitted to the city as part of the complete application for a business
license.
   (B)   A medical marijuana facility business license is required from the
city for operation of any medical marijuana facility.
   (C)   Licenses are non-transferable and shall only apply to the person
listed on the license at the address listed on the application.
   (D)   Licenses shall be valid for a period of one year, from July 1 to June
30.
   (E)   A license shall be issued or renewed upon payment of the required fee,
as set by resolution, and submission of a completed application in compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter, and compliance with all provisions and
requirements of this subchapter. Application to renew a license to operate a
medical marijuana facility shall be filed at least 30 days prior to the date of
expiration. Such renewal shall be annual and shall be accompanied by the annual
fee(s).
   (F)   Every applicant shall pay fees, as set by resolution, at the time of
the application for an initial or renewal license, which shall be set by
Council resolution. Said fee is non-refundable if the application is approved.
   (G)   The license requirements set forth in this subchapter shall be in
addition to, and not in lieu of, any other licensing and permitting
requirements imposed by any other federal, state or local law.
(Ord. 270, passed 4-2-2015) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.28 APPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   The City Administrator or designee may issue a license for a medical
marijuana facility if inspections for safety, zoning compliance, criminal
history background checks, and all other information available to the city
verify that the applicant has submitted a full and complete application, paid
the appropriate fee, and has made improvements to the business location
consistent with the application and is prepared to operate the business in
compliance with this subchapter and any other applicable law, rule or
regulation. The City Administrator or designee will deny any application that
does not meet the requirements of this subchapter or any other applicable law,
rule or regulation or that contains any false or incomplete information.
(Ord. 270, passed 4-2-2015)
§ 116.29 MEDICAL MARIJUANA USE ALLOWED IN IDENTIFIED ZONES.
   (A)   Medical marijuana facilities as retail stores are allowed uses in the
General Commercial Zone, G-C.
   (B)   Location of all licensed facilities shall comply with the requirements
of OAR 333-008-1110 (and all applicable rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder), except as further limited by division (C) below.
   (C)   Licensed facilities shall not be closer than 2,500 feet of another
medical marijuana facility; there shall be no more than one medical marijuana
facility within the city limits of the City of Shady Cove.
(Ord. 270, passed 4-2-2015; Ord. 285, passed 7-6-2017) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.30 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   (A)   All signage and advertising for a medical marijuana facility shall
comply with the applicable provisions of this subchapter, the Sign Code, and
Zoning Code.
   (B)   Violations of this section relating to the Sign Code or Zoning Code
shall result in a fine as determined by city code or municipal judge and/or
revocation or suspension of business license.
   (C)   All signage for a medical marijuana facility shall comply with all
applicable provisions of the code. In addition, no signage shall use the word
"marijuana" or "cannabis" or any other word, phrase, or symbol commonly
understood to refer to marijuana unless such word, phrase, or symbol is
immediately preceded by the word "medical" in type and font that is at least as
readily discernible as all other words, phrases or symbols. Such signage must
clearly indicate that the products and services are offered only for medical
marijuana uses permitted by law.
(Ord. 270, passed 4-2-2015) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.31 PARKING.
   Parking requirements for a medical marijuana facility shall comply with all
applicable provisions of the code. In addition, a medical marijuana facility
shall provide no less than two ADA accessible parking spaces.
(Ord. 270, passed 4-2-2015) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.32 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Security measures at all licensed facilities shall comply with the
requirements of OAR 333-008-1140 (and all applicable rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder).
   (B)   The person responsible for the facility must conduct a criminal
background check on all employees. The person responsible for the facility must
include background check information to the city for every employee at the time
of business license renewal each year.
(Ord. 270, passed 4-2-2015) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.33 REPORT OF DISTURBANCES AND UNLAWFUL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   All licensees and any agent, manager or employee thereof shall
immediately report to the Jackson County Sheriffs Department any disorderly
act, conduct or disturbance and any unlawful activity committed in or on the
licensed and permitted premises, including, but not limited to, any unlawful
resale of marijuana, and shall also immediately report any such activity in the
immediate vicinity of the business.
   (B)   Each licensee shall post and keep at all times visible to the public
in a conspicuous place on the premises a sign with a minimum height of 14
inches and a minimum width of 11 inches with each letter to be a minimum of
one-half inch in height, which shall read as follows:
WARNING:
The Jackson County Sheriffs Department and City Administrator must be notified
of all disorderly acts, conduct or disturbances and all unlawful activities
which occur on or within the premises of this licensed establishment.
   (C)   It shall not be a defense to a prosecution of a code enforcement
action under this section that the licensee was not personally present on the
premises at the time such unlawful activity, disorderly act, conduct or
disturbance was committed; however, no agent or employee of the licensee shall
be personally responsible for failing to report any disorderly act, conduct or
disturbance and any unlawful activity hereunder if such agent, servant or
employee was absent from the premises at the time such activity was committed.
(Ord. 270, passed 4-2-2015) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.34 VISIBILITY OF ACTIVITIES; CONTROL OF EMISSIONS.
   (A)   No marijuana or paraphernalia shall be displayed or kept in a business
so as to be visible from outside the licensed premises.
   (B)   Sufficient measures and means of preventing odors, debris, fluids and
other substances from exiting the medical marijuana facility must be in effect
at all times. In the event that any odors, dust, fluids or other substances
exit a medical marijuana facility, the owner of the subject premises and the
licensee shall be jointly and severally liable for such conditions and shall be
responsible for the immediate, full clean-up and correction of such condition.
The licensee shall properly dispose of all such materials, items and other
substances in a safe, sanitary and secure manner and in accordance with all
applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations.
(Ord. 270, passed 4-2-2015) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.35 NO CITY LIABILITY; INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   By accepting a medical marijuana facility business license issued
pursuant to this subchapter, the licensee waives and releases the city, its
officers, elected officials, employees, volunteers and agents from any
liability for injuries, damages, or liabilities of any kind that result from
any arrest or prosecution of business owners, operators, employees, clients or
customers for a violation of federal, state or local laws and regulations.
   (B)   By accepting a license issued pursuant to this subchapter, all
licensees, jointly and severally, if more than one, agree to indemnify, defend
and hold harmless the city, its officers, elected officials, employees,
volunteers and agents, insurers and self-insurance pool against all liability,
claims and demands on account of any injury, loss or damage, including, without
limitation, claims arising from bodily injury, personal injury, sickness,
disease, death, property loss or damage, or any other loss of any kind
whatsoever arising out of or in any manner connected with the operation of the
medical marijuana facility that is the subject of the license.
(Ord. 270, passed 4-2-2015)
§ 116.36 CITY ADMINISTRATOR RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The City Administrator may adopt, with approval from the City Council,
rules and regulations that the City Administrator determines are reasonably
necessary to implement and administer the requirements of this business
license.
   (B)   The City Administrator may choose to not renew or revoke a license
based on any of the following:
      (1)   A failure to meet the conditions or maintain compliance with the
standards established by this subchapter in reference to applications for a new
license or the renewal of an existing license; or
      (2)   One or more violations of any city ordinance on the premises; or
      (3)   Maintenance of a nuisance on the premises; or
      (4)   A demonstrated history of excessive calls for public safety
(police, fire, and EMS) originating from the premises, being three or more
calls in any 30 day period; or
      (5)   Nonpayment of real and/or personal property taxes, other taxes,
fines, fees or liens owed to the city.
(Ord. 270, passed 4-2-2015)
§ 116.37 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every medical marijuana facility shall, on or before the fifteenth day of
each month, make a report to the City Administrator, on forms provided by the
city, specifying the total gross sales of marijuana, and marijuana-infused,
products for the previous month. A report shall not be considered filed until
it is actually received by the City Administrator.
(Ord. 270, passed 4-2-2015) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.38 APPEAL PROCESS.
   If an applicant or licensee chooses to appeal denial of a license or
revocation of a license, the applicant or licensee can enter in a written
appeal to the Administrator's office using a city generated form including the
appellants signature, the requirement or decision from which the appeal is
made, and shall state the specific grounds on which the appeal is based. The
applicable fee shall be submitted with the notice of the appeal; such fee shall
be nonrefundable. Appeals shall be filed within 30 days of the decision in
question. City Council shall consider the appeal within 45 days of receipt of
the appeal.
(Ord. 270, passed 4-2-2015)
§ 116.39 STATE LAW PROVISIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city hereby adopts O.R.S. 475.300 to 475.346 by reference, as well as
OAR 333-008- 1000 through 333-008-1290.
(Ord. 270, passed 4-2-2015)
BAN ON RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA PRODUCERS, PROCESSORS,
WHOLESALERS AND/OR RETAILERS
§ 116.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MARIJUANA. The plant Cannabis family Cannabaceae, any part of the plant
Cannabis family Cannabaceae and the seeds of the plant Cannabis family
Cannabaceae.
   MARIJUANA PROCESSING SITE. An entity registered with the Oregon Health
Authority to process marijuana.
   MARIJUANA PROCESSOR. An entity licensed by the Oregon Liquor Control
Commission to process marijuana.
   MARIJUANA PRODUCER. An entity licensed by the Oregon Liquor Control
Commission to manufacture, plant, cultivate, grow or harvest marijuana.
   MARIJUANA RETAILER. An entity licensed by the Oregon Liquor Control
Commission to sell marijuana items to a consumer in this state.
   MARIJUANA WHOLESALER. An entity licensed by the Oregon Liquor Control
Commission to purchase items in this state for resale to a person other than a
consumer.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. An entity registered with the Oregon Health
Authority to transfer marijuana.
(Ord. 277, passed 6-2-16 [passed by electorate 11-8-2016])
§ 116.51 BAN DECLARED.
   As described in section 134 of House Bill 3400 (2015), the City of Shady
Cove hereby prohibits the establishment and operation of the following in the
area subject to the jurisdiction of the city:
   (A)   Marijuana producers;
   (B)   Marijuana processors;
   (C)   Marijuana wholesalers;
   (D)   Marijuana retailers.
(Ord. 277, passed 6-2-2016 [passed by electorate 11-8-2016])
§ 116.52 EXCEPTION.
   The prohibition set out in this subchapter does not apply to a marijuana
processing site or medical marijuana dispensary that meets the conditions set
out in subsections 6 or 7 of section 134, section 135, and section 136 of House
Bill 3400 (2015).
(Ord. 277, passed 6-2-2016 [passed by electorate 11-8-2016])
OUTDOOR GROWTH OF RECREATIONAL
AND MEDICAL MARIJUANA PLANTS
§ 116.60 INTENT; PURPOSE.
   The City Council of the City of Shady Cove recognizes that citizens of the
State of Oregon may engage in both recreational and medicinal use of marijuana
in accordance with state law. However, the City Council also recognizes that
cultivating, drying, producing, processing, keeping, or storage of marijuana,
without appropriate safeguards in place, can have a detrimental effect upon
public safety and neighboring citizens. The City Council finds and declares
that the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens are promoted by requiring
marijuana cultivators engaged in recreational or medicinal cultivation, drying,
producing, processing, keeping, or storage of marijuana to ensure that said
marijuana is not accessible, visible, or odorous to other persons or property,
or otherwise illegal under Oregon state law.
(Ord. 281, passed 8-18-2016)
§ 116.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOUSEHOLD. A housing unit, and includes any indoor structure or accessory
dwelling unit in or around the housing unit at which the occupants of the
housing unit are cultivating, drying, producing, processing, keeping, or
storing recreational marijuana.
   HOUSING UNIT. A house; a mobile home; a manufactured home; and/or a group of
rooms, or a single room that is occupied as separate living quarters, in which
the occupants live and eat separately from any other persons in the building
and which have direct access from the outside of the building or through a
common hall including an individual residential unit in an apartment, duplex,
townhome, condominium, or senior living facility.
   INDOORS/INDOOR STRUCTURE. Within a fully enclosed and secure structure that
complies with the Oregon Residential Specialty Code (ORSC) or Oregon Structural
Specialty Code (OSSC), as adopted by the City of Shady Cove, which has a
complete roof enclosure supported by connecting walls extending from the
foundation/slab to the roof. The structure must be secure against unauthorized
entry, accessible only through one or more lockable doors, and constructed of
solid materials that cannot easily be broken through, such as two-inch by four-
inch or larger wood studs covered with three-eighths- inch or thicker weather-
resistant siding or equivalent materials. Plastic sheeting, regardless of
gauge, or similar products do not satisfy this requirement.
   MARIJUANA. All parts of the plant Cannabis family Moraceae, including, but
not limited to, its dried leaves and flowers, any marijuana products derived
therefrom. The term includes any and all recreational marijuana, medical
marijuana, non-medical marijuana, and marijuana products as defined in this
section.
   MARIJUANA CULTIVATOR. A medical marijuana grower, recreational marijuana
grower, patient, and any landlord or property owner allowing marijuana to be
cultivated, dried, produced, processed, kept or stored at a premises.
   MARIJUANA PRODUCTS. Products that contain marijuana or marijuana extracts
and are intended for human consumption.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA. The marijuana cultivated, dried, produced, processed,
kept or stored for medicinal use in accordance with the OMMA.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWER. Any person engaged in the cultivation, drying,
production, processing, keeping or storage of medical marijuana in accordance
with state law, and includes, but is not limited to the meaning set out at OAR
333-008-0010.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROW SITE. A location registered pursuant to O.R.S.
475.304 where medical marijuana is produced for use by a patient.
   PATIENT. A person who has been diagnosed by an attending physician with a
debilitating medical condition and for whom the use of medical marijuana may
mitigate the symptoms or effects of the person's debilitating medical
condition, and who has been issued a registry identification card by the Oregon
Health Authority.
   PREMISES. A household, medical marijuana grow site, recreational marijuana
grow site, and/or primary residence of a patient.
   PROPERTY. Any lot, parcel, home, business or public right-of-way.
   RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA. Any marijuana cultivated, dried, produced,
processed, kept or stored for personal recreational use by a person 21 years of
age or older in accordance with state law.
   RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA GROWER. A person 21 years of age and older engaged in
the cultivation, drying, production, processing, keeping, or storage of
recreational marijuana in accordance with state law.
   RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA GROW SITE. A location in which a person 21 years of
age and older cultivates, dries, produces, processes, keeps or stores
recreational marijuana in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 281, passed 8-18-2016)
§ 116.62 RECREATIONAL AND MEDICAL MARIJUANA SUBJECT TO REGULATION.
   (A)   Marijuana cultivators shall be allowed to cultivate, produce, and/or
process recreational marijuana and medical marijuana subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   Cultivation, production, possession, and processing of marijuana
must be in full compliance with all applicable provisions of OMMA, OLCC and all
current state legislation, Oregon administrative rules and Oregon revised
statutes.
      (2)   Cultivation, drying, curing, storage, production, or processing, of
recreational marijuana shall be conducted indoors.
      (3)   Cultivation, production, processing, or storage of marijuana shall
not be perceptible from the exterior of the household, housing unit, tax lot,
parcel and/or indoor structure including but not limited to:
         (a)   Common visual observation, which would prohibit any form of
signage;
         (b)   Odors, smells, fragrances, or other olfactory stimulus;
         (c)   Light pollution, glare, or brightness that disturbs the repose
of another;
         (d)   Undue vehicular or foot traffic, including excess parking within
a residential zone; and
         (e)   Excessive noise in violation of
Chapter 90.
      (4)   Cultivation, production, or processing of marijuana plants shall be
within a secure, defined area.
      (5)   Cultivation, production, or processing of marijuana shall meet the
requirements of all adopted city building and life/safety codes.
      (6)   Cultivation, production, or processing of marijuana shall meet the
requirements of all adopted water and sewer regulations promulgated by the city
or state, or any special district having jurisdiction.
      (7)   Disposal of any excess or unused marijuana, marijuana products, or
other byproducts thereof, shall meet any and all local and state requirements
for disposal, and shall be disposed of in a secure fashion so as to avoid
access by children, visitors, casual passersby, vandals or anyone not licensed
or authorized to possess medical or recreational marijuana. Disposal by burning
or incineration is prohibited.
      (8)   Cultivation, production, or processing of marijuana in residential
zones or in a housing unit shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Cultivation, production, or processing of marijuana shall only
be conducted within the primary residence of the marijuana cultivator;
         (b)   Marijuana plants shall not be cultivated, processed, or produced
in the common areas of a multi-family or attached residential development such
as townhomes and condominiums; and
         (c)   For purposes of this subchapter, PRIMARY RESIDENCE means the
place that a person, by custom and practice, makes his or her principal
domicile and address and to which the person intends to return, following any
temporary absence, such as vacation. Residence is evidenced by actual daily
physical presence, use, and occupancy of the primary residence and the use of
the residential address for domestic purposes, such as, but not limited to,
slumber, preparation of and partaking of meals, regular mail delivery, vehicle
and voter registration, or credit, water, and utility billing. A person shall
have only one primary residence, which may include an indoor structure or
accessory dwelling unit, provided that the indoor structure or accessory
dwelling unit is located on the same tax lot as the primary residence.
      (9)   For purposes of this subchapter, a SECURE AREA means an area within
the primary residence or indoor structure accessible only to the patient or
primary caregiver, or marijuana cultivator. Secure premises shall be locked or
partitioned off to prevent access by minors, visitors, casual passersby,
vandals, or anyone not licensed and authorized to possess medical or
recreational marijuana.
   (B)   Medical marijuana growers and medical marijuana grow sites shall be
exempt from division (A)(4) above to the extent they may grow up to, but not
more than, six marijuana plants outdoors, on a single tax lot or parcel. All
applicable setbacks and other residential zoning provisions shall apply.
Marijuana for recreational use shall not be grown outdoors.
   (C)   Licensed commercial grows, as defined in Measure 91 or subsequent
legislation, rules or statutes, are prohibited in all residential zones.
(Ord. 281, passed 8-18-2016)
§ 116.63 PUBLIC NUISANCE REMEDY.
   (A)   Any household, housing unit, premises, property, building, structure
or place of any kind where medical or recreational marijuana is grown,
processed, manufactured, bartered, distributed or given away in violation of
state law or this chapter, or any place where medical or recreational marijuana
is kept or possessed for sale, barter, distribution or gift in violation of
state law or this chapter, is a public nuisance and may be abated as provided
in
Chapter 90.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, three or more violations in a 30-day
period shall constitute a chronic nuisance subject to the provisions of
Chapter 90.
   (C)   In addition to any remedies provided in
Chapter 90, the city may institute an action in municipal or circuit court in
the name of the city to abate, and to temporarily and permanently enjoin, such
nuisance. The court has the right to make temporary and final orders as in
other injunction proceedings. The city shall not be required to give bond in
such an action.
(Ord. 281, passed 8-18-2016)
§ 116.64 VIOLATION.
   In addition to treatment as a nuisance, all violations of this subchapter
are subject to punishment under the general penalty provisions in
Chapter 90. Each day in which a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation.
(Ord. 281, passed 8-18-2016)
§ 116.65 CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this subchapter and
the provisions of any other applicable state or local law, the more restrictive
provision shall control.
(Ord. 281, passed 8-18-2016)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Sections 
116.01 through
116.13.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any seller or any other person so required to
fail or refuse to furnish any report required to be made, or fail or refuse to
furnish a supplementary report or other data required by the City Administrator
or to enter a false or fraudulent report, with intent to defeat or evade the
determination of any amount due required by §§
116.01 through
116.13.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of §§
116.01 through
116.13 shall be punishable by the general penalty. Every day in which the
violation is caused or permitted to exist constitutes a separate infraction,
and the punishment therefor shall be in addition to any other penalty,
interest, sum or charge imposed by this code or this chapter. Delinquent taxes
and fees, penalty and interest imposed by §§
116.01 through
116.13 and this code may be collected in a civil action.
      (3)   The remedies provided by this division (A) are not exclusive and
shall not prevent the city from exercising any other remedy available under the
law, nor shall the provisions of this division (A) or §§
116.01 through
116.13 prohibit or restrict the city or other appropriate prosecutor from
pursuing criminal charges under state law or city ordinance.
   (B)   Sections 
116.25 through
116.39.
      (1)   Any person who is found to be in violation of §§
116.25 through
116.39 shall be fined per §
10.99.
      (2)   Failure to comply with the requirements of §§
116.25 through
116.39 shall be considered by the city in any action relating to the issuance
or revocation of a business license.
(Ord. 268, passed 9-4-2014; Ord. 270, passed 4-2-2015)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
Editor's note:
   For general offense provisions, see Title IX.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
         
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
         
152.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
         
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   Expiration of land use applications
   
150.02   State Structural Specialty Code
§ 150.01 EXPIRATION OF LAND USE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Short title. This section may be referred to as the "Ordinance
Prescribing an Expiration Period for All Shady Cove Land Use Application
Approvals".
   (B)   Expiration. The approval of all land use applications, including, but
not limited to, site development plans; subdivisions; partitions; planned unit
developments and building permits, will expire at the conclusion of 365 days
from the date of approval, if substantial construction or development has not
occurred.
   (C)   Approval extension.
      (1)   Upon written request of the applicant, and payment of the
appropriate fee specified in the current fee schedule, the Planning Commission
may grant one approval extension for a period not in excess of six months.
      (2)   An approval extension will be granted only if the original approval
remains in compliance with the city's development and zoning regulations, which
exist at the time of extension application and approval.
      (3)   When considering a request for approval extension, the Planning
Commission may amend the conditions of approval to be consistent with any
changes to the city's standards.
   (D)   Existing approvals. For all existing land use application approvals,
the 365-day period, referenced in division (B) above, will commence on the day
this section becomes effective.
(Ord. 179, passed 9-2-1999)
§ 150.02 STATE STRUCTURAL SPECIALTY CODE.
   (A)   Adoption of regulations. There is hereby adopted as city law, Chapter
33 of the Appendix of the Oregon State Structural Specialty Code, being
particularly the 1998 Edition thereof, prepared and promulgated by the
International Conference of Building Officials, entitled Excavation and
Grading.
   (B)   Effective date. This section shall be effective 30 days after the date
of adoption.
(Ord. 235, passed 8-3-2006)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Statutory authorization
   
151.002   Findings of fact
   
151.003   Statement of purpose
   
151.004   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
151.005   Definitions
   
151.006   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.007   Basis for area of special flood hazard
   
151.008   Coordination with specialty codes adopted by the State of Oregon
Building Codes Division
   
151.009   Establishment of a development permit
   
151.010   Interpretation
   
151.011   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.012   Abrogation and greater restrictions
Administration
   
151.025   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.026   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.027   Permit procedures
   
151.028   Substantial improvement and substantial damage determinations
   
151.029   Watercourse alterations
   
151.030   Requirement to submit new technical data
   
151.031   Non-conversion of enclosed areas below the lowest floor
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.045   Site improvements and subdivisions
   
151.046   Development in regulatory floodways
   
151.047   Building design and construction
   
151.048   Below grade crawlspaces
   
151.049   Accessory structures
   
151.050   Recreational vehicles
   
151.051   Temporary structures and temporary storage
   
151.052   Critical facilities
   
151.053   Tanks
   
151.054   Fences and walls
Variance Procedures and Criteria
   
151.065   Variance
   
151.066   Criteria for variances
   
151.067   Variance decision
   
151.068   Appeals
Flood Hazard Disclosure
   
151.080   Flood hazard disclosure
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The State of Oregon has in O.R.S. 215.515 delegated the responsibility to
local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the City of
Shady Cove ordains and sets out the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of Shady Cove are subject to periodic
inundation that may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood relief and protection, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by structures in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in flood hazard
area causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
   (C)   The City of Shady Cove has the primary responsibility for planning,
adoption and enforcement of land use regulations to accomplish proper
management of special flood hazard areas.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life, health and property;
   (B)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in floodplains;
   (C)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
   (D)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (E)   Minimize the need for rescue, emergency services, and relief
associated with flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general
public;
   (F)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions, unnecessary disruption of
commerce, access and public service during times of flood;
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area
of special flood hazard;
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions; and
   (I)   Manage the alteration of areas of special flood hazard, stream
channels and shorelines to minimize the impact of development on the natural
and beneficial functions.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.004 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purpose, this chapter includes methods and
provisions to:
   (A)   Require development that is vulnerable to floods, including structures
and facilities necessary for the general health, safety and welfare of
citizens, to be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (B)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights,
velocities, or erosion;
   (C)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
   (D)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
   (E)   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural
protective barriers which carry and store flood waters; and
   (F)   Coordinate with and supplement provisions of State of Oregon Specialty
Codes enforced by the State of Oregon Building Codes Division.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Unless
specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall be
interpreted according to the meaning they have in common usage.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same or adjacent parcel as a
principal structure, the use of which is incidental and subordinate to the
principal structure.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam,
culvert, impoundment, channel relocation, change in channel alignment,
channelization, or change in cross-sectional area or capacity, which may alter,
impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the riverine flow of
water during conditions of the base flood.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of provisions of this chapter.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD (also called the SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA
(SFHA). The land in the floodplain within a community subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. Zone designation on the FIRM
begins with the letter A.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. Also called the ONE PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD (1% ACF).
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation during the base
flood in relation to a specified datum. The BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE) is
depicted on the FIRM to the nearest foot and in the FIS to the nearest 0.1
foot.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BELOW-GRADE CRAWLSPACE. An enclosed area below the base flood elevation in
which the interior grade is not more than two feet below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade and the height, measured from the interior grade of the
crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation, does not exceed four feet
at any point.
   BUILDING. A building or structure, including manufactured dwelling, subject
to building codes.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility that needs to be operable during a flood, or
for which even a slight chance of flooding might pose unacceptable risk to
health and safety. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Schools;
      (2)   Nursing homes;
      (3)   Hospitals and other medical facilities having surgery and emergency
treatment areas;
      (4)    Fire and police stations;
      (5)   Tanks or other structures containing, housing or supporting water
or fire-suppression materials or equipment required for the protection of
essential or hazardous facilities or special occupancy structures;
      (6)   Emergency vehicle shelters and garages;
      (7)   Structures and equipment in emergency-preparedness centers;
      (8)   Standby power generating equipment for essential facilities; and
      (9)   Structures and equipment in government communication centers and
other facilities required for emergency response.
   CUMULATIVE SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVE-MENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or other improvement of a structure that equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure at the time of the improvement or repair when
counted cumulatively for ten years. See SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
   DATUM. The vertical datum is a base measurement point (or set of points)
from which all elevations are determined. Historically, that common set of
points has been the National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD29). The
vertical datum currently adopted by the federal government as a basis for
measuring heights is the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials located within the area of special flood hazard.
DEVELOPMENT does not include signs, markers, aids, and the like, placed by a
public agency to serve the public.
   DIGITAL FIRM (DFIRM). Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map. It depicts flood
risk zones and flood risk information. The DFIRM presents the flood risk
information in a format suitable for electronic mapping applications.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advancement or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or other development into regulatory floodway
which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, post, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   EXISTING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A structure for which the “start of
construction” commenced before September 30, 1980.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, delineating the areas of special flood
hazard and/or risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency evaluating flood hazards in a community and containing flood
profiles, regulatory floodway
boundaries and water surface elevations of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY). The channel of a river or other watercourse
and those portions of the floodplain adjoining the channel required and
reserved to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing water
surface elevation more than one foot.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
Refer to the elevation certificate, FEMA Form 81-31, for more information.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. A structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or to a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have
been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that
have been certified either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Insurance
Studies. LOMCs are issued in the following categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was inadvertently included in a designated special
flood hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map
and establishes that a specific structure, property, or portion of a property
is not located in a special flood hazard area;
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
showing, due to manmade alterations, changes to flood zones, flood elevations,
or floodplain and regulatory floodway delineations. One common type of LOMR, a
LOMR-F, is a letter from FEMA stating that a parcel has been elevated by fill
above the base flood elevation and is excluded from the special flood hazard
area; and
      (3)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment by FEMA as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum
National Flood Insurance Program floodplain management criteria. A CLOMR does
not amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, or Flood Insurance
Studies.
   LIMITED STORAGE. Storage of equipment or materials which is incidental and
accessory to the principal use of a structure such as lawn and garden equipment
and snow tires, which cannot be conveniently stored in the elevated portion of
the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or limited storage, in an area other than a
basement, is not considered a structure’s LOWEST FLOOR provided that the
enclosed area is built and maintained in accordance with the applicable design
requirements of the specialty codes and this chapter. The LOWEST FLOOR of a
manufactured dwelling is the bottom of the longitudinal chassis frame beam.
   MANUFACTURED DWELLING or MANU-FACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in
one or more sections, built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with
or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The
term MANUFACTURED DWELLING does not include a “Recreational Vehicle.”
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. A structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after May 3, 2011, and includes subsequent substantial improvements
to the structure.
   REASONABLY SAFE FROM FLOODING. Means that base flood waters will not
inundate the land or damage structures and that any subsurface waters related
to the base flood will not damage existing or proposed buildings.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty
truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily as temporary living quarters for recreational,
camping, travel, or seasonal use and not for use as a permanent dwelling.
   SPECIALTY CODES. The combined specialty codes adopted under O.R.S. 446.062,
446.185, 447.020(2), 455.020(2), 455.496, 455.610, 455.680, 460.085, 460.360,
479.730(1) or 480.545, but does not include regulations adopted by the State
Fire Marshal pursuant to O.R.S. Chapter 476 or O.R.S. 479.015 to 479.200 and
479.210 to 479.220. The combined specialty codes are often referred to as
BUILDING CODES.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes sub-stantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufac-tured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not the altera-tion affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured dwelling, a modular
or temporary building, or a gas or liquid storage tank that is principally
above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of its market value before the damage occurred. SUBSTANTIAL
DAMAGE also means flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT also means “cumulative substantial
improvement”. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage,” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The MARKET VALUE of
the structure is:
      (1)   The real market value of the structure prior to the start of the
initial repair or improvement; or
      (2)   In the case of damage, the real market value of the structure prior
to the damage occurring. The term does not include either:
         (a)   A project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications,
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Alteration of an historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from a requirement of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time
as that documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other
topographic feature in, on, through, or over which water flows at least
periodically.
   WATER DEPENDENT USE. A facility that cannot be used for its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair facilities. The term does not include
long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to a specific datum, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
riverine areas.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.006 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the City of Shady Cove. Nothing in this chapter is intended to
allow uses or structures that are otherwise prohibited by the zoning chapter or
specialty codes.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.007 BASIS FOR AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The area of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in its Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Jackson County, Oregon
and Incorporated Areas, dated January 19, 2018, with accompanying Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) or Digital Flood Insurance Rate Maps (DFIRM) are
adopted by reference and declared a part of this chapter. The FIS and the FIRM
are on file at the office of the City of Shady Cove, 22451 Highway 62, Shady
Cove, Oregon.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.008 COORDINATION WITH SPECIALTY CODES ADOPTED BY THE STATE OF OREGON
BUILDING CODES DIVISION.
   Pursuant to the requirement established in O.R.S. 455 that the city
administers and enforces the State of Oregon Specialty Codes, the City Council
does hereby acknowledge that the Specialty Codes contain certain provisions
that apply to the design and construction of buildings and structures located
in areas of special flood hazard. Therefore, this chapter is intended to be
administered and enforced in conjunction with the Specialty Codes.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.009 ESTABLISHMENT OF A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained prior to initiating development
activities in any areas of special flood hazard established in §
151.007. The permit shall be for all improvements or structures including the
placement of manufactured homes, fences, and fill.
   (B)   Any such development permit application that requires engineering
analysis, calculations or modeling to establish a base flood elevation or
regulatory floodway, or to demonstrate no increase in base flood elevation in
an established regulatory floodway shall be considered a land use action
requiring an opportunity for a quasi-judicial land use hearing.
   (C)   Replacement of public bridges and/or culverts located in the floodway
that necessitate a “no-rise” certification are allowed through a Type I review
process, provided the replacement bridge or culvert is located along a similar
or parallel alignment and contributes no additional material to the floodway.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.010 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes, including state Specialty Codes.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.011 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of the city or any officer, employee, or agent thereof, or the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or an administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.012 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another chapter, building or specialty codes, easement, covenant, or deed
restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.025 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Administrator or his or her designee is hereby appointed as the
Floodplain Administrator who is responsible for administering and implementing
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.026 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but shall not be
limited to:
   (A)   Review all proposed development to determine whether it will be
located in areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas;
   (B)   Review applications for new development or modifications of any
existing development in areas of special flood hazard for compliance with the
requirements of this chapter;
   (C)   Interpret flood hazard area boundaries, provide available flood hazard
information, and provide base flood elevations, where they exist;
   (D)   Review proposed development to ensure that necessary permits have been
received from governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal
or state law. Copies of such permits shall be maintained on file;
   (E)   Review all development permit applications to determine if proposed
development is located in the regulatory floodway, and if so, ensure that the
encroachment standards of §
151.046 are met;
   (F)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
established in §
151.007, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state or other authoritative source in order to administer the provisions of
this chapter;
   (G)   When base flood elevations are not available from an authoritative
source, the Floodplain Administrator shall require base flood elevations to be
developed in accordance with §
151.045(D) of this chapter or take into account the flood hazards, to the
extent they are known, to determine whether a proposed building site or
subdivision will be reasonably safe from flooding;
   (H)   Where a determination is needed of the exact location of boundaries of
the areas of special flood hazard including regulatory floodway (for example,
where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions) the Floodplain Administrator shall make the determination. Any
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the determination;
   (I)   Issue floodplain development permits when the provisions of this
chapter have been met, or deny the same in the event of noncompliance;
   (J)   Coordinate with the Building Official to ensure that applications for
building permits comply with the requirements of this chapter;
   (K)   Obtain, verify and record the actual elevation in relation to the
vertical datum used on the effective FIRM, or in relation to the highest
adjacent grade where no base flood elevation is available, of the lowest floor
level, including basement, of all new construction or substantially improved
buildings and structures, including manufactured dwellings;
   (L)   Obtain, verify and record the actual elevation of finished
construction, in relation to the vertical datum used on the effective FIRM, or
highest adjacent grade where no base flood elevation is available, to which any
new or substantially improved non-residential buildings or structures have been
flood-proofed. When flood-proofing is utilized for a non-residential structure,
the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification of elevation to which
the structure was flood-proofed from a registered professional engineer or
architect;
   (M)   Ensure that all records and certifications pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter are permanently maintained at City Hall and
available for public inspection;
   (N)   Make periodic inspections of areas of special flood hazard to
establish that development activities are being performed in compliance with
this chapter, and to verify that existing buildings and structures maintain
compliance with this chapter;
   (O)   Inspect areas where buildings and structures in areas of special flood
hazard have been damaged, regardless of the cause of damage, and notify owners
that permits may be required prior to repair, rehabilitation, demolition,
relocation, or reconstruc-tion of the building or structure; and
   (P)   Make substantial improvement and substantial damage determinations for
all structures located in areas of special flood hazard in accordance with §
151.028.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.027 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Application for a development permit shall be made to the Floodplain
Administrator or designee on forms furnished by the Floodplain Administrator or
designee prior to starting development activities.
   (A)   Information required at application stage.
      (1)   Plans in triplicate drawn to scale with elevations of the project
area and the nature, location, dimensions of existing and proposed structures,
earthen fill placement, storage of materials or equipment and drainage
facilities.
      (2)   Delineation by a licensed surveyor or registered professional
engineer of areas of special flood hazard, regulatory floodway boundaries
including base flood elevations.
      (3)   For all proposed structures, elevation in relation to base flood
elevation and to the highest adjacent grade of the:
         (a)   Lowest enclosed area, including crawlspace or basement floor;
         (b)   Top of the proposed garage slab, if any; and
         (c)   Next highest floor.
      (4)   Locations and sizes of all flood openings, if required, in any
proposed building.
      (5)   Elevation to which any non-residential structure will be flood-
proofed.
      (6)   Certification from a registered professional engineer or architect
that any proposed non-residential flood-proofed structure will meet the flood-
proofing criteria of the NFIP and Specialty Codes.
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of a proposed development.
      (8)   Proof that application has been made for necessary permits from
other governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or state
law.
   (B)   Information required at construction stage.
      (1)   Copies of all necessary permits from other governmental agencies
from which approval is required by federal or state law must be provided prior
to start of construction.
      (2)   For all new construction and substantial improvements, an as-built
certification of the floor elevation or flood-proofing level immediately after
the lowest floor or flood-proofing is placed and prior to further vertical
construction.
      (3)   For all new construction, certification by a licensed surveyor or
registered professional engineer that the location of any structure in relation
to the regulatory floodway in order to demonstrate no encroachment.
   (C)   Information required to receive a certificate of compliance.
      (1)   In addition to the requirements of the Specialty Codes pertaining
to certificate of occupancy, and prior to the final inspection, the owner or
authorized agent shall submit the following documentation for finished
construction that has been signed and sealed by a licensed surveyor or
registered professional engineer:
         (a)   For elevated buildings and structures in areas of special flood
hazard, the elevation of the lowest floor, including basement or where no base
flood elevation is available the height above highest adjacent grade of the
lowest floor; and
         (b)   For non-residential buildings and structures that have been
floodproofed, the elevation to which the building or structure was
floodproofed.
      (2)   Any deficiencies identified by the Floodplain Administrator shall
be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to work proceeding.
Failure to submit certification or failure to make the corrections shall be
cause for the Floodplain Administrator to issue a stop-work order for the
project. Failure to submit certification or failure to correct violations shall
be cause for the Floodplain Administrator to withhold the certificate of
compliance until such deficiencies are corrected.
   (D)   Expiration of floodplain development permit.
      (1)   A floodplain development permit shall become invalid unless the
work authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its issuance,
or if the work authorized is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days
after the work commences, except for replacement of public bridges and/or
culverts, which shall expire after 12 months, and can be extended upon written
request.
      (2)   Extensions for periods of not more than 180 days each shall be
requested in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and may be subject to
review and additional permit fees.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.028 SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT AND SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE DETERMINATIONS.
   For applications for permits to improve buildings and structures, including
additions, repairs, renovations, and alterations, the Floodplain Administrator
shall:
   (A)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain a
professional appraisal of the market value, of the building or structure before
the proposed work is performed. When repair of damage is proposed, the market
value of the building or structure shall be the market value before the damage
occurred;
   (B)   Compare the cost of improvement, the cost to repair the damaged
building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of improvements
and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or structure;
      (1)   Except as indicated in divisions (B)(2) and (3) below, all costs to
repair substantial damage, including emergency repairs, and the cost of
complying with any county, state, or federal regulation, must be included;
      (2)   The costs associated with the correction of pre-existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications that were
identified by the building official, the director of environmental health, or
any other local code enforcement official prior to the improvement or repair,
and that are the minimum necessary to ensure safe living conditions, shall not
be included;
      (3)   Costs associated with the following items are not included:
         (a)   The preparation and approval of all required plans,
calculations, certifications, and specifications;
         (b)   The performance of surveys or other geotechnical or engineering
studies and resulting reports;
         (c)   Permit and review fees; and
         (d)   The construction, demolition, repair, or modification of outdoor
improvements, including landscaping, fences, swimming pools, detached garages
and sheds, and the like;
      (4)   Proposed alterations to a designated historic building or structure
are not to be considered a substantial improvement unless the alteration causes
a loss of said designation.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall make the final determination of
whether the proposed improvement and/or repairs constitute a substantial
improvement or substantial damage.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall notify the applicant of the results
of the determination in writing.
   (E)   The applicant has the right to appeal the determination pursuant to §
151.068.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.029 WATERCOURSE ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Development shall not diminish the flood carrying capacity of a
watercourse. If any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development the applicant must submit certification by a registered
professional engineer that the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will
not be diminished.
   (B)   Applicant will be responsible for obtaining all necessary permits from
governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or state law,
including but not limited to § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334; the Endangered Species Act of 1973, 16
U.S.C. 1531-1544; and State of Oregon Division of State Lands regulations.
   (C)   If the altered or relocated watercourse is part of an area of special
flood hazard, the applicant shall notify adjacent communities and Oregon
Department of Land Conservation and Development prior to any alteration or
relocation of the watercourse. Evidence of notification must be submitted to
the Floodplain Administrator and to the Federal Emergency Management Agency as
set forth in §
151.030.
   (D)   The applicant shall be responsible for ensuring necessary maintenance
for the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse is provided so that the
flood carrying capacity will not be diminished.
   (E)   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical data in
§
151.030 when an alteration of a watercourse results in the expansion,
relocation or elimination of the special flood hazard area.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.030 REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT NEW TECHNICAL DATA.
   (A)   Within six months of project completion, an applicant who obtains an
approved Conditional Letter of Map Revision from FEMA, or whose development
alters a watercourse or modifies floodplain boundaries or base flood
elevations, shall obtain from FEMA a Letter of Map Revision reflecting the as-
built changes to the FIRM and FIS.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data
prepared in a format required for a Conditional Letter of Map Amendment or
Letter of Map Revision and to submit such data to FEMA on the appropriate
application forms. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall
be the responsibility of the applicant.
   (C)   Applicants shall be responsible for all costs associated with
obtaining a Conditional Letter of Map Amendment or Letter of Map Revision from
FEMA.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign the
community acknowledgment form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application,
until the applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met all
applicable requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.031 NON-CONVERSION OF ENCLOSED AREAS BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR.
   To ensure that enclosed areas that are less than one foot above the BFE
continue to be used solely for parking vehicles, limited storage, or access to
the building and not be finished for use as human habitation, the Floodplain
Administrator shall:
   (A)   Determine which applicants for new construction and/or substantial
improvements have fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are five
feet or higher;
   (B)   Require that the property owner record a “non-conversion declaration”
with the Jackson County Clerk as a deed restriction. The non-conversion
declaration shall be in a form acceptable to the Floodplain Administrator and
County Counsel; and
   (C)   Have the authority to inspect any area of a structure that is less
than one foot above the BFE to ensure compliance upon prior notice of at least
72 hours.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.045 SITE IMPROVEMENTS AND SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   All plans and permits for proposed new site improvements,
subdivisions, and manufactured home parks shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage and ensure that building sites will be reasonably safe
from flooding. The test of reasonableness is a local judgment and includes
historical data, high water marks, photographs of past flooding, and the like.
   (B)   Building lots shall have adequate buildable area outside of regulatory
floodways.
   (C)   Site improvement proposals, subdivision development plans, and
manufactured home park plans shall include the mapped flood hazard zones and
regulatory floodway boundaries from the effective FIRM.
   (D)   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authorized source, it shall be generated for subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least 50 lots or
five acres (whichever is less).
   (E)   Site improvements, subdivisions, and manufactured home parks shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electric and water
systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate damage and
infiltration of floodwaters. Replacement public utilities and facilities such
as sewer, gas, electric and water systems, likewise shall be sited and designed
to minimize or eliminate damage and infiltration of floodwaters.
   (F)   New and replacement on-site waste disposal systems and sanitary
sewerage systems shall be located and constructed to avoid functional
impairment, contamination, or discharges from them, during flooding.
   (G)   Subdivisions and manufactured home parks shall have adequate drainage
provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.046 DEVELOPMENT IN REGULATORY FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, encroachments,
including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, fences and other
development are prohibited in the regulatory floodway unless certification by a
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating through hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering
practice that such encroachment will not result in any increase in flood levels
during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   Any fill permitted to be placed in the regulatory floodway shall be
designed to be stable under conditions of flooding, including rapid rise and
rapid drawdown of floodwaters, prolonged inundation, and flood-related erosion
and scour.
   (C)   If permitted, fences shall not cause any rise in base flood elevation
and are subject to the no-rise and CLOMR provisions of divisions (A) and (D) of
this section.
   (D)   Applicants shall obtain a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR)
from FEMA before an encroachment, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvement, fences, or other development, in the regulatory floodway is
permitted that will cause any increase in the base flood elevation unless the
development causes a temporary encroachment and the conditions in division (E)
of this section are satisfied.
   (E)   Temporary encroachments in the regulatory floodway for the purposes of
capital improvement projects (including bridges) may be allowed even if the
encroachment results in an increase in flood levels during the occurrence of
the base flood discharge, and without obtaining a CLOMR, when:
      (1)   The project is limited as to duration with the days and dates that
the structure or other development will be in the regulatory floodway specified
in the development permit;
      (2)   Accessory structures (i.e. construction trailers) are restricted
from the regulatory floodway;
      (3)   The project limits placement of equipment and material in the
regulatory floodway to that which is absolutely necessary for the purposes of
the project;
      (4)   The project includes a flood warning system sufficient to allow
equipment to be evacuated from the regulatory floodway and placed outside the
area of special flood hazard in the event of imminent flood;
      (5)   The project applicant identifies any insurable structures affected
by temporary changes to the area of special flood hazard or base flood
elevation and notifies owners of any increased risk of flooding; and
      (6)   The project applicant is provided with written notification that
they may be liable for any flood damages resulting from the temporary
encroachment.
   (F)   Projects for stream habitat restoration may be allowed without
certification by a registered professional civil engineer provided:
      (1)   The project qualifies for a Department of the Army, Portland
District Regional General Permit for Stream Habitat Restoration (NWP-2007-
1023);
      (2)   A qualified professional (a registered professional engineer; or
staff of Natural Resources Conservation Service; the county; or fisheries,
natural resources, or water resources agencies) has provided a feasibility
analysis and certification that the project was designed to keep any rise in
100-year flood levels as close to zero as practically possible given the goals
of the project;
      (3)   No structures would be impacted by a potential rise in flood
elevation; and
      (4)   An agreement to monitor the project, correct problems, and ensure
that flood carrying capacity remains unchanged is included as part of the local
approval.
   (G)   All permitted and substantial improvements shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.047 BUILDING DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   In all areas of special flood hazards:
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
      (2)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
      (3)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
using methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (4)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air-conditioning
equipment and other service facilities, including duct work, shall be designed
and/or otherwise elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or
accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding;
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system; and
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (B)   Specific building design and construction standards for residential
construction. In addition to division (A) of this section:
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum
of one foot above the base flood elevation or three feet above highest adjacent
grade where no BFE is defined; and
      (2)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must be either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or
exceed the following minimum criteria:
      (3)   A minimum of two openings, installed on at least two sides of each
enclosed area, having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.
         (a)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (b)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
         (c)   Engineered openings are permitted if the applicant submits
certification from a registered professional engineer that the openings are
sufficient to meet the design requirements of American Society of Civil
Engineers, Flood Resistant Design and Construction Standard (ASCE 24).
   (C)   Specific building design and construction standards for nonresidential
construction.
      (1)   In addition to division (A) of this section, new construction and
substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential
structure shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
according to Table 2-1 the American Society of Civil Engineers, Flood Resistant
Design and Construction Standard (ASCE 24); or, together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities, shall:
         (a)   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         (c)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this division based on their
development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and plans.
Such certifications shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed, must
meet residential standards described in divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
      (3)   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall be notified
that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot below
the floodproofed level (e.g. a building floodproofed to the base flood level
will be rated as one foot below).
   (D)   Specific building design and construction standards for manufactured
dwellings. In addition to divisions (A) and (B) of this section, new,
replacement, and substantially improved manufactured dwellings are subject to
the following standards:
      (1)   If the manufactured dwelling is supported on solid foundation
walls, the ground area reserved for the placement of a manufactured dwelling
shall be a minimum of one foot above BFE unless the foundation walls are
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic forces by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings, on at least two sides, having a total
net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding shall be provided;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (2)   The bottom of the longitudinal chassis frame shall be at or above
BFE.
      (3)   The manufactured dwelling shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse and lateral movement during the base flood. Anchoring methods may
include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors (Reference FEMA’s Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Hazard Areas
guidebook for additional techniques).
      (4)   Electrical crossover connections shall be a minimum of 12 inches
above BFE.
      (5)   Any utility systems must be elevated above BFE or designed so that
floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within the system components during
flood conditions. Ductwork, in particular, must either be placed above the BFE
or sealed from floodwaters. Only the crossover duct is exempt from this
provision.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.048 BELOW GRADE CRAWLSPACES.
   Below-grade crawlspaces are allowed subject to the following standards as
found in FEMA Technical Bulletin 11, Crawlspace Construction for Buildings
Located in Special Flood Hazard Areas. Residents should note that there is an
increased cost for flood insurance associated with below-grade crawlspaces.
There is a charge added to the basic policy premium for a below-grade
crawlspace versus a standard, at grade, crawlspace foundation.
   (A)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Hydrostatic loads and the effects of buoyancy can usually be addressed through
the required openings stated in division (B) of this section. Because of
hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace construc-tion is not allowed in areas with flood
velocities greater than five feet per second unless the design is reviewed by a
qualified design professional, such as a registered architect or professional
engineer. Other types of foundations are recommended for these areas.
   (B)   The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the base flood elevation
(BFE) and, as such, must have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by
allowing the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. The bottom of each flood
vent opening can be no more than one foot above the lowest adjacent exterior
grade.
   (C)   Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation
walls of the crawlspace used to elevate the building, but also any joists,
insulation, or other materials that extend below the BFE. The recommended
construction practice is to elevate the bottom of joists and all insulation
above BFE.
   (D)   Any building utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated
above BFE or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within the
system components during flood conditions. Ductwork, in particular, must either
be placed above the BFE or sealed from floodwaters.
   (E)   The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be more than
two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior grade.
   (F)   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall must not
exceed four feet at any point. The height limitation is the maximum allowable
unsupported wall height according to the engineering analyses and building code
requirements for flood hazard areas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1636a0df48b6a27c8aba7e42893962fa27c1b602/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1443.jpg]
 
   (G)   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained
within a reasonable time after a flood event. The type of drainage system will
vary because of the site gradient and other drainage characteristics, such as
soil types. Possible options include natural drainage through porous, well-
drained soils and drainage systems such as perforated pipes, drainage tiles or
gravel or crushed stone drainage by gravity or mechanical means.
   (H)   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five feet
per second for any crawlspace. For velocities in excess of five feet per
second, other foundation types should be used.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.049 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Relief from the elevation or dry flood-proofing standards may be granted for
new and replacement accessory structures containing no more than 200 square
feet. Such a structure must meet the following standards:
   (A)   It shall not be subject to Specialty Codes;
   (B)   The accessory structure shall be located on a property, or an adjacent
property with same owner, as a dwelling;
   (C)   It shall not be used for human habitation and may be used solely for
parking of vehicles or storage of items having low damage potential when
submerged;
   (D)   Toxic material, oil or gasoline, or any priority persistent pollutant
identified by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality shall not be
stored below BFE, or where no BFE is available lower than three feet above
grade, unless confined in a tank installed in compliance with this chapter;
   (E)   It shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
   (F)   It shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
   (G)   It shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
   (H)   Services such as electrical and heating equipment shall be elevated or
flood-proofed to or above the base flood elevation; and
   (I)   It shall be designed to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls by allowing for the automatic entry and exit of floodwater. Designs for
complying with this requirement must be certified by a licensed professional
engineer or architect or provide a minimum of two openings, on at least two
sides, with a total net area of not less than one square inch for every square
foot of enclosed area subject to flooding:
      (1)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
the higher of the exterior or interior grade or floor immediately below the
opening; and
      (2)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwater in
both directions without manual intervention.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.050 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, recreational vehicles that are an
allowed use or structure under the zoning chapter must either:
   (A)   Be placed on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or jacking
system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and have no permanently attached structures or addition; or
   (C)   Meet all the requirements of §
151.046(D) including the anchoring and elevation requirements.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.051 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES AND TEMPORARY STORAGE.
   (A)   Temporary structures placed in areas of special flood hazard. Relief
from dry flood-proofing standards may be granted for non-residential structures
erected during the dry season (June - October) or for a period of less than 90
days. Temporary structures shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement resulting from hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy, during conditions of the base flood. A plan for the evacuating the
temporary structure and disconnecting all utilities shall be provided if the
structure is allowed to be placed during the wet season (November - May).
   (B)   Temporary storage in areas of special flood hazard. Temporary storage
of goods and materials is allowed during the dry season (June - October) or for
a period of less than 90 days. Stored materials shall not include hazardous
materials. A plan for removing the stored materials shall be provided if the
material is allowed to be placed during the wet season (November - May).
   (C)   The placement of any temporary structures within the regulatory
floodway shall be limited to the dry season (June - October) and require an
approved special use permit.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.052 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the area of special flood hazard. Construction of
new critical facilities shall be permissible within the area of special flood
hazard if no feasible alternative site is available. Floodproofing and sealing
measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances or priority organic
pollutants as defined by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality will
not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or
above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to all critical
facilities to the maximum extent possible.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.053 TANKS.
   (A)   New and replacement tanks in flood hazard areas shall either be
elevated above the base flood elevation on a supporting structure designed to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement during conditions of the base
flood, or be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement
resulting from hydrostatic loads, including the effects of 1.5 times the
buoyant forces assuming the tank is empty, during conditions of the base flood,
in accordance with ASCE 24.
   (B)   New and replacement tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents
shall be placed a minimum of two feet above base flood elevation or fitted with
covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents
of the tank during conditions of the base flood.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.054 FENCES AND WALLS.
   (A)   Fences are a form of development and require a floodplain development
permit pursuant to §
151.009. Evaluation of floodplain development permit applications for proposed
fences will be based on the following criteria:
      (1)   Fencing that consists of solid walls, creates a barrier impervious
to stream flow or fencing that greatly restricts the passage of water will not
be allowed. These include masonry walls, retaining walls, chain link fencing,
space board-type fencing or similar fencing that creates a solid wall either by
design or the accumulation of debris.
      (2)   Fencing outside the floodway but within the special flood hazard
area will be restricted to the least flow-restrictive types of open fencing
that allows the passage of water.
      (3)   Barbed wire fencing or other like material, which creates an
unreasonable or unnecessary risk of injury are prohibited in the special flood
hazard area.
   (B)   New and replacement fencing shall be designed to collapse under
conditions of the base flood or to allow the passage of water and debris. The
following provisions shall apply to all fences permitted in the SFHA:
      (1)   Fences in the regulatory floodway are prohibited;
      (2)   Fences must be setback a minimum of five feet from the top-of-bank;
      (3)   Fencing must be built in removable sections;
      (4)   Fencing that consists of solid walls, creates a barrier impervious
to stream flow or fencing that greatly restricts the flow of water is
prohibited; and
      (5)   Fences that are significantly damaged or destroyed by a flood shall
require a floodplain development permit pursuant to §
151.009 to ensure that reconstruction methods are consistent with the need to
minimize future flood damages.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
151.999
VARIANCE PROCEDURES AND CRITERIA
§ 151.065 VARIANCE.
   The City Council shall hear and decide appeals from the interpretations of
the Floodplain Administrator.
   (A)   An application for a variance must be submitted to the city on the
form provided by the city and include at a minimum the same information
required for a development permit and an explanation for the basis for the
variance request.
   (B)   The burden to show that the variance is warranted and meets the
criteria set out herein is on the applicant.
   (C)   Upon consideration of the criteria in §
151.066 and the purposes of this chapter, the city may attach such conditions
to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of
this chapter.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a permanent record of all
variances and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
upon request.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.066 CRITERIA FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall not be issued within a designated regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (B)   Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the
elevation standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing items in division (H)(1) through (11) of this section
have been fully considered. As the lot size increases the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon a:
      (1)   Showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   Determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   Determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for a water dependent use provided that:
      (1)   The criteria of divisions (A) through (D) of this section are met;
and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Statewide Inventory of Historic Properties, without regard to the
procedures set forth in this section.
   (G)   Variances as interpreted in the National Flood Insurance Program are
based on the general zoning law principle that they pertain to a physical piece
of property; they are not personal in nature and do not pertain to the
structure, its inhabitants, economic or financial circumstances. They primarily
address small lots in densely populated residential neighborhoods. As such,
variances from the flood elevations should be quite rare.
   (H)   When reviewing such applications, the City Council shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   Importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
community;
      (5)   Necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.067 VARIANCE DECISION.
   The decision to either grant or deny a variance shall be in writing and
shall set forth the reasons for such approval and denial. If the variance is
granted, the property owner shall be put on notice along with the written
decision that the permitted building will have its lowest floor below the base
flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance likely will be
commensurate with the increased flood damage risk.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 151.068 APPEALS.
   (A)   The City Council shall hear and decide appeals from the
interpretations of the Floodplain Administrator.
      (1)   An appeal must be filed with the City Administrator within 30 days
of the date of any permit denial or interpretation of the Floodplain Admin-
istrator. Failure to timely file an appeal shall be considered a failure to
exhaust the administrative remedies. The appeal must set out the interpretation
or decision of the Floodplain Administrator and a narrative setting forth the
facts relied upon by the appellant and the appellants claim regarding the error
in the interpretation or decision.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a completed appeal, the appeal will be scheduled
for the next available City Council meeting to be heard. The City Council shall
consider criteria set forth in §
151.066 as the basis for evaluating the appeal.
   (B)   The City Council’s decision on an appeal shall be in writing and set
out the facts, technical information and the legal basis for the decision.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
FLOOD HAZARD DISCLOSURE
§ 151.080 FLOOD HAZARD DISCLOSURE.
   This section applies to the transfer on or after May 3, 2011, by sale,
exchange, installment land sale contract, lease with an option to purchase, any
other option to purchase, or ground lease coupled with improvements, of any
real property, improved with or consisting of one or more dwelling units.
   (A)   A person who is acting as an agent for a transferor of real property
that is located within an area of special flood hazard, or the transferor if he
or she is acting without an agent, shall disclose, in writing, to any
prospective transferee the fact that the property is located within a special
flood hazard area and is subject to the provisions of this chapter if either:
      (1)   The transferor, or the transferor’s agent, has actual knowledge
that the property is within a special flood hazard area; or
      (2)   The property has been identified by the Floodplain Administrator as
being within the special flood hazard area.
   (B)   Any waiver of the requirements of this subchapter is void as against
public policy.
   (C)   After a transferor and his or her agent comply with this section, they
shall be relieved of further duty with respect to those items of information.
The transferor and his or her agent shall not be required to provide notice to
the transferee if the information provided subsequently becomes inaccurate as a
result of any governmental action, map revision, changed information, or other
act or occurrence, unless the transferor or agent has actual knowledge that the
information has become inaccurate.
   (D)   If information disclosed in accordance with this subchapter is
subsequently rendered inaccurate as a result of any governmental action, map
revision, changed information, or other act or occurrence subsequent to the
delivery of the required disclosures, the inaccuracy resulting therefrom does
not constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Each disclosure required by this section and each act that may be
performed in making the disclosure shall be made in good faith. For purposes of
this subchapter, GOOD FAITH means honesty in fact in the conduct of the
transaction.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted
or altered unless in full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
      (1)   Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of
its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
      (2)   Each day the violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other
lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 259, passed 3-17-2011; Ord. 286, passed 12-7-2017)
CHAPTER 152: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
152.01   Comprehensive Plan adopted by reference
§ 152.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The 2004 Comprehensive Plan, attached as Exhibit "A" to the ordinance
codified herein, is incorporated by reference, made a part of this section and
is hereby adopted as the "City of Shady Cove 2004 Comprehensive Plan".
(Ord. 222, passed 10-7-2004; Ord. 243, passed 6-21-2007; Ord. 254, passed 1-21-
2010; Ord. 279, passed 6-16-2016; Ord. 282, passed 11-17-2016)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Intent
   
153.02   General provisions
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Land division classification and procedures for Type I, II and II
divisions
   
153.05   Property line adjustment
   
153.06   Minor and major partitions
   
153.07   Nonresidential partitions or subdivisions
   
153.08   Subdivisions
   
153.09   Land division design standards
   
153.10   Unsuitable development
   
153.11   Accessways
   
153.12   Easements
   
153.13   Alleys
   
153.14   Shared private drives
   
153.15   Flag lots
   
153.16   Streets
   
153.17   Lot design
   
153.18   Infrastructure
   
153.19   Pedestrian and bicycle
   
153.20   Erosion control
   
153.21   Improvement procedures
   
153.22   Performance guarantee
   
153.23   Damages
   
153.24   Violations
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 INTENT.
   (A)   The intent of this chapter is to implement the comprehensive plan, to
provide procedures, regulations, and design standards for land divisions and
associated improvements and to provide for orderly and efficient land division
patterns supported by a connected system of streets, water supply, sewage and
drainage facilities.
   (B)   The division of land is the initial step in establishing Shady Cove's
ultimate development pattern. The framework of streets, blocks and individual
lots is implemented through the land division process. Density, units per gross
acre, and dimensional standards are established in zoning district regulations.
   (C)   This chapter presents the review procedures, design standards and
improvement requirements for land divisions. Procedures for replats and
property line adjustments are also addressed in this chapter.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No land shall be divided prior to approval of a minor partition, major
partition or subdivision in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   No sale or conveyance of any portion of a lot, for other than a public
purpose, shall leave a structure on the remainder of a lot with less than the
minimum lot, yard or setback requirements of the zoning district.
   (C)   Land division is processed by approval of a tentative plan prior to
approval of the final land division plat or map. Where a Type II or Type III
procedure is required for land division approval, that procedure shall apply to
the tentative plan approval. As long as there is compliance with the approved
tentative plan and conditions, the Director shall have the authority to approve
final plats and maps for land divisions through a Type I procedure.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Intention of definitions. These definitions are intended to provide
specific meanings for words and terms commonly used in zoning and land use
regulations.
   (B)   Meaning of words, generally. All words and terms used in this chapter
have their commonly accepted, dictionary meaning unless they are specifically
defined in this chapter or the context in which they are used clearly indicated
to the contrary.
   (C)   Meaning of common words.
      (1)   All words used in the plural include the singular, and all words
used in the singular include the plural unless the context clearly indicates to
the contrary.
      (2)   The word "shall" is mandatory and the word "may" is permissive.
      (3)   The word "building" includes the word "structure".
      (4)   The phrase "used for" includes the phrases "arranged for",
"designed for", "intended for", "maintained for", and "occupied for".
      (5)   The word "land" and "property" are used interchangeably unless the
context clearly indicates to the contrary.
      (6)   The word "person" may be taken for persons, associations, firms,
partnerships or corporations.
   (D)   Meaning of specific words and terms. The listed specific words and
terms are defined as follows:
      ABUTTING LOTS. Two or more lots joined by a common boundary line or
point. For the purposes of this definition, no boundary line shall be deemed
interrupted by a road, street, alley or public way, it being the intent of this
definition to treat property lying on the opposite sides of a road, street,
alley or public way as having a common boundary line or point.
      ACCESS. A pedestrian, bicycle, or motor vehicular entrance to a property.
      ALLEY. A public or private way permanently reserved as a means of access
to abutting property, usually with principal access from another street.
      ARTERIAL. See STREET.
      BERM. An earthen mound designed to provide a visual interest, screen
undesirable views, and/or decrease noise.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1636a0df48b6a27c8aba7e42893962fa27c1b602/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1130.jpg]
 
      BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by street or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, drainageways, or
unsubdivided land.
      BOARDING, LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE. An establishment with lodging for not
less than five persons nor more than ten persons not including members of the
owner-occupant or tenant-occupant family, other than a hotel or motel, where
lodging, with or without meals, is provided.
      BOND. Any form of security (including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property, or instrument of credit) in an amount and form
satisfactory to the city.
      BREEZEWAY. A structure for the principal purpose of connecting the main
building or buildings on a property with other main buildings or accessory
buildings.
      BUFFER. A combination of physical space and vertical elements, such as
plants, berms, fences or walls, designed to provide space or distance, obstruct
undesirable views, serve as an acoustic barrier, generally reduce impacts of
adjacent development, or separate and screen incompatible land uses from each
other.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1636a0df48b6a27c8aba7e42893962fa27c1b602/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1133.jpg]
 
      BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for support, shelter or
enclosure of any persons, animals, goods, equipment or chattels and property of
any kind.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. See HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS definition.
      BUILDING LINE. A line on a plat indicating the limit beyond which
buildings or structures may not be erected, or the minimum distance as
prescribed by this chapter between the property line abutting a street and the
closest point of the foundation of any building or structure related thereto.
BUILDING LINE means a line established by this title to govern the placement of
a building with respect to the front lot line through the setback requirements
of a minimum front yard. A BUILDING LINE is ordinarily parallel to the front
lot line and at a distance in accordance with the setback requirement.
      BUILDING TYPES.
         (a)   NONRESIDENTIAL. That group of building types comprising the
following:
            1.   DETACHED. A single main building, freestanding and
structurally separated from other buildings.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1636a0df48b6a27c8aba7e42893962fa27c1b602/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1136.jpg]
 
            2.   ATTACHED. Two or more main buildings placed side by side so
that some structural parts are touching one another.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1636a0df48b6a27c8aba7e42893962fa27c1b602/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1139.jpg]
 
         (b)   RESIDENTIAL. That group of building types comprising the
following:
            1.   SINGLE DETACHED. One dwelling unit, freestanding and
structurally separated from any other dwelling unit or buildings, located on a
lot or development site, including manufactured homes as defined in this
chapter.
            2.   DUPLEX. Two dwelling units located on a single lot or
development site.
            3.   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. At least three dwelling units in any
vertical or horizontal arrangement, located on a lot or development site. An
existing dwelling may be utilized as part of a multi-family dwelling when
redevelopment of the site occurs and does not have to be attached to another
structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1636a0df48b6a27c8aba7e42893962fa27c1b602/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1142.jpg]
 
            4.   MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARK. A place where four or more
manufactured or mobile homes are located within 500 feet of one another on a
lot, tract, or parcel of land under the same ownership, the primary purpose of
which is to rent or keep space for rent or to offer space free in connection
with securing the trade or patronage of such person.
      CITY. The City of Shady Cove.
      CITY ENGINEER. Any engineer registered with the state who is employed or
designated by the city to perform the function or functions described in the
context of this chapter. The engineer may be employed or designated either
generally or with respect to a particular matter or matters.
      COLLECTOR. A street supplementary to Highway 62 used for through traffic
and access to abutting properties.
      CORNER CLEARANCE. The distance from an intersection of a public or
private road to the nearest access connection, measured from the closest edge
of the pavement of the connection along the traveled way.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The comprehensive development plan for the city,
comprising plans, maps or reports, or any combination thereof relating to the
future economic and physical growth and development or redevelopment of the
city.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and have at turn-around
at the opposite end.
      DEFERRED IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and
subdivider or land partitioner for future improvement of a street or streets if
and when the city determines it is time to improve the street to city
standards. The cost upon completion will be assessed to the abutting property
owners in just proportion to the benefit received.
      DENSITY, GROSS. The number of residential dwelling units per gross acre
of land.
      DENSITY, NET. The number of dwelling units per net acre (based on the
total area of the parcel) excluding areas dedicated for public use.
      DETENTION, STORMWATER. A detention facility that temporarily stores
stormwater runoff and subsequently releases it at a slower rate than would
otherwise occur.
      DEVELOPER. The owner of property, agent or contractor, successor or
assign, who has undertaken or is proposing development.
      DISTRICT. A portion of the total area within the boundaries of the city
within which specific sections of these regulations apply. For example, the R-
1, Single-family Residential District.
      EASEMENT. A right that a person has to use someone's land for a specific
purpose such as access or utilities.
      EFFECTS OF BUOYANCY. Uplift force of water on a submerged or partially
submerged object.
      EROSION. Detachment and movement of soil, rock fragments, refuse, or any
other material, organic or inorganic.
      FLAG LOT. A lot that has access to a public right-of-way by means of a
narrow strip of land.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1636a0df48b6a27c8aba7e42893962fa27c1b602/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1145.jpg]
 
      FLOOD, SLOPE AND HAZARD AREAS.
         (a)   BUILDABLE AREAS. Accessible lands of less than 15% slope that
lie outside the 100-year floodplain and outside water quality setback areas.
         (b)   CONSTRAINED AREAS  Accessible lands of 15%-24.9% slope outside
the 100-year floodplain and outside water quality setback areas.
         (c)   UNBUILDABLE AREAS. Floodway areas, steeply sloped land (that is
25% slope or greater), associated wetlands, and land within riparian corridor
boundaries and water quality setback areas.
      FLOODPLAIN Any land susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source. The base flood area as defined on the Flood Insurance Rate Map is the
100-year floodplain. See also ASSOCIATED WETLAND or SLOPED AREA.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and adjacent land areas that
must be reserved exclusively to discharge the waters of a base flood.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1636a0df48b6a27c8aba7e42893962fa27c1b602/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1148.jpg]
 
      FRONTAGE. That portion of a development site that abuts a public or
private street.
      GRADE. The lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the
ground, paving or sidewalk within the area between the building and the
property line, or, when the property line is more than five feet from the
building, between the building and a line five feet from the building.
      HAZARD AREAS. See FLOOD, SLOPE, AND HAZARD AREAS.
      HOME BUSINESS. A lawful commercial activity commonly carried on within a
dwelling or attached or detached accessory structure.
      LAND AREA, NET. That land area remaining after all area covered by
impervious surfaces has been excluded (subtracted).
      LAND DIVISION. Land divided to create legally separate parcels in one of
the following ways:
         (a)   PARTITION. A division of land that creates three or fewer lots
within a calendar year when such parcel exists as a unit or contiguous units of
land under single ownership at the beginning of the year. See also, REPLAT,
MINOR.
         (b)   A partition includes:
            1.   MAJOR PARTITION. A partition which includes the creation of a
street.
            2.   MINOR PARTITION. A partition that does not include the
creation of a street.
            3.   SERIES PARTITION. A series of partitions resulting in the
creation of four or more parcels over a period of more than one calendar year
and composed of a series of major partitions or minor partitions, or a series
combining both major and minor partitions.
         (c)   A partition does not include division of land resulting from any
of the following:
            1.   Establishment or modifications of a "tax lot" by the County
Assessor;
            2.   A lien foreclosure, foreclosure of a recorded contract for the
sale of real property or creation of cemetery lots;
            3.   An adjustment of a property line by relocation of a common
boundary where an additional unit of land is not created and where the existing
unit of land reduced in size by the adjustment complies with any applicable
development district criteria established by ordinance;
            4.   Sale or grant by a person to a pubic agency or public body for
state highway, county road, city street or other right-of-way purposes provided
that such road or right-of-way complies with the applicable comprehensive plan
policies.
         (d)   SUBDIVISION. Division of an area or tract of land into four or
more lots within a calendar year when such area or tract of land exists as a
unit or contiguous units of land under a single ownership at the beginning of
such year.
      LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. In the case of an interior lot, a property line that
abuts the street. In the case of a corner lot, the front line shall be
determined by orientation of the structure based on at least two of the
following factors: location of the front door, location of the driveway, or
legal street address.
      LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line that is not abutting a public street and which
is opposite the front lot line of the lot. In the case of a triangular or
otherwise irregularly shaped lot, the REAR LOT LINE shall be a line ten feet in
length within the lot and parallel to and at a maximum distance from the front
lot line.
         (a)   Is parallel to the front lot line or its chord and,
         (b)   Intersects the other lot lines at points most distant from the
front line (see figure below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1636a0df48b6a27c8aba7e42893962fa27c1b602/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1151.jpg]
 
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary not a front or rear lot line (see figure
under LOT LINE, REAR).
      LOT, REVERSED CORNER. A corner lot whose rear line borders the side yard
of another lot, whether or not separated by an alley.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot of record whose front and rear lot lines both abut
streets.
      LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the midpoints of the side lot
lines.
      NUISANCE. Activity or use that is annoying, unpleasant or obnoxious.
      OWNER. The owner of record of real property as shown on the latest tax
rolls of Jackson County, or by the deed records of such county, or a person who
is purchasing property under contract. In terms of violations and binding
agreements between the city and owner, the OWNER shall also mean leaseholder,
tenant, or other person in possession or control of the premises or property at
the time of agreement or of violation of agreement or the provisions of this
chapter. OWNER shall also mean authorized representative.
      PARCEL. A unit of land created by partitioning of land.
      PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, social or
fraternal organization, trust, estate, receiver, syndicate, branch of
government, or any group or combination acting as a unit.
      PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A land development project comprehensively planned
as an entity via a unified site plan that permits flexibility in building
siting, mixtures of building types and land uses, useable open spaces, and the
preservation of significant natural features. PLANNED DEVELOPMENT means the
proposed land development project as finally approved by the Planning
Commission, and shall include a plat, all covenants, grants of easement, and
other conditions relating to use, location and bulk of building, density of
development, common open space and public facilities. The plan shall include
such information as required by this zoning title.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Shady Cove,
Oregon.
      PLAT. Refers to a final subdivision plat, replat or partition plat.
      PLAT, PARTITION. A final map, diagram, drawing, replat, or other writing
containing all the descriptions, locations, specifications, provisions and
information concerning a partition.
      PLAT, SUBDIVISION. A final map, diagram, drawing, replat, or other
writing containing all the descriptions, locations, specifications,
dedications, provisions, and information concerning a subdivision.
      PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT. The relocation of a common property boundary
where an additional unit of land is not created and where an existing unit of
land reduced in size by the adjustment complies with any applicable development
district regulation.
      PUBLIC FACILITY.
         (a)   Public facilities include, but are not limited to, sanitary
sewer, water, storm drainage, street, communication, electrical and natural gas
facilities necessary to support development.
         (b)   There are two types of public facilities:
            1.   PUBLIC FACILITY, MAJOR. Any public service improvement or
structure developed by or for a public agency that is not defined as a minor
public facility, including but not limited to electrical substations, sewer and
water treatment plants, water reservoirs, trunk lines, regional stormwater
detention facilities, new or expanded public buildings designed for human
occupancy that increase traffic within a neighborhood, and active park
improvements such as ball fields or restroom facilities.
            2.   PUBLIC FACILITY, MINOR. Minor utility structures (e.g., poles,
lines, pipes); minor sewer, water and storm drainage structures and collection
system improvements (e.g., pump stations, lines, manholes, valves, hydrants,
drains, on-site detention facilities); new or extended public streets
(including lane additions), minor improvements to existing streets (e.g.,
overlays, catch basins, signs, control devices, widening, curbs, gutter,
sidewalks); minor transit improvements (e.g., bus stops or shelters); passive
park improvements (e.g., trails, benches, native plantings or picnic areas).
      REPLAT, MAJOR. The reconfiguring of lots in a recorded subdivision plat
that results in either the creation of four or more additional lots, deletion
of four or more lots, or reconfiguring of four or more lots.
      REPLAT, MINOR. The reconfiguring of lots in a recorded subdivision plat
that results in either the creation of four or fewer lots, deletion of three or
fewer lots, or reconfiguring of three or fewer lots.
      SETBACK. The minimum allowable horizontal distance from a given point or
line of reference, which for purposes of this chapter shall be the property
line, to the nearest vertical wall of a building or structure, fence, or other
elements as defined by this chapter.
      SITE. The property subject to a development permit or erosion control
plan.
      SITE PLAN. A plan, prepared to scale, showing accurately and with
complete dimensioning, the boundaries of a site and the location of all
buildings, structures, uses, and principal site development features proposed
for a specific parcel of land.
      SLOPE. See FLOOD, SLOPE, AND HAZARD AREAS.
      STREAM. A channel such as a river or creek that carries, flowing surface
water, including perennial streams and intermittent streams with defined
channels, and excluding man-made irrigation and drainage channels.
      STREET. A public or private way that is created to provide ingress or
egress for persons to one or more lots, parcels, areas or tracts of land and
including the terms road, highway, lane, avenue, alley or similar designation.
         ARTERIAL HIGHWAYS. Highway 62, which carries a majority of vehicle
trips entering, leaving, or passing through the Shady Cove area.
         COLLECTOR STREETS. These provide both access and circulation within
residential neighborhoods and commercial are.
         CUL-DE-SAC (DEAD END STREET). A local street having one end open to
traffic and being terminated by a vehicle turnaround.
         LOCAL STREETS. The primary function is to provide access to
immediately adjacent land.
         STUB STREETS. A portion of a street or cross access drive uses as an
extension to an abutting property that may be developed in the future.
      SUBDIVISION. See LAND DIVISION.
      UNBUILDABLE AREAS. Floodway areas, steeply sloped land (25% slope or
greater), associated wetlands, and land within riparian corridor boundaries and
water quality setback areas.
      VARIANCE, AREA. A dispensation permitted on individual parcels of
property as a method of alleviating unnecessary hardship by allowing a
deviation from dimensional (i.e., height, bulk, yard, setbacks) requirements of
the Zoning Ordinance because of unusual or unique conditions.
      WETLAND. Wetlands generally include, but are not limited to, swamps,
marshes, bogs, and similar wet areas. WETLANDS are areas inundated or saturated
by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to
support a prevalence of hydrophytic vegetation. Hydrophytic vegetation
typically is adapted for life in saturated soils, and under normal
circumstances would be found in wetlands.
      WETLAND OR SLOPED AREA. Refers to a wetland or sloped area that overlaps
with or is adjacent to a stream corridor, natural drainage way or floodplain.
      ZONING DISTRICT. An area of land within the Shady Cove city limits,
designated for specific types of permitted developments, subject to the
development requirements of that district.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.04 LAND DIVISION CLASSIFICATION AND PROCEDURES FOR TYPE I, II, AND III
DIVISIONS.
   (A)   Type I land division (property line adjustment). Property line
adjustments shall be a Type I procedure if the resulting parcels comply with
standards of the development code and this chapter.
   (B)   Type I land division (minor partition). A minor partition shall be a
Type I procedure if the land division does not create a street and the
resulting parcels comply with the standards of the zoning district and this
chapter.
   (C)   Type II land division (major partition or subdivision). A major
partition or subdivision shall be a Type II procedure when a street is
extended, satisfactory street conditions exist and the resulting parcels/lots
comply with the standards of the zoning district and this chapter. Satisfactory
street conditions exist when the city determines one of the following:
      (1)   Existing streets are stubbed to the property boundaries and are
linked by the land division.
      (2)   An existing street or a new proposed street need not continue
beyond the land division in order to complete an appropriate street system or
to provide access to adjacent property.
      (3)   The proposed street layout is consistent with a street pattern
adopted as part of the zoning or subdivision ordinance or an officially adopted
city street plan.
   (D)   Type II land division (minor revised plat). A minor replat of an
existing platted subdivision shall be a Type Il procedure when the street(s)
are existing and no extension or reconstruction/realignment is necessary, when
the replat does not increase the allowable density, the resulting parcels
comply with the standards of the zoning district and this chapter, and the
replat involves no more than six lots.
   (E)   Type III land division (major partition or subdivision). A major
partition or subdivision shall be a Type III procedure if unsatisfactory street
conditions exist or the resulting parcels/lots do not comply with the standards
of the zoning district and this chapter. The city shall determine if
unsatisfactory street conditions exist based on one of the following criteria:
      (1)   The land division does not link streets that are stubbed to the
boundaries of the property.
      (2)   An existing street or a new proposed street will be extended beyond
the boundaries of the land division to complete a street system or provide
access to adjacent property.
      (3)   The proposed street layout is inconsistent with a street pattern
adopted as part of the comprehensive plan or officially adopted city street
plan.
   (F)   Type III land division (major replat). A major replat involves the
realignment of property lines involving more than six lots, even if the
subdivision does not increase the allowable density. All parcels resulting from
the replat must comply with the standards of the zoning district and this
chapter. Any replat involving the creation, extension or modification of a
street shall be processed as a major replat.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-1004)
§ 153.05 PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT.
   Approval of a property line adjustment is required to move a common boundary
between two parcels or lots. A Type I property line adjustment is not
considered a development action for purposes of determining whether floodplain,
greenway, or right-of-way dedication or improvements are required.
   (A)   Application requirements. Property line adjustment applications shall
be made on forms provided by the city and shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Eight copies of the property line adjustment MAP;
      (2)   The required fee;
      (3)   Any data or narrative necessary to explain the application.
   (B)   Map information. The property line adjustment map and narrative shall
include the following:
      (1)   The names, addresses and phone numbers of the owner(s) of the
subject parcels and authorized representative;
      (2)   Scale of the drawing using an engineer's scale;
      (3)   North arrow and date;
      (4)   Legal description of the property;
      (5)   Dimensions and size of the parcels involved in the property line
adjustment;
      (6)   Approximate locations of structures, utilities, rights-of-way and
easements;
      (7)   Points of access, existing and proposed;
      (8)   Any natural features such as waterways, drainage area, significant
vegetation or rock outcroppings;
      (9)   Approximate topography, particularly noting any area of steep
slope.
   (C)   Approval criteria. The city shall approve a request for a property
line adjustment if the following criteria are satisfied:
      (1)   No additional parcels are created;
      (2)   All parcels meet the density requirements and dimensional standards
of the base zoning district;
      (3)   Access, utilities, easements, and proposed future streets will not
be adversely affected by the property line adjustment.
   (D)   Final approval. Three paper copies of the final map shall be submitted
within one year of approval of the property line adjustment. The final map
shall include a boundary survey, which complies with O.R.S. Chapters 92 and
209. The approved final map, along with required deeds, must be recorded with
Jackson County.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.06 MINOR AND MAJOR PARTITIONS.
   Approval of a partition is required for a land division of three or fewer
parcels in a calendar year. Partitions, which do not require creation or
extension of a street for access is, classified as a Type I minor partition.
Partitions, which require creation or extension of a street for access is
classified as a Type II, major partition.
   (A)   Application requirements. Partition applications shall be made on
forms provided by the planning department and shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Eight copies of the tentative plan for the minor or major
partition;
      (2)   The required fee;
      (3)   Any data or narrative necessary to explain the application;
      (4)   List of affected property owners.
   (B)   Tentative partition plan. The tentative plan shall be a minimum of
eight and one-half by 11 inches in size and shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The date, north point, engineering scale, and legal description;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner of record and of the person who
prepared the partition plan;
      (3)   Zoning, size and dimensions of the tract to be partitioned;
      (4)   Size, dimensions and identification of proposed parcels (parcel 1,
parcel 2, parcel 3);
      (5)   Approximate location of any structures on the tract to be
partitioned, including setbacks to proposed parcel boundaries;
      (6)   Location, names and widths of streets, sidewalks and bikeways
within the tract to be partitioned and extending 400 feet beyond the tract
boundaries;
      (7)   Location, width and purpose of existing and proposed easements on
the tract to be partitioned;
      (8)   Location and size of sewer, water and drainage facilities proposed
to serve the tract to be partitioned;
      (9)   Natural features such as waterways, drainage area, significant
vegetation or rock outcroppings;
      (10)   Approximate topography, particularly noting any area of steep
slope;
      (11)   A plan for future parcel redivision, if the proposed parcels are
large enough to be redivided under the comprehensive plan or zoning
designation.
   (C)   Approval criteria. The City or Planning Commission shall review the
tentative plan for a minor or major partition based on the classification
procedure (Type I, II or III) and the following approval criteria:
      (1)   The proposed partition is consistent with the density, setback and
dimensional standards of the base zoning district;
      (2)   The proposed partition is consistent with the design standards set
forth in this chapter;
      (3)   Adequate public facilities are available or can be provided to
serve the proposed partition;
      (4)   All proposed improvements meet city standards;
      (5)   The plan preserves the potential for future redivision of the
parcels, if applicable;
      (6)   No parcel shall be landlocked as a result of the partition.
   (D)   Conditions. The city or Planning Commission may require dedication of
land and easements and may specify such conditions or modifications of the
tentative partition plan as deemed necessary. In no event, however, shall the
city or Planning Commission require greater dedications or conditions than
could be required if the entire tract were subdivided.
   (E)   Approval of tentative partition plan. When a tentative partition plan
has been approved, all copies shall be marked with the date and conditions of
approval. One copy shall be returned to the applicant, one copy shall be sent
to the county and one copy shall be retained by the city.
   (F)   Approval signatures for final partition map. Following review and
approval of a final partition map, the city shall:
      (1)   Review plat for accuracy. The city may require field investigations
to verify that the plat survey is accurate. The applicant shall be notified and
afforded an opportunity to make corrections if needed.
      (2)   Signature. Sign the plat to certify that the map is approved.
      (3)   Notification of approval. Notify the applicant that the partition
map and accompanying documents have been approved and are ready for recording
with the Jackson County Recorder.
      (4)   Delivery. Deliver the signed original to the applicant who shall
deliver the original and two exact copies to the County Recorder's office. One
recorded copy shall be returned to the city immediately after recording is
completed.
   (G)   Effective date for final partition map approval. The partition shall
become final upon recording of the approved partition map together with any
required documents with the County Recorder. Work specifically authorized
following tentative approval may take place prior to processing of the final
partition map. The documents effectuating a partition shall become null and
void if not recorded with the County Recorder within one year following
approval.
   (H)   Improvements. The same improvements shall be installed to serve each
parcel of a partition as required of a subdivision. Improvement standards are
set forth in Section 17.90. If the city finds a need to vary the improvement
standards for a partition, the application shall be processed through a Type
III hearing and may except specific improvements.
   (I)   Exceptions to improvements. Exceptions to improvements may be approved
in transition areas or other areas as deemed appropriate by the city. In lieu
of excepting an improvement, the Planning Commission may recommend to the City
Council that the improvement be installed in the area under special assessment
financing or other facility extension policies of the city.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.07 NONRESIDENTIAL PARTITIONS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Application of section. This section includes special provisions for
partitions or subdivisions of land that are zoned for commercial or industrial
use.
   (B)   Principles and standards. In addition to the standards established for
partitions or subdivisions, the applicant for a nonresidential partition or
subdivision shall demonstrate that the street, parcel and block pattern
proposed is adapted to uses in the vicinity. The following principles and
standards shall be observed:
      (1)   Proposed commercial and industrial parcels shall be suitable in
area and dimensions to the types of development anticipated.
      (2)   Street right-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated.
      (3)   Special requirements may be imposed by the city with respect to
street, curb, gutter and sidewalk design and construction.
      (4)   Special requirements may be imposed by the city with respect to the
installation of public utilities, including but not limited to water, sewer,
and stormwater drainage facilities.
      (5)   Efforts shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas from
potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision. Such
efforts may include the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on
existing or potential residential development and landscaped buffers.
      (6)   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, particularly truck
traffic, should not normally be extended through adjacent residential areas.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.08 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Approval required. Approval of a subdivision is required for a land
division of four or more parcels in a calendar year.
   (B)   Procedure. A two-step procedure is required for subdivision approval:
      (1)   Tentative plat review and approval; and
      (2)   Final plat review and approval.
   (C)   Pre-application conference. The applicant for a subdivision shall
participate in a pre-application conference with city staff to discuss
procedures for approval, applicable state and local requirements, objectives
and policies of the Shady Cove comprehensive plan, and the availability of
services. The pre-application conference provides the opportunity to discuss
the conceptual development of the property in advance of formal submission of
the tentative plan in order to save the applicant unnecessary delay and cost.
   (D)   Application requirements for a tentative plat. Subdivision
applications shall be made on forms provided by the planning department and
shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Ten complete, fully collated copies of the tentative plat including
fully collated copies of all other supplementary material as may be required to
indicate the general program and objectives of the subdivision.
      (2)   Required fee and technical service deposit.
      (3)   Preliminary title search.
   (E)   Format. The Tentative Plat shall be drawn on a sheet 18 by 24 inches
in size and at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet unless an alternative format
is approved by the Director at the pre-application conference. The application
shall include one copy of a scaled drawing of the proposed subdivision, on a
sheet eight and one-half by 11, suitable for reproduction.
   (F)   Data requirements for tentative plat.
      (1)   Scale of drawing, north arrow, and date.
      (2)   Location of the subdivision by section, township and range, and a
legal description sufficient to define the location and boundaries of the
proposed tract.
      (3)   A vicinity map, showing adjacent property boundaries and how
proposed streets may be extended to connect to existing streets.
      (4)   Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the owner(s) of the
property, the engineer or surveyor, and the date of the survey.
      (5)   Streets: location, names, paved widths, alleys, and right-of-way
(existing and proposed) on and within 400 feet of the boundaries of the
subdivision tract.
      (6)   Easements: location, widths, purpose of all easements (existing and
proposed) on or serving the tract.
      (7)   Utilities: location of storm drainage, sanitary sewers and water
lines (existing and proposed) on and abutting the tract if utilities are not on
or abutting the tract, indicate the direction and distance to the nearest
locations.
      (8)   Ground elevations shown by contour lines at two-foot vertical
intervals for ground slopes of less than 10% and at ten-foot vertical intervals
for ground slopes exceeding 10%. Ground elevation shall be related to an
established benchmark or other datum approved by the Director.
      (9)   Natural features such as marshes, rock outcroppings, watercourses
on and abutting the property, location of wooded areas.
      (10)   Approximate location of areas subject to periodic inundation or
storm sewer overflow, location of any floodplain or flood hazard district.
      (11)   Location, width, and direction of flow of all water courses.
      (12)   Identification of the top of bank and boundary of mandatory
setback for any stream or water course.
      (13)   Identification of any associated wetland and boundary of mandatory
setback.
      (14)   Identification of any wetland and boundary of mandatory setback.
      (15)   Location of at least one temporary bench mark within the tract
boundaries.
      (16)   Existing uses of the property, including location and present use
of all existing structures to remain on the property after platting.
      (17)   Lots and Blocks: approximate dimensions of all lots, minimum lot
sizes, and proposed lot and block numbers.
      (18)   Existing zoning and proposed land use.
      (19)   Designation of land intended to be dedicated or reserved for
public use, with the purpose, conditions, or limitations of such reservations
clearly indicated.
      (20)   Proposed development phases, if applicable.
      (21)   Any other information determined necessary by the city at the pre-
application conference, such as a soil report or other engineering study,
traffic analysis, floodplain or wetland delineation, etc.
   (G)   Approval criteria. The Planning Commission shall review the tentative
plat for the subdivision based on the following approval criteria:
      (1)   The proposed subdivision is consistent with the density, setback
and dimensional standards of the base zoning district, unless modified by a
planned development approval.
      (2)   The proposed subdivision is consistent with the design standards
set forth in this chapter.
      (3)   The proposed street pattern is connected and consistent with the
comprehensive plan or official street plan for the city.
      (4)   Adequate public facilities are available or can be provided to
serve the proposed subdivision.
      (5)   All proposed improvements meet city standards.
      (6)   The phasing plan, if requested, can be carried out in a manner that
meets the objectives of the above criteria and provides necessary public
improvements for each phase as it develops.
   (H)   Conditions. The Planning Commission may require dedication of land and
easements and may specify such conditions or modifications of the tentative
plat as deemed necessary.
   (I)   Improvements. A detailed list of required improvements for the
subdivisions shall be set forth in the approval and conditions for the
tentative plat.
   (J)   Tentative plat expiration date. The final plat shall be delivered to
the city for approval within one year following approval of the tentative plat,
and shall incorporate any modification or condition required by approval of the
tentative plat. The city may, upon written request of the subdivider, grant an
extension of the tentative plat approval for up to one additional year.
   (K)   Submission of final plat. The applicant shall survey the subdivision
and prepare a final plat in conformance with the tentative plat approval and
the requirements of O.R.S. Chapter 92.
   (L)   Information on plat. In addition to information required for the
tentative plat or otherwise specified by state law, the following information
shall be shown on the final plat for the subdivision:
      (1)   Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of streets and property
line with dimensions, bearings or deflection angles and radii, arcs, points of
curvature and tangent bearings. All bearings and angles shall be shown to the
nearest one-second and all dimensions to the nearest 0.01 foot. If circular
curves are proposed in the plat, the following data must be shown in table
form: curve radius, central angles, arc length, and bearing of long chord. All
information shown on the face of the plat shall be mathematically perfect.
      (2)   Easements. Easements denoted by fine dotted lines, clearly
identified and, if already of record, their recorded references. If an easement
is not definitely located of record, a statement of the easement shall be
given. The width of the easement, its length and bearing, and sufficient ties
to locate the easement with respect to the subdivision shall be shown. If the
easement is being dedicated by the plat, it shall be properly referenced in the
owner's certificates of dedication.
      (3)   Setback lines. Any building setback lines if more restrictive than
the city zoning ordinance.
      (4)   Location and purpose. Location and purpose for which sites, other
than residential lots, are dedicated or reserved.
      (5)   Public use areas. Easements and any other areas for public use
dedicated without any reservation or restriction.
      (6)   Deed restrictions. A copy of any deed restrictions written on the
face of the plat or prepared to record with the plat with reference on the face
of the plat.
      (7)   Certificates. The following certificates that may be combined where
appropriate:
         (a)   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having any
recorded title interest in the land, consenting to the preparation and
recording of the plat.
         (b)   A certificate signed and acknowledged as above, dedicating all
land intended for public use except land which is intended for the exclusive
use of the lot owners in the subdivision, their licensees, visitors, tenants
and servants.
         (c)   A certificate with the seal of and signed by the engineer or the
surveyor responsible for the survey and final plat.
         (d)   Other certificates now or hereafter required by law.
      (8)   Supplemental information with plat. The following data shall
accompany the final plat:
         (a)   A preliminary title report issued by a title insurance company
in the name of the owner of the land, showing all parties whose consent is
necessary and their interest in the tract.
         (b)   Sheets and drawings showing the following:
            1.   Traverse data including the coordinates of the boundary of the
subdivision and ties to section corners and donation land claim corners, and
showing the error of closure, if any.
            2.   The computation of distances, angles and courses shown on the
plat.
            3.   Ties to existing monuments, proposed monuments, adjacent
subdivisions, street corners and state highway stationing.
         (c)   A copy of any deed restrictions applicable to the subdivision.
         (d)   A copy of any dedication requiring separate documents.
         (e)   A list of all taxes and assessments on the tract which have
become a lien on the tract.
         (f)   A certificate by the engineer that the subdivider has compiled
with the improvement requirements.
      (10)   Certification by the city engineer or by the owner of a privately
owned domestic water supply system, that water will be available to the
property line of each and every lot depicted in the final plat.
   (M)   Technical plat review.
      (1)   Upon receipt by the city, the plat and supplemental information
shall be reviewed by the city staff. The review shall focus on conformance of
the final plat with the approved tentative plat, conditions of approval and
provisions of city, county or state law applicable to subdivisions.
      (2)   The City Engineer may make field checks as needed to verify that
the final plat is sufficiently correct on the ground, and city representatives
may enter the subdivision property for this purpose.
      (3)   If the city determines that full conformance has not been made, he
or she shall advise the subdivider of the changes or additions that must be
made and shall afford the subdivider an opportunity to make the changes or
additions.
      (4)   All costs associated with the technical plat review and recording
shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
   (N)   Approval of final plat. The signatures of the city staff and the City
Engineer shall indicate approval of the final plat. After the plat has been
approved by all city and county officials, two prints of all data (plat face,
dedications, certificates, approvals and one copy of recorded restrictive and
protective covenants) shall be returned to the City Engineer within 20 working
days of recording.
   (O)   Recording of final plat. Approval of the plat by the city shall be
conditioned on its prompt recording. The subdivider shall, without delay,
submit the plat to the county assessor and the county governing body for
signatures as required by O.R.S. 92.100. The plat shall be prepared as provided
by O.R.S. 92.080. Approval of the final plat shall be null and void if the plat
is not submitted for recording within 30 days after the date the last required
approving signature has been obtained.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.09 LAND DIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All land division shall be in conformance with the requirements of the
applicable base zoning district as this chapter, as well as with other
applicable provisions of this chapter. Modifications to these requirements may
be accomplished through a planned development. The design standards in this
section shall be used in conjunction with street design standards included in
city street design standards.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.10 UNSUITABLE DEVELOPMENT.
   Land which the city or the Planning Commission finds to be unsuitable for
development due to flooding, improper drainage, steep slopes, rock formations,
adverse earth formations or topography, utility easements, or other features
which will reasonably be harmful to the safety, health, and general welfare of
the present or future inhabitants of the partition or subdivision and the
surrounding areas, shall not be developed unless adequate methods are
formulated by the subdivider and approved by the Director or the Planning
Commission to solve the problems created by the unsuitable land conditions.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.11 ACCESSWAYS.
   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots at
appropriate depths. However, exceptions to the block width shall be allowed for
blocks that are adjacent to arterial streets or natural features. To enhance
public convenience and mobility, accessways may be required to connect to cul-
de-sacs, or between streets and other public or semipublic lands or through
greenway systems.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.12 EASEMENTS.
   Utility easements shall be required for all lots within a partition or
subdivision. Where a partition or subdivision is traversed by a watercourse,
drainage way, channel or stream, the land division shall provide a stormwater
easement or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of
such watercourse, and such further width as determined needed for water quality
and quantity protection.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.13 ALLEYS.
   (A)   New alleys must be approved by the Planning Commission at the time of
development.
   (B)   Existing alleys may remain unimproved until redevelopment occurs. When
development occurs, each abutting lot shall be responsible for completion of
improvements to that portion of the alley abutting the property.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.14 SHARED PRIVATE DRIVES.
   When the size and shape of the lot makes separate drives impossible, the
Planning Commission may approve shared drives when the following conditions are
met:
   (A)   The private drive does not serve more than six tax lots.
   (B)   A homeowner’s association, or other mechanism found acceptable to the
Planning Commission, is created to maintain the drive.
   (C)   All utilities, except the private drive, shall have separate
connections to the public system, or if shared utilities are allowed; an access
agreement shall be secured to allow public access on the drive for operation
and maintenance of the utilities.
   (D)   Any utilities or facilities shared by two or more property owners
shall meet established city standards.
   (E)   Shared private drives shall have street signs that read, "Private
Drive, Non-City Maintained". Signage shall be the responsibility of the private
land owners and not the city.
   (F)   Shared private drives shall be constructed to City Street Standards as
outlined in §
95.61(F), Table 6.B.1. Pre-existing shared private drives shall not be required
to meet city standards regarding surfacing.
   (G)   The City of Shady Cove shall not be responsible for maintenance of
shared private drives or related private improvements such as catch basins,
culverts, or ditches.
   (H)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, partitions which propose access to
newly created lots via pre-existing shared private drives shall only be
approved if the pre-existing shared private drive is brought up to city street
standards as outlined in § 95.61, Table 6.B.l.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004; Ord. 294, passed 2-20-2020)
§ 153.15 FLAG LOTS.
   Flag lots can be created where it can be shown that no other street access
is possible to achieve the requested land division. The flag lot shall have a
minimum street frontage of 15 feet for its accessway. The following dimensional
requirements shall apply to flag lots:
   (A)   Setbacks applicable to the underlying zoning district shall apply to
the flag lot.
   (B)   The access strip (pole) may not be counted toward the lot size
requirements.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.16 STREETS.
   The following are provisions regarding streets:
   (A)   Intersections. Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly
as possible at right angles. A proposed intersection of two new streets at an
angle of less than 75 degrees shall not be acceptable. No more than two streets
shall intersect at any one point unless specifically approved by the city, The
city may require left turn lanes, signals, special crosswalks, curb extensions
and other intersection design elements justified by a traffic study or
necessary to comply with the zoning and subdivision ordinance.
   (B)   Property line radius. All local and neighborhood collector streets
shall have a minimum curve radius (at intersections of rights-of-way) of 15
feet, unless otherwise approved by the city. When a local or neighborhood
collector enters on to a collector or arterial street, the property line radius
shall be a minimum of 20 feet, unless otherwise approved by the city.
   (C)   Signs. The subdivider shall pay the cost of street signs prior to the
issuance of a certificate of substantial completion. The city shall install all
street signs and upon completion will bill the developer for costs associated
with installation. In addition, the subdivider may be required to pay for any
traffic safety devices related to the development. The City Engineer shall
specify the type and location of the street signs and/or traffic safety
devices.
   (D)   Surfacing. Public streets, including alleys, within the development
shall be improved in accordance with the requirements of the city or the Oregon
Standard Plans and Specifications. An overlay of asphalt concrete, or material
approved by the city, shall be placed on all streets within the development.
   (E)   Lighting. When required by the city, a complete lighting system
(including, but not limited to: conduits, wiring, bases, poles, arms, and
fixtures) shall be the financial responsibility of the subdivider on all cul-
de-sacs, local streets, and collector streets. The subdivider will be
responsible for providing the arterial street fighting system in those cases
where the subdivider is required to improve an arterial street. Standards and
specifications for street lighting shall be coordinated with the city.
   (F)   Trees. Where planting strips are provided in the public right-of-way,
a master street tree plan shall be submitted and approved by the city.
   (G)   Off-site improvements. All off-site improvements conditions of
approval shall be based on information and formulas derived from “Justifying
Exaction: Recent cases and mechanisms for implementing viable conditions of
approval,” December 1, 2006, to compare the amount of exaction to the level of
impact.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004: Ord. 247, passed 2-18-2010)
§ 153.17 LOT DESIGN.
   (A)   The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no foreseeable
difficulties, for reason of topography or other conditions, in securing
building permits to build on all lots in compliance with the zoning and
subdivision ordinance.
   (B)   The lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards of the
zoning and subdivision ordinance. When lots are more than double the minimum
lot size required for the zoning district, the subdivider may be required to
arrange such lots to allow further subdivision and the opening of future
streets to serve such potential lots.
   (C)   The lot or parcel width at the front building line shall meet the
requirements of the zoning and subdivision ordinance and shall abut a public
street other than an alley for a width of at least 20 feet.
   (D)   Through lots shall be avoided except where necessary to provide
separation of residential developments from arterial streets or to overcome
specific disadvantages of topography or orientation.
   (E)   Lots shall avoid deriving access from major or minor arterials. When
driveway access from major or minor arterials may be necessary for several
adjoining lots, the Director or the Planning Commission may require that such
lots be served by a common access drive in order to limit possible traffic
hazards on such streets. Where possible, driveways should be designed and
arranged to avoid requiring vehicles to back into traffic on minor or major
arterials.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.18 INFRASTRUCTURE.
   (A)   Water facilities. Water lines and, if required, fire hydrants serving
the subdivision or partition, and connecting the development to water mains,
shall be installed to provide adequate water pressure to serve present and
future consumer demand. The materials, sizes, and locations of water mains,
valves, service laterals, meter boxes and other required appurtenances shall be
in accordance with the standards of all districts having jurisdiction.
   (B)   Sanitary sewers. Sanitary sewers shall be installed to serve the
subdivision and to connect the subdivision to existing mains. Design of
sanitary sewers shall take into account the capacity and grade to allow for
desirable extension beyond the subdivision. If required sewer facilities will
directly serve property outside the subdivision, the city may enter into an
agreement with the subdivider setting forth methods for reimbursement by
nonparticipating landowners for the proportionate share of the cost or
construction.
   (C)   Surface drainage and storm sewer system. Drainage facilities shall be
provided within the subdivision and to connect with off-site drainage ways or
storm sewers. Capacity, grade and materials shall be by a design approved by
the City Engineer. Design of drainage within the subdivision shall take into
account the location, capacity and grade necessary to maintain unrestricted
flow from areas draining through the subdivision and to allow extension of the
system to serve such areas.
      (1)   Storm drainage is required to meet ten-year and 25-year event
standards.
      (2)   The roof and site drainage from each lot shall be discharged to
either curb face outlets (if minor quantity), to a public storm drain or to a
natural acceptable drainage way if adjacent to the lot.
   (D)   Underground utilities. All subdivisions or major partitions shall be
required to install underground utilities (including, but not limited to,
electrical and telephone wiring). The utilities shall be installed pursuant to
the requirements of the utility company.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.19 PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLE.
   The following are provisions regarding pedestrians and bicycles:
   (A)   Sidewalks. If appropriate, sidewalks shall be installed on arterials
and collectors. The Planning Commission may require sidewalks on focal streets.
   (B)   Bicycle routes. If appropriate to the extension of a system of bicycle
routes, existing or planned, the Planning Commission may require the
installation of bicycle lanes within streets. Separate bicycle access ways may
be required to reduce walking or cycling distance when no feasible street
connection is available.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.20 EROSION CONTROL.
   Grass seed planting shall take place prior to September 30 on all lots upon
which a dwelling has not been started but the ground cover has been disturbed.
The seeds shall be of an annual rye grass variety and shall be sown at not less
than four pounds to each 1,000 square feet of land area.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.21 IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Generally. Improvements installed by a land divider either as a
requirement of these regulations or at his or her own option shall conform to
the design standards and improvement standards and specifications adopted by
the city. Improvements shall be installed in accordance with the following
general procedure:
      (1)   All improvement work shall be at the sole cost and expense of the
developer unless otherwise specifically provided herein.
      (2)   Improvement work shall not start until plans have been checked for
adequacy and approved by the City Engineer. To the extent necessary for
evaluation of the proposal, improvement plans may be required before approval
of the tentative plan of a partition or subdivision.
      (3)   Improvements shall be constructed under the inspection and to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer.
      (4)   Developer(s) shall warrant the materials and workmanship of the
improvements for a period of two years from the date of completion. Such
guarantee shall be secured by cash deposit in the amount of the value of the
improvements as set by the city.
      (5)   A map showing public improvements as built shall be filed with the
City Engineer upon completion of the improvements.
   (B)   Options for improvements. Before the signature of the City Engineer is
obtained on the final partition or subdivision plat, the applicant shall
install the required improvements, agree to install required improvements, or
have gained approval to form an improvement district for installation of the
improvements required with the tentative plat approval. These procedures are
more fully described as follows:
      (1)   Install improvements. The applicant may install the required
improvements for the subdivision prior to recording the final subdivision plat.
If this procedure is to be used, the subdivision plat shall contain all the
required certifications except the County Surveyor and the Board of County
Commissioners. The city shall keep the subdivision plat until the improvements
have been completed and approved by the city. The city shall forward the final
subdivision plat for certification by the Board of County Commissioners and
then to the County Clerk for recording; or
      (2)   Agree to install improvement. The applicant may execute and file
with the city an agreement specifying the period within which required
improvements shall be completed. The agreement shall state that if the work is
not completed within the period specified, the city may complete the work and
recover the full cost and expense from the applicant. A performance guarantee
shall be required. The agreement may provide for the construction of the
improvements in increments and for an extension of time under specified
conditions; or
      (3)   Form improvement district. The applicant may have all or part of
the public improvements constructed under a Limited Improvement District (LID)
procedure. Under this procedure the applicant shall enter into an agreement
with the city proposing establishment of the district for improvements to be
constructed, setting forth a schedule for installing improvements, and
specifying the extent of the plat to be improved. The city reserves the right
under a Limited Improvement District (LID) procedure to limit the extent of
improvements in a subdivision during a construction year and may limit the area
of the final subdivision plat to the area to be improved. A performance
guarantee shall be required under the improvement district procedure. The
formation of a LID is entirely within the discretion of the city.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004; Ord. 247, passed 2-18-2010)
§ 153.22 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   If the applicant chooses to utilize the opportunities provided under §
153.21(B)(1) or (2) above, the applicant shall provide a performance guarantee
equal to 110% of the cost of the improvements to assure full and faithful
performance thereof in one of the following forms:
      (1)   A surety bond executed by a surety company authorized to transact
business in the State of Oregon in a form approved by the City Attorney.
      (2)   In lieu of the surety bond, the applicant may:
         (a)   Deposit with the city cash money to be released only upon
authorization of the City Engineer;
         (b)   Supply certification by a bank or other reputable lending
institution that money is being held to cover the cost of required improvements
to be released only upon authorization of the City Engineer;
         (c)   Supply certification by a bank or other reputable tending
institution that a line of credit has been established to cover the cost of
required improvements, to be utilized only upon authorization of the City
Engineer; or
         (d)   Provide bonds in a form approved by the City Attorney.
   (B)   Such assurance of full and faithful performance shall be for a sum
determined by the City Engineer as sufficient to cover the cost of required
improvements, including related engineering and incidental expenses.
   (C)   If the applicant fails to carry out provisions of the agreement and
the city has expenses resulting from such failure, the city shall call on the
performance guarantee for reimbursement. If the amount of the performance
guarantee exceeds the expense incurred, the remainder shall be released. If the
amount of the performance guarantee is less than the expense incurred, the
applicant shall be liable to the city for the difference.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.23 DAMAGES.
   When an offense has been committed that results in ascertainable damage to
any person or property, in addition to any other sentence, the court may order
the defendant make restitution to the victim and to the city.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.24 VIOLATIONS.
   A person commits an infraction by violating provisions of this chapter and
will suffer any disability or legal disadvantage based upon conviction thereof.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person violating any provision of this chapter and the rules
authorized and established pursuant to this chapter shall, upon conviction in
the Municipal Court of the city, be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
   (B)   Each day's violation of a provision of this chapter constitutes a
separate offense.
   (C)   The remedies specified herein shall not be deemed exclusive, and the
city may, at its option, seek to enforce the provisions of this chapter by
exercising its legal or equitable remedies in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   Neither party shall have the right to a jury trial at the trial of any
infraction.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2004)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Purpose
   
154.003   Zoning Map title
   
154.004   Conflicts
   
154.005   Uses not listed
   
154.006   Definitions
Zoning Districts and Boundaries
   
154.020   Establishment of zoning districts
   
154.021   Zoning Map
   
154.022   Boundary interpretations
   
154.023   Exemptions
Low Density Residential District, R-1
   
154.035   Purpose
   
154.036   Permitted uses
   
154.037   Conditional uses
   
154.038   Property development requirements
Medium Density Residential District, R-2
   
154.050   Purpose
   
154.051   Permitted uses
   
154.052   Conditional uses
   
154.053   Property development requirements
High Density Residential District, R-3
   
154.065   Purpose
   
154.066   Permitted uses
   
154.067   Conditional uses
   
154.068   Property development requirements
General Commercial District, G-C
   
154.080   Purpose
   
154.081   Permitted uses
   
154.082   Conditional uses
   
154.083   Property development requirements
   
154.084   Off-street parking
   
154.085   Fences, walls, hedges
   
154.086   Standards
Public Uses District, P
   
154.100   Purpose
   
154.101   Permitted uses
   
154.102   Conditional uses
   
154.103   Property development requirements
   
154.104   Off-street parking
   
154.105   Fences, walls, hedges, buffering
   
154.106   Standards
Airpark, Commercial, A-C
   
154.120   Purpose
   
154.121   Permitted uses
   
154.122   Conditional uses
Limited Industrial District, L-I
   
154.135   Purpose
   
154.136   Permitted buildings and uses
   
154.137   Conditional uses
   
154.138   Yard regulations
   
154.139   Building structural height limitations
   
154.140   Lot regulations
   
154.141   Parking requirements
   
154.142   Fences and walls
Wildfire Hazard Area; Wildfire Hazard Mitigation
   
154.155   Purpose
   
154.156   Scope
   
154.157   Wildfire Hazard Zone
   
154.158   Wildfire Hazard Zone requirements
Planned Unit Development
   
154.170   Purpose
   
154.171   Authorization
   
154.172   Application procedures
   
154.173   Size of a planned unit development
   
154.174   Preliminary plan requirements
   
154.175   Final development plan
   
154.176   Approval procedure
   
154.177   Approval criteria
   
154.178   Project density
   
154.179   Permitted uses
   
154.180   General development standards
   
154.181   Landscaping and open space standards
   
154.182   Conditions of approval
   
154.183   Amendments to an approved PUD
   
154.184   Exceptions to subdivision requirements
   
154.185   Time limits on action
   
154.186   Appeal
   
154.187   Revocation
Residential Property Development Requirements
   
154.200   Standards
Manufactured Homes in Residential Zones
   
154.215   Purpose
   
154.216   Application
   
154.217   Site development standards
   
154.218   Home construction standards
   
154.219   Removal of a manufactured home
Manufactured Home Park Development
   
154.230   Purpose
   
154.231   Application
   
154.232   Minimum mobile home standards
   
154.233   Site development plan required
   
154.234   Plan approval process
   
154.235   Uses permitted in mobile home parks
   
154.236   Mobile home park improvement standards
Historic Preservation
   
154.250   Purpose
   
154.251   Definitions
   
154.252   Historic Review Board
   
154.253   Designation of historic buildings or sites
   
154.254   Exterior remodeling of a historic structure
   
154.255   Condemnation and demolition of historic buildings
   
154.256   Other provisions
Nonconforming Uses and Structures
   
154.270   Purpose
   
154.271   Nonconforming lots
   
154.272   Nonconforming uses
   
154.273   Nonconforming structures
   
154.274   Nonconforming construction in progress
   
154.275   Termination of nonconforming use or structure
   
154.276   Transitional structures
Accessory Dwellings
   
154.280   Purpose
   
154.281   Accessory dwelling unit standards
Home Occupations
   
154.290   Purpose
   
154.291   Application
   
154.292   Standards for operation of a home occupation as a permitted use
   
154.293   Standards for operation of a home occupation as conditional use
   
154.294   Prohibited home occupation uses
   
154.295   Enforcement
Development Review and Site Design Review
   
154.310   Purpose
   
154.311   Applicability
   
154.312   Development review approval criteria
   
154.313   Site design review; application review procedure
   
154.314   Site design review; application submission requirements
   
154.315   Approval criteria
   
154.316   Bonding and assurances
   
154.317   Development in accordance with permit approval
   
154.318   Landscaping
   
154.319   Non-residential buildings
   
154.320   Civic space and pedestrian amenities
   
154.321   Drive-up and drive- through uses and facilities
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
154.330   Purpose
   
154.331   Application
   
154.332   Off-street parking required
   
154.333   Off-street loading facilities
   
154.334   Development standards
   
154.335   Recreational vehicles
   
154.336   Joint use of parking areas
   
154.337   Number of parking spaces required
Sign Regulations
   
154.350   Purpose and intent
   
154.351   Application
   
154.352   Definitions
   
154.353   Conformance
   
154.354   Exemptions from permit requirements
   
154.355   Prohibited signs
   
154.356   Sign measurements
   
154.357   Nonconforming signs
   
154.358   Specific sign development standards
   
154.359   Commercial district sign regulations
   
154.360   Residential district sign regulation
   
154.361   Variations to sign regulations
   
154.362   Construction and maintenance
   
154.363   Violations
Types of Applications and Review Procedures
   
154.375   Purpose
   
154.376   Description of permit procedures
   
154.377   Type I procedure (ministerial)
   
154.378   Type II procedure (administrative)
   
154.379   Type III procedure (quasi-judicial)
   
154.380   Type IV procedure (legislative)
   
154.381   General provisions
   
154.382   Special procedures
Conditional Use Permits
   
154.395   Purpose
   
154.396   Authorization
   
154.397   Approval process
   
154.398   Pre-existing conditional uses
   
154.399   Application procedure
   
154.400   Public hearing required
   
154.401   Criteria, standards and conditions of approval
   
154.402   Effect
   
154.403   Appeal
   
154.404   Violation and revocation of permit
Variances
   
154.415   Purpose
   
154.416   Class A variances
   
154.417   Class B variances
   
154.418   Class C variances
   
154.419   Conditions
   
154.420   Applications and appeals
Plan Amendments and Zone Changes
   
154.435   Purpose
   
154.436   Initiation of action
   
154.437   Application procedure
   
154.438   Major or legislative amendments
   
154.439   Minor amendments
   
154.440   Planned unit development (PUD)
   
154.441   Notification of amendments
Appeal Procedures
   
154.455   Purpose
   
154.456   Filing the appeal
   
154.457   Application procedure
   
154.458   Action on the appeal
   
154.459   Notice of appeal hearings
   
154.460   Appeals to the City Council
   
154.461   Appeals to the Land Use Board
   
154.462   Disclosure
Vacation Rental Dwellings
   
154.475   Conditional use
   
154.476   Standards
   
154.477   Safety requirements
   
154.478   General
   
154.479   Enforcement
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Zoning Ordinance of the City of Shady
Cove".
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 1.1)
§ 154.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to classify and regulate land uses, the
location and use of buildings and structures, to ensure the most appropriate
use of land as determined by the city, to implement the goals, objectives and
policies of the comprehensive plan and to promote the public health, safety,
convenience and general welfare.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 1.2)
§ 154.003 ZONING MAP TITLE.
   The Zoning Ordinance consists of the text hereof and the map, entitled
"Zoning Map of the City of Shady Cove".
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 1.3)
§ 154.004 CONFLICTS.
   If any conflicts occur between the text of this chapter and the zoning map,
the text shall prevail. If any conflicts occur between the text or the zoning
map of this chapter and the comprehensive plan text or map, the comprehensive
plan text or map shall prevail.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-12-2006, § 1.4)
§ 154.005 USES NOT LISTED.
   If any proposed land use is not listed as permitted or condition, the use
will not be allowed unless the Planning Commission finds the use to be similar
to other uses listed as "permitted" or "conditional" uses.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 1.5)
§ 154.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Within these
definitions, the masculine includes the feminine, and the singular includes the
plural, unless otherwise specified. No preference or prejudice is intended in
defining these terms. The terms "shall", "will" and "must" are mandatory. The
terms "may", "should", "could" or "can" are permissive.
   ABUTTING. Adjoining with a common boundary line.
   ACCESS. The way or means by which pedestrians or vehicles enter and leave
property or a building.
   ACCESS WAY. The ingress and egress to a property or building; or an
unobstructed way which provides vehicular or pedestrian access and circulation
within a specific area, such as a subdivision or mobile home park.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING. An interior, attached sharing a common wall or heated
space, or detached residential structure with permanently installed cook  top
and oven that is used in connection with, or that is accessory to, a single-
family dwelling.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE. A structure or a use that is incidental and
subordinate to the main structure or use of the property and located on the
same lot as that main structure or use. (NOTE: It is possible to have an
accessory structure, such as a garage or shed, on a lot without the main
structure when that main structure has been removed, but the lot is still
planned and zoned for that same or similar primary use.)
   ADJACENT. "Near" or "close". A business that is on the adjoining lot having
a common boundary.
   ADJOIN. The same as "abut". (See ABUTTING.)
   ADULT BUSINESS. Any of a number of businesses that is generally
characterized by an emphasis on sexually explicit materials or activities,
minors are excluded as a legal or prevailing business practice.
   ADVERTISING STRUCTURE. Any notice or advertisement, pictorial or otherwise,
and any structure used as, or for the support of, the notice or advertisement,
or for the purpose of making anything known about goods, services or
activities.
   AGRICULTURE. The "agricultural use" of the land shall include farming,
dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture,
apiaries and animal and poultry husbandry, along with any necessary accessory
uses for the processing, storing or distribution of related products. Temporary
or short-term activities, such as 4-H projects, are not included in the
definition of AGRICULTURE.
   ALLEY. A public or private way that affords secondary access to properties
that are otherwise served by a street.
   ALTERATION. Any change, addition or modification to the physical or
structural condition of land or structures, or a change in the status of
occupancy of land or a structure.
   AMENDMENT. A change in the wording, context or substance of any official
ordinance or other publication, including related maps, illustrations,
concepts, policies or plans.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR CLINIC. A place where animals or pets are given medical
or surgical treatment and are cared for during the time of the treatment. The
use of such a facility for kennel purposes shall be limited to short-time
boarding incidental to the hospital or clinic use.
   APARTMENT. A dwelling unit in a multiple-family structure or building that
is typically designed for and utilized as a rental dwelling. A condominium-type
dwelling might also be referred to as an APARTMENT, regardless of the ownership
status, if it is within a multi-family structure.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. Any building or portion thereof which contains three or
more individual dwelling units, regardless of the ownership arrangement.
   ASSEMBLY BUILDING. A building or portion thereof used for the gathering
together of 50 or more persons for such purposes as deliberation, education,
instruction, worship, entertainment, amusement, drinking or dining, awaiting
transportation or similar activities.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. The general repair, rebuilding or reconditioning
of engines, transmissions and all other mechanical, chassis and body parts of
automobiles, motorboats, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, trucks and other
automotive equipment, including body, frame and fender repairs and painting.
Tire sales and repairing are included in this category, but not tire
manufacturing or recapping.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. Includes facilities and services that involve
automobile, boat, truck, RV and motorcycle upholstering; replacement of minor
parts other than rebuilding or major overhauls; tune-ups; routine maintenance
services; glass replacement; and other services not specified in "auto repair,
major".
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A building or lot having pumps and storage tanks
where fuels, oils or accessories for motor vehicles are dispensed, sold or
offered for sale, and where repair services are secondary.
   AUTOMOBILE, TRUCK, BOAT OR MOBILE HOME SALES LOT. An open lot used for the
display, sale or rental of new or used motor vehicles, boats, trucks, trailers,
snowmobiles, mobile home, motor homes, heavy construction or farm equipment or
other "mobile" equipment or machinery. The lot may include an area for storage
or repairs separate from the "sales" area, if approved for that purpose.
   AUTOMOTIVE WRECKING. The dismantling or disassembling of motor vehicles or
trailers; or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled, obsolete or wrecked
vehicles or vehicle parts.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A single-family dwelling or part thereof where traveler's
accommodations and breakfast are provided for a fee on a daily or weekly room
rental basis not to exceed 14 consecutive days.
   BILLBOARD. Same as ADVERTISING STRUCTURE.
   BOARDING HOUSE. Any building or portion thereof containing no more than five
guest rooms which are occupied, or intended for occupancy, by guests in return
for money, goods, labor or otherwise.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING, EXISTING OR PREEXISTING. A building erected prior to the adoption
of this chapter or one for which a legal building permit has been issued.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The officer or other designated authority charged with
the administration and enforcement of this chapter or his or her duly
authorized representative.
   BUFFER. A land area or a physical barrier such as a wall, hedge, fence,
waterway or other feature that has been established for the purpose of reducing
or mitigating the adverse effects of a land use upon another land use.
   CALENDAR YEAR. Three hundred and sixty-five consecutive days (including
weekends and holidays) beginning on the first day of the year and ending on
December 31.
   CHANNEL. The bed in which the main stream of a river or other waterway flows
and not including flood plain areas.
   CHURCH. A building used for public worship and religious training.
   CITY. The City of Shady Cove, Oregon.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Shady Cove, Oregon.
   CLINIC. A place for group medical services not involving overnight housing
of patients.
   CLUB. The meeting place of an association of persons for a common objective,
not a religious organization.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
   CONDOMINIUM. An estate in real property consisting of an undivided interest
in common in a parcel of real property together with a separate interest in
space in a residential, industrial or commercial building, such as an
apartment, office or store.
   CONTIGUOUS. Same as ABUTTING or ADJOINING.
   CONVALESCENT HOME. A group quarters for the purpose of short- or long-term
individual health care, medical treatment, rehabilitation or recuperation from
disability or illness.
   COMMON OPEN AREA. An open area within a development, designed and intended
for the use or enjoyment of all residents or users of the development, or for
the use and enjoyment of the public in general.
   COMMUNITY CENTER OR HALL. A specific location or area within the community,
or a particular building or portion thereof that is used, or intended for use,
by residents or groups in the community for meetings, recreational activities
or other special events or social activities.
   CONTRACT ANNEXATION. A process whereby the city, county and other involved
parties enter into a contract that permits:
      (1)   The county to administer city land use regulations for the
development of property following an annexation decision while the property
remains under county jurisdiction; and
      (2)   The city to annex property developed to city standards and uses,
with the improvement to appear on the county tax rolls prior to the effective
date of annexation, resulting in a greater benefit to the tax base of the
community.
   COUNTY. Unless otherwise stated, Jackson County, Oregon.
   DAY CARE CENTER. Any type of regularly operated group day care program,
including nurseries for children of working parents, nursery schools for
children under the minimum age for public school education, parent
cooperatives, nursery schools, playgrounds for preschool children and programs
covering after-school care for school children.
   DENSITY. The quotient of the total number of dwelling units divided by the
gross site area, commonly expressed as dwelling units per acre.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the total area within the boundaries of the city
within which specific sections of these regulations apply. For example, the R-
1, Single-Family Residential District.
   DIVIDE. To separate land into two or more parts for the purpose of
transferring a substantial interest in the value and ownership of those parts.
The divisions of land can occur as a land partition or subdivision.
   DRIVE-IN. All automobile service stations, businesses which dispense gas and
oil and an ancillary use, car washes, commercial parking lots, convenience
dairies, fast food outlets, banks with drive-up windows and any other
establishment or commercial business where products or services are delivered
or administered directly to motor vehicles or their occupants.
   DRIVEWAY. A road or other access way that is located entirely on the parcel
it serves.
   DRUG STORE or PHARMACY. A commercial business involved in the preparation,
preservation, compounding and dispensing of drugs and medicines. This business
can be independent or a part of a larger store and is commonly associated with
the sale of other merchandise including cosmetics, notions, stationery supplies
or other similar items.
   DWELLING, CONVENTIONAL. A "conventional" dwelling or group of the dwellings
refers to buildings that are constructed on the site and in conformance with
the Uniform Building Code requirements.
   DWELLING GROUP. A group of two or more detached buildings used for
residential purposes and located on a single tax lot with yard areas shared as
common areas for all dwelling group occupants.
   DWELLING, MANUFACTURED OR FACTORY-BUILT.
      (1)   MANUFACTURED DWELLING does not mean any building or structure
subject to the structural special code adopted pursuant to O.R.S. 455.100 to
455.450 or any unit identified as a recreational vehicle by the manufacturer.
      (2)   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure constructed for movement on the
public highways that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is
intended for human occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and
that was constructed in accordance with federal manufactured housing
construction and safety standards and regulations in effect at the time of
construction.
      (3)   MOBILE HOME. A structure constructed for movement on the public
highways that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended
for human occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and that was
constructed between 1-1-1962 and 6-15-1976, and met the construction
requirements of state mobile home law in effect at the time of construction.
      (4)   RESIDENTIAL TRAILER. A structure constructed for movement on the
public highways that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is
intended for human occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and
that was constructed before 1-1-1962.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof, designed or used
as a residence by three or more families or households, and containing three or
more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building designed or used for
residential purposes by not more than one family and containing a single
dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX). A building containing two residential
dwelling units and commonly referred to as a DUPLEX.
   DWELLING UNIT (D.U.). Any building or portion thereof which contains living
facilities, including provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation
for not more than one family.
   FLAG LOT. A panhandle lot shaped like a flag and pole with its widest
portion set away from the road that serves it, and with the thin "panhandle" or
"flagpole" portion providing the access way or driveway.
   FLOOR AREA. The area included within the surrounding exterior walls of a
building or portion thereof, exclusive of open vent shafts and open courts, but
including all levels or floors of the building that provide habitable spaces.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The mathematical ratio determined by dividing the total
floor area of a building or buildings by the area of the lot on which it (or
they) is located.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the Federal Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that includes flood profiles, the Flood Boundary-Floodway
Maps and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PLAIN, 100-YEAR. The land within the general vicinity of a river or
other watercourse that is subject to a 1% chance of flooding in any given year,
including the floodway and floodway fringe area.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FOSTER HOME. A home licensed by the state to provide food and shelter to not
more than five persons in addition to the primary owner and occupants of the
dwelling unit.
   FOUR-H (4-H). A program set up by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to
instruct young people through projects about modern farm practices and good
citizenship.
   GARAGE. A building or portion thereof in which a motor vehicle containing
flammable liquids or gas in its tank is intended to be stored, repaired or
kept.
   GRADE. The lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground,
paving or sidewalk within the area between the building and the property line
or, when the property line is more than five feet from the building, between
the building and a line five feet from the building.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. All of the area within the outside dimensions of a
buildings walls.
   GROUP HOME. A state licensed home maintained and supervised by adults for
the purpose of providing care, food and lodging for children under the age of
18 years, unattended by parents or guardians, where the number of unrelated
persons living as one household commonly exceeds five.
   GUEST, COMMERCIAL. Any person who is temporarily occupying a room or suite
of rooms in a hotel, motel, convalescent home or other commercial facility that
provides "guest rooms" that are designed and intended to be rented or leased
(short term) to persons or families.
   GUEST HOUSE. A building or structure, without a kitchen, not more than 800
square feet appurtenant to, a primary single-family dwelling unit, and that is
intended for the lodging of guests. A GUEST HOUSE shall be utilized solely for
the lodging of residential guests and shall not be rented or otherwise managed
for income purposes.
   GUEST, RESIDENTIAL. Any person who is temporarily occupying a dwelling,
guest house, recreational vehicle parking area or any other portion of a
dwelling at the invitation of that dwelling's owner or legal occupant and is
not paying rent or other type of reimbursement in return for that occupancy
privilege.
   GUEST ROOM. Any room or rooms within a dwelling unit that is used or
intended to be used for the lodging of residential guests, as defined, and not
including a separate kitchen area or kitchen facilities in addition to those
already available in the primary dwelling unit.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation conducted within a residential zoning
district primarily by a member or members of the family residing in that
dwelling unit; provided, the business activity is clearly incidental and
secondary to the primary residential use of that dwelling unit and property.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building containing two or more rooms, or suites of rooms,
designed to be used for the temporary living and sleeping place of its
commercial guests, and which customarily provides such services as linen, maid
service, furnishings and often recreational facilities.
   JUNK YARD. A business that stores, keeps, dismantles, salvages, collects,
buys or sells scraps or discarded pieces of metal, paper, rags, tires, bottles
and assorted other materials, and also including those items associated with
"automotive wrecking", as defined in these regulations.
   KENNEL. Any premises that is operated as a business for the temporary care
and boarding of three or more dogs, cats or other small animals or any
combination thereof, except veterinary hospitals or animal clinics.
   LANDSCAPING. Any combination of permanently maintained live trees, lawns,
shrubs or other plant materials, including inorganic accessory materials
utilized to accent or complement the vegetation. Fountains, ponds, sculpture,
lamp posts, fences and other functional or decorative features may be integral
components of a landscape plan.
   LEASE. Conveyance of real estate by contract for a specified term for a
specified rent.
   LOT. A parcel of land lawfully created in accordance with the land division,
partitioning or subdivision regulations in effect at the time of its creation.
(See TAX LOT.)
   LOT AREA. The total land area, commonly measured in square feet, within the
boundaries of a legal lot, exclusive of any street or alley rights-of-way.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting at the intersection of two or more streets, or
if the interior angle is less than 135 degrees within the lot lines, upon two
parts of the same street.
   LOT, COVERAGE. The percentage of the total lot area covered by structures,
as defined in these regulations.
   LOT, DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines or,
in the case of a corner lot, the depth shall be the length of the longest front
lot line.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The property line of a lot that abuts the street right-of-
way. On a corner lot, the FRONT LOT LINE is the line on which the street
address is located.
   LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line that is not abutting a public street and which is
opposite the front lot line of the lot. In the case of a triangular or
otherwise irregularly shaped lot, the REAR LOT LINE shall be a line ten feet in
length within the lot and parallel to and at a maximum distance from the front
lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line that cannot be defined as either a "front" or
"rear" lot line.
   LOT, THROUGH. One having public street frontage on two separate streets or
highways. Each frontage would be considered the "front lot line" and there
would be no "rear lot line".
   LOT, WIDTH. The average horizontal distance between the side lot lines,
measured parallel to the front lot line on a rectangular lot. Lots having
irregular shapes shall measure width by street frontage or the average of the
maximum and minimum widths, whichever is smaller.
   LOUNGE, BAR or TAVERN. An establishment, the primary activity of which is
the sale and consumption on the premises of beer, wine or other liquors and
where food service, if any, is secondary to the sale and consumption of
alcoholic beverages. Sometimes in combination with musical entertainment and
dancing.
   MACHINE OR WELDING SHOP. A facility in which material is processed by
machining, cutting, grinding, welding or similar processing operations. Such a
shop is often a component of a larger industrial or commercial business or a
necessary function of an automotive repair facility.
   MAINTAIN. To cause or allow to continue in existence. When the context
indicates, the word shall mean to preserve and care for a structure,
improvement, condition or area to an extent that it remains attractive, safe
and presentable and carries out the purpose for which it was originally
installed, constructed or required.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. (See DWELLING, MANUFACTURED OR FACTORY-BUILT.)
   MINI STORAGE. A building or group of buildings in a controlled access
compound that contains various sizes of individual compartmentalized and
controlled-access, stairs or lockers for the dead storage of a customer's
goods. No sales, service or repair activities other than the rental of storage
units are permitted on the premises.
   MOBILE HOME. (See DWELLING, MOBILE HOME.)
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any lot on which two or more mobile homes are located and
being used for residential purposes, other than an approved "guest house" and
where the primary purpose of the property owner is to rent or lease the spaces
and related or necessary facilities to the owners or occupants of the mobile
homes or to offer same in exchange for trade or services.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A specific area of ground within a mobile home park that
is designed and intended for the accommodation of a single mobile home and that
includes all necessary utility hook-ups for that home.
   MOTEL. See HOTEL or MOTEL.
   NET SITE AREA. The square footage area within the exterior boundaries of a
lot or property. Exclusive of public streets, public walks or land below the
water line of the Rogue River.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A structure, building or use that was lawfully
constructed or established, but no longer conforms to the regulations or
requirements of the city's zoning regulations or other codes.
   OWNER. The owner of record of a specific tax lot or that owner's authorized
representative.
   PARCEL. (See LOT.)
   PARK or PLAYGROUND. A recreational area or facility that is owned and/or
operated by a private entity, public agency or school district, and is
available to the general public.
   PARTITIONS. To divide an area or lot into two or three smaller parcels, as
provided for in the
Chapter 153 of this code.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association, social or
fraternal organization, corporation, trust, estate, receiver, syndicate, branch
of government or any group or combination acting as a unit.
   PETS. Those animals, fowl, insects or fish which are normally and reasonably
kept as household pets, not including any animals that are considered wild or
vicious, or other creatures which, if not contained, would be considered
dangerous to the public health or safety.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A coordinated development that may include a
mixture of residential, commercial, industrial and/or public uses, grouped in a
manner that would not be permitted under conventional zoning, but that, if
permitted, would consist of a variety and diversification of uses, buildings
and spaces, more useable open space areas, clustering of dwellings or
businesses, and should result in a more beneficial arrangement of uses with
less impact on natural features or resources than might be expected under basic
zoning requirements.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. (See COMMISSION.)
   PLOT PLAN. A drawing of a lot and the surrounding area showing the use and
location of existing and proposed buildings, structures and improvements, and
drawn to a scale, detail and description as may be required by city staff,
Planning Commission or the specific provisions of the city's zoning regulations
or
Chapter 153 of this code.
   PUBLIC ROAD. A state highway or other road which has been dedicated to the
use of the public for road purposes, and not including an alley. May also be
referred to as a PUBLIC STREET or simply STREET.
   PUBLIC WAY. A publicly owned thoroughfare, pathway or route, not a street or
highway for passage from place to place.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vacation trailer, camping vehicle, motor home
or other vehicle, with or without motive power, which is designed for short-
term occupancy for recreational or vacation purposes, but not as a permanent or
long-term residence. The vehicle is identified as a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE by the
manufacturer and licensed as such.
   RENT. The amount paid by a tenant or occupant to the owner of a property for
the use thereof.
   RETAINING WALL. A wall designed to resist the lateral displacement of soil
or other materials.
   RETIREMENT HOME. A facility that provides living quarters, owned or rented
to persons of retirement age. The facility may be a single structure or a group
or cluster of structures, designed primarily for residential purposes, but
often including, limited medical, recreational, commercial or health services
to the residents and their guests.
   SCHOOL, BUSINESS. A business enterprise, not a public or private school,
offering instruction and training in a service or art, such as secretary,
barber, commercial artist and the like, but not including commercial trades or
crafts.
   SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL TO TRADE. A business enterprise other than a public,
private or business school, offering instruction and training in a trade such
as welding, brick laying, machinery operation or other similar manual trades.
   SECOND-HAND STORE. A commercial store (usually retail) that specializes in
the sale of second-hand or used items, including furniture, clothing, books and
records/tapes or a variety of miscellaneous items.
   SERVICE STATION. (See AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.)
   SETBACK. The distance from a right-of-way, easement boundary of a road or
access way or from a lot line to any point of a building. (Minimum setback
distances, as required for each zoning district, are sometimes referred to as
YARD AREAS.)
   STREET. (See PUBLIC ROAD.)
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. A change to the supporting members of a structure,
including foundations, bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, girders or
any structural change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or built which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having a location on the ground including
swimming pools, covered patios, fences and walls; but not including normal
plants and landscaping materials, paved outdoor areas, walks, driveways and
similar improvements.
   SUBDIVIDE. To divide an area or parcel into four or more legal and smaller
lots in accordance with the requirements of the
Chapter 153 of this code.
   TAX LOT. A parcel, lot or other unit of land that is shown on the County
Assessor's plat map of the subject area as an individual lot, for the purpose
of taxation.
   TEMPORARY. Unless otherwise defined or specified, such as in a condition of
approval of a particular land use, TEMPORARY shall mean 30 days or less within
any 12-month period.
   TENT. A shelter consisting primarily of a fabric supported by metal or wood
poles and ropes, which is designed for temporary short-term occupancy for
recreational or emergency purposes. A TENT is not intended for permanent
habitation.
   TOWNHOUSE. A single-family dwelling unit on a separately platted lot, with
use and occupancy identical to all other single-family dwelling units, except
without the required side yard setbacks. INDIVIDUAL TOWNHOUSE UNITS are
generally separated by common firewalls and their owners may not share in the
ownership of a common area.
   TRAILER PARK. (See MOBILE HOME PARK.)
   UBC STANDARDS. The Uniform Building Code standards promulgated by the
International Conference of Building Officials (ICBO), as adopted by the city.
   URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY (UGB). A site specific line on the official plan and
zoning maps of Jackson County and the official comprehensive plan map of the
city, showing the city's area of urban and urbanizable land.
   URBANIZABLE AREA. Those lands that lie between the present city limits and
the urban growth boundary are considered to be "urbanizable" during the current
time period covered by the city's comprehensive plan.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a structure is designed or intended, or
for which it is occupied or maintained.
   YARD. An open space, other than a court, that is unobstructed from the
ground upward, except where specifically provided by the UBC Required yard
areas are those portions of a lot that lie between the exterior property lines
and the "building envelope" defined by the setback distances from those
property lines.
   YARD SALE. Temporary sales of goods from a private residence, limited to
three days, four times a year, in a yard, a garage or other structures.
   YEAR, CALENDAR. (See CALENDAR YEAR.) One year, 365 consecutive days
including holidays and weekends, beginning on any date and ending 365 days
later.
   ZERO LOT LINE. A common line between two lots from which no setbacks are
required.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 5; Ord. 288, passed 8-2-2018; Ord. 293, passed
9-5-2019)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES
§ 154.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   For the purposes of these regulations the city is divided into districts
which may be further divided for greater flexibility of lot sizes, as described
in these regulations.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 3.1)
§ 154.021 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The locations and boundaries of the zoning districts are shown on the
map entitled "Zoning Map of the City of Shady Cove", which is dated with its
effective date, and signed by the Mayor and referred to herein as the "Zoning
Map".
   (B)   A copy of the zoning map shall be maintained on file in the office of
the city and is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
   (C)   Upon approval of any changes to the zoning map, the City Council shall
cause the official zoning map to be revised to accurately portray the change.
   (D)   The City Council may direct the replacement of the official zoning
map, or a portion thereof, which includes all lawful changes of zone and city
boundaries to date. Any map or portion thereof replaced shall be retained in a
separate file by the city.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 3.2)
§ 154.022 BOUNDARY INTERPRETATIONS.
   In making a determination as to the location of an uncertain zoning district
boundary on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Where district boundaries approximately follow streets, alleys,
highways or other rights-of-way, the district boundary is considered to be at
the centerline of the rights-of way.
   (B)   When a street, alley or other public way is vacated by law, the zoning
district adjoining each side of the street, alley or way shall be extended to
the center of the former right-of-way and the former right-of-way land area
shall be included in the extended districts to each side.
   (C)   Zoning district boundaries should follow property lines unless not
possible and the property lines shall be construed to be the zoning district
boundaries.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 3.3)
§ 154.023 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following uses and structures shall be exempt from the requirements and
regulations of this chapter:
   (A)   Pavement, road base, curbs, gutters, wires, cables, conduits, vaults,
laterals, pipes, mains, valves or other equipment used for the distribution of
telephone or other communications. Electricity, gas, water collection of sewage
or storm water runoff; or for public streets, highways, bikeways and sidewalks;
provided, the facilities are operated or maintained by a governmental entity or
public or underground; and when located in street right-of-way or other public
right-of-way or easement for that purpose. Material storage, solid waste
disposal sites and electrical substations are not included in this exemption;
   (B)   Establishment, operation, maintenance, repair or preservation
construction of an authorized public facility, including public streets and
highways, bridges and culverts, sewer lines, storm sewer lines and drainage
ditches, water lines and communication and energy utility facilities; when
located in a street right-of-way or other public right-of-way or easement for
that purpose. Material storage, solid waste disposal sites and electrical
substations are not included in this exception; and
   (C)   The following may be exempted from the minimum setback requirements or
height requirements at the time of site plan review, when the structures are
located outside the public right-of-way and are obviously intended to serve the
public interest: telephone booths and pedestals; utility equipment; mail boxes;
bus shelters; public bicycle racks or shelters; utility and street sign poles;
kiosks; and other similar structures or devices.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 4)
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT, R-1
§ 154.035 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-1 District is to provide within the community for the
development and enhancement of quiet, family-oriented residential neighborhoods
that are characteristic of city's small town semi-rural atmosphere, and which
will accommodate primarily single-family dwellings on individual lots.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 7.1)
§ 154.036 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted outright in the R-1 District, subject to
development standards, or other ordinance requirements:
   (A)   Single-family conventional or modular (UBC) home, minimum 1,000 square
feet;
   (B)   Single-family "manufactured" or "factory-built" (HUD Code) home (see
§§
154.215 through
154.219);
   (C)   Existing agricultural uses with no increase in intensity of operation
or addition or expansion of farm-related structures;
   (D)   Guest house, consistent with the definition in §
154.006;
   (E)   Accessory uses; such as carports, garages, sheds, swimming pools and
other uses or structures customarily accessory to residential development,
subject to interpretation by the Planning Commission if questionable;
   (F)   Home occupation, consistent with standards in §
154.292;
   (G)   Planned unit development, in accordance with §§
154.170 through
154.187, except in R1-00; and
   (H)   Accessory dwelling unit, subject to §
154.280.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 7.2; Ord. 253, passed 1-21-2010; Ord. 288,
passed 8-2-2018)
§ 154.037 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Except in R1-00, the following uses and accessory uses are permitted in this
district only when authorized by the Planning Commission in accordance with the
conditional use permit requirements contained in §§
154.395 through
154.404:
   (A)   Home occupations, consistent with the standards in §
154.293;
   (B)   Rest homes, nursing homes, convalescent homes;
   (C)   Day care center and similar facilities for the care of more than five
children who are not permanent residents of the subject property;
   (D)   Public and parochial schools and similar educational facilities;
   (E)   Public and quasi-public utility buildings, but not including, outside
storage or repair of equipment and materials, warehouses and similar uses;
   (F)   Parks and recreational facilities that are intended to provide for the
recreational or park needs of the neighborhood or community; including open
parklands, play fields, playgrounds, swimming pools, multi-purpose recreation
buildings, passive and picnic areas, bike ways, pedestrian walkways and other
facilities that are determined by the Planning Commission to be similar;
   (G)   Major recreational facilities, including golf courses, driving ranges,
equestrian center and trail systems, organized field sport facilities,
gymnasium and similar facilities that are designed to enhance the livability
and residential character of the neighborhood or community and that will be
compatible, as determined by the Planning Commission, with the existing and
proposed surrounding development;
   (H)   Developer's project sales office, including a temporary structure or
trailer adapted for that purpose, and used during the construction and/or sale
of a residential development, and not used for residential purposes;
   (I)   4-H projects; and
   (J)   Vacation rental dwellings; and
   (K)   Other uses not specified in this or any other district if determined
by the Planning Commission to be similar to those listed above and compatible
with the purpose of the district.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 7.3; Ord. 253, passed 1-21-2010; Ord. 275,
passed 8-6-2015)
§ 154.038 PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. All development in the R-1 District of the city shall
comply with the development requirements in §
154.200.
   (B)   Density.
      (1)   With the exception of planned unit developments, the density of new
residential developments will be determined by the combination of permitted
uses and the minimum lot size provisions contained in the development
requirements table.
      (2)   Due to the unique and varying characteristics of existing
development patterns, landforms and topography, soils, flood plains and other
factors, the R-1 District is further divided into the categories shown below,
which are applied to appropriate areas on the zoning map.
      (3)   The following square footage requirements pertain to "net site
area".
 
R-1-6  6,000 square feet lots
R-1-10 10,000 square feet lots
R-1-20 20,000 square feet lots
R-1-40 40,000 square feet lots
R-1-00 Existing lot size (cannot be partitioned)
 
   (C)   Off-street parking. See §§
154.330 through
154.337 for number of parking space provided for each residential dwelling
unit. These spaces shall not be within a required front yard abutting a public
street other than an alley, and in accordance with any other requirement the
city's parking standards or other applicable codes.
   (D)   Fences, walls, hedges. Any fence, wall, hedge or other screen planting
shall not exceed a height of three feet above grade within any front yard
setback area, nor six feet above grade within any side or rear yard areas. Open
mesh deer fencing may exceed the height restrictions noted above.
   (E)   Mobile homes or manufactured homes in residential zones. See §§
154.215 through
154.219.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 7.4; Ord. 253, passed 1-21-2010)
MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT, R-2
§ 154.050 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the R-2 District is to provide suitable areas within
the community for the development of residential neighborhoods at a slightly
higher density than permitted in the R-1 District, and which also provide
opportunities for the development of lower-cost housing alternatives.
   (B)   In some cases, the application of the R-2 District will promote the
transition and redevelopment of older deteriorating areas and also provides for
the development of mobile home parks at similar densities.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 8.1)
§ 154.051 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted, outright in the R-2 District, subject to
site plan review, development standards or other ordinance requirements:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Existing agricultural uses with no increase in intensity of operation
or addition or expansion of farm-related structures;
   (C)   Mobile home parks, subject to the city's mobile home park development
requirements of §§
154.230 through
154.236 and at a density not to exceed ten dwelling units/acre;
   (D)   Duplexes or two or more single-family dwellings on the same lot;
   (E)   Guest house, consistent with the definition in §
154.006;
   (F)   Accessory uses; such as carports, garages, sheds, swimming pools and
other uses or structures customarily accessory to residential development,
subject to interpretation by the Planning Commission if questionable;
   (G)   Home occupations, consistent with standards in §
154.292;
   (H)   Planned unit development, in accordance with §§
154.170 through
154.187; and
   (I)   Accessory dwelling unit, subject to §
154.280.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 8.2; Ord. 288, passed 8-2-2018)
§ 154.052 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses and their accessory uses are permitted in the R-
2 District only when authorized by Planning Commission in accordance with the
conditional use permit requirements contained in §§
154.395 through
154.404.
   (A)   Home occupations, consistent with the standards in §
154.293;
   (B)   Rest homes, nursing homes, convalescent homes;
   (C)   Out-patient medical clinics, counseling and other neighborhood or
community public assistance centers;
   (D)   Churches and other religious institutions;
   (E)   Day care center and similar facilities for the care of more than five
children who are not permanent residents of the subject property;
   (F)   Bed and breakfast inns;
   (G)   Public and quasi-public utility building, structures and uses, but not
including, outside storage or repair of equipment and materials, warehouses and
similar uses;
   (H)   Parks and recreational facilities for the needs of the neighborhood or
community, including open parklands, play fields, playgrounds, swimming pools,
multi-purpose recreation buildings, passive and picnic areas, bikeways,
pedestrian walkways and other facilities that are determined by the Planning
Commission to be similar and compatible;
   (I)   4-H projects, excluding animal husbandry;
   (J)   Major recreational facilities, such as those described in §
154.037 of the list of "conditional uses" of the R-1 District; provided, they
are located at the periphery of the R-2 District and easily accessible by their
intended users;
   (K)   Developer's project or sales office, including a temporary structure
or trailer adapted for that purpose, and used during the construction and/or
sale of a residential development, and not used for residential purposes; and
   (L)   Vacation rental dwellings; and
   (M)   Other uses not specified in this or any other district if determined
by the Planning Commission to be similar to those listed above and compatible
with the purpose of the district.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 8.3; Ord. 275, passed 8-6-2015)
§ 154.053 PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. All development in the R-2 District of the city shall be in
compliance with the development requirements contained in the table in §
154.200.
   (B)   Density. The minimum site areas requirements for development in the R-
2 District are: (Square footage is for the "net site area".)
 
Single-family dwelling 6,000 square feet per dwelling unit
Duplex                 4,000 square feet per dwelling unit or 8,000 square feet
                       per duplex structure
Mobile home park       One acre minimum park size
                       Ten units per acre density as in city's MHP standards
 
   (C)   Off-street parking. See §§
154.330 through
154.337 for number of off-street parking spaces to be provided for each
dwelling unit in the R-2 District, in accordance with §§
154.330 through
154.337.
   (D)   Fences, walls, hedges. Same requirements as in R-1.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 8.4)
HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT, R-3
§ 154.065 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-3 District is to provide suitable areas within the
community for the development of residential areas and neighborhoods that,
because of the types and other characteristics, are most efficient and cost-
effective when developed at a higher density.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 9.1)
§ 154.066 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted outright in the R-3 District, subject to
site plan review, development standards or other ordinance requirements:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Existing agricultural uses with no increase in intensity of operation
or addition or expansion of farm-related structures;
   (C)   Duplex or attached single-family dwellings on the same lot;
   (D)   Multiple-family structures, including apartments, condominiums,
townhouses and similar uses;
   (E)   Guest house, consistent with the definition contained in §
154.006;
   (F)   Planned unit development, in accordance with the requirements of §§
154.170 through
154.187;
   (G)   Mobile home parks, subject to the city's mobile home park development
requirements of §§
154.230 through
154.236 and at a density not to exceed ten D.U. per acre;
   (H)   Accessory uses, such as carports, garages, sheds, swimming pools,
laundry rooms, multi-purpose/recreation center for multi-family complexes and
other uses or structures customarily accessory to residences, subject to
interpretation by the Planning Commission;
   (I)   Home occupation, consistent with standards in §
154.292; and
   (J)   Accessory dwelling unit, subject to §
154.280.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 9.2; Ord. 288, passed 8-2-2018)
§ 154.067 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses and their accessory uses are permitted in the R-
3 District only when authorized by the Planning Commission in accordance with
the conditional use permit requirements contained in §§
154.395 through
154.404:
   (A)   Home occupation, consistent with standards in §
154.293;
   (B)   Rest homes, nursing homes, convalescent homes;
   (C)   Out-patient medical clinics, counseling and other neighborhood or
community public assistance center;
   (D)   Churches and other religious institutions;
   (E)   Day care center and similar facilities for the care of more than five
children and limited to single-family and duplex units only unless separate
indoor facilities are provided exclusively for the day care function and
separate from other permanent residential spaces;
   (F)   Public and quasi-public utility buildings, structures and uses, but
not including, outside storage or repair of equipment and materials, warehouses
and similar uses;
   (G)   Boarding houses and rooming houses, including "bed and breakfast"
inns;
   (H)   Parks and recreational facilities for the needs of the neighborhood or
community including: open parklands, play fields, playgrounds, swimming pools,
multi-purpose recreation buildings, passive and picnic areas, bikeways,
pedestrian walkways and other facilities that are determined by the Planning
Commission to be similar;
   (I)   Major recreational facilities, such as those described in §
154.037 of the R-1 District, provided they are located at the periphery of the
R-3 District and easily accessible by their intended users;
   (J)   Developer's project or sales office, including a temporary structure
or trailer adapted for that purpose, and used during the construction and/or
sale of a residential development and not used for residential purposes;
   (K)   4-H projects, excluding animal husbandry;
   (L)   Vacation rental dwellings; and
   (M)   Other uses not specified in this or any other district if determined
by the Planning Commission to be similar to those listed above and compatible
with the purpose of the district.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 9.3; Ord. 275, passed 8-6-2015)
§ 154.068 PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. All development in the R-3 District of the city shall
comply with the development requirements in §
154.200.
   (B)   Density. The following are the minimum site area requirements for
development within the R-3 District: (Square footage is for "net site area",
not including streets.)
 
Single-family   6,000 square feet for each dwelling
Duplex          4,000 square feet for each dwelling
                4,000 square feet for first dwelling
Multiple-family 4,000 square feet for second dwelling
                1,500 square feet for each additional dwelling
 
   (C)   Off-street parking. See §§
154.330 through
154.337 for number of off-street parking spaces to be provided for each
dwelling unit in the R-3 District, in accordance with §§
154.330 through
154.337.
   (D)   Additional multiple-family development requirements. The following
requirements shall be applied to multiple-family residential development of
four or more dwelling units:
      (1)   A site-obscuring solid fence of wood, masonry or other suitable
materials shall be provided along all property lines (other than front yard
area). The fence shall be a minimum of five feet in height and continuously
maintained in a sound and attractive condition;
      (2)   Chain-link or other wire type fences may be approved by the
Planning Commission, if supplemented by hedges, vines or other landscaping of
an evergreen type that will cover and screen the fence from view;
      (3)   All setback areas not used for driveways or other uses shall be
landscaped according to a landscaping and irrigation plan for the entire
property, approved by the city;
      (4)   (a)   A minimum of 10% of the site, exclusive of public streets,
shall be landscaped or maintained as open space. Driveways, roads and parking
areas are not considered open space for this calculation.
         (b)   Pedestrian walkways, bikeways, outdoor living or patio areas,
gardens and outdoor recreational areas or facilities in setback areas will be
included in the calculation.
      (5)   (a)   All multiple-family developments of eight or more dwellings
shall include a specific open space outdoor area for the purpose of exercise,
play or other recreational activities for the residents of that development.
         (b)   The area shall consist of a minimum of 1,000 square feet or 20
square feet per dwelling unit, whichever is greater.
      (6)   All trash cans, receptacles, dumpsters and outdoor storage areas in
the R-3 District shall be screened from public view by fencing, landscaping or
other effective means as approved by the city.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 9.4)
GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT, G-C
§ 154.080 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the G-C District is to provide for the development of a
centrally-located and easily accessible commercial area, primarily along Crater
Lake Highway, that will accommodate a mixture of retail businesses, services
and professional offices to serve the community, surrounding areas and tourists
visiting the area; also, to allow heavy commercial or light industrial uses to
serve the local area where they can be made compatible with other uses.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 12.1)
§ 154.081 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted outright in the G-C District, subject to
site plan review, development standards or other ordinance requirements:
   (A)   Professional and financial, including:
      (1)   Accounting and bookkeeping services;
      (2)   Animal hospital (veterinary clinic) within an enclosed structure;
      (3)   Architects, engineers, surveyors and other professional services;
      (4)   Art studio or gallery;
      (5)   Banks and other financial institutions;
      (6)   Corporate or governmental offices;
      (7)   Insurance, investment and financial counseling services;
      (8)   Legal services;
      (9)   Medical services, offices, clinics and laboratories;
      (10)   Photographic studio or gallery;
      (11)   Professional or business management or consulting;
      (12)   Real estate, escrow, title and other property services; and
      (13)   Television or radio broadcasting station.
   (B)   Personal services, including:
      (1)   Ambulance and other emergency services;
      (2)   Appliances repair services (small and large);
      (3)   Art and music schools;
      (4)   Automobile repair services (minor), except paint shops;
      (5)   Automobile service stations;
      (6)   Barber and beauty shops;
      (7)   Bed and breakfast inns;
      (8)   Business or vocational schools (non-industrial);
      (9)   Car wash;
      (10)   Charitable donation approved drop-off areas or bins;
      (11)   Day care center;
      (12)   Electrical, plumbing, heating/ air-conditioning and related
services;
      (13)   Hotels;
      (14)   Laundry (self service);
      (15)   Locksmith;
      (16)   Meeting facilities for clubs and organizations;
      (17)   Mortuaries;
      (18)   Motels;
      (19)   Parking lots (commercial, private or public);
      (20)   Personal or group counseling services;
      (21)   Photocopying, printing and related services;
      (22)   Photo processing pick-up station or booth;
      (23)   Physical fitness/conditioning center or club;
      (24)   Recreational vehicle (RV) park;
      (25)   Tailor and shoe repair;
      (26)   Taxicab dispatch office;
      (27)   Taxidermist;
      (28)   Travel agency, local information facilities; and
      (29)   Upholstery shops for furniture and motor vehicles.
   (C)   Retail outlets, including:
      (1)   Antique store;
      (2)   Apparel (general) including footwear;
      (3)   Apparel (specialty);
      (4)   Appliance sales and service (major appliance);
      (5)   Appliance sales (small appliance);
      (6)   Audio, including records, tapes and related equipment rental;
      (7)   Automotive parts store, excluding outdoor sales;
      (8)   Automobile, truck and boat sales lots (new or used);
      (9)   Bakery, retail only, for on-premise sales;
      (10)   Blacksmith/machine shop;
      (11)   Bicycles and related equipment, sales and service;
      (12)   Books and stationery;
      (13)   Cleaning and janitorial supplies and equipment;
      (14)   Clocks and watches, sales and service;
      (15)   Computer sales and service;
      (16)   Dairy products sales;
      (17)   Delicatessen and other specialty foods;
      (18)   Department store;
      (19)   Drugs, health foods and vitamin sales;
      (20)   Equipment (heavy equipment) sales or rental;
      (21)   Electrical and plumbing supplies;
      (22)   Fabric, yarn and sewing supplies;
      (23)   Feed, seed, and fuel sales;
      (24)   Florist and garden supplies within enclosed structure;
      (25)   Furniture sales, new, used and unfinished;
      (26)   Gifts and notions, including souvenirs;
      (27)   Glass and mirror sales and service;
      (28)   Hardware or home improvement center within enclosed structure;
      (29)   Heating and air conditioning equipment sales;
      (30)   Health and physical fitness related equipment sales;
      (31)   Heavy equipment sales or rental;
      (32)   Hobby and craft supplies;
      (33)   Home furnishings, other than major furniture items;
      (34)   Jewelry;
      (35)   Leather goods and luggage;
      (36)   Market (convenience market);
      (37)   Marine equipment sales, excluding boats and outdoor sales;
      (38)   Meat, poultry, fish and seafood sales;
      (39)   Medical marijuana facility.
         (a)   MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITY is defined as a facility validly
registered with the State of Oregon that is authorized according to the State
of Oregon Health Authority (OHA) to transfer usable marijuana and immature
plants to and from:
            1.   Registry identified cardholders; and
            2.   Persons responsible for a medical marijuana grow site.
         (b)   Medical marijuana facilities may be allowed, subject to the
following standards and restrictions:
            1.   Compliance with all requirements as established by the Oregon
Health Authority (OHA) to be validly registered.
            2.   Prior to operating the business, the operator shall provide
the city with a copy of the medical marijuana facility’s valid proof of
registration as issued by the OHA;
      (40)   Monument sales;
      (41)   Mobile home (manufactured home) sales lots;
      (42)   Motor homes, camp trailers and other recreational vehicle sales
lots and service facilities;
      (43)   Nursery, including outdoor sales of plans and landscape supplies;
      (44)   Office supplies;
      (45)   Outdoor sale of wood, stone, tile, masonry or other hardwood
products;
      (46)   Paint and related equipment sales, rental and service;
      (47)   Pastry or confectionery;
      (48)   Pawn shop;
      (49)   Pet supplies, including small animals within enclosed structure;
      (50)   Photographic and art supplies, including framing;
      (51)   Saddle and tack shop;
      (52)   Second hand store, excluding automotive and outdoor sales;
      (53)   Sporting goods;
      (54)   Supermarket (food sales);
      (55)   Variety store;
      (56)   Video, including equipment and tape sales and rental; and
      (57)   Wall covering, floor covering, curtains and similar products.
   (D)   Entertainment, eating and drinking, and recreation including:
      (1)   Billiard/pool hall;
      (2)   Bowling lanes;
      (3)   Dancing facilities;
      (4)   Ice or roller skating rink;
      (5)   Miniature golf course;
      (6)   Mobile food vendors with property owner consent;
      (7)   Movie theater, excluding drive-in theater;
      (8)   Museum, gallery or similar display facility;
      (9)   Raft, similar floating devices and shuttle;
      (10)   Restaurants;
      (11)   Video game arcade or similar amusement center; and
      (12)   Other entertainment or recreational facilities related to a hotel,
motel or RV park development and intended primarily or exclusively for their
guests.
   (E)   Other permitted uses: not mentioned in divisions (A) through (D)
above, which the Planning Commission finds similar to those mentioned,
including:
      (1)   Single-family detached housing (existing only);
      (2)   Mixed use development (housing and other permitted uses);
      (3)   Dwelling units needed in conjunction with commercial uses;
      (4)   Uses which are not specifically identified as similar; and
      (5)   Accessory dwelling unit, subject to §
154.280.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 12.2; Ord. 272, passed 5-21-2015; Ord. 288,
passed 8-2-2019)
§ 154.082 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses and their accessory uses are permitted in this district
only when authorized by the Planning Commission in accordance with the
conditional use permit requirements contained in §§
154.395 through
154.404.
   (A)   Any use listed as a "permitted use" that includes outdoor storage or
sales;
   (B)   Automotive (major automotive repair, including body/fender, motors,
transmission, auto painting and tire sales and repair);
   (C)   Bars and taverns;
   (D)   Blacksmith/machine shop;
   (E)   Churches or clubs;
   (F)   Flea markets;
   (G)   Gas and propane distribution facilities;
   (H)   Manufacturing or storage in conjunction with a "permitted use" or
mini-warehouses for personal storage;
   (I)   Wholesaling or distribution centers and warehouses;
   (J)   Scientific or technical research facilities and laboratories; and
   (K)   Zoos.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 12.3)
§ 154.083 PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All development in the G-C Zoning District shall be in compliance with the
following minimum standards:
   (A)   Lot area. Five thousand square feet, unless an applicant for a
partition can show that the newly created lot will meet all setback, off-street
parking and loading and other requirements of this district on a smaller
parcel;
   (B)   Lot width. No minimum requirement, except to meet all setback, off-
street parking and loading and other requirements of this district;
   (C)   Lot depth. No minimum requirement, except to meet all setback, off-
street parking and loading and other requirements of this district;
   (D)   Front yard. No minimum requirement, except as may be required at the
time of site plan review;
   (E)   Side yard. No minimum requirement, except a ten-foot setback when the
property abuts a lot in a residential zone;
   (F)   Rear yard. No minimum requirement, except a ten-foot setback when the
property abuts a lot in a residential zone;
   (G)   Lot coverage. No minimum or maximum coverage requirements; provided,
the proposed development meets all off-street parking and code requirements;
and
   (H)   Building height. Maximum 35 feet to highest point of roof.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 12.4)
§ 154.084 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   All development within the G-C District shall include sufficient off-street
parking and loading spaces to accommodate the types of businesses or other
tenants that are intended to occupy the premises. Parking space requirements
are contained in §§
154.330 through
154.337 and will be considered for adequacy at the site plan review.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 12.5)
§ 154.085 FENCES, WALLS, HEDGES.
   (A)   All fences, walls or hedges placed within ten feet of any property
line shall be limited in height to six feet, with the exception of trees. The
Planning Commission may approve a variance to the height requirement for
reasons of security or visual screening, to a maximum height of ten feet.
   (B)   Any new or expanding development within this district shall be
physically and visually separated from any abutting residential properties by a
solid fence or wall six feet in height. The Planning Commission may reduce or
eliminate this requirement during site plan review for development that does
not include outdoor storage and that is found to be compatible in design and
landscaping with abutting and nearby residences.
   (C)   All trash containers or areas provided for that purpose shall be
screened from public view by landscaping or fencing, or a combination of both.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 12.6)
§ 154.086 STANDARDS.
   All uses shall be in compliance with all applicable state and federal
environmental, health and safety regulations.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 12.7)
PUBLIC USES DISTRICT, P
§ 154.100 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the P District is to provide for the uses of various units of
government as they serve the public interest. Generally, the land and waters of
the Public Uses District will be in public ownership. Uses in the P District
are to operate with buffering or other mitigating measures so they are
compatible with adjacent residential and commercial areas and special features
of the environment, such as the Rogue River and its riparian vegetation.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 13.1)
§ 154.101 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted outright in the P District, subject to site
plan review, development standards or other code requirements:
   (A)   Government offices, libraries, community halls, post offices, public
museums and public parking lots;
   (B)   Fire and police stations, ambulance and other emergency services;
   (C)   Public and parochial schools and similar educational facilities;
   (D)   Municipal water treatment plants, storage tanks and related
facilities;
   (E)   Municipal sewage treatment plants, pump stations and related
facilities;
   (F)   Out-patient medical clinics, counseling and other neighborhood or
community public assistance center;
   (G)   Public and quasi-public utility buildings, structures and uses, but
not including, outside storage or repair of equipment and materials, warehouses
and similar uses;
   (H)   Parks and recreational facilities that are intended to provide for the
recreational or park needs of the neighborhood, community or river users;
including open parklands, play fields, playgrounds, swimming pools, multi-
purpose recreation buildings, passive and picnic areas, bikeways, pedestrian
walkways, river access, including boat launch ramps and other facilities
determined by the Planning Commission to be similar; and
   (I)   Approved drop-off areas or bins for charitable donations.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 13.2)
§ 154.102 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses and their accessory uses are permitted in this district
only when authorized by the Planning Commission in accordance with the
conditional use permit requirements contained in §§
154.395 through
154.404:
   (A)   Major recreational facilities; including golf courses, driving ranges,
equestrian center and trail systems, organized field sport facilities,
gymnasium and similar facilities that are designed to enhance the livability
and residential character of the neighborhood or community and that will be
compatible, as determined by the Planning Commission, with the existing and
proposed surrounding development;
   (B)   Rest homes, nursing homes, convalescent homes;
   (C)   Cemeteries;
   (D)   Churches and other religious institutions;
   (E)   Day care center and similar facilities for the care of more than five
children;
   (F)   Public and quasi-public utility buildings, structures and uses
including outside storage or repair of equipment and materials, warehouses and
similar uses;
   (G)   Excavation and removal of aggregate resources for use on a public
project subject to city approval of an environmental mitigation plan and city
approval of a reclamation plan; and
   (H)   Other uses not specified in this or any other district if determined
by the Planning Commission to be similar to those listed above and compatible
with the purpose of the district.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 13.3)
§ 154.103 PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All development in the P Zoning District shall be in compliance with any
conditions associated with variances, site plan review, conditional use
permits, state or federal environmental regulations and with the following
minimum standards:
   (A)   Lot area. Five thousand square feet, unless an applicant can show that
the use will meet all setback, off-street parking and loading and other
development requirements on a smaller parcel;
   (B)   Lot width. No minimum requirement;
   (C)   Lot depth. No minimum requirement;
   (D)   Front yard. Ten-foot setback when the property abuts a residential
district;
   (E)   Side yard. Ten-foot setback when the property abuts a residential
district;
   (F)   Rear yard. Ten-foot setback when the property abuts a residential
district; and
   (G)   Lot coverage. No minimum or maximum coverage provided the proposed
development meets all off-street parking and other code requirements.
   (H)   Landscape plan. A landscape plan is required and shall conform to the
requirements of §
154.318 .
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 13.4; Ord. 287, passed 4-5-2018)
§ 154.104 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   All new development within the P District shall include sufficient off-
street parking and loading spaces to accommodate the types of uses that are
intended to occupy the premises. Parking space requirements are contained in §§
154.330 through
154.337 and will be considered for adequacy at the time of conditional use or
site plan review.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 13.5)
§ 154.105 FENCES, WALLS, HEDGES, BUFFERING.
   (A)   All fences, walls or hedges placed within ten feet of any property
line shall be limited in height to six feet, with the exception of trees. The
Planning Commission may require conditions or approve a variance to the height
requirement for reasons of security or visual screening.
   (B)   Any new or expanding development within this district shall be
physically and visually separated from any abutting residential properties by a
solid fence or wall six feet in height. The Planning Commission may reduce or
eliminate this requirement during site plan review for development that does
not include outdoor storage and that is found to be compatible in design and
landscaping with abutting and nearby residences.
   (C)   All trash containers or areas provided for that purpose shall be
screened from public view by landscaping or fencing, or a combination thereof.
   (D)   All uses shall allow sufficient distance or employ other measures to
mitigate noise impact on surrounding properties.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 13.6)
§ 154.106 STANDARDS.
   All uses shall be in compliance with all applicable state and federal
environmental, health and safety regulations.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 13.7)
AIRPARK, COMMERCIAL, A-C
§ 154.120 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Airpark Commercial District is to provide the city a
commercial-light industrial area not requiring a large amount of public
exposure with airport related uses being of primary concern. Minimal traffic is
essential. No structures or appurtenance will exceed a height of 20 feet above
ground level.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 15.1)
§ 154.121 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted outright in the Airpark Commercial
District, subject to site plan review, development standards or other ordinance
requirements:
   (A)   Customary and usual aviation- related activities including but not
limited to takeoffs, landings, aircraft hangars, tie-downs, construction and
maintenance of airport facilities, fixed-base operator facilities and other
activities incidental to the normal operation of an airport;
   (B)   Emergency medical flight services;
   (C)   Law enforcement and firefighting activities;
   (D)   Flight instruction;
   (E)   Aircraft fabrication, service, maintenance and training;
   (F)   Crop dusting and other agricultural activities;
   (G)   Air passenger and air freight services at levels consistent with the
classification and needs identified in the State Aviation System Plan;
   (H)   Aircraft rental;
   (I)   Aircraft sales and sale of aviation equipment and supplies;
   (J)   Aviation recreational and sporting activities; and
   (K)   Other uses not specified above if determined by the Planning
Commission to be similar to those listed and compatible with the purpose of the
district.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 15.2; Ord. 282, passed 11-17-2016)
§ 154.122 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Locksmith;
   (B)   Taxidermist;
   (C)   Photocopying, printing and related services;
   (D)   Taxicab dispatch office;
   (E)   Ambulance and other emergency services;
   (F)   Auto repair services, auto body shops, including paint shops;
   (G)   Upholstery shops for furniture, motor vehicles, boats or recreational
vehicles;
   (H)   Commercial parking lots (all weather surface required);
   (I)   Garden supplies, including outdoor nurseries;
   (J)   Outdoor sales of wood, stone, tile or masonry;
   (K)   RV repair service;
   (L)   Boat building, repair and sales;
   (M)   Camper shells, retail and fabrication;
   (N)   Custom canvas fabrication;
   (O)   Mini storage and warehousing;
   (P)   Auto rentals; and
   (Q)   Scientific or technical research facilities and laboratories.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 15.3)
LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT, L-I
§ 154.135 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the L-I Limited Industrial District is to create, preserve
and enhance areas for light manufacturing, light industrial and related
establishments, which are essential to the economy of the city and area, and
because of their size, traffic generation, transportation needs, water and
sewer requirements and other characteristics need careful consideration as to
location. To be consistent with sound planning practice these districts will be
conveniently located near planned or existing major highways and streets, sewer
and water facilities and other commercial land uses.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 16.1)
§ 154.136 PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES.
   (A)   Administration, educational, business offices and other related
activities and facilities in conjunction with a permitted use;
   (B)   Ambulance service;
   (C)   Automobile, motorcycle, truck and equipment sales, service, repair and
rental;
   (D)   Bakery, wholesale and retail;
   (E)   Blueprinting or photo copying;
   (F)   Blacksmith shop;
   (G)   Boat building, sales and repairs;
   (H)   Cabinet shop;
   (I)   Ceramic products using only previously pulverized clay and fired in
kilns using low pressure gas or electricity;
   (J)   Electronic or electro-mechanical equipment manufacture, assembly,
testing and repair for items;
   (K)   Equipment sales, service, rental and repair;
   (L)   Farm equipment sales, service rental and repair;
   (M)   Garment or clothing manufacturing;
   (N)   Glass assembly and manufacturing;
   (O)   Light manufacturing, assembly, fabricating or packaging of products
from previously prepared materials such as cloth, plastic, paper, leather,
precious or semi-precious metals or stones;
   (P)   Lumber and building materials yards, not including concrete mixing;
   (Q)   Machine, metal and sheet metal shops;
   (R)   Printing, publishing and book binding;
   (S)   Public uses and buildings and public utility uses;
   (T)   Sign shops and signs;
   (U)   Storage buildings and mini-warehouse facilities for household goods;
   (V)   Storage buildings and warehouse for consumer goods;
   (W)   Trailer sales, storage and rental;
   (X)   Wholesale facilities for distribution of all standard types of
prepared or packaged merchandise such as automobile supplies, drug, electrical
supplies, furniture, food products, hardware, leather goods, plumbing supplies,
textiles and fabrics and general merchandise;
   (Y)   Assemble, manufacture, or preparation of articles and merchandise from
previously prepared materials;
   (Z)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily appurtenant to a permitted
use, such as incidental storage when properly screened; and
   (AA)   Other uses similar to the above and keeping with the Limited
Industrial District purposes; provided, that the use is not harmful to persons
living or working in the vicinity as determined by the city due to odor, smoke,
dust, dirt, refuse, illumination, noise, vibration, appearance or hazard of
fire or explosion.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 16.2)
§ 154.137 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The Planning Commission may grant a conditional use permit in accordance
with the standards and procedures set forth in §§
154.395 through
154.404 for any other buildings or uses as the Commission determines to be in
keeping with the district's purposes. Other use shall not have any different or
more detrimental effect upon the adjoining neighborhood areas or zones that
provide specifically for the use as a permit use. In addition, the following
conditional uses are authorized:
   (A)   Bulk meat processing and sales;
   (B)   Food products processing and manufacturing;
   (C)   Residential uses related to the operation of permitted industrial uses
for plant personnel; and
   (D)   Limited industrial site use when the proposed building or structures
are located within 300 feet of the boundaries of any residential zone or
educational institution.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 16.3)
§ 154.138 YARD REGULATIONS.
   In the L-I District each lot shall have yards of the following size unless
otherwise provided in this chapter:
   (A)   Front yard setback. Thirty feet. Exception: parking area setback, five
feet;
   (B)   Side yard setback. Commercial or industrial adjacent zone, ten feet.
When adjacent to a residential zone, 30 feet;
   (C)   Street side yard setback. Twenty feet. Exception: parking area
setback, five feet;
   (D)   Rear yard setback. Commercial or industrial adjacent zone, 20 feet.
When adjacent to a residential zone, 30 feet; and
   (E)   Screening. Screening from adjacent residentially zoned property with
landscaping and/or fencing is required.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 16.4)
§ 154.139 BUILDING STRUCTURAL HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   In the L-I District, height of buildings shall not exceed two and one-
half stories or 30 feet, whichever is more, except when a structure abuts a
residential zone. The maximum building height abutting a residential zone shall
not be greater than that height permitted in the abutting residential zone for
a distance of 150 feet.
   (B)   Structures exceeding 30 feet necessary for use with permitted or
conditional uses may be permitted when approved by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 16.5)
§ 154.140 LOT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Area and dimensions. In the L-I District, the minimum lot area for 70%
of the lots shall be at least 43,560 square feet. The other 30% of the lots
shall be at least 22,000 square feet.
   (B)   Coverage and density requirements. In the L-I District, there are no
lot coverage and density requirements, except as provided in the yard
regulations and off-street parking and loading requirements.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 16.6)
§ 154.141 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   Off-street parking and loading requirements for uses in the L-I District
shall be provided as prescribed in §§
154.330 through
154.337. In no event, shall there be less than adequate parking and loading
facilities to serve all employees, customers and service needs of each use.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 16.7)
§ 154.142 FENCES AND WALLS.
   (A)   In the L-I District, solid fences and walls shall not exceed three
feet in height above the sidewalk grade, within the front yard setback area or
street side yard setback area, vision clearance shall be required on all corner
lots.
   (B)   On an ulterior lot, a wall, fence or hedge not more than eight feet in
height may be located anywhere on the lot to the rear of the required front
yard or street side yard setback line.
   (C)   When an L-I District adjoins a residential district, the Planning
Commission may require that a fence, wall or hedge be erected along and
immediately adjacent to the abutting property line that is the zone boundary.
   (D)   The Planning Commission may make this requirement in the approval of
the site plan, as required by §§
154.310 through
154.317.
   (E)   All fences, walls and hedges shall be properly constructed,
maintained, trimmed and kept in good condition and repair.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 16.8)
WILDFIRE HAZARD AREA; WILDLIFE HAZARD MITIGATION
§ 154.155 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to provide minimum standards for buildings
located in or adjacent to vegetated areas subject to wildfires to reduce or
eliminate hazards presented by the fires.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 10.1)
§ 154.156 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this section shall apply to buildings required to be
protected against wildfire by a jurisdiction which has adopted wildfire hazard
zoning restrictions.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 10.2)
§ 154.157 WILDFIRE HAZARD ZONE.
   A wildfire hazard zone is an area legally determined by a jurisdiction to
have special hazards caused by a combination of combustible natural fuels,
topography and climatic conditions that result in a significant hazard of
catastrophic fire over relatively long periods each year. Wildfire hazard zones
shall be determined using criteria established by the State Department of
Forestry.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 10.3)
§ 154.158 WILDFIRE HAZARD ZONE REQUIREMENTS.
   Building shall be protected against wildfire by the following requirements
in addition to other requirements of this code.
   (A)   Roofing. All buildings regulated by this ordinance in wildfire hazard
zones shall have Class A or B roofing according to § 3204 of the State
Structural Specialty Code.
   (B)   Re-roofing or repair of roofing of existing buildings. When 50% or
more of the roof coverings of any building is repaired or replaced within one
year, the entire roof covering shall be made to comply with this section and
attic ventilation shall be made to comply with this code.
   (C)   Premises identification.
      (1)   Any premises regulated by this section shall have approved numbers
or addresses provided for the premises in a position as to be visible and
legible from the public right-of-way.
      (2)   If the premises is not visible from the right-of-way due to
distance or obstacles, the driveway(s) servicing the premises shall be
identified by a sign where the driveway(s) enters the public right-of-way.
      (3)   The size, color, reflectivity, content, appearance, location and
maintenance of the identification may be determined by the city.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 10.4)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
§ 154.170 PURPOSE.
   Each zoning district of the city includes its own guidelines and
requirements for development, aimed primarily at developments on individual
lots or in residential subdivisions. Planned unit development offers
opportunities for more efficient and innovative uses of land, including
clustering and the combination of commercial, industrial and residential
commercial uses into a single master-planned development. Land use variety,
maximum efficiency of services and facilities, enhanced livability and the
preservation of existing amenities, natural resources and area aesthetics are
the purposes of this section.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 25.1)
§ 154.171 AUTHORIZATION.
   The Planning Commission, with advice from the City Engineer and any other
needed professionals, shall have the authority to approve, approve with
conditions, deny or make amendments to planned unit developments within the
jurisdiction of the city, subject to the provisions of this section, the
applicable zoning district in which the development is located and other land
use and development regulations of the city.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 25.2)
§ 154.172 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A pre-application conference between the applicant and city staff to
review a concept plan is required prior to submitting an application for a
planned unit development. City costs of a pre-application conference shall be
reimbursed by the preparers of the concept plant.
   (B)   The applicant shall submit a "preliminary plan" as described in §
154.174, along with the application fee as established by the City Council.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 25.3)
§ 154.173 SIZE OF A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   A planned unit development shall be a minimum of two acres in size.
   (B)   There shall be no maximum size for a planned unit development, but an
overall project that cannot be fully completed with a two-year construction
period shall be designed in phases so that the approval process and
construction activities are not more than two years apart, but still in
accordance with the overall plan.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 25.4)
§ 154.174 PRELIMINARY PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   The "preliminary plan", along with a supporting narrative, will provide the
primary basis for review and approval of the planned unit development by the
Planning Commission, and is necessary for that approval.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 25.5)
§ 154.175 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Within 12 months of the Planning Commission's preliminary plan
approval, the applicant shall file the final development plan with the Planning
Commission, along with the final plan for any land divisions, and evidence of
completion of conditions of approval.
   (B)   The final development plan map shall contain at least the following:
      (1)   All information contained on the "preliminary plan", but in final
form, with dimensions, and with any revisions required by the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   The final development plan map may be submitted in phases, if done
in accordance with a phasing plan for the development, so that major public
improvements can also be phased and completed prior to approval of the final
development plan map.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 25.6)
§ 154.176 APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Within 60 days of submittal of a complete "preliminary plan" for a
Planned Unit Development, the Planning Commission shall schedule a public
hearing on the proposal.
   (B)   After conducting the public hearing and considering any and all
comments that were offered, including written comments, the Planning Commission
may approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the proposed PUD.
   (C)   A conditional approval may include any reasonable conditions that are
determined by the Planning Commission to be necessary to protect natural
features or surrounding development, either existing or planned, or to provide
for the public health and safety of those that will eventually be residing
within the development or otherwise using it. Conditions may also pertain to
the most efficient use of streets, parking, other public utilities and
facilities, or to the overall function of the development itself.
   (D)   Approval of either the "preliminary plan" or the "final plan" shall
include adoption of findings of fact that relate specifically to the approval
criteria of §
154.177.
   (E)   Approval of the final development plan shall be given by the Planning
Commission following completion of the following:
      (1)   Applicant's submittal of the final development plan, as described
in §
154.175.
      (2)   Applicant's completion of any modification to the plan map.
      (3)   Applicant's completion of any conditions of approval that was
specifically required to be completed prior to final approval.
      (4)   Dedication of lands for parks, streets, or other public uses, as
required by the Planning Commission or as proposed by applicant.
      (5)   Applicant's completion of all improvement work, including
construction or improvement of public streets or highways and related
improvements, or the providing of a bond or other assurance that such work will
be completed as planned and approved.
      (6)   A partial approval of the final development plan may be given when
the plan's development is intended to be phased over a period of several years,
or when further adjustments or refinements are likely in future phases.
   (F)   In the event that construction has not commenced within one year from
the date of final approval, or construction has been discontinued for a period
of one year or longer, no development or further development shall take place
without Planning Commission approval, following reconsideration of the project.
The Commission may grant extensions of time, as it deems appropriate, and no
additional public hearings shall be required prior to granting such extensions
of time.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 25.7)
§ 154.177 APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   In granting approval of a proposed Planned Unit Development, the
Planning Commission shall find that the standards of this section, including
the following criteria, are either met, can be met through conditions of
approval, or are not applicable:
      (1)   The proposal is not in conflict with any goals, policies, or
community development proposals contained in the comprehensive plan, and will
not prevent or discourage other planned development in the same zoning district
or general vicinity.
      (2)   The proposal is in compliance with the standards of the affected
zoning district and the provisions of this section.
      (3)   The proposal includes adequate provisions for the preservation of
unique and important natural resources and cultural or historic sites that may
be affected.
      (4)   The development will have no significant adverse impacts an
surrounding lands or uses, including environmental impacts on the water, air,
scenic qualities or other area features.
      (5)   Natural and man-made hazards to public health and safety have been
minimized through the development's design.
      (6)   The project will have an adequate circulation system of streets and
off-street parking areas for both occupants and visitors, including any needed
improvements to off-site streets or highways that may be necessary to ensure
safety and minimal congestion.
      (7)   There are adequate provisions for the on-going maintenance of open
space and common areas within the development, such as through a homeowners'
association or other means determined to be acceptable to the city.
      (8)   In the case of a phased development, the first phase(s) will have
the same or higher ratio of amenities and open space as proposed for the
development as a whole.
      (9)   Water, sewer, electricity, and other necessary public utilities and
services are sufficient to serve the development and have been approved by the
city's engineer.
      (10)   All developments, including commercial and industrial, will be
sufficiently buffered by distance, physical features, and/or landscaping from
incompatible or conflicting adjacent uses or proposed uses to minimize any
potential conflicts or adverse effects.
   (B)   The final development plan for the PUD will control all subsequent
site plan approvals and provide the guidance for farther development.
   (C)   Following issuance of a certificate of completion by the Building
Official, any further development within the PUD, Including modifications to
buildings or structures, shall be processed through the Site Plan review
process to determine compliance with the final development plan.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 25.8)
§ 154.178 PROJECT DENSITY.
   (A)   The dwelling unit density of any Planned Unit Development shall not
exceed that allowed within the zoning district in which the project is located,
with the following exceptions.
   (B)   A density bonus of up to 20% may be granted by the Planning Commission
at the time of preliminary map approval if it is determined that the project's
design:
      (1)   Contains a combination of public and private open space,
recreational facilities, and preserved natural areas in excess of the city's
needs, as stated in the comprehensive plan's standards and policies, and the
higher density can be effectively accommodated without environmental conflicts;
or
      (2)   Demonstrates that the development contains distinctive or excellent
qualities in the areas of site planning architectural design, landscaping,
solar orientation, recreational opportunities, or other features that will
provide a unique or superior living environment or that will significantly
enhance the general area or neighborhood.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 25.9)
§ 154.179 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The following are permitted in a Planned Unit Development:
      (1)   Any permitted or conditional use that is listed in the zoning
district in which the PUD is located.
      (2)   Accessory structures and uses that are common or typical for the
types of permitted uses.
      (3)   Land uses not necessarily included as permitted or conditional uses
in the underlying zoning district, but that are compatible with those that are
permitted or conditional and that interact In a positive manner with permitted
uses, as determined by the Planning Commission. Uses or structures that are not
permitted or conditional uses in the underlying zoning district must be
subordinate In density and impact to the permitted and conditional uses.
   (B)   In addition to the uses permitted in division (A) above, the following
may also be considered for inclusion within a Planned Unit Development, if
designed as an integral part of development and primarily for the occupants
and/or other users of the development.
      (1)   Golf course, putting greens, driving range.
      (2)   Private or public parks, lakes, or waterways.
      (3)   Playgrounds, athletic fields, and other outdoor recreation area.
      (4)   Recreation of multi-purpose building, clubhouse, activity center,
social center, day care center, and similar uses.
      (5)   Equestrian facilities, including stables and trails, provided an
adequate distance separation can be achieved from residential development and
other potentially conflicting uses.
      (6)   Bicycle paths, pedestrian walkways, jogging trails, physical
fitness courses.
      (7)   Private airstrip and related hangar facilities intended for the use
of occupants and visitors.
      (8)   Other uses which the Planning Commission finds to be complementary
to and compatible with the primary uses provided all other site development
requirements of all regulating agencies can be met.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 25.10)
§ 154.180 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Perimeter building setback requirements of the underlying zoning
district shall apply within the PUD, except that residential dwellings shall be
set back a minimum of ten feet from any perimeter property line.
   (B)   Within the PUD, the Planning Commission may authorize building heights
in excess of the maximum district limitation, provided such building comprise
no more than 20% of all proposed building floor area of the PUD and are
aesthetically integrated into the overall design of the PUD.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall have the authority to adjust, or allow
adjustments to, building setbacks, yard areas, and other development standards
to permit design innovation, efficiency, solar orientation, natural resource
preservation, zero lot-line development, or other design features that will
enhance the PUD and that will be consistent with the purpose of this section.
   (D)   To the maximum extent possible, all electrical, telephone, cable
television and other utilities shall be located underground.
   (E)   Off-street parking and loading requirements of a PUD shall be based on
the sum of parking and loading requirements for each individual use, in
accordance with zoning ordinance § 25. The Planning Commission is authorized to
approve reductions in these standards in cases where the applicant can show how
parking can be shared effectively, or can be reduced to other reasons.
Additional parking may also be required in cases where the design may justify
more spaces than normally required.
   (F)   Fire safety provisions shall be a primary consideration in the
approval of a PUD, and its overall design shall not create fire safety or
access problems, nor a fire potential greater than the local fire district's
suppression capabilities as determined by the Fire Chief.
   (G)   The PUD plan shall have a basic architectural “theme” established with
the final plan approval. Design coordination shall include all buildings,
accessory structures, signs, outdoor lighting, fencing, street trees, and other
major features.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 25.11)
§ 154.181 LANDSCAPING AND OPEN SPACE STANDARDS.
   (A)   A generalized landscape plan is required as a part of the preliminary
map approval. A specific landscape plan shall be submitted for site development
plan approval prior to issuance of building permits. That specific plan shall
include types, sizes, and a placement of all landscape materials, all
irrigation systems, and a plan for maintenance and conform to the following
standards.
   (B)   Areas of the Planned Unit Development not built upon shall be
landscaped with trees, shrubs, grass or other materials, except for natural
undisturbed areas specifically set aside for purposes of preservation and
approved to remain in their natural state.
   (C)   Automobile parking lots shall include a combination of trees and other
landscaped materials intended to provide shade, to break up the large expanse
of asphalt or other hard surface, and to reduce the visual impact of the lots
from adjacent areas.
   (D)   All trash receptacles shall be fully screened from public view by
fencing or landscaping.
   (E)   A minimum of 25% of the total site, exclusive of streets, parking
areas, and non-residential development, shall be set aside, dedicated, or
reserved as common open space.
   (F)   Open space may include other required landscaped areas and outdoor
areas planned and developed for recreational purposes, such as traits,
bikeways, pedestrian areas, golf courses, parks and structures intended for
recreational or social purposes, and may also include areas set aside for
natural area preservation purposes.
   (G)   No open space may be accepted as common open space within a Planned
Unit Development unless it meets the following requirements:
      (1)   The common open space is appropriate for the scale and character of
the PUD in terms of size, usable shape, topography, and to the size, density
and anticipated user population of the PUD.
      (2)   Any structures or other improvements within an approved open space
areas are appropriate for the intended function of that area and will conserve
and enhance the open space quality and amenities.
      (3)   Steep slopes greater than 25% or submerged, marshy, boggy land that
is marginally useable shall comprise no more than one-half the total common
open space requirement.
      (4)   If any buildings, structures or other improvements are proposed
within any common open space area, the developer shall post a bond or other
adequate assurance that those improvements will be completed as designed. The
bond or assurance shall be released upon completion of the improvements, as
approved.
      (5)   Land approved on the final plan as common open space shall be
conveyed under one of the following options:
         (a)   To a public agency, such as the city, which agrees to maintain
the areas and any buildings or other improvements within the common open space.
The city shall only accept the dedication of open space lands that are intended
for natural resource preservation of park and open space use by the general
public.
         (b)   To an association of owners or tenants, created as a nonprofit
corporation under the laws of this state, which shall adopt and impose articles
of incorporation and bylaws and adopt and impose a declaration of covenants and
restriction on the common open space that is acceptable to the City Attorney as
providing for the continued care of the areas. The association shall be formed
and continued in perpetuity for the purpose of maintaining and managing the
common open space.
         (c)   Other options as may be proposed by the developer and found to
be equally effective by the Planning Commission.
      (6)   If the common open space areas are not conveyed to the city or
other public agency or nonprofit corporation, the city shall be authorized to
enforce the provisions of any covenants governing the use, improvement, and
maintenance of the common open space.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 25.12)
§ 154.182 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   In permitting a new PUD, or an alteration to an existing PUD, the Planning
Commission may impose conditions of approval that are found to be necessary to
avoid a detrimental environmental impact or to otherwise protect the public
interest, including but not limited to the public health and safety, of the
surrounding area and the community as a whole. Such conditions may include:
   (A)   Limiting the manner in which a land use is conducted, including
restrictions on the hours of operation and requirements that noise, vibration,
glare, odor, dust, air and water pollution, and other adverse environmental
effects be minimized.
   (B)   Limiting the height, size or location of buildings or other
structures.
   (C)   Designating more or fewer vehicular access points to and from the
development
   (D)   Adjusting the amount of street right-of-way dedication and street
improvement standards, including curbs, gutters, paving, etc.
   (E)   Limiting the sizes, locations, and numbers of signs, outdoor lighting,
and other development features.
   (F)   Requiring diking, screening, buffering, fencing, or other methods of
separating or protecting adjacent incompatible or conflicting use of land.
   (G)   Requiring the protection of specific trees, vegetation, water
resources, wildlife habitat, unique views, or other significant natural
resources of the area.
   (H)   Requiring sidewalks, bikeways, or similar facilities that may be
desirable or necessary within the development or that may be required as an
element of a larger community or regional system.
   (I)   Requiring adjustments to public facilities locations or sizes, in
order to properly serve the proposed development, and including off-site
improvements that may be necessary to adequately serve the PUD, including off-
site street improvements.
   (J)   Requiring agreements or other means that will guarantee ongoing upkeep
and maintenance of all structures, landscaping, and open space areas within the
PUD and giving lien rights to the city in the event that such maintenance does
not occur as planned.
   (K)   Requiring the establishment of a homeowners' association, or similar
entity for the purpose of ongoing maintenance and management, especially when
individual units will be said as condominiums or will be retained as rentals.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 25.13)
§ 154.183 AMENDMENTS TO AN APPROVED PUD.
   (A)   Following approval of the final development plan by the city, any
amendments to that plan shall be processed as follows:
      (1)   Minor modifications of existing buildings or structures that will
have no effect on the density, intensity, or function of the PUD may be
considered by the Planning Commission at a regular meeting, without a public
hearing, and approved, approved with conditions, or denied in accordance with
the provisions of this section.
      (2)   A major modification that will affect the projects density,
intensity, general appearance, or that may affect other aspects of the
development, such as parking, circulation, open space, etc., shall be
considered by the Planning Commission at a public hearing, or following a
public hearing that has been property advertised to solicit the public's
comments pertaining to that proposal.
      (3)   Any building or structure that is totally or substantially
destroyed may be reconstructed without approval of an amendment, provided the
replacement structure is in compliance with the approved Development Plan.
   (B)   No amendment to an approved Planned Unit Development shall be
considered as a waiver of any covenants limiting the use of the land,
buildings, structures, or improvements within the area of the PUD. All rights
to enforce covenants are expressly reserved by the city.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 25.14)
§ 154.184 EXCEPTIONS TO SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   When a Planned Unit Development includes design proposals that require
granting exceptions to or variation from the requirements and standards of
Chapter 153, the Planning Commission may grant those exceptions as parts of the
PUD approval process, Approval of the "preliminary plan" for a PUD shall also
constitute tentative approval of a preliminary map for a subdivision or land
partition, if the application materials provide the necessary information that
is required by the subdivision ordinance.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 25.15)
§ 154.185 TIME LIMITS ON ACTION.
   (A)   The city shall have 30 calendar days to review a PUD application and
to notify the applicant of any additional information that may be necessary to
process the request.
   (B)   Following acceptance by the city of a complete "preliminary plan" the
Planning Commission shall have a period of 60 days in which to schedule and
conduct a public hearing on the request.
   (C)   Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall have a
period of not more than 30 days to consider the proposal and make its decision.
   (D)   The Planning Commission's decision to approve or approve with
conditions shall be followed by a one-year period, during which the applicant
shall complete (if necessary) certain conditions of approval and prepare and
submit the final development plan for final approval. The Commission may extend
this period, upon request, and for good reason.
   (E)   Pre-application conferences and review of "concept plans" are not
included in time limitations for approval of a PUD since both are considered
preliminary, optional, and may pertain to other related approvals, such as a
zone change, UGB amendment etc.
   (F)   Other time constraints related to actual development or phasing of
development may be established as conditions of approval.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 25.16)
§ 154.186 APPEAL.
   Any decision of the Planning Commission related to approval or denial of a
Planned Unit Development may be appealed to the City Council in accordance with
the city's normal appeal procedures.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 25.17)
§ 154.187 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission, following a pubic hearing, may amend certain
conditions of approval or revoke an approved PUD for noncompliance with the
conditions of approval.
   (B)   Substantial construction or development shall lake place within one
year from the date of final approval of the PUD unless an extension of time or
phasing plan is accepted. Otherwise the PUD approval shall automatically expire
and no permits shall be issued. The project may be revived by repeating the
final approval process.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 25.18)
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.200 STANDARDS.
   The following table sets forth the minimum requirements for development
within residential districts of the city.
Standards Low Density Medium Density High Density
Standards             Low Density        Medium Density     High Density
Minimum lot size                         6,000 square feet  6,000 square feet
   R-1-6           6,000 square feet
   R-1-10          10,000 square feet
   R-1-20          20,000 square feet
   R-1-40          40,000 square feet
Setback requirements
   Front yard      15 feet (garage 20 15 feet (garage 20 15 feet (garage 20
                      feet)              feet)              feet)
   Side yard       5 feet             5 feet             5 feet
   Street side yard15 feet            15 feet            10 feet
   Rear yard       15 feet            15 feet            10 feet
Minimum street        60 feet            60 feet            60 feet
frontage
Cul-de-sac            30 feet            30 feet            30 feet
Flag lot (pole width) 20 feet            20 feet            20 feet
Minimum lot depth     80 feet            80 feet            80 feet
Maximum lot depth to
width ratio           3:1                3:1                3:1
(does not apply to
river frontage lots)
Maximum building      35 feet            35 feet            35 feet
height
Maximum lot coverage  40%                40%                60%
 
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 11; Ord. 239, passed 12-7-06; Ord. 253, passed
1-21-2010)
MANUFACTURED HOMES IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
§ 154.215 PURPOSE.
   The city recognizes that "manufactured homes" (also known as mobile homes or
factory-built homes) are constructed to standards established by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD Code), and not necessarily to
the standards contained in the Uniform Building Code (UBC) which applies to all
other development and construction. It is also recognized that this type of
housing is important to city residents. The purposes of this section is to help
ensure that future manufactured home development will be of a quality and
design that is most compatible with the existing "conventional", "site-built"
or UBC homes. These standards are in addition to any already existing
requirements that may be contained in the HUD Code, this chapter or other
applicable codes.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 17.1)
§ 154.216 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall apply to those areas single-
family residential areas delineated on the city zoning map with the exception
of mobile home parks.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all manufactured homes
that are placed on individual tax lots outside mobile home parks, including
lots within an approved mobile home subdivision or planned unit development
that is designed and approved specifically for manufactured housing.
   (C)   Any manufactured home that was placed legally in the community prior
to the effective date of these standards is considered a legal nonconforming
use if it does not comply duly with these standards. A dwelling may be occupied
and maintained. If the dwelling is ever relocated within the city, or
rehabilitated to an extent greater than 50% of its appraised market value, it
shall, at that time, be made to conform to the requirements of this section
also to the minimum HUD Code requirements that are in effect at that time.
   (D)   Placement of a manufactured home on an individual lot shall be
reviewed for compliance with this chapter and with these standards prior to
issuance of a building or placement permit. A certificate of occupancy shall be
issued only when the dwelling has complied with all applicable standards and
requirements.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 17.2)
§ 154.217 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Outside mobile home parks, the owner of a manufactured home shall also
be the owner of the tax lot on which the home is placed. No individual lots or
portions of lots outside parks shall be rented or leased for the placement of a
manufactured home. However, a home and lot may be rented or leased together as
a single unit. An exception may be taken by the approving authority of the city
in the case of a temporary dwelling, a caretaker's residence or similar
circumstances.
   (B)   Upon installation on the site, the owner shall ensure the removal of
all appliances or other attachments that were necessary for the transport of
the home to the site, but that are not necessary for the residential use of the
structure; including wheels, axles, tongues, trailers and the like.
   (C)   All manufactured homes shall be connected to any and all public
utility lines, as required of any other single-family dwelling, at the time of
initial installation or, in the case of an older home, at the time of
relocation or major rehabilitation.
   (D)   Manufactured homes shall be installed in compliance with the skirting
as required by State Department of Commerce rules O.A.R. 813-23-050 through
813-23-070.
   (E)   The home shall be placed to provide a minimum clear space under the
structure's lowest supporting beam of 18 inches. Access to this space shall be
provided by an access way at least 18 inches by 24 inches in size in a location
that is most convenient to under-structure utility connections, but that is not
at the low point or water collection point.
   (F)   An under-structure drainage system shall be designed and constructed
to ensure that water will drain properly to the street or other approved storm
drain or collection area. Site preparation prior to the home's installation
shall ensure that the excavation is tapered toward one end or a center channel
for efficient drainage, and that a drain line or pump is installed to remove
any water that may collect.
   (G)   Installation, support and tie-down requirements must meet State
Department of Commerce rules in O.A.R. 813-23-050 through 813-23-070.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 17.3)
§ 154.218 HOME CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   Manufactured homes are permitted on individual lots, subject to all of the
following design standards, consistent with O.R.S. 197.307(5). Exception: The
following standards do not apply to units which existed within the city prior
to the effective date of this chapter.
   (A)   Floor plan. The manufactured home shall be multi-sectional and have an
enclosed floor area of not less than 1,000 square feet.
   (B)   Roof. The manufactured home shall have a pitched roof with a slope not
less than three feet in height for each 12 feet in width (14 degrees).
   (C)   Residential building materials. The manufactured home shall have
exterior siding and roofing which in color, material and appearance are similar
or superior to the exterior siding and roof material used on nearby residences
(e.g., horizontal wood or wood-appearance siding is considered "superior" to
metal siding and roofing).
   (D)   Garages and carports. The manufactured home shall have a garage or
carport constructed of like materials when nearby residences have carports or
garages. The city may require an attached or detached garage where that would
be consistent with the predominant construction of immediately surrounding
residences.
   (E)   Thermal envelope. The manufactured home shall be certified by the
manufacturer to meet the thermal envelope requirements equivalent to those for
a single-family dwelling constructed under the State Building Code. Evidence
demonstrating that the manufactured home meets "Super Good Cents" energy
efficiency standards is deemed to satisfy the exterior thermal envelope
certification requirement. Additional manufacturer's certification shall not be
required.
   (F)   Placement. The manufactured home shall be placed on an excavated and
back-filled foundation and enclosed at the perimeter such that the manufactured
home is located not more than 16 inches above grade, and complying with the
minimum set-up standards of the adopted State Administrative Rules for
Manufactured Dwellings, Chapter 918. Where the building site has a sloped
grade, no more than 16 inches of the enclosing material shall be exposed on the
uphill side of the home.
   (G)   Foundation skirt. Manufactured homes foundations shall be fully
skirted.
   (H)   Prohibited. The manufactured home shall not be located in a designated
historic district.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 17.4)
§ 154.219 REMOVAL OF A MANUFACTURED HOME.
   (A)   Within 60 days from the time of removal of a manufactured home from
its site, the owner of the property shall ensure the removal of all
foundations, supports, blocks, piers and other materials that will not be
necessary for the future development or use of the property.
   (B)   Following removal of the manufactured home, the owner of the property
shall immediately disconnect all utility services to the property, cap
connections to the sewer and water source.
   (C)   Should the property owner fail to perform the requirements of
divisions (A) or (B) above, the city is authorized to perform the work and
place a lien against the property in the event the work is not done within 60
days in the case of division (A) or within 14 days in the case of division (B).
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 17.5)
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DEVELOPMENT
§ 154.230 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Mobile homes (also known as "manufactured homes") are permitted in the
city on individual lots and on lots within manufactured home subdivisions, when
in accordance with the provisions of §§
154.215 through
154.219.
   (B)   All mobile homes that are not located on individual lots or in
manufactured home subdivisions shall be located within mobile home parks on
spaces that are leased or rented to the home owner.
   (C)   Mobile home parks are somewhat less permanent than subdivisions, and
they are unique in their purposes, ownership and management. There is the need
for development requirements that differ from the requirements for homes on
individual lots. This section establishes those standards for mobile home parks
in the city.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 18.1)
§ 154.231 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all existing mobile home
parks within the city and to all new mobile home parks that may be approved by
the city for future development.
   (B)   These requirements are in addition to those required by O.A.R. Ch. 814
and Division 28. In the case of any code conflicts, the more restrictive shall
prevail.
   (C)   Any mobile home that was placed legally within a mobile home park
prior to the effective date of this section is considered to be a legal
nonconforming use if it does not fully comply with these standards. A home may
be occupied and maintained, but not enlarged or replaced by another
nonconforming mobile home. Any nonconforming mobile home that is modified or
remodeled to an extent greater than 50% of its original market value shall be
brought up to the minimum HUD Code requirements that are in effect at that time
and shall also be made consistent with this section.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 18.2)
§ 154.232 MINIMUM MOBILE HOME STANDARDS.
   Title VI of the 1974 Housing and Community Development Act, as amended
(previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety Act),
rules and regulations adopted hereunder from information provided by
manufacturers and approved by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD), and regulations and interpretations of the code by the State
Department of Commerce, all of which became effective for mobile/manufactured
home construction on 6-15-1976, shall be utilized as the minimum construction
standard of the city to which all mobile homes shall comply when brought into
the city and placed in a mobile home park. These regulations are also known as
the HUD Code.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 18.3)
§ 154.233 SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any application for a mobile home park development, modification or
expansion shall include a site development plan in accordance with the
requirements of §§
154.310 through
154.317.
   (B)   In addition to the site development plan requirements of §§
154.310 through
154.317, the following information shall also be provided as part of the
application, in either map or narrative format:
      (1)   Vicinity map showing the location of the proposed mobile home park
to surrounding properties and types of land use;
      (2)   Overall boundaries and dimensions of the proposed park or park
expansion;
      (3)   Location and dimensions of each mobile home site, with each site
designated by name, letter or number;
      (4)   Locations and width of all mobile home park streets, public
walkways, bikeways, off-street visitor parking areas and intersections with
public streets or highways;
      (5)   Location of all lighting fixtures, and their general types, that
are intended for in-park lighting;
      (6)   Locations and sizes of recreational building, other structures and
recreational facilities;
      (7)   A landscape plan for the park, showing locations, types and sizes
of all proposed ground cover, shrubs, trees and other landscaping materials and
showing open recreational areas or areas set aside for wildlife or natural area
preservation;
      (8)   The on-site utility plan showing locations and sizes of water
lines, wells, sewer lines, storm drainage facilities and other utilities. A
drainage plan might be incorporated in this plan; and
      (9)   The plan shall indicate the maximum mobile home size that each site
will accommodate. A site development plan should be provided to show how a
mobile home, parking, decking, storage and other development will be planned on
a typical site.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 18.4)
§ 154.234 PLAN APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consider the proposal at a public
hearing in accordance with the site plan review procedures in §§
154.455 through
154.462 and shall allow public comment on the proposal and its possible
impacts.
   (B)   Within 60 days of the city's acceptance of the application, the
Planning Commission shall take action to approve, disapprove or conditionally
approve the site development plan. The time limit may be extended with approval
of the applicant and Planning Commission. The request shall be approved if the
Commission determines that the plan conforms with all applicable laws and city
or other codes and to the development standards of this section.
   (C)   Commission approval of the site development plan shall indicate its
approval of the final plan; provided, there is no change in the plan other than
may have been required by the Commission.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall grant final approval for mobile home
park plans when all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   Tentative approval of the site development plan;
      (2)   Detail plans have been approved by the city for the required
improvements at roadways, pedestrian walkways, bicycle paths, parking areas,
recreational buildings or facilities, water, sewer and other utilities and
drainage systems; and
      (3)   Commission approval of a detailed landscaping and buffering plan
that includes a plant list, irrigation system (as needed), fencing and other
related improvements.
   (E)   The applicant shall have one full year from the time of tentative
approval to complete all requirements and conditions necessary to gain final
approval. If not completed within that time, the site development plan must be
resubmitted to the Planning Commission for a new review and approval.
   (F)   Final approval of the mobile home park site development plan shall
expire at the end of one year from the date of the final approval, unless
construction has begun and the plan is found to be substantially implemented.
Site preparation work is not considered to be construction in this case, if
nothing else has been constructed on the site.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 18.5)
§ 154.235 USES PERMITTED IN MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   The following uses are permitted outright within a mobile home park, subject
to site development plan approval:
   (A)   Mobile/manufactured homes meeting the minimum standards of the HUD
Code, as described in §
154.217;
   (B)   Multi-purpose or recreational buildings, swimming pools, tennis
courts, playgrounds and other similar facilities intended for the recreation
use of park residents and to meet city park standards;
   (C)   Laundry room;
   (D)   Storage area for recreational vehicles, boats and the like owned by
park residents; and storage sheds, lockers or other enclosed storage
facilities, also for park residents only;
   (E)   Pedestrian walkways, bicycle trails/paths and related facilities;
   (F)   Structures necessary for the provision of needed utility services; and
   (G)   Office uses related to the management of the park.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 18.6)
§ 154.236 MOBILE HOME PARK IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Area requirement. Manufactured home parks are permitted on parcels of
one acre or larger. Manufactured homes in parks smaller than three acres shall
meet the following design standards, consistent with O.R.S. 197.314(6).
      (1)   The manufactured home shall have a pitched roof with a slope not
less than three feet in height for each 12 feet in width (14 degrees).
      (2)   The manufactured home shall have exterior siding and roofing which
in color, material and appearance are similar or superior to the exterior
siding and roof material used on nearby residences (e.g., horizontal wood or
wood-appearance siding is considered "superior" to metal siding and roofing).
      (3)   Exception: Divisions (A)(1) and (2) above do not apply to
manufactured homes which existed within the city prior to the effective date of
this chapter.
   (B)   Park development density limitation. The maximum development density
of any mobile home park in the city shall not exceed ten mobile home dwelling
units per gross acre of park property. That density requirement applied overall
and specific areas may be more densely developed, such as to provide for
smaller homes; provided, the overall density limitation is not exceeded and
provided all other development standards can be met.
   (C)   Off-street parking. Two off-street parking spaces (at least eight feet
wide by 18 feet deep) shall be provided on each mobile home site, or provided
in a common parking areas no further than 100 feet from a home it is intended
to serve. Additional "visitor" parking shall also be provided within the park
at a rate of one visitor space for each mobile home. Additional spaces may be
required by the Planning Commission to provide sufficient spaces for
nonresident guests who may be expected to attend special functions in a park's
multi-purpose building or similar facility.
   (D)   Street and access way improvement standards.
      (1)   The primary entrance/exit to a mobile home park shall have a paved
width of at least 30 feet and connecting directly onto a public street.
      (2)   Secondary entrance/exits to the park may be 24 feet in width and
also paved.
      (3)   Exterior streets abutting a mobile home park which are not unproved
to city standards shall be unproved for at least half the street's width and in
accordance with specifications provided by the City Engineer.
      (4)   Interior streets shall have a minimum paved width of 20 feet to
accommodate two ten-foot wide lanes. No on-street parking shall be provided or
permitted. Visitor parking shall be accommodated in separate parking lots.
      (5)   All roadways shall be paved with crushed rock base and asphalt
concrete surfacing, in accordance with the City Engineer's specifications.
   (E)   Pedestrian walkways. Pedestrian walkways connecting various park areas
or service/recreational building shall be separated from vehicular traffic and
surfaced with either asphalt or concrete to current UBC thickness of at least
two inches and to a width of at least four feet. Other walk surfacing options
may be approved by the Planning Commission for good reason.
   (F)   Bikeways. If bikeways are developed at the discretion of the
developer, or required by the city, the bikeway shall be designed to link with
other bikeways in the area and constructed to specifications provided by the
City Engineer.
   (G)   Perimeter setbacks. All mobile homes and park buildings shall be
located no closer than 20 feet from any property line that abuts a public
street or future public street, and no closer than ten feet from any park
property line.
   (H)   Utilities.
      (1)   All major utilities shall be installed underground, unless granted
a variance to that requirement by the Planning Commission because of site
limitations, such as soils, terrain and the like.
      (2)   Each mobile home site shall be connected to the public sewer
system.
      (3)   Each mobile home site shall be provided with sufficient potable
water for a typical residential use.
      (4)   Each mobile home shall have an electrical connection with service
adequate for cooking and other typical household appliances.
      (5)   Fire hydrants shall be provided within the park to conform to
applicable Fire Code requirements.
      (6)   Public telephone service shall be available within the park.
      (7)   Vehicular and pedestrian ways shall be adequately lighted for
nighttime use.
   (I)   Drainage. The mobile home park shall be well-drained and any necessary
drainage facilities or improvements shall be included on the site development
plan and approved by the City Engineer. Drainage improvements shall take into
consideration the soil, ground water, topography, vegetation and other local
features to ensure that hazards will be minimized and that water will not be
directed from the site onto adjacent properties.
   (J)   Recreation areas.
      (1)   A minimum of 6% of the total gross area of the mobile home park
site shall be developed for recreational uses.
      (2)   Recreational areas may be in one or more locations throughout the
park, but in no case shall a required recreational area be smaller than 2,500
square feet, or have a dimension of less than 25 feet. Linear facilities such
as bikeways or pedestrian paths may be included in the area calculations, even
though they do not meet the minimum width requirements.
      (3)   Recreational areas shall be provided for the use of park residents
and may include usable open space lawn areas, play fields, playgrounds,
swimming pools, community gardens, recreational buildings or other appropriate
facilities.
      (4)   Areas of the park that are utilized for streets, parking and mobile
home sites may not be counted as part of the recreation area requirement.
   (K)   Landscaping and fencing.
      (1)   A solid sight-obscuring fence or masonry wall six feet in height
shall be constructed along all park property lines with the exception of the
public street frontages. An exception may also be made by the planning
Commission when the park abuts another mobile home park and when it is clear
that there will be no adverse impact caused by not having a solid fence or wall
between the two parks.
      (2)   Fencing within the mobile home park may be allowed at the
discretion of the park management, but with the following height restrictions.
         (a)   Maximum fence height shall be six feet from grade.
         (b)   Maximum fence height within ten feet of any street shall be
limited to 42 inches for safety and traffic visibility and to promote an open
feeling along the roadways within the park.
      (3)   All areas of a mobile home park that are undeveloped or that are
not otherwise set aside for natural resource preservation or other specific
purpose shall be landscaped and continuously maintained in a neat and
attractive manner.
      (4)   The planting of deciduous trees for summer shade and winter sun is
encouraged and a minimum of one tree per mobile home site (space) shall be
included on the site development plan and planted at the time of other
landscaping improvement. At least one tree per site is preferred, but trees may
be clustered or located in common or other open space areas as well.
   (L)   Site development standards. The following shall apply to each
individual home site (space) within the park:
      (1)   Within mobile home parks, mobile homes are not required to be
recessed or "in-ground set". However, an alternative foundation or skirting
shall be installed around the base of the mobile home for aesthetic purposes
and also to provide additional insulation for the home. Skirting shall be of a
material and color that is same as or compatible with the mobile home.
      (2)   A solid foundation area shall be provided for the placement of the
mobile home. This area shall be at least as large as the home itself and shall
be unproved with an all-weather surface of asphalt, concrete, crashed rock or
other suitable material that will minimize damage that might be caused by
shifting, settling unevenly under the weight of the home, frost action,
inadequate drainage, vibration, wind or other forces that might affect the
structure and its stability. The site shall be inspected by the Building
Official prior to placement of the mobile home.
      (3)   Off-street parking spaces, carports and driveways shall be paved,
unless another proposal has been approved by the Planning Commission that will
provide an equally suitable surface and will not result in dirt or mud being
tracked onto the streets.
      (4)   Mobile homes shall be installed in accordance with the minimum
standards contained in O.A.R. Ch. 814, Division 28, and shall be anchored to
the ground in at least three places to reduce the possibility of damage caused
by wind, flood, seismic activity or other natural or human-caused disasters.
      (5)   No mobile home shall be moved onto a mobile home space until a
mobile home placement permit has been obtained and the proposed site has been
inspected by the Building Official to ensure its strength and stability for the
proposed home.
      (6)   The minimum spacing of mobile homes within the park shall be as
follows.
         (a)   The distance between mobile homes shall, in no case, be less
than ten feet end to end or side to side.
         (b)   Awnings, patio covers and carport roofs and other structures on
a mobile home site or space shall be a minimum of three feet from the
boundaries of that space and in no case shall be within six feet of any
structure located on an adjacent space. Exceptions to this requirement include
walkways, open uncovered porches and decks, fences and other structures that
extend no more than three feet above grade.
         (c)   Adjacent mobile homes and park buildings shall be located no
closer than 20 feet from any property line that abuts a public street or future
public street and no closer than ten feet from any other park property line.
         (d)   All mobile homes shall be placed a minimum of 14 feet apart
whenever a flammable or combustible fuel storage vessel, such as a propane
tank, is located on or between the dwellings.
         (e)   A mobile home shall be no closer than ten feet to any park
building and at least 20 feet from any swimming pool.
         (f)   All mobile homes and other structures shall be set back a
distance of at least ten feet from all interior streets.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 18.7)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
§ 154.250 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is public policy of the city that the protection, enhancement,
perpetuation and continued use of site and improvements of a special historical
or architectural interest or value are in the best interests of the community.
Also, the preservation of significant historic sites and buildings is a
community responsibility and related implementing measures are required by the
state and by statewide planning goal #5.
   (B)   The purposes of this section are:
      (1)   To provide for the preservation and protection of sites and
improvements within the community of the city that reflects or represents
elements of the city's cultural, social, economic, political or architectural
history;
      (2)   To safeguard the community's historic, aesthetic and cultural
heritage, as reflected in improvements and areas of historic significance;
      (3)   To complement the efforts of the Southern Oregon Historical
Society, the state and other organizations or individual efforts aimed at
historical preservation;
      (4)   To foster civic pride in the activities and accomplishments of the
past; and
      (5)   To carry out the provisions of planning goal #5.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 19.1)
§ 154.251 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. The addition to, removal of or from, or physical modification or
repair of, any exterior part or portion of a landmark or structures in a
Historic District, including signs.
   ARCHITECTURAL SIGNIFICANCE. A site or structure having ARCHITECTURAL
SIGNIFICANCE:
      (1)   Portrays the environment of a group of people in an era of history
characterized by a distinctive architectural style;
      (2)   Embodies those distinguishing characteristics of an architectural
specimen;
      (3)   Is the work of an architect or master builder whose individual work
has influenced the development of the community or region; or
      (4)   Contains elements of architectural design, detail, materials or
craftsmanship which represent a significant innovation.
   BOARD. The "Historic Review Board" of the city.
   DEMOLISH. To raze, destroy, dismantle, deface or in any other manner cause
partial or total ruin of a designated landmark or structure in a Historic
District or elsewhere in the community.
   EXTERIOR. Any portion of the outside of a landmark or building or structure,
or any addition thereto. Any portion of the building that is visible from the
outside.
   HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE. The structure or district:
      (1)   Has character, interest or value as part of the development,
heritage or cultural characteristics of the community, state or nation;
      (2)   Is the site of a historic event with an effect upon society or of
notable interest;
      (3)   Is identified with a person or group of persons who had some
influence on society; or
      (4)   Exemplifies the cultural, political, economic, social or historic
heritage of the community.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 19.2)
§ 154.252 HISTORIC REVIEW BOARD.
   The Planning Commission shall function as the Historic Review Board of the
city, until the time as the City Council determines that a different or
separate body is more appropriate for this function. The Board will not
schedule special meetings for the purpose of carrying out its duties, but will
place historic preservation items on the agenda of regular Planning Commission
meetings and act on them accordingly. If found to be necessary or appropriate,
special meetings, public hearings or study sessions may be scheduled for the
purpose of Board business.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 19.3)
§ 154.253 DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC BUILDINGS OR SITES.
   (A)   All sites specifically listed in the comprehensive plan or in:
      (1)   State Inventory;
      (2)   Southern Oregon Historical Society markers; or
      (3)   Other sites of local significance and shown on a city historic
inventory map as "designated" buildings or sites in the city.
   (B)   The City Council, after recommendation by the Historic Review Board,
may designate new historic buildings or sites and direct that they be included
on the Historic Inventory Map. New designations shall be made through the
following procedure.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a request to have a specific building or site
designated a site of historical significance, the Board shall schedule a public
hearing, shall advertise the hearing in a newspaper of local distribution and
shall notify the owners of all tax lots within a radius of 200 feet of the
subject site by letter or the hearing.
      (2)   The Historic Review Board shall conduct the public hearing and
provide adequate opportunity for comments from all interested parties. Written
comments shall also be considered and entered into the record of the
proceedings.
      (3)   The Board shall consider the proposal according to the five
criteria listed as the purpose in §
154.250 and submit a recommendation to the City Council, along with the minutes
of the hearing and any additional documentation.
      (4)   The City Council may act directly on the recommendation of the
Board or may conduct its own public hearing at its option. If the Council
determines that the proposal is consistent with the criteria of §
154.250, it may designate the building or site as "historic".
      (5)   Following designation of a new building or site, city staff shall
add that building or site to the city's historic inventory map in the
comprehensive plan, in accordance with the city's minor amendment procedures,
but without further public hearings.
      (6)   City designation of a historic structure or site shall not be
interpreted as a recommendation for state, national or other formal
recognition, however, other local and state historic agencies or groups shall
be notified of the local designation.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 19.4)
§ 154.254 EXTERIOR REMODELING OF A HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Before a building permit is issued for the enlargement or any other
exterior modification of any designated historic structure, other than painting
and minor repair, the applicant shall be subject to a site plan review process
of the city and to be conducted by the Historic Review Board. If the Board
determines that the proposed modifications will result in a significant change
to the structure's appearance, and in conflict with its original character or
architectural style, the Board may schedule a public hearing in accordance with
§
154.253.
   (B)   At least 14 days prior to the site plan review meeting, the applicant
shall submit three copies of the proposed plans, showing the following
information:
      (1)   Photographs of the building in its present state; and
      (2)   Sketches or renderings of the exterior appearance of the building
following the work to be done and specifying the types of materials to be used.
   (C)   (1)   The Board shall render a decision to:
         (a)   Grant;
         (b)   Grant with conditions; or
         (c)   Deny the proposal.
      (2)   The decision shall be based on finding related to the criteria
listed in §
154.250 and shall be made within 45 days of submittal of a complete
applications. Failure to act within the 45-day period shall constitute approval
of the plans as submitted by the applicant and he or she shall not be denied
the necessary building permits; provided, the plans meet all other zoning and
building code requirements.
   (D)   Modifications done to the exterior of any building of historical
significance shall include designs, materials and finishes that are of a type
that will appear to be similar to the original design, materials and finishes
and that will contribute to the enhancement and preservation of the historic
character and value of the structure.
   (E)   Plans approved by the Board shall apply until the work is completed.
Changes in plans or materials shall be reviewed and approved by the Board as a
regular meeting agenda item if the changes are minor or not considered
significant. If such plans are considered by the Board to be significant
changes and may have adverse consequences on the structure's historic character
or appearance, a new public hearing may be scheduled and a new 45-day review
period will begin from the time the completed change request is submitted.
   (F)   The applicant may appeal a decision of the Board to the City Council;
provided, the appeal is in writing and submitted within 15 calendar days of the
Board's decision.
   (G)   An appeal may also be made to the Council by any person or persons,
other than the applicant, who participated in the Board's review process, who
was notified as a property owner within the 200-foot radius or who was in some
other way affected by the decision.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 19.5)
§ 154.255 CONDEMNATION AND DEMOLITION OF HISTORIC BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No historic building or structure shall be demolished unless so
authorized by the City Council. The applicant for the demolition of a historic
structure shall submit the following application materials to the Historic
Review Board for consideration:
      (1)   Names and addresses of the applicant, owners of the structure and
property, and contractors or others involved;
      (2)   A vicinity map showing the specific location of the property and
the location of the structure on the property;
      (3)   Photographs showing each elevation (side) of the building with the
dates the photos were taken; and
      (4)   A statement explaining the reason(s) why the building is being
considered for demolition.
   (B)   The Board shall schedule and conduct a public hearing to consider the
proposal and to provide opportunities for public comment.
   (C)   The Board, in arriving at a decision, shall take into consideration at
least the following criteria:
      (1)   The present state of the building and the reasonableness of
estimated restoration costs, if the costs are known;
      (2)   The character of the neighborhood in which the structure is located
and its relationship to other historic structures, if any;
      (3)   The city's comprehensive plan for the area and the importance other
proposed land uses and development to the neighborhood and the community; and
      (4)   Alternatives to demolition, including preservation and relocation.
   (D)   The Board will submit its decision, recommendations, findings and
other supporting documentation to the City Council, which will either:
      (1)   Permit the building to be demolished; or
      (2)   Suspend issuance of permission to demolish for a fixed number of
days not to exceed 120 from the date of application, if it is determined that:
         (a)   It is in the best interests of the community to try to save this
particular structure; and
         (b)   There is reason to believe that a program or project may be
undertaken which could result in public or private acquisition of the building
or which could cause the building to be restored or preserved.
   (E)   The City Council, upon request, may extend the suspension period for
an additional 120 days, if there is reason to believe that a program or project
is in progress or being attempted to save the historic structure.
   (F)   If the suspension period has elapsed and the applicant has not
withdrawn the request to demolish, then the applicant shall be allowed to
demolish the historic structure in accordance with the city's ordinances
pertaining to demolition and public safety.
   (G)   (1)   If a historical building for which permission has been granted
for demolition has not been demolished within one year from the date permission
was granted, then that permission becomes null and void and the applicant must
either:
         (a)   Reapply for a demolition permit; or
         (b)   Request an extension of the one-year time limit.
      (2)   The City Council will reconsider the issue and may grant or deny
the request.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 19.6)
§ 154.256 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Condemnation. Before the City Council takes any action to condemn a
building or structure designated as a historic building or structure, the
Historic Review Board shall first review the structure's condition and
restoration or preservation potential and provide a recommendation to the
Council prior to a final decision.
   (B)   Records of demolished buildings. If a designated historic building is
to be demolished, the city shall first:
      (1)   Attempt to gather a pictorial or graphic history of the building or
site with any additional data as may be available;
      (2)   With permission of the owner, attempt to obtain artifacts from the
building or site which it feels worthy of preservation. The items may be
submitted to a museum or other appropriate location for safe keeping; and
      (3)   Notify persons or agencies, such as the Jacksonville Museum,
Southern Oregon Historical Society and State Historic Preservation Office that
may be interested in the significance of the building.
   (C)   Removal of historic designation. Removal of a historic site or
building from the list of historic inventory map of the comprehensive plan
shall be subject to the provisions of §
154.253 and shall include a public hearing by the Board.
   (D)   Signs and plaques. The owner of a designated historical building or
structure, or a historically significant site, may install, or approve the
installation of, an identification plaque or marker that indicates the name,
date, architect or other appropriate information about the property; provided
that, the size, materials, design, placement and text of the plaque or marker
is approved by the Historic Review Board.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 19.7)
NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
§ 154.270 PURPOSE.
   Within the community there are lots, land uses and structures that were
lawfully established or constructed prior to the effective date of this
section, but which would be prohibited or restricted under the requirements of
this chapter. This section provides for the continuation of legal nonconforming
uses and structures until they are removed, cease or are made to conform to
current codes.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 20.1)
§ 154.271 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   Any tax lot in the city which was legally created, but which does not
conform to the lot size or dimensional requirements of current regulations are
considered a nonconforming lot of record.
   (B)   A nonconforming lot of record shall have the same development rights
and opportunities as any other property within the same zoning district;
provided that, development complies with yard setback requirements, coverage
limitations, off-street parking requirements and other minimum requirements of
that district.
   (C)   Any exceptions to those development requirements shall be obtained
through the variance process, as outlined in §§
154.415 through
154.420.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 20.2)
§ 154.272 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A nonconforming use is any land use which is not listed as either a
"permitted" or "conditional" use in the zoning district or planned unit
development in which it is located.
   (B)   A nonconforming use that was lawfully established at its current
location may be continued indefinitely; provided, it remains lawful.
   (C)   A nonconforming use may not expand in any manner.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 20.3)
§ 154.273 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any structure that is lawfully constructed but would not be permitted
under the current regulations of the city is considered to be a nonconforming
structure, but may continue indefinitely; provided, it remains lawful. A
nonconforming structure may be subject to other code requirements related to
health and safety.
   (B)   A nonconforming structure may not be expanded or enlarged.
   (C)   A nonconforming structure that has been removed, destroyed or
otherwise terminated, may not be replaced by another nonconforming structure.
   (D)   Remodeling of a damaged structure shall conform to current codes,
setbacks, off-street parking and other site development requirements.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 20.4)
§ 154.274 NONCONFORMING CONSTRUCTION IN PROGRESS.
   (A)   Any building or structure that was issued building permits, and on
which actual construction had begun prior to the effective date of this section
shall be permitted to continue the construction as a legal nonconforming
structure.
   (B)   A building or structure that was approved for construction prior to
the effective date of this section, but that has not commenced construction nor
been issued any building permits, shall be required to conform to the newly
adopted requirements.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 20.5)
§ 154.275 TERMINATION OF NONCONFORMING USE OR STRUCTURE.
   A nonconforming use or structure shall be considered terminated when:
   (A)   The use is discontinued for a period of six months;
   (B)   The structure has been destroyed to an extent exceeding 80% of its
true cash value, as indicated by the records of the County Assessor; or
   (C)   In the case of a sign, when it has not been used in conjunction with a
business on the same premise for longer than 30 days.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 20.6)
§ 154.276 TRANSITIONAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Nonconforming structures, such as single-family dwellings in
commercial districts, are encouraged to conform to the purpose and standards of
the zoning district in which they are located through replacement of the
structure or through remodeling or additions to the structure.
   (B)   Expansion or enlargement of a nonconforming structure shall be
permitted by the Planning Commission if the applicant can demonstrate that the
intended work is for the purpose of adapting the structure for a specific or
general type of use that is permitted in that zone.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 20.7)
ACCESSORY DWELLINGS
§ 154.280 PURPOSE.
   Accessory dwellings, where allowed, are subject to review and approval
through a Type I procedure, pursuant to §
154.377, and shall conform to all of the following standards.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-2-2018)
§ 154.281 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT STANDARDS.
   (A)   A maximum of one accessory dwelling is allowed per legal single-family
dwelling. The unit may be a detached building, in a portion of a detached
accessory building (e.g. above a garage or workshop), or a unit attached or
interior to the primary dwelling (e.g., an addition or the conversion of an
existing floor).
   (B)   A detached accessory dwelling shall not exceed 900 square feet of
floor area, or 75% of the primary dwelling's floor area, whichever is smaller.
   (C)   An attached or interior accessory dwelling shall not exceed 900 square
feet of floor area, or 75% of the primary dwelling's floor area, whichever is
smaller. However, accessory dwellings that result from the conversion of a
level or floor (e.g., basement, attic, or second story) of the primary dwelling
may occupy the entire level or floor, even if the floor area of the accessory
dwelling would be more than 900 square feet.
   (D)   An accessory dwelling shall have a minimum size that conforms to the
International Building Code.
   (E)   Separate sewer lines shall be provided for each detached dwelling
unless an existing detached accessory structure is already connected to the
sewer system.
   (F)   Off-street parking shall be provided as required in §
154.337.
   (G)   Conversion of an existing legal non-conforming structure to an
accessory dwelling is allowed, provided that the conversion does not increase
the non-conformity.
   (H)   Each dwelling unit shall have a separate address.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-2-2018)
HOME OCCUPATIONS
§ 154.290 PURPOSE.
   Many types of businesses begin in the home, or are part time or small in
scale and can be operated from the home very conveniently and without
disruption of the residential character of the neighborhood. This section is
intended to provide guidelines and requirements for these types of uses so that
they can be carried out without adverse effects.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 23.1)
§ 154.291 APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person(s) shall commence or carry on a home occupation in any
residential zoning district of the city without either:
      (1)   Continuously meeting the standards of §
154.292; or
      (2)   Obtaining Planning Commission approval of a C.U.P. for that
purpose.
   (B)   Home occupations that meet the standards of §
154.292 are listed as "permitted uses" in all residential zoning districts of
the city. Home occupations that do not meet the standards of §
154.292 shall be processed in accordance with the requirements of §§
154.395 through
154.404 and shall be operated, following approval, in accordance with the
standards of §
154.293.
   (C)   Home occupation conditional use permits shall be approved for the
applicants only, shall not run with the land and may not be transferred to
another property without Planning Commission approval of a new C.U.P
application and public hearing.
   (D)   Application for a conditional use permit shall be made in accordance
with §
154.399, except that a floor plan of the structure may be substituted for the
site development plan if the used is to be conducted within the home.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 23.2)
§ 154.292 STANDARDS FOR OPERATION OF A HOME OCCUPATION AS A PERMITTED USE.
   (A)   The home occupation shall be conducted only by members of the
household who reside in the dwelling. No additional persons shall be employed
in the business, unless those employees work elsewhere and not within the
dwelling or on the same property.
   (B)   The home occupation shall be conducted solely within the residential
structure or its garage and no additional buildings shall be constructed for
the purpose of the home occupation.
   (C)   The home occupation, if occupying a garage, shall not eliminate any
off-street parking that is otherwise required by the city.
   (D)   The home occupation shall not have utility services beyond those
required for normal residential use under the Uniform Building Code.
   (E)   The home occupation shall not encourage customer or client visits to
the home or otherwise result in traffic levels beyond normal levels within the
residential neighborhood.
   (F)   The home occupation will not include the operation of tools or other
noise-generating activities that may disturb persons residing in the
neighborhood.
   (G)   No outside storage of equipment or materials for the home occupation
is allowed.
   (H)   Yards, landscaping and the exterior of structures shall not be altered
in order to make the site appear to be a commercial or industrial business.
Residential use of the property shall always be the primary use and the home
occupation shall always be secondary.
   (I)   One sign not larger than two square feet may be placed on the
property.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 23.3) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.293 STANDARDS FOR OPERATION OF A HOME OCCUPATION AS CONDITIONAL USE.
   (A)   The home occupation shall be conducted primarily by members of the
household that are residing in the dwelling. One or two additional persons may
be employed part-time in the business; provided, there is adequate workspace
and the dwelling remains primarily a residence.
   (B)   The home occupation should be conducted solely within the residential
structure or its garage. However, if one additional building needs to be
constructed for the purpose of the home occupation, it can be permitted;
provided, it does not cover more than 5% of the lot and can be adequately
screened from the street and neighboring properties.
   (C)   The home occupation, if occupying a garage, shall not eliminate any
off-street parking that is otherwise required by the city. Additional parking
may be required for part-time employees or occasional visits by customers or
clients, not to exceed four additional parking spaces.
   (D)   The home occupation shall not have utility services beyond those
required for residential use.
   (E)   The home occupation's employee, customer or client visits to the home
shall not significantly affect traffic levels within the residential
neighborhood.
   (F)   The home occupation will not result in noise levels greater than
normally found in the residential neighborhood. Hours of operation may be
imposed by the Planning Commission if the operation of tools or other
activities may disturb neighbors.
   (G)   Any temporary storage of equipment or materials that cannot be stored
within a structure shall be stored on in the rear or side yard areas and only
when screened from public view by a solid fence or vegetative screen of
adequate height.
   (H)   Yards, landscaping and the exterior of structures and accessory
structures shall not be altered, except for additional parking that may be
required or an additional building that may be approved by the Planning
Commission. Nor shall other actions make the site appear to be a commercial or
industrial business. Residential use of the property shall always be the
primary use and the home occupation shall always be secondary.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 23.4)
§ 154.294 PROHIBITED HOME OCCUPATION USES.
   (A)   Any activity that produces radio or TV interference, noise, glare,
vibration, smoke or odor beyond allowable levels as determined by local, state
or federal standards, or that can be detected beyond the property line is
prohibited.
   (B)   Any activity involving on-site retail sales is prohibited, except that
the sale of items that are incidental to a permitted home occupation is
allowed. For example, the sale of lesson books or sheet music from music
teachers; art or craft supplies from arts or crafts instructors; computer
software from computer consultants and similar incidental items for sale by
home business are allowed subject to standards above.
   (C)   Any uses described in this section or uses with similar objectionable
impacts because of motor traffic, noise, glare, odor, dust, smoke or vibration,
such as ambulance service, animal hospital, veterinary services, kennels or
animal boarding, auto and other vehicle repair, including auto painting, and
repair, reconditioning or storage of motorized vehicles, boats, recreational
vehicles, airplanes or large equipment on-site.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 23.5)
§ 154.295 ENFORCEMENT.
   The city may visit and inspect the site of home occupations in accordance
with this section periodically to ensure compliance with all applicable
regulations, during normal business hours and with reasonable notice.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 23.6)
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW AND SITE DESIGN REVIEW
§ 154.310 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to:
   (A)   Provide rules, regulations and standards for efficient and effective
administration of site development review;
   (B)   Carry out the development pattern and plan of the city and its
comprehensive plan policies;
   (C)   Promote the public health, safety and general welfare;
   (D)   Lessen or avoid congestion in the streets, and secure safety from
fire, flood, pollution and other dangers;
   (E)   Provide adequate light and air, prevent overcrowding land and
facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water supply, sewage and
drainage;
   (F)   Encourage the conservation of energy resources; and
   (G)   Encourage efficient use of land resources, full utilization of urban
services, mixed uses, transportation options and detailed, human-scaled design.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 24.1)
§ 154.311 APPLICABILITY.
   Development review or site design review shall be required for all new
developments and modifications of existing developments, except that regular
maintenance, repair and replacement of materials (e.g., roof, siding, awnings
and the like) parking resurfacing and similar maintenance and repair shall be
exempt. The criteria for each type of review are as follows.
   (A)   Site design review. Site design review is a discretionary review (Type
III) conducted by the Planning Commission with a public hearing. (See §
154.379.) It applies to all developments in the city, except those specifically
listed under this section. Site design review ensures compliance with the basic
development standards of the land use district (e.g., building setbacks, lot
coverage, maximum building height), as well as the more detailed design
standards and public improvement requirements.
   (B)   Development review.
      (1)   Development review is a non-discretionary or "ministerial" review
(Type I) conducted by the city without a public hearing. (See §
154.377 for review procedure.)
      (2)   It is for less complex developments and land uses that do not
require site design review approval. Development review is based on clear and
objective standards and ensures compliance with the basic development standards
of the land use district, such as building setbacks, lot coverage, maximum
building height and similar provisions.
      (3)   Development review is required for all the types of development
listed below:
         (a)   Single-family detached dwelling (including manufactured homes),
when required by a condition of land division approval;
         (b)   A single duplex, up to two single-family attached (townhouse)
units or a single triplex which is not being reviewed as part of any other
development and accessory parking on the same lot;
         (c)   Building additions and minor modifications to development
approvals;
         (d)   Any proposed development which has a valid conditional use
permit;
         (e)   Major modifications to a development with a conditional use
permit shall require review and approval in accordance with §§
154.395 through
154.404;
         (f)   Home occupation, subject to review under §§
154.290 through
154.295;
         (g)   Accessory residential structures including accessory dwellings;
and
         (h)   Other developments, when required by a condition of approval.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 24.2)
§ 154.312 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   Development review shall be conducted only for the developments listed in §
154.311. It shall be conducted as a Type I procedure, as described in §
154.377. Prior to issuance of building permits, the following standards shall
be met:
   (A)   The proposed land use is permitted by the underlying land use
district;
   (B)   The land use, building/yard setback, lot area, lot dimension, density,
lot coverage, building height and other applicable standards of the underlying
land use district and any subdistrict(s) are met;
   (C)   All applicable Building and Fire Code standards are met; and
   (D)   The approval shall lapse, and a new application shall be required, if
a building permit has not been issued within one year of site review approval
or if development of the site is in violation of the approved plan or other
applicable codes.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 24.3)
§ 154.313 SITE DESIGN REVIEW; APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   Site design review shall be conducted as a Type III (or Type II) procedure
using the procedures in §
154.379, and using the approval criteria contained in §
154.315.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 24.4)
§ 154.314 SITE DESIGN REVIEW; APPLICATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   All of the following information is required for site design review
application submittal.
   (A)   General submission requirements. The applicant shall submit an
application containing all of the general information required by §
154.379, as applicable.
   (B)   Site design review information. An application for site design review
shall include the following information, as deemed applicable by the city.
      (1)   Existing conditions map. At a minimum the site map shall contain
the following:
         (a)   The applicant's entire property and the surrounding property to
a distance sufficient to determine the location of the development in the city,
and the relationship between the proposed development site and adjacent
property and development. The property boundaries, dimensions and gross area
shall be identified;
         (b)   Topographic contour lines at intervals determined by the city;
         (c)   Identification of slopes greater than 5%;
         (d)   The location and width of all public and private streets,
drives, sidewalks, pathways, rights-of-way and easements on the site and
adjoining the site;
         (e)   Potential natural hazard areas, including any areas identified
as subject to a 100-year flood, areas subject to high water table, and areas
mapped by the city, county or state as having a potential for geologic hazards;
         (f)   Resource areas, including marsh and wetland areas, streams,
wildlife habitat identified by the city or any natural resource regulatory
agencies as requiring protection;
         (g)   Site features, including existing structures, pavement, large
rock outcroppings, areas having unique views and drainage ways, canals and
ditches;
         (h)   Locally or federally designed historic and cultural resources on
the site and adjacent parcels or lots;
         (i)   North arrow, scale, names and addresses of all persons listed as
owners on the most recently recorded deed;
         (j)   Name and address of project designer, engineer, surveyor and/or
planner, if applicable; and
         (k)   Other information as determined by the city. The city may
require studies or exhibits prepared by qualified professionals to address
specific site features.
      (2)   Proposed site plan. The site plan shall contain the following
information, if applicable:
         (a)   The proposed development site, including boundaries, dimensions
and gross area;
         (b)   Features identified on the existing site analysis map, which are
proposed to remain on the site;
         (c)   Features identified on the existing site map, if any, which are
proposed to be removed or modified by the development;
         (d)   The locations and dimensions of all proposed public and private
streets, drives, rights-of-way and easements;
         (e)   The location, elevations and dimensions of all existing and
proposed structures, utilities, pavement and other improvements on the site.
Setback dimensions for all existing and proposed buildings shall be provided on
the site plan;
         (f)   The location and dimensions of entrances and exits to the site
for vehicular, pedestrian and bicycle access;
         (g)   The location and dimensions of all parking and vehicle
circulation areas (show striping for parking stalls and wheel stops, as
applicable);
         (h)   Pedestrian and bicycle circulation areas, including sidewalks,
internal pathways, pathway connections to adjacent properties and any bicycle
lanes or trails;
         (i)   Loading and service areas for waste disposal, loading and
delivery;
         (j)   Outdoor recreation spaces, common areas, plazas, outdoor
seating, street furniture and similar improvements, as applicable;
         (k)   Location, type and height of outdoor lighting;
         (l)   Location of mail boxes, if applicable;
         (m)   Name and address of project designer, if applicable;
         (n)   Location of bus stops and other public or private transportation
facilities;
         (o)   Locations, sizes and types of signs (see §§
154.350 through
154.362); and
         (p)   Other information, determined by the city. The city may require
studies or exhibits prepared by qualified professionals to address specific
site features (e.g., traffic, noise, environmental features, natural hazards
and the like), in conformance with this chapter.
      (3)   Architectural drawings. Architectural drawings shall be submitted
showing:
         (a)   Building elevations (as determined by the city) with building
height and width dimensions;
         (b)   Building materials, color and type; and
         (c)   The name of the architect or designer.
      (4)   Preliminary grading plan.
         (a)   A preliminary grading plan prepared by a registered engineer
shall be required for developments which would result in the grading (cut or
fill) of 500 cubic yards or greater.
         (b)   The preliminary grading plan shall show the location and extent
to which grading will take place, indicating general changes to contour lines,
slope ratios, slope stabilization proposals and location and height of
retaining walls, if proposed. Surface water detention and treatment plans may
also be required.
      (5)   Landscape plan. A landscape plan is required and shall conform to
the requirements of §
154.318 .
      (6)   Sign drawings. Sign drawings shall be required in conformance with
§§
154.350 through
154.362.
      (7)   Information. Letter or narrative report documenting compliance with
the applicable approval criteria contained in §
154.316.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 24.5; Ord. 287, passed 4-5-2018)
§ 154.315 APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   The review authority shall make written findings with respect to all of the
following criteria when approving, approving with conditions or denying an
application:
   (A)   The application is complete, as determined in accordance with §§
154.314 and
154.375 through
154.382;
   (B)   The application complies with all of the applicable provisions of the
underlying land use district, including building and yard setbacks, lot area
and dimensions, density and floor area, lot coverage, building height, building
orientation, architecture and other special standards as may be required for
certain land uses;
   (C)   The applicant shall be required to upgrade any existing development
that does not comply with the applicable land use district standards, in
conformance with §§
154.270 through
154.276;
   (D)   The application complies with the design standards contained in
Chapter 95;
   (E)   Conditions required as part of a land division, conditional use
permit, master planned development, specific area plan or other approval shall
be met; and
   (F)   Exceptions to criteria, above may be granted only when approved as a
variance.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 24.6)
§ 154.316 BONDING AND ASSURANCES.
   (A)   Performance bonds for public improvements. On all projects where
public improvements are required, the city shall require a bond in an amount
not greater than 100% or other adequate assurances as a condition of site
development approval in order to guarantee the public improvements.
   (B)   Release of performance bonds. The bond or assurance shall be released
when the city finds the completed project conforms to the site development
approval, including all conditions of approval.
   (C)   Completion of landscape installation. Landscaping shall be installed
prior to issuance of occupancy permits, unless security equal to the cost of
landscaping as determined by the city or a qualified landscape architect is
filed with the City Recorder assuring the installation within six months after
occupancy. If the installation of the landscaping is not completed within the
six-month period, the security may be used by the city to complete the
installation.
   (D)   Business license filing. The applicant shall ensure that all business
occupants of the completed project, whether permanent or temporary, shall apply
for and receive a city business license prior to initiating business.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 24.7)
§ 154.317 DEVELOPMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH PERMIT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Development shall not commence until the applicant has received all of
the appropriate land use and development approvals (i.e., site design review
approval) and building permits. Construction of public improvements shall not
commence until the city has approved all required public improvement plans
(e.g., utilities, streets, public land dedication and the like).
   (B)   The city may require the applicant to enter into a development
agreement (e.g., for phased developments and developments with required off-
site public improvements), and may require bonding or other assurances for
improvements, in accordance with §
154.316. Development review and site design review approvals shall be subject
to all of the following standards and limitations.
      (1)   Modifications to approved plans and developments. Minor
modifications of an approved plan or existing development, shall be processed
as a Type I procedure and require only development review. Major modifications,
shall be processed as a Type III procedure and shall require site design
review.
      (2)   Approval period. Development review and site design review
approvals shall be effective for a period of one year from the date of
approval. The approval shall lapse if:
         (a)   A building permit has not been issued within a one-year period;
or
         (b)   Construction on the site is in violation of the approved plan.
   (C)   Extension. The city shall, upon written request by the applicant,
grant an extension of the approval period not to exceed one year; provided
that:
      (1)   No changes are made on the original approved site design review
plan;
      (2)   The applicant can show intent of initiating construction on the
site within the one-year extension period;
      (3)   There have been no changes to the applicable ordinance provisions
on which the approval was based. If there have been changes to the applicable
ordinance provisions and the expired plan does not comply with those changes,
then the extension shall not be granted; in this case, a new site design review
shall be required; and/or
      (4)   The applicant demonstrates that failure to obtain building permits
and substantially begin construction within one year of site design approval
was beyond the applicant's control.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 24.8)
§ 154.318 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Purpose. This section contains standards for landscaping and
screening. The regulations are intended to protect public health, safety, and
welfare by reducing development impacts (e.g., glare, noise, and visual
impacts) on adjacent uses; minimizing erosion; slowing the rate of surface
water runoff, thereby reducing infrastructure costs; buffering pedestrians from
vehicle maneuvering areas; cooling buildings and parking lots in summer months
with shade; and enhancing the city’s appearance.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   Division (C) of this section establishes design standards for
landscaping and screening. Projects in the General Commercial and Public Uses
zoning district requiring site design review approval shall meet the landscape
standards of division (C). Property owners are required to maintain landscaping
and screening pursuant to division (C)(6).
      (2)   Section 154.085 establishes design standards for when a fence or a
wall not attached to a building is to be erected, extended, or otherwise
altered. It also applies to situations where this code requires screening or
buffering (e.g., outdoor or unenclosed storage uses).
   (C)   Landscaping and screening.
      (1)   General landscape standard. All portions of a lot not otherwise
developed with buildings, accessory structures, vehicle maneuvering areas, or
parking shall be landscaped.
      (2)   Minimum landscape area. All lots shall conform to the minimum
landscape area standards of The Planning Commission, consistent with the
purposes in division (A) of this section, may allow credit toward the minimum
landscape area for existing vegetation that is retained in the development.
      (3)   Plant selection. A combination of deciduous and evergreen trees,
shrubs, and ground covers shall be used for all planted areas, the selection of
which shall be based on local climate, exposure, water availability, and
drainage conditions, among other factors. When new vegetation is planted, soils
shall be amended and irrigation shall be provided, as necessary, to allow for
healthy plant growth. The selection of plants shall be based on all of the
following standards and guidelines:
         (a)   Use plants that are appropriate to the local climate, exposure,
and water availability. The presence of utilities and drainage conditions shall
also be considered. The city may rely on Oregon State University Extension
Service bulletins, University of Washington Urban Forestry Program guidelines,
or other Firewise expert sources in evaluating landscape plans.
         (b)   Plant species that do not require irrigation once established
(naturalized) are preferred over species that require irrigation.
         (c)   Trees shall be not less than two-inch caliper for street trees
and 1.5-inch caliper for other trees at the time of planting. Trees to be
planted under or near power lines shall be selected so as to not conflict with
power lines at maturity.
         (d)   Shrubs shall be planted from five-gallon containers, minimum,
where they are for required screens or buffers, and two-gallon containers
minimum elsewhere.
         (e)   Shrubs shall be spaced in order to provide the intended screen
or canopy cover within two years of planting.
         (f)   All landscape areas, whether required or not, that are not
planted with trees and shrubs or covered with allowable non-plant material,
shall have ground cover plants that are sized and spaced to achieve plant
coverage of not less than 50% at maturity.
         (g)   Bark dust, chips, aggregate, or other non-plant ground covers
may be used, but shall cover not more than 50% of any landscape area. Non-plant
ground covers cannot be a substitute for required ground cover plants.
         (h)   Where storm water retention or detention, or water quality
treatment facilities are proposed, they shall be planted with water-tolerant
species.
         (i)   Existing mature trees that can thrive in a developed area and
that do not conflict with other provisions of this code shall be retained where
specimens are in good health, have desirable aesthetic characteristics, and do
not present a hazard.
         (j)   Landscape plans shall avoid conflicts between plants and
buildings, streets, walkways, utilities, and other features of the built
environment.
         (k)   Evergreen plants shall be used where a sight-obscuring landscape
screen is required.
         (l)   Deciduous trees may be used where summer shade and winter
sunlight is desirable.
         (m)   Landscape plans shall provide focal points within a development,
for example, by preserving large or unique trees or groves or by using
flowering plants or trees with fall color.
         (n)   Landscape plans shall use a combination of plants for seasonal
variation in color and yearlong interest.
         (o)   Where plants are used to screen outdoor storage or mechanical
equipment, the selected plants shall have growth characteristics that are
compatible with such features.
         (p)   Landscape plans shall provide for both temporary and permanent
erosion control measures, which shall include plantings where cuts or fills,
including berms, swales, storm water detention facilities, and similar grading,
are proposed.
         (q)   When new vegetation is planted, soils shall be amended and
irrigation provided, as necessary, until the plants are naturalized and able to
grow on their own.
         (r)   Where landscaping is not otherwise feasible, planter boxes or
decorative tubs shall be installed. Planting shall be consistent with in-ground
landscaping requirements.
      (4)   Parking lot landscaping. All of the following standards shall be
met for parking lots. If a development contains multiple parking lots, then the
standards shall be evaluated separately for each parking lot.
         (a)   A minimum of 10% of the total surface area of all parking areas,
as measured around the perimeter of all parking spaces and maneuvering areas,
shall be landscaped. Such landscaping shall consist of canopy trees distributed
throughout the parking area. A combination of deciduous and evergreen trees,
shrubs, and ground cover plants is required. The trees shall be planted so that
they provide a partial canopy cover over the parking lot within five years. At
a minimum, one tree per 12 parking spaces on average shall be planted over and
around the parking area.
         (b)   All parking areas with more than 20 spaces shall provide
landscape islands with trees that break up the parking area into rows of not
more than 12 contiguous parking spaces. Landscape islands and planters shall
have dimensions of not less than 48 square feet of area and no dimension of
less than six feet, to ensure adequate soil, water, and space for healthy plant
growth.
         (c)   All required parking lot landscape areas not otherwise planted
with trees must contain a combination of shrubs and groundcover plants so that
within two years of planting, not less than 50% of that area is covered with
living plants.
         (d)   Wheel stops, curbs, bollards, or other physical barriers are
required along the edges of all vehicle-maneuvering areas to protect
landscaping from being damaged by vehicles. Trees shall be planted not less
than two feet from any such barrier.
         (e)   Trees planted in tree wells within sidewalks or other paved
areas shall be installed with root barriers, consistent with applicable nursery
standards.
      (5)   Screening requirements. Screening is required for outdoor storage
areas, unenclosed uses, and parking lots, and may be required in other
situations as determined by the Planning Commission. Landscaping shall be
provided pursuant to the standards of divisions (C)(5)(a)-(c), below:
         (a)   Outdoor storage and unenclosed uses. All areas of a site
containing or proposed to contain outdoor storage of goods, materials,
equipment, and vehicles (other than required parking lots and service and
delivery areas, per site design review), and areas containing junk, salvage
materials, or similar contents, shall be screened from view from adjacent
rights-of-way and residential uses by a sight-obscuring fence, wall, landscape
screen, or combination of screening methods. See also §
154.085 (Commercial) or §
154.105 (Public Uses) for related fence and wall standards.
         (b)   Parking lots. The edges of parking lots shall be screened to
minimize vehicle headlights shining into adjacent rights-of-way and residential
yards. Parking lots abutting a sidewalk or walkway shall be screened using a
low-growing hedge or low garden wall to a height of between three feet and four
feet.
         (c)   Other uses requiring screening. The Planning Commission may
require screening in other situations as authorized by this code, including,
but not limited to, outdoor storage areas, blank walls, and as mitigation where
an applicant has requested an adjustment.
      (6)   Maintenance. All landscaping shall be maintained in good condition,
or otherwise replaced by the property owner or tenant, consistent with the
landscaping standards of this chapter.
(Ord. 287, passed 4-5-2018)
§ 154.319 NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability.
      (1)   The following requirements apply to non-residential development,
including individual buildings and developments with multiple buildings such as
shopping centers, office complexes, mixed-use developments, and institutional
campuses. The standards are intended to create and maintain a built environment
that is conducive to pedestrian accessibility, reducing dependency on the
automobile for short trips, while providing civic space for employees and
customers, supporting natural surveillance of public spaces, and creating
human- scale design. The standards require buildings placed close to streets,
with storefront windows (where applicable), with large building walls divided
into smaller planes, and with architectural detailing character of Northwest
Contemporary Rustic.
      (2)   The standards are intended to enhance/ support the continued
development of the city, reinforcing it as an attractive place to work, shop,
and conduct business. It is not the city's intent to create an architectural
theme, but rather to ensure that new buildings and exterior alterations fit
within the context of their surroundings and contribute toward the development
of compact, walkable commercial and mixed-use districts. Specifically, the
standards:
         (a)   Draw upon the local vocabulary of building styles and elements,
including compatibility with architectural style of Northwest Contemporary
Rustic where applicable;
         (b)   Create a sense of street enclosure with appropriate building
heights and detailing;
         (c)   Require the use of contextually appropriate materials, textures
and colors; promote a storefront character (windows, pedestrian shelter,
furnishings, etc.);
         (d)   Encourage a diversity of building facades and rooflines that
fall into a consistent rhythm;
         (e)   Promote corner lots as focal points;
         (f)   Improve the streetscape with adequate civic space, street
furnishings and public art; and
         (g)   Encourage energy and water conservation, and the use of
renewable resources.
   (B)   Building orientation. The following standards apply to new buildings
and building additions that are subject to site design review. The Planning
Commission may approve adjustments to the standards as part of a site design
review approval.
      (1)   Buildings subject to this section shall conform to the applicable
build-to line standard. The standard is met when at least 80% of the abutting
street frontage shall have a building placed no farther from at least one
street property line than the required build-to-line. The Planning Commission,
through site design review, may waive the build-to line standard where it finds
that one or more of the conditions in divisions (B)(1)(a) through (g) of this
section occurs.
         (a)   A proposed building is adjacent to a single-family dwelling, and
an increased setback promotes compatibility with the adjacent dwelling.
         (b)   The standards of the roadway authority preclude development at
the build-to line.
         (c)   The applicant proposes extending an adjacent sidewalk or plaza
for public use, or some other pedestrian amenity is proposed to be placed
between the building and public right-of-way.
         (d)   The build-to line may be increased to provide a private open
space (e.g., landscaped forecourt), between a residential use in a mixed-use
development (e.g., live-work building with ground floor residence) and a front
or street property line.
         (e)   A significant tree or other environmental feature precludes
strict adherence to the standard and will be retained and incorporated in the
design of the project.
         (f)   A public utility easement or similar restricting legal condition
that is outside the applicant's control makes conformance with the build-to
line impracticable. In this case, the building shall instead be placed as close
to the street as possible given the legal constraint, and pedestrian amenities
(e.g. plaza, courtyard, landscaping, outdoor seating area, etc.) shall be
provided within the street setback in said location.
         (g)   An expansion is proposed on an existing building that was
lawfully created but does not conform to the above standard, and the building
addition moves in the direction of compliance where practicable.
      (2)   All buildings shall have at least one primary entrance (i.e.,
tenant entrance, lobby entrance, breezeway entrance, or courtyard entrance)
facing an abutting street (i.e., within 45 degrees of the street property
line); or if the building entrance must be turned more than 45 degrees from the
street (i.e., front door is on a side or rear elevation) due to the
configuration of the site or similar constraints, a pedestrian walkway must
connect the primary entrance to the sidewalk.
      (3)   Off-street parking, trash storage facilities, and ground-level
utilities (e.g., utility vaults), and similar obstructions shall not be placed
between building entrances and the street(s) to which they are oriented. To the
extent practicable, such facilities shall be oriented internally to the block
and accessed by alleys or driveways.
      (4)   Off-street parking shall be oriented internally to the site to the
extent practicable.
      (5)   Where a development contains multiple buildings and there is
insufficient street frontage to meet the above building orientation standards
for all buildings on the subject site, a building's primary entrance may orient
to plaza, courtyard, or similar pedestrian space containing pedestrian
amenities. When oriented this way, the primary entrance(s), plaza, or courtyard
shall be connected to the street by a pedestrian walkway.
   (C)   Large-format developments. Plans for new developments, or any phase
thereof, with a total floor plate area (ground floor area of all buildings)
greater than 20,000 square feet, including land divisions in the General
Commercial Zoning District shall meet all of the following standards in
divisions (C)(1) through (C)(9), below. The Planning Commission may approve
adjustments to the standards as part of a site design review approval.
      (1)   The site plan or preliminary subdivision plan, as applicable, shall
comply with the street connectivity standards. The plan approval shall bind on
all future phases of the development, if any, to the approved block layout.
      (2)   The site shall be configured into blocks with building pads that
have frontage onto improved streets meeting city standards, and shall contain
interior parking courts and with interconnected pedestrian walkways.
      (3)   The build-to line standards shall be met across not less than 50%
of the site's street frontage, except the build-to standard does not apply
where a railroad, expressway, water body, topographic constraint, or similar
physical constraint makes it impractical to orient buildings to a particular
street or highway.
      (4)   Walkways shall connect the street right-of-way to all primary
building entrances, and shall connect all primary building entrances to one
another, including required pedestrian crossings through interior parking
areas, if any. The Planning Commission may condition development to provide
facilities, including a requirement for lighting, stairways, ramps, and
midblock pedestrian access ways (e.g., to break up an otherwise long block) to
ensure reasonably safe, direct, and convenient pedestrian circulation.
      (5)   Buildings placed at a block corner shall have a primary entrance
oriented to the block corner. That entrance shall be located within 35 feet of
the corner and shall have a direct and convenient pedestrian walkway connecting
to the corner sidewalk.
      (6)   All buildings shall orient to a street. Where it is not practical
to orient all buildings to streets due to existing parcel configuration or a
similar site constraints, buildings may orient to a "shopping street"
providing, at a minimum, on-street parking (parallel or angled parking), eight-
foot sidewalks (which shall include a four-foot zone for street trees and
furnishings such as benches and other street furniture), and pedestrian-scale
lighting.
      (7)   Each building that is proposed as orienting to a shopping street
shall have at least one primary entrance oriented to the shopping street.
      (8)   Where a building fronts both a shopping street and a public street,
that building shall contain at least one primary entrance oriented to each
street; except that an entrance is not required where the public street is not
improved with a sidewalk and the city determines that sidewalk improvements to
the public street cannot be required as a condition of approval.
      (9)   All other provisions of this Code apply to large-format
developments.
   (D)   Primary entrances and windows. The following standards apply to new
buildings and building additions and remodels that are subject to site design
review. The Planning Commission may approve adjustments to the standards as
part of a site design review approval.
      (1)   All elevations of building. Architectural designs shall address all
elevations of a building. Building forms, detailing, materials, textures, and
color shall contribute to a unified design with architectural integrity.
Materials used on the front facade must turn the building corners and include
at least a portion of the side elevations, consistent with the building's
overall composition and design integrity.
      (2)   Pedestrian entrances. Ground level entrances oriented to a street
shall be at least partly transparent for natural surveillance and to encourage
an inviting and successful business environment. This standard may be met by
providing a door with a window(s), a transom window above the door, or
sidelights beside the door. Where ATMs or other kiosks are proposed on any
street-facing elevation, they shall be visible from the street for security and
have a canopy, awning, or other weather protection shelter.
      (3)   Corner entrances. Buildings on corner lots are encouraged to have
corner entrances. Where a corner entrance is not provided, the building plan
shall provide an architectural element or detailing (e.g., tower, beveled
corner, art, special trim, etc.) that accentuates the corner location.
      (4)   Street level entrances. All primary building entrances shall open
to the sidewalk and shall conform to Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
requirements, as applicable. Primary entrances above or below grade may be
allowed where ADA accessibility is provided.
      (5)   Windows - general. Except as approved for parking structures or
accessory structures, the front/street-facing elevations of buildings shall
provide display windows.
      (6)   Storefront windows. Storefront windows shall consist of framed
picture or bay windows, which may be recessed. The ground floor, street-facing
elevation(s) of all buildings shall comprise at least 60% transparent windows,
measured as a section extending the width of the street-facing elevation
between the building base (or 30 inches above the sidewalk grade, whichever is
less) and a plane 72 inches above the sidewalk grade.
      (7)   Defined upper story(ies). Building elevations shall contain
detailing that visually defines street level building spaces (storefronts) from
upper stories. The distinction between street level and upper floors shall be
established, for example, through the use of awnings, canopies, belt course, or
similar detailing, materials. Upper floors may have less window area than
ground floors, but shall follow the vertical lines of the lower level piers and
the horizontal definition of spandrels and any cornices.
      (8)   Buildings not adjacent to a street. Buildings that are not adjacent
to a street or a shopping street, such as those that are setback behind another
building and those that are oriented to a civic space (e.g. internal plaza or
court), shall meet the 60% transparency standard on all elevations abutting
civic spaces(s) and on elevations containing a primary entrance.
      (9)   Side and rear elevation windows. All side and rear elevations,
except for zero-lot line or common wall elevations, where windows are not
required, shall provide not less than 30% transparency.
      (10)   Projecting windows, display cases. Windows and display cases shall
not break the front plane of the building (e.g., projecting display boxes are
discouraged). For durability and aesthetic reasons, display cases, when
provided, shall be flush with the building facade (not affixed to the exterior)
and integrated into the building design with trim or other detailing. Window
flower boxes are allowed provided they do not encroach into the pedestrian
through-zone.
      (11)   Window exceptions. The Planning Commission may approve an
exception to the above standards where existing topography makes compliance
impractical. Where an exception to the window transparency requirement is made
for parking garages or similar structures, the building design must incorporate
openings or other detailing that resembles the window patterns (rhythm and
scale).
   (E)   Articulation and detailing. The following standards apply to new
buildings, building additions and remodeling that are subject to site design
review. The Planning Commission may approve adjustments to the standards as
part of a site design review approval.
      (1)   Articulation. All building elevations that orient to a street or
civic space must have breaks in the wall plane (articulation) of not less than
one break for every 30 feet of building length or width, as applicable, as
follows:
         (a)   A "break" for the purposes of this division is a change in wall
plane of not less than 12 inches in depth. Breaks may include but are not
limited to an offset, recess, window reveal, pilaster, frieze, pediment,
cornice, parapet, gable, dormer, eave, coursing, canopy, awning, column,
building base, balcony, permanent awning or canopy, marquee, or similar
architectural feature.
         (b)   The Planning Commission through site design review may approve
detailing that does not meet the 12 inch break-in-wall-plane standard where it
finds that proposed detailing is more consistent with the architecture of
buildings existing in the vicinity.
         (c)   Changes in paint color and features that are not designed as
permanent architectural elements, such as display cabinets, window boxes,
retractable and similar mounted awnings or canopies, and other similar
features, do not meet the 12 inch break-in-wall-plane standard.
         (d)   Building elevations that do not orient to a street or civic
space need not comply with the 12 inch break-in-wall-plane standard but should
complement the overall building design.
      (2)   Change in materials. Elevations should incorporate changes in
material that define a building's base, middle, and top, as applicable, and
create visual interest and relief. Side and rear elevations that do not face a
street, public parking area, pedestrian access way, or plaza may utilize
changes in texture and/or color of materials, provided that the design is
consistent with the overall composition of the building.
      (3)   Ground floor and upper floor division. A clear visual division
shall be maintained between the ground level floor and upper floors, for
example, through the use of a belt course, transom, awning, canopy, or similar
division.
      (4)   Vertical rhythms. New construction or front elevation remodels
shall reflect a vertical orientation, either through breaks in volume or the
use of surface details.
      (5)   Design characteristics. New construction shall include a minimum of
five of the following Northwest Contemporary Rustic design elements as shown on
Figure A:
         (a)   Roof pitch not less than five feet in height for 12 feet in
width (22.6 degrees);
         (b)   Metal or composition roof;
         (c)   Covered entrance;
         (d)   Vertically oriented windows;
         (e)   Open-beamed recessed entrance;
         (f)   Open beam construction;
         (g)   Natural appearing cladding;
         (h)   Stonework accents;
         (i)   Vertical timber posts; and
         (j)   Building walls divided into smaller planes.
   (F)   Pedestrian shelters. The following standards apply to new buildings
and building additions that are subject to site design review. The Planning
Commission may approve adjustments to the standards as part of a site design
review approval.
      (1)   Minimum pedestrian shelter coverage. Permanent awnings, canopies,
recesses, or similar pedestrian shelters shall be provided along at least 75%
of the ground floor elevation(s) of a building where the building abuts a
sidewalk, civic space, or pedestrian access way. Pedestrian shelters used to
meet the above standard shall extend at least five feet over the pedestrian
area; except that the Planning Commission, through site design review, may
reduce the above standards where it finds that existing right-of-way
dimensions, easements, or building code requirements preclude standard
shelters. In addition, the above standards do not apply where a building has a
ground floor dwelling, as in a mixed-use development or live-work building, and
the dwelling has a covered entrance.
      (2)   Pedestrian shelter design. Pedestrian shelters shall comply with
applicable building codes, and shall be designed to be visually compatible with
the architecture of a building. If mezzanine or transom windows exist, the
shelter shall be below such windows where practical. Where applicable,
pedestrian shelters shall be designed to accommodate pedestrian signage (e.g.,
blade signs), while maintaining required vertical clearance.
   (G)   Mechanical equipment.
      (1)   Building walls. Where mechanical equipment, such as utility vaults,
air compressors, generators, antennae, satellite dishes, or similar equipment,
is permitted on a building wall that abuts a public right-of-way or civic
space, it shall be screened. Standpipes, meters, vaults, and similar equipment
need not be screened but shall not be placed on a front elevation when other
practical alternatives exist; such equipment shall be placed on a side or rear
elevation where practical.
      (2)   Rooftops. Except as provided below, rooftop mechanical units shall
be setback or screened behind a parapet wall so that they are not visible from
any public right-of-way or civic space. Where such placement and screening is
not practicable, the Planning Commission may approve painting of mechanical
units in lieu of screening; such painting may consist of muted, earth-tone
colors that make the equipment visually subordinate to the building and
adjacent buildings, if any.
      (3)   Ground-mounted mechanical equipment. Ground-mounted equipment, such
as generators, air compressors, trash compactors, and similar equipment, shall
be limited to side or rear yards and screened with fences or walls constructed
of materials similar to those on adjacent buildings. Hedges, trellises, and
similar plantings may also be used as screens where there is adequate air
circulation and sunlight, and irrigation is provided. The city may require
additional setbacks and noise attenuating equipment for compatibility with
adjacent uses.
   (H)   Materials and color. Building exteriors shall conform to the following
standards. The Planning Commission may approve adjustments to the standards as
part of a site design review approval.
      (1)   Primary materials. Permitted exterior cladding materials shall
include those listed in division (E)(5) of this section, and other materials
found to be similar in appearance and durability, subject to site design
review, commercial buildings subject to this section should use materials that
avoid the appearance of industrial or temporary buildings.
      (2)   Substitute materials. Substitute materials that are equal in
appearance and durability to those listed in division (H)(1) of this section
may be approved through site design review. The applicant will be required to
provide specifications from the manufacturer.
      (3)   Color. Color schemes shall conform to the adopted color palette on
file at the City Hall. Reflective, luminescent, sparkling, and "day-glow"
colors and finishes are prohibited.
      (4)   Prohibited materials for building faces. The following materials
shall not be used on walls or vertical building surfaces.
         (a)   Corrugated metal panels, similar metal products, corrugated
fiberglass panels, or any other material that requires corrugation, seams, or
similar manipulation of the exterior surface to prevent deflection of the
surface. Architectural metal panels with recessed seams no closer than 36
inches on center at the edge of the panel may be used when consistent with the
other standards. Other metal products may be used as structural members or
accents, such as "I-Beam" canopies, brushed metal finishes, etc.
         (b)   Sheet plywood, including textured plywood siding.
         (c)   Unfinished materials, such as plain concrete masonry units (CMU)
or raw concrete, unless the material is designed and fabricated to be left
unfinished, rather than receiving a field-applied finish covering.
   Figure A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1636a0df48b6a27c8aba7e42893962fa27c1b602/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1472.gif]
 
(Ord. 289, passed 11-15- 2018)
§ 154.320 CIVIC SPACE AND PEDESTRIAN AMENITIES.
   (A)   Purpose. This section provides standards for civic spaces where such
areas are required or provided voluntarily. Civic spaces allow for light and
air circulation, visual relief, pedestrian resting areas, and opportunities for
socialization in the most densely developed parts of the city. The code allows
projects within General Commercial and Public Uses to meet minimum landscape
area standards by providing civic space adjacent to street frontages or in
courtyards or plazas between buildings, instead of with planted areas elsewhere
on a lot as is typically done for residential developments.
   (B)   Applicability. Design of large-scale buildings and developments. The
standards in division (B)(3), below, shall apply to "large-scale buildings and
developments", as defined in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(2) of this section:
      (1)   Buildings with greater than 10,000 square feet of enclosed ground-
floor space (i.e., "large-scale"). Multi-tenant buildings shall be counted as
the sum of all tenant spaces within the same building shell; and
      (2)   Multiple-building developments with a combined ground-floor space
(enclosed) greater than 20,000 square feet (e.g., shopping centers, public/
institutional campuses, and similar developments).
      (3)   All large-scale buildings and developments, as defined in divisions
(B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section, shall provide human-scale design by
conforming to all of the following criteria:
         (a)   Incorporate changes in building direction (i.e., articulation),
and divide large masses into varying heights and sizes. Such changes may
include building offsets; divisions in surface materials; and use of windows,
screening trees; small-scale lighting (e.g., wall-mounted lighting, or up-
lighting); and similar features. Note: the example shown above
is meant to illustrate examples of these building design elements, and should
not be interpreted as a required architectural style.
   (C)   Standards.
      (1)   Civic space standards. At least 3% of every development site shall
be designated and improved as civic space (plaza, landscaped courtyard, or
similar space) that is accessible to the general public, pursuant to all of the
following standards in divisions (C)(1)(a) through (e) of this section:
         (a)   The highest priority locations for civic space improvements are
those with the highest pedestrian activity (e.g., street corners and pedestrian
access ways), as generally illustrated.
         (b)   Civic spaces shall abut a public right-of-way or otherwise be
connected to and visible from a public right-of-way by a sidewalk or pedestrian
access way. Access ways shall be identifiable with a change in paving materials
(e.g. pavers inlaid in concrete or a change in pavement scoring patterns or
texture).
         (c)   Where public access to a civic space is not practical due to
existing development patterns, physical site constraints, or other hardship
presented by the applicant, the city may allow a private area, such as an
outdoor eating area attached to a restaurant, in finding the project complies
with the standard.
         (d)   All civic spaces shall have dimensions that allow for reasonable
pedestrian access. For example, by extending the width of an existing sidewalk
by four feet, a developer might provide space for an outdoor eating area;
whereas a larger development at a street corner could meet the standard by
creating a plaza adjacent to a building entrance.
         (e)   Civic space improvements shall conform to §
154.318, Landscaping.
      (2)   Pedestrian improvements in civic spaces. Except as provided below,
where this section requires the provision of civic space, such space shall be
improved with pedestrian amenities, pursuant to the following standards in
divisions (C)(2)(a) through (d) of this section:
         (a)   Pedestrian amenities shall be provided in an amount equal to or
greater than 0.5% of the estimated construction cost of the proposed building
(s). A licensed architect, landscape architect, or other qualified
professional, shall prepare cost estimates for civic space improvements, which
shall be subject to review and approval by the City Planner.
         (b)   Pedestrian amenities include plaza surfaces (e.g., pavers,
landscapes, etc.), sidewalk extensions (e.g. with outdoor cafe space), street
furnishings (e.g., benches, public art, pedestrian-scale lighting, water
fountains, trash receptacles, bus waiting shelters, shade structures, or
others), way-finding signs, or similar amenities, as approved by the City
Planner.
         (c)   Where a civic space adjoins a building entrance it should
incorporate a permanent weather protection canopy, awning, pergola, or similar
feature.
         (d)   The city may accept pedestrian amenities proposed within a
public right-of-way (e.g., street corner or mid-block pedestrian access way)
and grant the developer credit toward fulfilling the above improvement
standard.
      (3)   Exception for minor projects. Building additions and remodels are
not required to provide civic space where the estimated cost of the proposed
building improvement is less than 30% of the existing assessed value of
improvements on the subject site. Cost estimates are based on those used to
estimate building permit fees, or other independent and credible source,
subject to review and approval by the City Planner. Assessed values shall be
the market value of record at the Jackson County Assessor's Office.
      (4)   Exception for in lieu fee. The Planning Commission can approve an
exception where the city finds that the creation of civic space is not
practicable based on the project location or other relevant factors.
(Ord. 289, passed 11-15-2018)
§ 154.321 DRIVE-UP AND DRIVE-THROUGH USES AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose. Where drive-up or drive-through uses and facilities are
allowed, they shall conform to all of the following standards, which are
intended to calm traffic, provide for adequate vehicle queuing space, prevent
automobile turning movement conflicts, and provide for pedestrian comfort and
safety.
   (B)   Standards. Drive-up and drive-through facilities (i.e., driveway
queuing areas, customer service windows, teller machines, kiosks, drop-boxes,
or similar facilities) shall meet all of the following standards:
      (1)   The drive-up or drive-through facility shall orient to and receive
access from a driveway that is internal to the development and not a street.
      (2)   The drive-up or drive-through facility shall not be oriented to
street corner.
      (3)   The drive-up or drive-through facility shall not be located within
20 feet of a street right-of-way.
      (4)   Drive-up and drive-through queuing areas shall be designed so that
vehicles will not obstruct any street, fire lane, walkway, bike lane, or
sidewalk.
(Ord. 289, passed 11-15-2018)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 154.330 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Each type of land use and development can expect to generate an
identifiable demand for parking. Commercial and industrial uses often require
truck loading areas or facilities.
   (B)   This section is intended to assist property owners, developers and the
city in assessing those parking and loading demands and to set standards for
the provision of off-street parking and loading facilities to minimize traffic
congestion and related hazards. The standards are also intended to reduce the
need to use public rights-of-way for private parking.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 26.1)
§ 154.331 APPLICATION.
   (A)   No building or other permits for development in the city shall be
issued until plans have been submitted and approved demonstrating how off-
street parking and loading requirements of the section will be met.
   (B)   Off-street parking and loading proposals may be submitted as a part of
the overall site plan, as provided in §§
154.310 through
154.317, or may be submitted as a separate plan.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 26.2)
§ 154.332 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Off-street parking spaces shall be required for all new development in
the city in accordance with the requirements and standards of this section. If
there is doubt that sufficient parking can be provided, the matter shall be
referred to the Planning Commission for review and approval.
   (B)   The standards and requirements expressed in this section shall be
considered the minimum requirements. Any land use that is not specifically
listed in this section shall use the same requirements as the listed use that
is most similar. The Planning Commission shall make the final determination
when similarity is not apparent, which may be based in part on documentation
provided by the applicant to justify the proposal.
   (C)   Adjustments to established parking standards may be made by the
Planning Commission at the time of the site plan review. Any reduction in the
number of required spaces shall be based on the approval criteria for a
variance, as included in §
154.418 or on specific documentation provided by the applicant showing why the
required number of spaces will not be necessary and how the parking demands
will be met.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 26.3)
§ 154.333 OFF-STREET LOADING FACILITIES.
   Any hospital, institution, hotel, commercial or industrial building, or any
building having a gross floor area of more than 5,000 square feet, or any
business that is engaged in the retailing or wholesaling of merchandise
requiring regular truck deliveries, shall provide off-street loading areas, in
accordance with the following.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may determine that additional spaces are
needed to provide for a high turnover business or other use. The minimum
standards for the number of off-street loading spaces are:
 
Less than 5,000 square feet    No spaces required, but no truck loading or
                               unloading on a public street
5,000 – 20,000 square feet   1 loading space
20,000 – 40,000 square feet  2 loading spaces
Larger than 40,000 square feet 1 additional loading space for each additional
                               25,000 square feet or fraction thereof
 
   (B)   An off-street loading space shall be at least ten feet in width and 25
feet in length. The loading space shall no reduce the number of off-street
vehicle parking spaces and shall not be within or partially within any public
right-of-way or undedicated roadway for access to private property.
   (C)   Improvements and surfacing of the loading space(s) shall be the same
as those of the other parking areas on the property. The Planning Commission
may allow or require adjustments to established standards for good reason, but,
at a minimum, shall require a durable and dust free surface that is properly
drained and that will prevent the tracing of mud, dirt, gravel or other
materials onto public streets.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 26.4)
§ 154.334 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   The design and development of parking areas shall conform to the
following standards.
      (1)   Ingress and egress. The location of all ingress and egress points
shall be subject to the city review and approval. All access points shall be
clearly identified and kept to one or two points, of possible.
      (2)   Shared access. Shared access driveway for access to parking on two
or more adjacent properties may be approved, or required.
      (3)   Driveways. Driveways shall not be at or within 20 feet of any
intersection of public streets, highways or any combination thereof.
      (4)   Backing out prohibited. In commercial or industrial developments,
in all residential building containing three or more dwelling units, parking
areas shall be designed to make it unnecessary for a vehicle to back into any
public street.
      (5)   Parking space dimensions. Adequate provisions shall be given for
ingress and egress by vehicles to all parking stalls by means of unobstructed
maneuvering aisles or travel lanes.
      (6)   Small car space adjustment. In any parking lot containing 20 or
more parking spaces, up to 25% of those spaces may be approved for compact cars
by the Planning Commission. The spaces may be reduced in size to a width of
eight feet and a length of 15 feet. All compact space shall be grouped
together, and each space shall be clearly identified by a sign permanently
affixed immediately in from of each space containing the notation "Compact
Only".
      (7)   Surfacing. All parking areas containing four or more spaces shall
be surfaced with asphalt or concrete pavement to provide a surface that is
durable and dust-free and shall be so graded and drained as to properly dispose
of all surface water.
   (B)   Off-street parking standards for single dwellings and duplex
residential development shall include the following, in addition to those
standards of division (A) above, which may apply.
      (1)   Minimum width of driveway for a single-family house, duplex or
mobile home on a private lot shall be ten feet.
      (2)   Any single dewing unit or duplex lot fronting on an arterial street
or highway shall have an on-site turn around so backing into traffic will not
be necessary.
      (3)   Single-family or duplex driveways may be required by the Planning
Commission to be paved with asphalt or concrete if the lot fronts on a paved
street or highway. In other cases, the driveway shall at least be improved with
a gravel surface or other surface that will minimize dust and the tracking of
dirt and mud onto the public street.
      (4)   The access driveway of a flag lot shall not be used to meet off-
street parking requirements, but shall be kept open and unobstructed.
      (5)   Parking areas shall not be designed or constructed to permit
vehicles to overhang public walkways, public or adjacent property or to
restrict the visibility of traffic on a public road.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 26.5)
§ 154.335 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   The following regulations pertain to recreational vehicles parked outside of
recreational vehicle parks, mobile home parks or other areas that are
specifically designed for the vehicles.
   (A)   No person shall occupy a recreational vehicle for sleeping or living
purposes on a public street or right-of-way for any length of time within the
city.
   (B)   No person having ownership or other responsibility for property in the
city shall occupy or allow the occupancy of any recreational vehicle upon the
premises as permanent living quarters, unless approved for the use by the city.
   (C)   A recreational vehicle may be parked on private property and used for
sleeping and cooking purposed by guests of the residents of the premises for a
period not to exceed 16 consecutive days or 20 days with any quarter (three-
month period) of the year; provided, the vehicle has self-contained sewage
facilities or the vehicle's occupants are utilizing the facilities in their
host's residence.
   (D)   Any unoccupied recreational vehicle shall not be stored on any roadway
or with any public right-of-way.
   (E)   A recreational vehicle shall not occupy a space within an approved
mobile home park unless that space has been specifically approved by the city
for short-term recreational vehicle use.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 26.6)
§ 154.336 JOINT USE OF PARKING AREAS.
   At the request of the owners or operators of affected land uses, the
Planning Commission may authorize the joint use of parking facilities required
by two or more uses to the extent that the shared times of usage do not overlap
to create a parking deficiency. If different ownerships are involved, a
contract or other suitable agreement between affected parties will be required
to establish the terms of the joint use arrangement. The agreement shall be
recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 26.7)
§ 154.337 NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (A)   The table entitled "Off-Street Parking Requirements" shall provide the
basis for determining parking demand and minimum space requirements.
   (B)   Minimum design standards for the design of parking lots in the city
will be consistent herewith and
Chapter 95 of this code.
OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
Type of Use Requirement
Type of Use                                                                      Requirement
RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                 2 spaces for
                                                                                 each mobile
                                                                                 home site or
                                                                                 space, plus a
                                                                                 minimum of 1
                                                                                 additional
   Mobile home park                                                           visitor space
                                                                                 for every 4
                                                                                 mobile homes,
                                                                                 plus
                                                                                 sufficient
                                                                                 space for
                                                                                 employees
                                                                                 1 space for
   Rooming house/boarding house                                               each guest
                                                                                 room
                                                                                 2 spaces for
   Single-family home, mobile home on individual lot, duplex (two-family      each dwelling
structure), townhouse, condominium, multiple-family structure (other than listed unit
above)                                                                           2 spaces for
                                                                                 each dwelling
                                                                                 unit
COMMERCIAL
                                                                                 1 space for
                                                                                 every 300
   Banks, office buildings, business/professional offices, medical and dental square feet
offices                                                                          of gross
                                                                                 floor area,
                                                                                 plus 1 per
                                                                                 employee
                                                                                 1 space for
                                                                                 every 150
   Barber and beauty shops, pharmacies                                        square feet
                                                                                 of gross
                                                                                 floor area
                                                                                 1 space per 2
   Hotels                                                                     guest room,
                                                                                 plus 1 per
                                                                                 employee
                                                                                 1 space per
   Motels                                                                     guest room,
                                                                                 plus 1 per
                                                                                 employee
                                                                                 1 space for
                                                                                 each 400
                                                                                 square feet
   Other retail establishments                                                of gross
                                                                                 floor area,
                                                                                 plus 1 space
                                                                                 per employee
                                                                                 1 space for
                                                                                 each 100
                                                                                 square feet
   Restaurant, taverns or bars                                                of gross
                                                                                 floor area,
                                                                                 plus 1 space
                                                                                 per employee
                                                                                 1 space for
                                                                                 each 600
   Service or repair shops, rafting companies, retail stores handling bulky   square feet
merchandise (furniture/autos)                                                    of gross
                                                                                 floor area,
                                                                                 plus 1 space
                                                                                 per employee
INDUSTRIAL
                                                                                 2 spaces
                                                                                 minimum, plus
                                                                                 one space per
                                                                                 employee on
                                                                                 the maximum
   Industrial uses permitted conditionally in a commercial zone               shift, plus 1
                                                                                 space for
                                                                                 each 700
                                                                                 square feet
                                                                                 of patron
                                                                                 serving area
INDUSTRIAL (Cont'd)
                                                                                 1 space for
                                                                                 each 100
                                                                                 square feet
   Skating rinks, dance halls, pool halls, bowling alleys, arcades            of gross
                                                                                 floor area,
                                                                                 plus one
                                                                                 space per
                                                                                 employee
                                                                                 1 space for
                                                                                 each 60
                                                                                 square feet
                                                                                 of gross
                                                                                 floor area,
   Stadiums, theaters and auditoriums, assembly halls and meeting rooms       or 1 space
                                                                                 per 4 seats
                                                                                 or 8 feet of
                                                                                 bench length,
                                                                                 whichever is
                                                                                 greater
INSTITUTION AND PUBLIC/QUASI-PUBLIC
                                                                                 1 space per
                                                                                 employee,
                                                                                 plus 1 space
                                                                                 per 5
                                                                                 children
                                                                                 contemplated;
                                                                                 minimum of 3
   Child care centers, kindergartens, parochial or private schools            spaces; 1
                                                                                 driveway
                                                                                 designed for
                                                                                 continuous
                                                                                 flow of
                                                                                 passenger
                                                                                 vehicles for
                                                                                 loading and
                                                                                 unloading
                                                                                 1 space for
                                                                                 every 4 seats
                                                                                 or every 8
   Churches                                                                   feet of bench
                                                                                 length in the
                                                                                 main
                                                                                 sanctuary
                                                                                 Spaces to
                                                                                 meet the
                                                                                 combined
   Clubs and lodges                                                           requirements
                                                                                 of the uses
                                                                                 being
                                                                                 conducted
                                                                                 1-1/2 spaces
   Hospitals                                                                  (rounded up)
                                                                                 for each bed
                                                                                 1 space for
                                                                                 each 400
                                                                                 square feet
   Libraries, museums, art galleries                                          of floor
                                                                                 area, plus 1
                                                                                 space for
                                                                                 each employee
 
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 26.8)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 154.350 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This section recognizes the importance of signs in the community and
establishes regulations intended to protect the public from damage or injury
caused by or attributable to distractions and obstructions caused by improperly
designed, installed, or located signs. The regulations attempt to improve the
appearance of the city, minimize visual clutter, and comply with ODOT standards
for National Scenic Byways, while giving businesses an opportunity to attract
and inform customers.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 29.1; Ord. 269, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 154.351 APPLICATION.
   Unless otherwise exempt under §
154.353, anyone proposing new signs shall be required to make application and
pay a permit fee as established by a resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 29.1; Ord. 269, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 154.352 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. Any change excluding content, and including, but not limited to,
the size, shape, method of illuminations, position, locations, materials,
construction, or supporting structure of a sign.
   AWNING. A shelter projecting from and supported entirely from the exterior
wall of a building and constructed of rigid or non-rigid materials on a
supporting framework.
   BUILDING FACE OR WALL. All window and wall area of a building in one plane
or elevation. In the case of a round or curved building, the "front" face or
wall shall be determined as the portion that lies between the two 45-degree
tangents from the street frontage, as illustrated below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1636a0df48b6a27c8aba7e42893962fa27c1b602/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1154.jpg]
 
   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The exterior wall surfaces of a building that directly or
most directly face a specific direction, usually a street, but in some cases a
parking lot. The width of the property line that fronts a particular street is
considered that property's frontage. In some cases, such as a corner lot, a
property may have more than one FRONTAGE.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The officer or other person charged with the enforcement
of this code or his or her duly authorized deputy or assistant. The
administration of this code is the responsibility of the City Administrator.
   BULLETIN BOARD. A permanent sign intended to accommodate changeable copy,
such as private or public notices, special event information, and other short-
term messages, and is generally at a scale suitable for pedestrians and not
intended to be read by passing motorists. (Also, see KIOSK.)
   CANOPY. A non-movable awning or roof-like structure attached to a building.
   CHANGEABLE COPY OR READER-BOARD SIGN. A sign structure that is often
internally or externally illuminated and intended to accommodate changeable
lettering, numbering, graphic displays or other short-term messages. Often used
for commercial messages and for information pertaining to current or coming
events of general interest.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator for the City of Shady Cove or the
City Administrator's designee.
   CUT-OUT SIGN. Any visual or graphic display in the form of figures, letters,
numbers or other characters or representatives in cut-out or irregular forms.
The signs may be free-standing or attached to a building or other structure.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A permanent sign which is designed solely for the purpose
of directing motor vehicle, pedestrian, bicycle or other traffic, or
individuals, toward a specific destination or route.
   ELECTRIC SIGN. Any sign containing electrical wiring or requiring
electricity for its function or illumination.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN. Any sign whose message or display is presented with
patterns of lights which may be changed intermittently by an electronic
process.
   FASCIA SIGN. See WALL SIGN.
   FLASHING SIGN. Any sign which incorporates intermittent electrical impulses
to a source of illumination or revolving in a manner which creates the illusion
of flashing, or which changes color or intensity or illumination. Examples
include electric or electronic time, date and temperature signs and other
electronic message signs.
   FREE-STANDING SIGN. A sign that is supported by columns, uprights or braces
in or upon the ground and not attached to any building.
   GRADE. The level of the surface of the ground, whether or not paved, that
lies immediately below a sign or proposed sign location. When a slope is
involved, the grade shall be the average of the levels at each supporting
member of the sign's structure.
   GROUND SIGN. See FREE-STANDING SIGN.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign intended solely to inform the public of the
particular use of a property, building, office and the like and which may
include the address, suite number or other identifying information, but that
typically does not include other advertising or messages not related to the
identification of the premises.
   ILLEGAL SIGN. Any sign which was erected or altered in violation of the
city's sign regulations that were in effect at the time of the action. (Also,
see NONCONFORMING SIGN.)
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which utilizes a source of light, either
internally or externally
      (1)   DIRECT ILLUMINATION. A source of illumination on the surface of the
sign or from within a translucent sign.
      (2)   INDIRECT ILLUMINATION. A source of light that is either attached to
the sign structure or located nearby, and that is directed toward the sign to
illuminate its exterior surface.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A sign intended primarily for the convenience and direction
of the public, which is informational only, and which does not include the
advertising of products or services. These signs may include business hours
signs, credit card signs, entrance and exit signs, and other signs that may be
required by law.
   KIOSK. A free-standing structure having areas designed for the placement or
attachment of personal or public notices, advertisements or other messages. It
may function much like a "bulletin board" for messages of a short-term nature
and often include identification of the business on whose property it is
located.
   MAINTAIN. To permit a sign, sign structure, or any part thereof to continue.
Or, to repair, refurbish, or keep in good order and repair a sign, structure,
or any part of each.
   MARQUEE. A permanent roofed structure attached to and supported by a
building and projecting  away from the building, usually over a public walkway
and common to theaters.
   MOVING OR ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign that includes action or motion, including
flashing lights, color changes, revolving or waving actions, but not including,
wind actuated elements, such as flags, pennants, or banners. These signs do not
include public service signs such as time, date, temperature signs.
   MULTIPLE-COPY SIGNS. Any sign structure that contains identification of or
information about more than one business or other land use or which contains
more than one type of message.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. Unlike an "illegal sign", a nonconforming sign was
legally established but no longer conforms to the current standards or
requirements of this subchapter.
   PAINTED SIGN. A sign which is painted directly onto the surface of a
building or other structure that was not specifically designed as a sign
structure.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any free-standing sign which is not permanently fixed on the
site by either attachment to a fixed structure or embedded into the ground, and
which can be readily moved. Sandwich board or "A"-frame signs are typical of
this type.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign which is attached to a structure or building face
and:
      (1)   Extends outward from that structure or building for a distance
greater than 16 inches or;
      (2)   Has a face which is not parallel to the face of the building or
structure and extends beyond the face of the building for any distance.
   READER BOARD. See CHANGEABLE COPY.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign erected upon or above the roof or parapet wall structure
of a building and which is wholly or partially supported by the building.
   SANDWICH BOARD SIGN. See PORTABLE SIGN.
   SHOPPING CENTER/BUSINESS COMPLEX SIGN. A single sign structure intended for
the placement of two or more identification signs related to businesses
services, or primary goods offered in the center or business complex.
   SIGN. Any words, number, logos, flags, banners or other material that are
placed or constructed primarily to convey a message, and which is visible from
public or private streets or other property.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure specifically intended to support a sign or
which may also be a part of the sign. May include supports, uprights, braces,
framework and other members that may be needed to support the sign and keep it
in place.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign that is not permanently affixed and which is intended
for a short-term use, such as to advertise an activity, such as a special
promotion, sale, fund-raising activity, special event or for use until a
permanent sign can be erected. TEMPORARY SIGNS typically include devices such
as banners, flags, pennants, searchlights, balloons and the like.
   UNDER MARQUEE SIGN. A sign attached to the underside of a marquee or canopy
and protruding over a public or private pedestrian walkway. Often used in
shopping centers and areas having covered sidewalks.
   WALL GRAPHICS. Any mosaic, mural or painting, or graphic art technique or
combination of same, implanted, applied or otherwise placed directly onto a
wall or fence and containing no copy, advertising symbols, logos, trademarks or
other references to any product, service, goods, persons, places or issues.
These are generally considered to be "art" and not signs and as such, are not
subject to the regulations included in this subchapter.
   WALL SIGN. A sign attached directly to or erected against the wall of a
building with the face in  a parallel plane to the building wall and extending
no more than 12 inches from the wall.
   WIND SIGN OR DEVICE. Any sign or device that is intended to serve the
function of a sign, in attracting attention to a particular site, business or
premise, and which because of its design or materials is caused to flutter,
wave, revolve, sparkle or otherwise move as a result of the pressures of a wind
or breeze including inflatable air dancers, tube dancers, fan dancers.
   WINDOW SIGN(S). Are those which are painted, displayed or placed on the
interior of the window or glass door.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 29.2; Ord. 269, passed 9-18-2014; Ord. 291,
passed 6-6-2019)
§ 154.353 CONFORMANCE.
   (A)   No sign may be erected unless it conforms to the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Sign permits shall be obtained prior to the erection of any sign,
unless exempt.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 29.3; Ord. 269, passed 9-18-2014; Ord. 291,
passed 6-6-2019) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.354 EXEMPTIONS FROM PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   The following signs do not require permits or fees, but may be subject to
other provisions of this chapter or International Building Code:
   (A)   Traffic signs, signals and other traffic-control devices erected by
the city or other public authority;
   (B)   Public notices pertaining to public health or safety issues, erected
by the city or approved by the city;
   (C)   Permanent plaques, cornerstones, name plates and other building
identification markings attached to or carved into the building materials and
which are an integral part of the structure;
   (D)   Address numbers;
   (E)   Signs located within a building, with the exception of strobe lights
and moving or animated signs that are visible from any private or public
roadway, or from adjacent properties;
   (F)   Legal nonconforming signs, except that the signs shall conform to this
subchapter if they are altered or replaced or upon the change of occupancy type
of the business;
   (G)   Flags on permanent flag poles designed for the routine raising and
lowering of flags;
   (H)   Wall graphics, as defined; and
   (I)   Temporary signs, subject to § 154.358(C).
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 29.4; Ord. 269, passed 9-18-2014; Ord. 291,
passed 6-6-2019)
§ 154.355 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited within the city limits and shall be
removed:
   (A)   Strobe lights and signs containing strobe lights or any other
flashing, blinking or moving lights which are visible beyond any property line;
   (B)   Signs placed on trailers and parked with the primary purpose of
providing a sign that is not otherwise allowed;
   (C)   Any private sign placed within a public right-of-way or overhanging a
public right-of-way;
   (D)   Any sign that is determined by the City Administrator to be a hazard
to public safety due to its design, materials, physical conditions or
placement;
   (E)   Signs painted on or otherwise attached to trees, natural rocks or
other landscape or natural features;
   (F)   Signs, which by reason of size, location, movement, content, coloring,
or manner of illumination may be confused with or construed as a traffic,
street, or emergency sign or signal, or cause any other hazardous or disruptive
situation;
   (G)   Signs affixed to publically owned poles or signs in the public right-
of-way;
   (H)   No fluorescent colors shall be used in the design or construction of a
sign;
   (I)   Any sign placed on private property without the owner's permission;
and
   (J)   "Tube dancers".
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 29.5; Ord. 269, passed 9-18-2014; Ord. 291,
passed 6-6-2019) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.356 SIGN MEASUREMENTS.
   (A)   The area of sign faces shall include the entire sign area, including
any surrounding frames or cabinet edges.
   (B)   Sign area does not include supports, foundations or structures that
are not part of the sign.
   (C)   Only one side of a double-faced sign is counted in the total area.
   (D)   When signs are constructed of individual letters or other pieces
attached to a wall or other flat surface, the sign area is determined by a
perimeter line drawn around and containing all the pieces.
   (E)   Multiple-copy signs or shopping center signs consisting of several
individual signs on the same support structure (as illustrated below) are
calculated as the total of all individual sign components.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1636a0df48b6a27c8aba7e42893962fa27c1b602/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1157.jpg]
 
   (F)   A round or cylindrical sign is calculated as the total area that can
be seen at one time from one position.
   (G)   The height of signs is measured from "grade", as defined, to the
highest point of the sign or sign frame.
   (H)   Sign clearances are measured from "grade" directly below the subject
sign to the bottom of the sign or sign frame.
   (I)   Corner signs shall be assigned to one of the frontages by the
applicant and shall conform to the requirements for that frontage only.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 29.6; Ord. 269, passed 9-18-2014; Ord. 291,
passed 6-6-2019)
§ 154.357 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Legally established signs that no longer conform to city sign regulations
are permitted to remain, subject to the following.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, maintenance,
repairs and the changing of sign faces are permitted; provided, structural
alterations are not made and the sign face is not enlarged.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any sign in
service as of June 6, 2019 is allowed to remain, as long as it complied with
the ordinances in existence at the time the sign permit was issued. A
nonconforming sign may not be relocated or
structurally altered without achieving full compliance with these regulations.
   (C)   Any temporary sign that is nonconforming shall be removed immediately.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 29.7; Ord. 269, passed 9-18-2014; Ord. 291,
passed 6-6-2019)
§ 154.358 SPECIFIC SIGN DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Placement requirements for all signs.
      (1)   With the exception of public authority and other traffic-related
signs, all signs shall be erected totally within the boundaries of the site.
      (2)   Vision clearance areas shall be maintained at all intersections of
private or public roadways, alleys and driveways, to prohibit the placement of
any sign within 15 feet of the intersections that obstructs the view between
heights of three feet and eight feet. Freestanding signs in vision clearance
areas shall be no higher than three feet or, if on a pole, the bottom of the
sign must be a minimum of eight feet from the natural grade.
      (3)    A visio n clear ance setba ck shall be maintained a distance of at
least ten feet from the edge of any existing road or from the proposed edge of
a planned road.
      (4)   A vehicle clearance vertical distance of 14 feet from grade to the
lowest part of the sign is required for any sign extending over any area in
which motor vehicles travel or park, including driveways, parking lots and
loading areas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1636a0df48b6a27c8aba7e42893962fa27c1b602/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1160.jpg]
 
   (B)   Additional placement requirements for permanent signs.
      (1)   A pedestrian clearance vertical distance of eight feet from grade
or sidewalk surface to the lowest part of the sign is required for any sign
extending over walkways or sidewalks, including "under marquee signs", as
defined.
      (2)   Signs may extend into a public right-of-way only when over a
sidewalk or other area not utilized by motor vehicles. The extension shall be
no more than six feet beyond the property line and no lower than eight feet
above grade or above the surface of the sidewalk.
      (3)   When roadways or public sidewalks are installed, improved or
widened, the City Engineer may direct the property owner to relocate or remove
an existing sign, at the owner's expense, if it is determined that the
improvements to the roadway or sidewalk will result in an unsafe sign
condition.
   (C)   Additional placement requirements for temporary signs.
      (1)   Temporary signs and their support structures shall be removed
within 45 days of the date of erection, unless they are approved as permanent
signs and installed accordingly.
      (2)   Temporary signs shall not be permanently attached to the ground, a
building or to any other structure, although they may be attached securely to
prevent theft or wind damage.
      (3)   In any residential district, temporary signs shall be allowed on a
parcel or lot without issuance of a permit and shall not affect the amount or
type of signs otherwise allowed by this chapter. These signs shall not be
restricted by content, but are usually and customarily used to advertise real
estate sales, political or ideological positions, garage sales, home
construction or remodeling, and similar activities. Temporary signs shall be
removed within seven days after sales, elections, or other events.
      (4)   Temporary signs are subject to the same setback and clearance
requirements of any other sign and shall not cause a hazard to public safety or
block the visibility of motorists.
      (5)   Wind signs or devices that flutter, wave, sparkle or otherwise move
from the pressures of the wind are considered temporary signs or devices and
shall be used for special purposes and not as a permanent sign device.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 29.8; Ord. 269, passed 9-18-2014; Ord. 291,
passed 6-6-2019) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.359 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The following types, numbers, sizes and features of signs are allowed in all
commercial zoning districts of the city.
   (A)   Free-standing signs.
      (1)   Maximum height of any free-standing sign shall be 35 feet from
grade to highest point on the sign or structure.
      (2)   One free-standing sign is permitted per site; provided, the sign
can be placed at least 50 feet from the nearest previously existing free-
standing sign of an adjacent business sign.
      (3)   The maximum sign area for any free-standing sign shall be 48 square
feet. A double faced sign may have 48 square feet of sign area on each side.
      (4)   A shopping center or business complex sign or other sign that
combines several sign allowances into a single multiple-copy sign for design or
aesthetic purposes may be allowed a total sign area of 64 square feet per side
in order to maximize the sign's efficiency and reduce the actual number of
free-standing signs.
      (5)   Any free-standing signs of a temporary nature shall be anchored in
place, shall not be within any public right-of-way or on a public sidewalk,
shall be no larger than five square feet in sign area and shall extend no
higher than 42 inches above the grade.
   (B)   Signs attached to buildings.
      (1)   If there is a free-standing sign on the site, then the maximum
allowable additional sign area for that site shall be no greater than one and
one-half square feet for each linear foot of business frontage.
      (2)   If the site has no existing free-standing sign, then the maximum
allowable sign area for that site shall be no greater than two square feet for
each linear foot of business frontage.
      (3)   Regardless of the total size of the building wall area, any sign
attached or painted on to a building, shall not exceed 100 square feet of wall
area on the face of any side.
      (4)   No sign that is attached to a building shall extend above the
highest point of the building.
      (5)   There is no limit on the number of individual signs; provided, the
above-stated limitations are maintained for square footage of sign area.
      (6)   Incidental signs, including directional sign, hours of operation
and the like shall not be included in all sign area calculations.
   (C)   Other provisions.
      (1)   Signs in any commercial district may be illuminated directly,
indirectly or internally; provided, the lighting is directed away from any
residences or light-sensitive land uses and away from on-coming traffic.
      (2)   Moving, rotating, flashing, animated or other similar signs
including "tube dancers" are prohibited in the city.
      (3)   Reader-board or electronic message signs shall be permitted only if
no part of the sign is continuously moving and the messages or other parts of
the sign change no more frequently than once every 15 seconds.
      (4)   Wall graphics, as defined, are exempt from sign requirements.
      (5)   One A-frame/sandwich board/sign on wheels not to exceed eight-
square feet in area per side for each business entrance is allowed. The edges
of each sign face shall not be more than 36-inches apart. The sign may not be
lighted or powered by any means.
         (a)   The sign may be located within the public right-of-way
(sidewalk) if placed directly in front of the business displaying the sign.
         (b)   The sign must be placed to allow a minimum of four feet of
clearance on the sidewalk.
         (c)   In no case may the sign be displayed when a business is closed.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 29.9; Ord. 269, passed 9-18-2014; Ord. 291,
passed 6-6-2019)
§ 154.360 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT SIGN REGULATION.
   The following types, numbers, sizes and features of signs are allowed in all
residential districts of the city.
   (A)   Free-standing signs.
      (1)   One free-standing sign shall be permitted at each street entrance
to a neighborhood, subdivision, mobile home park, apartment or condominium
complex, or other homogenous residential area. The sign shall be designed
specifically for that development or area and is subject to approval by the
Planning Commission at the time of site plan review. The sign shall be no
larger than 32 square feet of sign area and no higher than six feet from grade.
      (2)   Residential sites having one or two dwelling units may have one
freestanding permanent sign, not to exceed a sign area of three square feet per
sign.
      (3)   Residential sites having three or more dwelling units may have one
freestanding sign per building, not to exceed a sign area of four square feet
per sign.
      (4)   Any free-standing signs of a temporary nature shall be anchored in
place, shall not be within any public right-of-way or on a public sidewalk,
shall be no larger than five square feet in sign area and shall extend no
higher than 42 inches above grade.
   (B)   Signs attached to buildings. Any of the free-standing sign limitation
outlined in division (A) above may be applied to wall signs or roof signs in
lieu of a free-standing sign; provided, the signs do not extend above the
roofline.
   (C)   Other provisions.
      (1)   Special care shall be taken in residential zoning districts to
direct all sign lighting away from residences and away from on-coming traffic.
      (2)   Moving, rotating, flashing, animated or other similar signs are
prohibited in the city.
      (3)   Reader-board or electronic message signs shall be permitted in
residential districts only when associated with and operated and maintained by
a public agency, school district or quasi-public entity such as a fraternal
organization, church, senior or community multipurpose center and only when
approved by the Planning Commission upon findings that a sign is necessary for
the function or operation of that public or quasi-public entity and is for the
general welfare of the community in general. A sign may be approved to a
maximum sign area of 50 square feet.
      (4)   Wind signs or devices that flutter, wave, revolve, sparkle or are
otherwise moved by the wind are prohibited from residential zoning districts.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 29.10; Ord. 269, passed 9-18-2014; Ord. 291,
passed 6-6-2019)
§ 154.361 VARIATIONS TO SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   With the exception of those sign types that are expressly
prohibited, the Planning Commission may make minor adjustments to sign heights,
numbers of signs and sign area requirements within 20% of the code
requirements.
      (2)   Any requests of an applicant in excess of the 20% variation shall
be processed in accordance with §§
154.415 through
154.420.
   (B)   A nonconforming sign may not be relocated or structurally altered
without achieving full compliance with these regulations.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 29.11; Ord. 269, passed 9-18-2014; Ord. 291,
passed 6-6-2019) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.362 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   Materials and construction standards. All signs and their supporting members
may be constructed of any suitable material, subject to the provisions of this
chapter and meeting building code requirements, including but not limited to
the following:
   (A)   All glass used in the sign shall be shatter-resistant or, if plastic,
approved by the building code;
   (B)   All signs shall be designed, constructed, and erected in accordance
with the requirements of the Oregon State Structural Code and the Uniform Sign
Code and shall resist the applicable wind loads set forth in the aforementioned
codes;
   (C)   All illuminated signs must be installed subject to the requirements of
the State Electrical Code. All electrically illuminated signs shall be listed,
labeled, and tested by a testing agency recognized by the state of Oregon;
   (D)   All signs, together with all of their supports, braces, guys, and
anchors, shall be maintained at all times in a state of good repair. All signs
and the site upon which they are located shall be maintained in a neat, clean,
and attractive condition. Signs shall be kept free from excessive rust,
corrosion, peeling paint, or other surface deterioration. The display surfaces
of all signs shall be kept neatly painted or posted. Signs that are faded,
torn, damaged, or otherwise unsightly, or in a state of disrepair, shall be
immediately repaired or removed; and
   (E)   Handmade signs are not permitted. All signs must be professionally
manufactured.
(Ord. 291, passed 6-6-2019)
§ 154.363 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the standards or requirements
of this subchapter and punishment for the violations shall be in accordance
with that of any other chapter violation.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 29.12; Ord. 269, passed 9-18-2014) Penalty, see
§
154.999
TYPES OF APPLICATIONS AND REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 154.375 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to establish standard decision-making
procedures that will enable the city, the applicant and the public to
reasonably review applications and participate in the local decision-making
process in a timely and effective way.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 6.1)
§ 154.376 DESCRIPTION OF PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   All land use and development permit applications, except building permits,
shall be decided by using the procedures contained in this section. General
procedures for all permits are contained in §
154.381. Specific procedures for certain types of permits are contained in §§
154.377 through
154.380. The procedure "type" assigned to each permit governs the decision-
making process for that permit. There are four types of permit/decision-making
procedures: Type I, II, III and IV. These procedures are described in divisions
(A) through (D) below. In addition, §
154.382 lists all of the city's land use and development applications and their
required permit procedure(s).
   (A)   Type I procedure (ministerial). Type I decisions are made by a city
official, or someone he or she officially designates, without public notice and
without a public hearing. The Type I procedure is used when there are clear and
objective approval criteria, and applying city standards and criteria requires
no use of discretion. These decisions may be processed under Type III
procedure, as provided in §
154.377.
   (B)   Type II procedure (administrative). Type II decisions are made by a
city official with public notice and an opportunity for a public hearing. The
appeal of a Type II decision is heard by the Planning Commission. These
decisions may be processed under Type III procedure, as provided in §
154.378.
   (C)   Type III procedure (quasi-judicial). Type III decisions are made by
the Planning Commission after a public hearing, with appeals reviewed by the
City Council. Type III decisions generally use discretionary approval criteria.
   (D)   Type IV procedure (legislative). Type IV procedures apply to
legislative matters. Legislative matters involve the creation, revision or
large-scale implementation of public policy (e.g., adoption of land use
regulations, zone changes and comprehensive plan amendments which apply to
entire districts). Type IV matters are considered initially by the Planning
Commission with final decisions made by the City Council.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 6.2; Am. Ord. 260, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 154.377 TYPE I PROCEDURE (MINISTERIAL).
   (A)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Application forms. Type I applications shall be made on forms
provided by the city.
      (2)   Application requirements. Type I applications shall:
         (a)   Include the information requested on the application form;
         (b)   Address the criteria in sufficient detail for review and action;
and
         (c)   Be filed with the required fee.
   (B)   Administrative decision requirements. The city's decision shall
address all of the approval criteria. Based on the criteria and the facts
contained within the record, the city shall approve, approve with conditions or
deny the requested permit or action. A written record of the decision shall be
provided to the applicant and kept on file at City Hall.
   (C)   Final decision. The decision shall be final on the date it is mailed
or otherwise provided to the applicant, whichever occurs first. The decision is
the final decision of the city. It cannot be appealed to city officials.
   (D)   Effective date. The decision is effective the day after it is final.
   (E)   At the City Administrator’s discretion, a Type I review may be
referred directly to the Planning Commission for review and approval, using the
Type III procedure as provided in § 154.379.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 6.3; Am. Ord. 260, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 154.378 TYPE II PROCEDURE (ADMINISTRATIVE).
   (A)   Pre-application conference. A pre-application conference is required
for Type II applications. Pre-application conference requirements and
procedures are in §
154.381. In addition, the applicant may be required to present his or her
development proposal to a city-recognized neighborhood association or group
before the city accepts the application as complete. At the City
Administrator’s discretion, a Type II review may be referred directly to the
Planning Commission for review and approval, using the Type III procedure as
provided in §
154.379.
   (B)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Application forms. Type II applications shall be made on forms
provided by the city.
      (2)   Submittal information. The application shall:
         (a)   Include the information requested on the application form;
         (b)   Be filed with copies of a narrative statement that explains how
the application satisfies each and all of the relevant criteria and standards
in sufficient detail for review and decision-making;
         (c)   Be accompanied by the required fee;
         (d)   Include one set of pre-stamped and pre-addressed envelopes for
all real property owners of record who will receive a notice of the application
as required in division (C) below. The records of the County Department of
Assessment and Taxation are the official records for determining ownership. The
applicant shall demonstrate that the most current assessment records have been
used to produce the notice list. [Alternatively, the applicant may pay a fee
for the city to prepare the public notice mailing.]; and
         (e)   Include an impact study for all land division applications. The
impact study shall quantify/assess the effect of the development on public
facilities and services. The study shall address, at a minimum, the
transportation system, the drainage system, the parks system, the water system,
the sewer system and the noise impacts of the development. For each public
facility system and type of impact, the study shall propose improvements
necessary to meet city standards and to minimize the impact of the development
on the public at large, public facilities systems and affected private property
users. In situations where this chapter requires the dedication of real
property to the city, the applicant shall either specifically agree to the
dedication requirement or provide evidence that shows that the real property
dedication requirement is not roughly proportional to the projected impacts of
the development.
   (C)   Notice of application for Type II administrative decision.
      (1)   Before making a Type II administrative decision, the city shall
mail notice to:
         (a)   All owners of record of real property within 200 feet of the
subject site;
         (b)   All city-recognized neighborhood groups or associations whose
boundaries include the site;
         (c)   Any person who submits a written request to receive a notice;
and
         (d)   Any governmental agency which is entitled to notice under an
intergovernmental agreement entered into with the city. The city may notify
other affected agencies, as appropriate, for review of the application.
      (2)   The purpose of the notice is to give nearby property owners and
other interested people the opportunity to submit written comments about the
application, before the Type II decision is made. The goal of this notice is to
invite people to participate early in the decision-making process;
      (3)   Notice of a pending Type II administrative decision shall:
         (a)   Provide a 14-day period for submitting written comments before a
decision is made on the permit;
         (b)   List the relevant approval criteria by name and number of
ordinance sections;
         (c)   State the place, date and time the comments are due, and the
person to whom the comments should be addressed;
         (d)   Include the name and telephone number of a contact person
regarding the administrative decision;
         (e)   Identify the specific permits or approvals requested;
         (f)   Describe the street address or other easily understandable
reference to the location of the site;
         (g)   State that if any person fails to address the relevant approval
criteria with enough detail, they may not be able to appeal to the Land Use
Board of Appeals or Circuit Court on that issue. Only comments on the relevant
approval criteria are considered relevant evidence;
         (h)   State that all evidence relied upon by the city to make this
decision is in the public record, available for public review. Copies of this
evidence can be obtained at a reasonable cost from the city;
         (i)   State that after the comment period closes, City Planner shall
issue a Type II administrative decision. The decision shall be mailed to the
applicant and to anyone else who submitted written comments or who is otherwise
legally entitled to notice;
         (j)   Contain the following notice:
            "Notice to mortgagee, lien holder, vendor, or seller: The Shady
Cove Zoning Ordinance requires that if you receive this notice it shall be
promptly forwarded to the purchaser."
   (D)   Administrative decision requirements. The City Planner shall make Type
II written decisions addressing all of the relevant approval criteria and
standards. Based upon the criteria and standards, and the facts contained
within the record, the city shall approve, approve with conditions or deny the
requested permit or action.
   (E)   Notice of decision.
      (1)   Within five days after the city signs the decision, a notice of
decision shall be posted on the property and sent by mail to:
         (a)   Any person who submits a written request to receive notice or
provides comments during the application review period;
         (b)   The applicant and all owners or contract purchasers of record of
the site which is the subject of the application;
         (c)   Any city-recognized neighborhood group or association whose
boundaries include the site; and
         (d)   Any governmental agency which is entitled to notice under an
intergovernmental agreement entered into with the city, and other agencies
which were notified or provided comments during the application review period.
      (2)   The city shall cause an affidavit of mailing and posting of the
notice to be prepared and made a part of the file. The affidavit shall show the
date the notice was mailed and posted and shall demonstrate that the notice was
mailed to the people and within the time required by law.
      (3)   The Type II notice of decision shall contain:
         (a)   A description of the applicant's proposal and the city's
decision on the proposal (i.e., may be a summary);
         (b)   The address or other geographic description of the property
proposed for development, including a map of the property in relation to the
surrounding area, where applicable;
         (c)   A statement of where the city's decision can be obtained;
         (d)   The date the decision shall become final, unless a request for
public hearing is filed;
         (e)   A statement that all persons entitled to notice or who are
otherwise adversely affected or aggrieved by the decision may request a public
hearing; and
         (f)   A statement briefly explaining how a request can be filed, the
deadline for filing a request for public hearing and where further information
can be obtained concerning the hearing process.
   (F)   Final decision and effective date. A Type II administrative decision
is effective on the day after the request for hearing expires. If a request for
hearing is filed, the Planning Commission decision is effective when the appeal
period expires.
   (G)   Request for public hearing. A Type II administrative decision may be
referred to the Planning Commission as follows:
      (1)   Who may request a hearing. The following people with standing may
request a public hearing:
         (a)   The applicant;
         (b)   Any person who was mailed written notice of the Type II
administrative decision; and/or
         (c)   Any other person who participated in the proceeding by
submitting written comments.
      (2)   Request for hearing procedure. Any person with standing may, as
provided in division (G)(1) above, request a hearing according to the following
procedures;
         (a)   Time for filing. A request for hearing shall be filed with the
city within 14 days of the date the notice of decision was mailed;
         (b)   A request for hearing shall contain:
            1.   An identification of the decision that has been made,
including the date of the decision; and
            2.   A statement demonstrating the person filing request for
hearing has standing to request a hearing.
         (c)   Request for hearing procedures. Type III notice and hearing
procedures shall be used for all Type II administrative appeals, as provided in
§
154.379;
   (H)   Appeal to City Council. The decision of the Planning Commission
regarding a request for hearing of a Type II administrative decision is the
final decision of the city unless appealed to City Council. A request to City
Council shall follow the same notification and hearing procedures as for the
Planning Commission officer.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 6.4; Am. Ord. 260, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 154.379 TYPE III PROCEDURE (QUASI-JUDICIAL).
   (A)   Pre-application conference. A pre-application conference may be
required for all Type III applications. The requirements and procedures for a
pre-application conference are described in §
154.382.
   (B)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Application forms. Type III applications shall be made on forms
provided by the city; and
      (2)   Content. Type III applications shall:
         (a)   Include the information requested on the application form;
         (b)   Be filed with a narrative statement that explains how the
application satisfies each and all of the relevant criteria in sufficient
detail for review and action;
         (c)   Be accompanied by the required fee; and
         (d)   Include an impact study for all Type III applications. The
impact study shall quantify/assess the effect of the development on public
facilities and services. The study shall address, at a minimum, the
transportation system, including pedestrian ways and bikeways, the drainage
system, the parks system, the water system, the sewer system and the noise
impacts of the development. For each public facility system and type of impact,
the study shall propose improvements necessary to meet city standards and to
minimize the impact of the development on the public at large, public
facilities systems and affected private property users. In situations where
this chapter requires the dedication of real property to the city, the
applicant shall either specifically agree to the dedication requirement, or
provide evidence that shows that the real property dedication requirement is
not roughly proportional to the projected impacts of the development.
   (C)   Notice of hearing.
      (1)   Mailed notice. Notice of a Type III application hearing or Type II
request for hearing shall be given by the city in the following manner:
         (a)   At least 20 days before the hearing date, notice shall be mailed
to:
            1.   The applicant and all owners or contract purchasers of record
of the property which is the subject of the application;
            2.   All property owners of record within 200 feet of the site;
            3.   Any governmental agency which has entered into an
intergovernmental agreement with the city which includes provision for the
notice, or who is otherwise entitled to the notice. Owners of airports shall be
notified of a proposed zone change in accordance with O.R.S. 227.175.
            4.   Any neighborhood or community organization recognized by the
City Council and whose boundaries include the property proposed for
development;
            5.   Any person who submits a written request to receive notice;
            6.   For request for hearing, the party requesting a hearing and
all persons who provided testimony; and
            7.   For a land use district change affecting a manufactured home
or mobile home park, all mailing addresses within the park, in accordance with
O.R.S. 227.175.
         (b)   The city shall have an affidavit of notice be prepared and made
a part of the file. The affidavit shall state the date that the notice was
posted on the property and mailed to the persons who must receive notice;
         (c)   At least ten to 20 business days before the hearing, notice of
the hearing shall be printed in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
The newspaper's affidavit of publication of the notice shall be made part of
the administrative record;
         (d)   At least ten to 20 business days before the hearing, the
applicant shall post notice of the hearing on the property per division (C)(2)
below. The applicant shall prepare and submit an affidavit of posting of the
notice which shall be made part of the administrative record.
      (2)   Content of notice. Notice of appeal of a Type II Administrative
hearing or a Type III hearing to be mailed, posted and published per division
(C)(1) above shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The nature of the application and the proposed land use or uses
which could be authorized for the property;
         (b)   The applicable criteria and standards from the development code
(s) that apply to the application;
         (c)   The street address or other easily understood geographical
reference to the subject property;
         (d)   The date, time and location of the public hearing;
         (e)   A statement that the failure to raise an issue in person, or by
letter at the hearing, or failure to provide statements or evidence sufficient
to afford the decision-maker an opportunity to respond to the issue, means that
an appeal based on that issue cannot be filed with the State Land Use Board of
Appeals;
         (f)   The name of a city representative to contact and the telephone
number where additional information on the application may be obtained;
         (g)   A statement that a copy of the application, all documents and
evidence submitted by or for the applicant, and the applicable criteria and
standards can be reviewed at City Hall at no cost and that copies shall be
provided at a reasonable cost;
         (h)   A statement that a copy of the city's staff report and
recommendation to the hearings body shall be available for review at no cost at
least seven days before the hearing, and that a copy shall be provided on
request at a reasonable cost;
         (i)   A general explanation of the requirements to submit testimony,
and the procedure for conducting public hearings; and
         (j)   The following notice:
"Notice to mortgagee, lien holder, vendor, or seller: The Shady Cove Zoning
Ordinance requires that if you receive this notice it shall be promptly
forwarded to the purchaser."
   (D)   Conduct of the public hearing.
      (1)   At the commencement of the hearing, the hearings body shall state
to those in attendance that:
         (a)   The applicable approval criteria and standards that apply to the
application or appeal;
         (b)   A statement that testimony and evidence shall concern the
approval criteria described in the staff report or other criteria in the
comprehensive plan or land use regulations which the person testifying believes
to apply to the decision;
         (c)   A statement that failure to raise an issue with sufficient
detail to give the hearings body and the parties an opportunity to respond to
the issue, means that no appeal may be made to the State Land Use Board of
Appeals on that issue; and
         (d)   Before the conclusion of the initial evidentiary hearing, any
participant may ask the hearings body for an opportunity to present additional
relevant evidence or testimony that is within the scope of the hearing. The
hearings body shall grant the request by scheduling a date to finish the
hearing (a "continuance") per division (D)(2) below, or by leaving the record
open for additional written evidence or testimony per division (D)(3) below.
      (2)   If the hearings body grants a continuance, the completion of the
hearing shall be continued to a date, time and place at least seven days after
the date of the first evidentiary hearing. An opportunity shall be provided at
the second hearing for persons to present and respond to new written evidence
and oral testimony. If new written evidence is submitted at the second hearing,
any person may request, before the conclusion of the second hearing, that the
record be left open for at least seven days, so that they can submit additional
written evidence or testimony in response to the new written evidence.
      (3)   If the hearings body leaves the record open for additional written
evidence or testimony, the record shall be left open for at least seven days
after the hearing. Any participant may ask the city in writing for an
opportunity to respond to new evidence submitted during the period the record
was left open. If a request is filed, the hearings body shall reopen the record
per division (E) below;
         (a)   When the Planning Commission or hearings officer re-opens the
record to admit new evidence or testimony, any person may raise new issues
which relates to that new evidence or testimony;
         (b)   An extension of the hearing or record granted pursuant hereto is
subject to the limitations of O.R.S. 227.178 ("120-day rule"), unless the
continuance or extension is requested or agreed to by the applicant;
         (c)   If requested by the applicant, the city shall allow the
applicant at least seven days after the record is closed to all other persons
to submit final written arguments in support of the application, unless the
applicant expressly waives this right. The applicant's final submittal shall be
part of the record, but shall not include any new evidence.
      (4)   The record.
         (a)   The record shall contain all testimony and evidence that is
submitted to the city and the hearings body and not rejected.
         (b)   The hearings body may take official notice of judicially
cognizable facts under the applicable law. If the review authority takes
official notice, it must announce its intention and allow persons participating
in the hearing to present evidence concerning the noticed facts; and
         (c)   The review authority shall retain custody of the record until
the city issues a final decision.
      (5)   Participants in the appeal of a Type II administrative decision or
a Type III hearing are entitled to an impartial review authority as free from
potential conflicts of interest and pre-hearing ex partè contacts (see division
(D)(6) below) as reasonably possible. However, the public has a countervailing
right of free access to public officials. Therefore:
         (a)   At the beginning of the public hearing, hearings body members
shall disclose the substance of any pre-hearing ex partè contacts (as defined
in division (D)(6) below) concerning the application or appeal. He or she shall
state whether the contact has impaired his or her impartiality or his or her
ability to vote on the matter and shall participate or abstain accordingly;
         (b)   A member of the hearings body shall not participate in any
proceeding in which he or she, or any of the following, has a direct or
substantial financial interest: his or her spouse, brother, sister, child,
parent, father-in-law, mother-in-law, partner, any business in which they are
then serving or have served within the previous two years or any business with
which they are negotiating for or have an arrangement or understanding
concerning prospective partnership or employment. Any actual or potential
interest shall be disclosed at the hearing where the action is being taken;
         (c)   Disqualification of a member of the hearings body due to contact
or conflict may be ordered by a majority of the members present and voting. The
person who is the subject of the motion may not vote on the motion to
disqualify; and
         (d)   Any member of the public may raise conflict of interest issues
prior to or during the hearing, to which the member of the hearings body shall
reply in accordance with this section.
      (6)   Ex partè communications.
         (a)   Members of the hearings body shall not:
            1.   Communicate, directly or indirectly, with any applicant,
appellant, other party to the proceedings or representative of a party about
any issue involved in a hearing, except upon giving notice, per division (D)(5)
above; and
            2.   Take official notice of any communication, report or other
materials outside the record prepared by the proponents or opponents in
connection with the particular case, unless all participants are given the
opportunity to respond to the noticed materials.
         (b)   No decision or action of the hearings body shall be invalid due
to ex partè contacts or bias resulting from ex partè contacts, if the person
receiving contact:
            1.   Places in the record the substance of any written or oral ex
partè communications concerning the decision or action; and
            2.   Makes a public announcement of the content of the
communication and of all participants' right to dispute the substance of the
communication made. This announcement shall be made at the first hearing
following the communication during which action shall be considered or taken on
the subject of the communication.
         (c)   A communication between city staff and the hearings body is not
considered an ex partè contact.
      (7)   Presenting and receiving evidence.
         (a)   The hearings body may set reasonable time limits for oral
presentations and may limit or exclude cumulative, repetitious, irrelevant or
personally derogatory or evidence;
         (b)   No oral testimony shall be accepted after the close of the
public hearing. Written testimony may be received after the close of the public
hearing, only as provided herein;
         (c)   Members of the hearings body may visit the property and the
surrounding area and may use information obtained during the site visit to
support their decision, if the information relied upon is disclosed at the
hearing and an opportunity is provided to dispute the evidence. In the
alternative, a member of the hearings body may visit the property to
familiarize himself or herself with the site and surrounding area, but not to
independently gather evidence. In the second situation, at the beginning of the
hearing, he or she shall disclose the circumstances of the site visit and shall
allow all participants to ask about the site visit.
   (E)   The decision process.
      (1)   Basis for decision. Approval or denial shall be based on standards
and criteria in the Development Code. The standards and criteria shall relate
approval or denial of a discretionary development permit application to the
development regulations and, when appropriate, to the comprehensive plan for
the area in which the development would occur and to the development
regulations and comprehensive plan for the city as a whole;
      (2)   Findings and conclusions. Approval or denial shall be based upon
the criteria and standards considered relevant to the decision. The written
decision shall explain the relevant criteria and standards, state the facts
relied upon in rendering the decision, and justify the decision according to
the criteria, standards and facts;
      (3)   Form of decision. The hearings body shall issue a final written
order containing the findings and conclusions stated in division (E)(2) above,
which either approves, denies or approves with specific conditions. The
hearings body may also issue appropriate intermediate rulings when more than
one permit or decision is required; and
      (4)   Decision-making time limits. A final decision order for any Type II
administrative appeal or Type III action shall be filed with the city within
ten business days after the close of the deliberation.
   (F)   Notice of decision. Written notice of a Type II administrative appeal
decision or a Type III decision shall be mailed to the applicant and to all
participants of record within five business days after the hearings body
decision. Failure of any person to receive mailed notice shall not invalidate
the decision; provided that, a good faith attempt was made to mail the notice.
   (G)   Final decision and effective date. The decision of the hearings body
on any Type II appeal or any Type III application is final for purposes of
appeal on the date it is mailed by the city. The decision is effective on the
day after the appeal period expires. If an appeal is filed, the decision
becomes effective on the day after the appeal is decided by the City Council.
The notification and hearings procedures for Type III applications on appeal to
the City Council shall be the same as for the initial hearing.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 6.5)
§ 154.380 TYPE IV PROCEDURE (LEGISLATIVE).
   (A)   Pre-application conference. A pre-application conference may be
required for all Type IV applications. The requirements and procedures for a
pre-application conference are described in §
154.381.
   (B)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Application forms. Type IV applications shall be made on forms
provided by the city.
      (2)   Submittal information. The application shall contain:
         (a)   The information requested on the application form;
         (b)   A map and/or plan addressing the appropriate criteria and
standards in sufficient detail for review and decision (as applicable);
         (c)   The required fee; and
         (d)   Copies of a letter or narrative statement that explains how the
application satisfies all of the relevant approval criteria and standards.
   (C)   Notice of hearing.
      (1)   Required hearings. A minimum of two hearings, one before the
Planning Commission and one before the City Council, are required for all Type
IV applications, except annexations where only a hearing by the City Council is
required.
      (2)   Notification requirements. Notice of public hearings for the
request shall be given by the city in the following manner:
         (a)   At least 20 days, but not more than 40 days, before the date of
the first hearing on an ordinance that proposes to amend the comprehensive plan
or any element thereof, or to adopt an ordinance that proposes to rezone
property, a notice shall be prepared in conformance with O.R.S. 227.175 and
mailed to:
            1.   Each owner whose property would be rezoned in order to
implement the chapter (i.e., owners of property subject to a comprehensive plan
amendment shall be notified if a zone change would be required to implement the
proposed comprehensive plan amendment);
            2.   Any affected governmental agency;
            3.   Recognized neighborhood groups or associations affected by the
chapter;
            4.   Any person who requests notice in writing;
            5.   For a zone change affecting a manufactured home or mobile home
park, all mailing addresses within the park, in accordance with O.R.S. 227.175;
and
            6.   Owners of airports shall be notified of a proposed zone change
in accordance with O.R.S. 227.175.
         (b)   At least ten days before the scheduled Planning Commission
public hearing date and ten days before the City Council hearing date, notice
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
         (c)   The city shall:
            1.   For each mailing of notice, file an affidavit of mailing in
the record as provided hereby; and
            2.   For each published notice, file in the record the affidavit of
publication in a newspaper that is required herein.
         (d)   The Department of Land Conservation and Development (DLCD) shall
be notified in writing of proposed comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance
amendments at least 45 days before the first public hearing at which public
testimony or new evidence will be received.
         (e)   Notifications for annexation shall follow the provisions of this
chapter, except as required for local government boundary commissions (O.R.S.
199).
      (3)   Content of notices. The mailed and published notices shall include
the following information:
         (a)   The number and title of the file containing the application, and
the address and telephone number of the city office where additional
information about the application can be obtained;
         (b)   A description of the location of the proposal reasonably
calculated to give notice of the location of the geographic area;
         (c)   A description of the proposal in enough detail for people to
determine that a change is proposed, and the place where all relevant materials
and information may be obtained or reviewed;
         (d)   The time(s), place(s) and date(s) of the public hearing(s); a
statement that public oral or written testimony is invited; and a statement
that the hearing will be held under this title and rules of procedure adopted
by the Council and available at City Hall (see division (C)(3)(e) below);
         (e)   Each mailed notice required by division (C)(3)(d) above shall
contain the following statement:
"Notice to mortgagee, lien holder, vendor, or seller: The Shady Cove Zoning
Ordinance requires that if you receive this notice it shall be promptly
forwarded to the purchaser."
      (4)   Failure to receive notice. The failure of any person to receive
notice shall not invalidate the action; providing:
         (a)   Personal notice is deemed given where the notice is deposited
with the United States Postal Service; and
         (b)   Published notice is deemed given on the date it is published.
   (D)   Hearing process and procedure.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided in the rules of procedure adopted by the
City Council:
         (a)   The presiding officer of the Planning Commission and of the City
Council shall have the authority to:
            1.   Regulate the course, sequence and decorum of the hearing;
            2.   Direct procedural requirements or similar matters; and
            3.   Impose reasonable time limits for oral presentations.
         (b)   No person shall address the Commission or the Council without:
            1.   Receiving recognition from the presiding officer; and
            2.   Stating his or her full name and residence address.
         (c)   Disruptive conduct such as applause, cheering or display of
signs shall be cause for expulsion of a person or persons from the hearing,
termination or continuation of the hearing, or other appropriate action
determined by the presiding officer.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided in the rules of procedures adopted by the
Council, the presiding officer of the Commission and of the Council shall
conduct the hearing as follows:
         (a)   The presiding officer shall begin the hearing with a statement
of the nature of the matter before the body, a general summary of the
procedures, a summary of the standards for decision-making and whether the
decision which will be made is a recommendation to the City Council or the
final decision of the Council;
         (b)   The staff reports shall be presented;
         (c)   The public shall be invited to testify;
         (d)   The public hearing may be continued to allow additional
testimony or it may be closed; and
         (e)   The body's deliberation may include questions to the staff,
comments from the staff and inquiries directed to any person present.
   (E)   Continuation of the public hearing. The Planning Commission or the
City Council may continue any hearing, and no additional notice of hearing
shall be required if the matter is continued to a specified place, date and
time.
   (F)   Decision-making considerations. The recommendation by the Planning
Commission and the decision by the City Council shall be based on consideration
of the following factors:
      (1)   The Statewide Planning Goals and Guidelines adopted under O.R.S.
Ch. 197 (for comprehensive plan amendments only);
      (2)   Comments from any applicable federal or state agencies regarding
applicable statutes or regulations;
      (3)   Any applicable intergovernmental agreements; and
      (4)   Any applicable comprehensive plan policies and provisions of this
chapter that implement the comprehensive plan. Compliance with §
154.381 shall be required for Comprehensive Plan amendments and land use
district map and text amendments.
   (G)   Approval process and authority.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall:
         (a)   After notice and a public hearing, vote on and prepare a
recommendation to the City Council to approve, approve with modifications,
approve with conditions, deny the proposed change or adopt an alternative; and
         (b)   Within ten business days of determining a recommendation, the
presiding officer shall sign the written recommendation, and it shall be filed
with the city.
      (2)   If the Planning Commission fails to adopt a recommendation to
approve, approve with modifications, approve with conditions, deny the proposed
change or adopt an alternative proposal, within 60 days of its first public
hearing on the proposed change, the city shall:
         (a)   Report the failure together with the proposed change to the City
Council; and
         (b)   Provide notice and put the matter on the City Council's agenda,
a public hearing to be held, and a decision to be made by the Council. No
further action shall be taken by the Commission.
      (3)   The City Council shall:
         (a)   Approve, approve with modifications, approve with conditions,
deny or adopt an alternative to an application for legislative change or remand
the application to the Planning Commission for rehearing and reconsideration on
all or part of the application;
         (b)   Consider the recommendation of the Planning Commission; however,
it is not bound by the Commission's recommendation; and
         (c)   Act by ordinance, which shall be signed by the Mayor after the
Council's adoption of the ordinance.
   (H)   Vote required for a legislative change.
      (1)   A vote by a majority of the qualified voting members of the
Planning Commission present is required for a recommendation for approval,
approval with modifications, approval with conditions, denial or adoption of an
alternative.
      (2)   A vote by a majority of the qualified members of the City Council
present is required to decide any motion made on the proposal.
   (I)   Notice of decision. Notice of a Type IV decision shall be mailed to
the applicant, all participants of record, and the Department of Land
Conservation and Development, within five business days after the City Council
decision is filed with the city. The city shall also provide notice to all
persons as required by other applicable laws.
   (J)   Final decision and effective date. A Type IV decision, if approved,
shall take effect and shall become final as specified in the enacting
ordinance, or if not approved, upon mailing of the notice of decision to the
applicant.
   (K)   Record of the public hearing.
      (1)   A verbatim record of the proceeding shall be made by stenographic,
mechanical or electronic means. It is not necessary to transcribe an electronic
record. The minutes and other evidence presented as a part of the hearing shall
be part of the record.
      (2)   All exhibits received and displayed shall be marked to provide
identification and shall be part of the record.
      (3)   The official record shall include:
         (a)   All materials considered by the hearings body;
         (b)   All materials submitted by the city to the hearings body
regarding the application;
         (c)   The verbatim record made by the stenographic, mechanical or
electronic means; the minutes of the hearing; and other documents considered;
         (d)   The final ordinance;
         (e)   All correspondence; and
         (f)   A copy of the notices which were given as required by this
section.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 6.6)
§ 154.381 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   One hundred twenty-day rule. The city shall take final action on
permit applications which are subject to this section, including resolution of
all appeals, within 120 days from the date the application is deemed as
complete. Any exceptions to this rule shall conform to the provisions of O.R.S.
227.178. (The 120-day rule does not apply to Type IV legislative decisions -
plan and code amendments - under O.R.S. 227.178.)
   (B)   Time computation. In computing any period of time prescribed or
allowed by this chapter, the day of the act or event from which the designated
period of time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of the period
so computed shall be included, unless it is a Saturday or legal holiday,
including Sunday, in which event, the period runs until the end of the next day
which is not a Saturday or legal holiday.
   (C)   Pre-application conferences.
      (1)   Participants. When a pre-application conference is required, the
applicant shall meet with the city representatives;
      (2)   Information provided. At the conference, the city shall:
         (a)   Cite the comprehensive plan policies and map designations
applicable to the proposal;
         (b)   Cite the ordinance provisions, including substantive and
procedural requirements applicable to the proposal;
         (c)   Provide available technical data and assistance which will aid
the applicant;
         (d)   Identify other governmental policies and regulations that relate
to the application; and
         (e)   Reasonably identify other opportunities or constraints
concerning the application.
      (3)   Disclaimer. Failure of the city or his or her designee to provide
any of the information required by this division (C) shall not constitute a
waiver of any of the standards, criteria or requirements for the application;
and
      (4)   Changes in the law. Due to possible changes in federal, state,
regional and local law, the applicant is responsible for ensuring that the
application complies with all applicable laws on the day the application is
deemed complete.
   (D)   Applications.
      (1)   Initiation of applications.
         (a)   Applications for approval under this chapter may be initiated
by:
            1.   Order of City Council;
            2.   Resolution of the Planning Commission;
            3.   The City Administrator; and
            4.   A record owner of property owner(s) whose name is on the most
recently-recorded deed or contract purchaser with written permission from the
record owner.
         (b)   Any person authorized to submit an application for approval may
be represented by an agent authorized in writing to make the application on his
or her behalf.
      (2)   Check for acceptance and completeness. In reviewing an application
for completeness, the following procedure shall be used:
         (a)   Acceptance. When an application is received, the city shall
immediately determine whether the following essential items are present. If the
following items are not present, the application shall not be accepted and
shall be immediately returned to the applicant;
            1.   The required form;
            2.   The required fee; and
            3.   The signature of the applicant on the required form, and
signed written authorization of the property owner of record if the applicant
is not the owner.
         (b)   Completeness.
            1.   Review and notification. After the application is accepted,
the city shall review the application for completeness. If the application is
incomplete, the city shall notify the applicant in writing of exactly what
information is missing within 30 days of receipt of the application and allow
the applicant 180 days to submit the missing information.
            2.   When application deemed complete for review. In accordance
with the application submittal requirements of this chapter, the application
shall be deemed complete upon the receipt by the city of all required
information. The applicant shall have the option of withdrawing the
application, or refusing to submit the requested information in division (D)(2)
(b)1. above. For the refusal to be valid, the refusal shall be made in writing
and received by the city no later than 14 days after the date on the city
official's letter of incompleteness. If the applicant refuses in writing to
submit the missing information, the application shall be deemed complete on
thirty-first day after the city first accepted the application.
            3.   Standards and criteria that apply to the application. Approval
or denial of the application shall be based upon the standards and criteria
that were applicable at the time the application was first accepted.
      (3)   Changes or additions to the application during the review period.
Once an application is deemed complete:
         (a)   All documents and other evidence relied upon by the applicant
shall be submitted to the city at least seven days before the notice of action
or hearing is mailed, if possible. Documents or other evidence submitted after
that date shall be received by city and transmitted to the hearings body, but
may be too late to include with the staff report and evaluation;
         (b)   When documents or other evidence are submitted by the applicant
during the review period, but after the application is deemed complete, the
assigned review person or body shall determine whether or not the new documents
or other evidence submitted by the applicant significantly change the
application;
         (c)   If the assigned reviewer determines that the new documents or
other evidence significantly change the application, the reviewer shall include
a written determination that a significant change in the application has
occurred as part of the decision. In the alternate, the reviewer may inform the
applicant either in writing, or orally at a public hearing, that such changes
may constitute a significant change (see division (D)(3)(d) below), and allow
the applicant to withdraw the new materials submitted, in order to avoid a
determination of significant change;
         (d)   If the applicant's new materials are determined to constitute a
significant change in an application that was previously deemed complete, the
city shall take one of the following actions, at the choice of the applicant:
            1.   Suspend the existing application and allow the applicant to
submit a new application with the proposed significant changes. Before the
existing application can be suspended, the applicant must consent in writing to
waive the 120-day rule (division (A) above) on the existing application. If the
applicant does not consent, the city shall not select this option;
            2.   Reject the new documents or other evidence that has been
determined to constitute a significant change, and continue to process the
existing application without considering the materials that would constitute a
significant change. The city will complete its decision-making process without
considering the new evidence; and
         (e)   If a new application is submitted by the applicant, that
application shall be subject to a separate check for acceptance and
completeness and will be subject to the standards and criteria in effect at the
time the new application is accepted.
   (E)   City's duties. The city shall:
      (1)   Prepare application forms based on the criteria and standards in
applicable state law, the city's comprehensive plan and implementing chapter
provisions;
      (2)   Accept all development applications which comply with §
154.381;
      (3)   Prepare a staff report that summarizes the application(s) and
applicable decision criteria, and provides findings of conformance and/or
nonconformance with the criteria. The staff report should also provide a
recommended decision of: approval; denial; or approval with specific conditions
that ensure conformance with the approval criteria;
      (4)   Prepare a notice of the proposal decision:
         (a)   In the case of an application subject to a Type I or II review
process, the city shall make the staff report and all case-file materials
available at the time that the notice of the decision is issued; and
         (b)   In the case of an application subject to a hearing (Type III or
IV process), the city shall make the staff report available to the public at
least seven days prior to the scheduled hearing date, and make the case-file
materials available when notice of the hearing is mailed, as provided by §§
154.378,
154.379 or
154.380.
      (5)   Administer the hearings process;
      (6)   File notice of the final decision in the city's records and mail a
copy of the notice of the final decision to the applicant, all persons who
provided comments or testimony, persons who requested copies of the notice, and
any other persons entitled to notice by law;
      (7)   Maintain and preserve the file for each application for the time
period required by law. The file shall include, as applicable, a list of
persons required to be given notice and a copy of the notice given; the
affidavits of notice; the application and all supporting information; the staff
report; the final decision including the findings, conclusions and conditions,
if any; all correspondence; minutes of any meeting at which the application was
considered; and any other exhibit, information or documentation which was
considered by the decision-maker(s) on the application; and
      (8)   Administer the appeals and review process.
   (F)   Amended decision process.
      (1)   The purpose of an amended decision process is to allow the city to
correct typographical errors, rectify inadvertent omissions and/or make other
minor changes which do not materially alter the decision.
      (2)   The city may issue an amended decision after the notice of final
decision has been issued, but before the appeal period has expired. If a
decision is amended, the decision shall be issued within ten business days
after the original decision would have become final, but in no event beyond the
120-day period required by state law. A new ten-day appeal period shall begin
on the day the amended decision is issued.
      (3)   Notice of an amended decision shall be given using the same mailing
and distribution list as for the original decision notice.
      (4)   Modifications to approved plans or conditions of approval requested
by the applicant shall follow the procedures contained in §
154.380. All other requested changes to decisions that do not qualify as minor
or major modifications shall follow the appeal process.
   (G)   Re-submittal of application following denial. An application which has
been denied, or an application which was denied and which on appeal or review
has not been reversed by a higher authority, including the Land Use Board of
Appeals, the Land Conservation and Development Commission or the courts may not
be resubmitted as the same or a substantially similar proposal for the same
land for a period of at least 12 months from the date the final city action is
made denying the application, unless there is substantial change in the facts
or a change in city policy which would change the outcome, as determined by the
city.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 6.7)
§ 154.382 SPECIAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An expedited land division ("ELD") shall be defined and may be used as
in O.R.S. 197.360 which is expressly adopted and incorporated by reference
here.
      (1)   Selection. An applicant who wishes to use an ELD procedure for a
partition, subdivision or planned development instead of the regular procedure
type assigned to it, must request the use of the ELD in writing at the time the
application is filed, or forfeit his or her right to use it;
      (2)   Review procedure. An ELD shall be reviewed in accordance with the
procedures in O.R.S. 197.365; and
      (3)   Appeal procedure. An appeal of an ELD shall be in accordance with
the procedures in O.R.S. 197.375.
Summary of Development Decisions/Permit by Type of Decision-Making Procedure
Summary of Development Decisions/Permit by Type of Decision-Making Procedure
Access permit (public street)           Type I        Chapter 95
                                                      Chapter 152 and city/
Annexation                              Type III/IV   county intergovernmental
                                                      agreement(s), as
                                                      applicable
Building permit                         N/A           Building Code
Code interpretation                     Type II
                                                      §§
Code amendment                          Type IV       154.435 through
                                                      154.441
                                                      §§
Comprehensive plan amendment            Type IV       154.435 through
                                                      154.441
                                                      §§
Conditional use permit                  Type III      154.395 through
                                                      154.404
Flood plain development permit          Type II       Chapter 151
                                                      §§
Home occupation permit                  Type I        154.290 through
                                                      154.295
                                                      §§
Planned unit development                Type III      154.170 through
                                                      154.187
LAND USE DISTRICT MAP CHANGE
                                                      §§
   Development review                Type I        154.375 through
                                                      154.382
   Legislative (plan amendment                     §§
required)                               Type IV       154.435 through
                                                      154.441
   Nonconforming use or development                §§
confirmation                            Type I        154.270 through
                                                      154.276
   Partition                         Type I/II/III Chapter 153
   Property line adjustment          Type I        Chapter 153
   Quasi-judicial (no plan amendment               §§
required)                               Type III      154.435 through
                                                      154.441
                                                      §§
   Sign permit                       Type I        154.350 through
                                                      154.362
SITE PLAN REVIEW
   Subdivision                       Type II/III   Chapter 153
                                                      §§
   Type II                           Type II       154.310 through
                                                      154.317
                                                      §§
   Type III                          Type III      154.310 through
                                                      154.317
VARIANCE
                                                      §§
   Class A                           Type I        154.415 through
                                                      154.420
                                                      §§
   Class B                           Type II       154.415 through
                                                      154.420
                                                      §§
   Class C                           Type III      154.415 through
                                                      154.420
 
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 6.8; Ord. 253, passed 1-21-2010)
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
§ 154.395 PURPOSE.
   The various zoning district descriptions of this chapter include lists of
"conditional uses" which may be permitted subject to approval of a conditional
use permit (C.U.P.). These particular uses were found to require special
consideration because of their unusual or unique characteristics, or
characteristics of the area or district. The intent of this process is to help
ensure that all land uses are properly located with respect to the city's goals
and development objectives and policies, and in a manner that will help ensure
compatibility between neighboring uses and possible conflicting uses.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 21.1)
§ 154.396 AUTHORIZATION.
   The Planning Commission, or other authority designated by the City Council,
shall have the authority to approve, approve with conditions, deny or revoke
conditional use permits subject to the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 21.2)
§ 154.397 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Initial application. An application for a new conditional use shall be
processed as a Type III procedure. The application shall meet submission
requirements in §
154.399 and the approval criteria in §
154.401.
   (B)   Modification of approved or existing conditional use. Modifications to
approved or existing conditional uses shall be processed in accordance
herewith.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 21.3)
§ 154.398 PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONAL USES.
   Any land use that was legally established prior to the effective date of
this section, and is a use listed as a "conditional use" in its zoning
district, shall be considered a legal existing conditional use and shall be
subject to all provisions of this section.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 21.4)
§ 154.399 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application for a conditional use permit shall be made in writing to
the city on a form prescribed by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   In addition to the information specifically requested on the
application form, the following shall be provided at the time of application:
      (1)   Site development plan, in accordance with the requirements of §§
154.310 through
154.317;
      (2)   Application fee, as established by the City Council;
      (3)   Written proof of ownership of the subject property or written and
notarized consent of the owner of record; and
      (4)   A narrative description of the intended use and its operation and
any additional information that may assist the Planning Commission in
understanding the proposal and its possible impacts on the community,
neighborhood or adjacent properties and uses.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 21.5)
§ 154.400 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   The Planning Commission, or other designated authority, shall conduct a
public hearing in accordance with city's hearing procedures to accept public
comments pertaining to the request. The hearing shall include notification in a
newspaper of local circulation. All owners of record of tax lots within 200
feet of the subject property shall be notified of the hearing by mail.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 21.6)
§ 154.401 CRITERIA, STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   In determining whether or not a permit shall be approved, the Planning
Commission shall find that all of the following criteria are met, can be met
through specific conditions of approval, or are not applicable.
   (A)   Criteria.
      (1)   The proposal meets the requirements for approval of the site
development plan, as outlined in §§
154.310 through
154.317.
      (2)   The proposed development or land use will not adversely affect the
peace, comfort and livability of the neighborhood and adjacent uses.
      (3)   The proposed development or land use is of a type that is similar
to or otherwise compatible with existing and permitted uses in the zoning
district in which it is being proposed and will have no adverse impacts on the
area's attractiveness, usefulness or value for additional development in the
future.
      (4)   The characteristics of the specific proposed location are such that
other already existing or proposed development in the vicinity will not
adversely affect the continuation of this proposed use.
      (5)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the proposed use
will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of persons
residing or working in the neighborhood.
   (B)   Conditions of approval. The city may impose conditions that are found
necessary to ensure that the use is compatible with other uses in the vicinity,
and that the negative impact of the proposed use on the surrounding uses and
public facilities is minimized. Conditions and required improvements may
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Restrictions on times of operation of a business or other activity;
      (2)   Duration of a particular use;
      (3)   Physical improvements intended to minimize such environmental
effects as noise, vibration, air pollution, water pollution, glare, odor, dust
and visual degradation;
      (4)   Increased lot or yard size or adjustments to yard or lot
dimensions;
      (5)   Limitations to the height, size or location of a structure on its
property;
      (6)   Dedication of public street right-of-way or additional width that
may be required to bring a street up to the city standard;
      (7)   Public facilities and services to serve the subject use and in a
size that may be necessary to serve future development that is planned for the
general area;
      (8)   Drainage, screening, landscaping, fencing, lighting or other
measures intended to reduce adverse effects on adjacent properties;
      (9)   Preservation of natural trees and vegetation, water resources,
wildlife habitat, historic resources and visual resources;
      (10)   Size, number, location and/or design of vehicle access points or
parking areas;
      (11)   Requiring and designating the size, height, location and/or
materials for fences; and
      (12)   Other conditions intended to mitigate adverse effects on adjacent
or nearby properties that might occur as a result of the approval of the
proposed use or development.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 21.7)
§ 154.402 EFFECT.
   (A)   No building permit or other permit shall be issued for the proposed
use or development until expiration of the appeal period, and until all appeals
have been processed.
   (B)   The city shall notify the applicant in writing of the conditional use
permit approval or disapproval and of the appeal period and shall state to the
applicant when the appeal period expires and permits can be issued.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 21.8)
§ 154.403 APPEAL.
   The applicant or any interested party may appeal the Planning Commission's
decision to the City Council in accordance with the appeal procedures outlined
in §§
154.455 through
154.462.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 21.9)
§ 154.404 VIOLATION AND REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Unless a different time period is specified as a condition of
approval, a C.U.P. shall become void after one year from the time of approval,
unless the requested construction, alteration or expansion has been commenced
and diligently pursued or unless the permitted activity is being regularly
conducted on the premises and in accordance with all conditions of approval and
other regulations.
   (B)   At the request of the applicant, the time limit may be extended by the
Planning Commission if found to be necessary to allow the applicant to meet the
requirements of division (A) above. A request for extension should be in
writing explaining the circumstances of why an extension is necessary.
   (C)   After first conducting a public hearing, the Planning Commission may
alter the conditions of a C.U.P. or revoke the permit for noncompliance with
the conditions of approval.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate a condition of approval
imposed, according to the provisions of this section, and punishment shall be
in accordance with that of any other chapter violation.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 21.10) Penalty, see §
154.999
VARIANCES
§ 154.415 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to provide flexibility to development
standards in recognition of the complexity and wide variation of site
development opportunities and constraints. The variance procedures are intended
to provide flexibility while ensuring that the purpose of each development
standard is met. Variances, as identified below, require a Type II or III
procedure because they involve discretionary decision making.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 22.1)
§ 154.416 CLASS A VARIANCES.
   (A)   The following Class A variances are reviewed using a Type II procedure
as governed by §
154.378 using the approval criteria in division (B) below.
      (1)   Front yard setbacks. Up to a 10% change to the front yard setback
standard in the land use district.
      (2)   Interior setbacks. Up to a 10% reduction of the dimensional
standards for the side and rear yard setbacks required in the base land use
district.
      (3)   Lot coverage. Up to 10% increase of the maximum lot coverage
required in the base zone.
      (4)   Landscape area. Up to 10% reduction in landscape area (overall area
or interior parking lot landscape area).
   (B)   Class A variance approval criteria. A Class A variance shall be
granted if the applicant demonstrates compliance with all of the following
criteria:
      (1)   The variance requested is required due to the lot configuration or
other conditions of the site;
      (2)   The variance does not result in the removal of trees, or it is
proposed in order to preserve trees, if trees are present in the development
area; and
      (3)   The variance will not result in violation(s) of design standards.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 22.2)
§ 154.417 CLASS B VARIANCES.
   (A)   Class B variances.
      (1)   Generally. Due to their discretionary nature, the following types
of variances shall be reviewed using a Type III procedure in accordance with §
154.379.
      (2)   Variance to vehicular access and circulation standards. Where
vehicular access and circulation cannot be reasonably designed to conform to
code standards within a particular parcel, shared access with an adjoining
property shall be considered. If shared access in conjunction with another
parcel is not feasible, the city may grant a variance to the access
requirements after finding the following:
         (a)   There is not adequate physical space for shared access or the
owners of abutting properties do not agree to execute a joint access easement;
         (b)   There are no other alternative access points on the street in
question or from another street;
         (c)   The access separation requirements cannot be met;
         (d)   The request is the minimum adjustment required to provide
adequate access;
         (e)   The approved access or access approved with conditions will
result in a safe access;
         (f)   The visual clearance requirements of
Chapter 95 of this code will be met; and
         (g)   Variance to parking standards:
            1.   The city may approve variances to the minimum for off-street
parking enumerated in §§
154.330 through
154.337 upon finding the following:
               a.   The individual characteristics of the use at that location
require more or less parking than is generally required for a use of this type
and intensity;
               b.   The need for additional parking cannot reasonably be met
through provision of on street parking or shared parking with adjacent or
nearby uses; and
               c.   All other parking design and building orientation standards
are met.
            2.   The city may approve a reduction of required bicycle parking
pursuant to
Chapter 95 of this code, if the applicant can demonstrate that the proposed use
by its nature would be reasonably anticipated to generate a lesser need for
bicycle parking.
            3.   The city may allow a reduction in the amount of vehicle
stacking area required for drive through facilities if such a reduction is
deemed appropriate after analysis of the size and location of the development,
limited services available and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   Variance to transportation improvement requirements. The city may
approve, approve with conditions or deny a variance to the transportation
improvement standards of
Chapter 95 of this code based on the criteria for granting Class B variances.
When a variance request cannot be supported by the provisions of that section,
then the request shall be reviewed as a Class C variance.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 22.3)
§ 154.418 CLASS C VARIANCES.
   The purpose of this section is to provide standards for variances which
exceed the Class A and Class B variance criteria in §§
154.416 and
154.417. Class C variances may be granted if the applicant shows that, owing to
the special and unusual circumstances related to the property, the literal
application of the standards of the applicable land use district would create a
hardship to development which is peculiar to the lot size and shape,
topography, sensitive lands or other similar circumstances related to the
property over which the applicant has no control and which are not applicable
to other properties in the vicinity; except that, no variances to permitted
uses shall be granted.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 22.4)
§ 154.419 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The variance standards are intended to apply to individual recorded
lots.
   (B)   An applicant who proposed to vary a specific standard for lots yet to
be created through subdivision process may not utilize the Class C variance
procedures.
   (C)   A variance shall not be approved which would vary the permitted uses
of a land use district.
   (D)   (1)   Class C variances shall be processed using Type III procedures
as governed by §
154.379 using the approval criteria in division (D)(2) below. In addition to
the application requirements contained in §
154.379, the applicant shall provide a written narrative or letter describing
the reasoning for the variance, why it is required, alternatives considered,
and compliance with the criteria in §
154.379.
      (2)   The city shall approve, approve with conditions or deny the
application for a variance based on a finding that all of the following
criteria are satisfied.
         (a)   The proposed variance will not be materially detrimental to the
purposes of this chapter, to any other applicable policies and standards and to
other properties in the same land use district or vicinity.
         (b)   A hardship to development exists which is peculiar to the lot
size or shape, topography, sensitive lands or similar circumstances related to
the property over which the applicant has no control and which are not
applicable to other properties in the vicinity.
         (c)   The use proposed will be same as permitted under the applicable
zoning district and city standards will be maintained to the greatest extent
that is reasonably possible while permitting reasonable economic use of the
land.
         (d)   Existing physical and natural systems, such as, but not limited
to, traffic, drainage, natural resources and parks will not be adversely
affected by any more than would occur if the development occurred as specified
by city standards.
         (e)   The hardship is not self imposed.
         (f)   The variance requested is the minimum variance, which would
alleviate the hardship
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 22.5)
§ 154.420 APPLICATIONS AND APPEALS.
   The variance application shall conform to the requirement for Type II
applications. In addition, the applicant shall provide a narrative or letter
explaining the reason for the request, alternatives considered and why the
subject standard cannot be met without the variance. Appeals to the variance
decisions shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of §§
154.455 through
154.462.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 22.6)
PLAN AMENDMENTS AND ZONE CHANGES
§ 154.435 PURPOSE.
   This section provides a procedure whereby the city's comprehensive plan,
zoning ordinance or other land use regulations may be amended. These documents
should be reviewed and revised periodically as required by the state or when
necessary to best serve the needs and long-range goals of the community.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 27.1)
§ 154.436 INITIATION OF ACTION.
   (A)   A "legislative" amendment to the text of the comprehensive plan or a
land use regulation may be initiated by the City Council or the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   A "quasi-judicial" amendment to the comprehensive plan map or zoning
map, as it affects a specific property or area, may be initiated by the
Planning Commission, City Council or by a property owner or his or her
authorized agent.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 27.2)
§ 154.437 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   An application for a minor amendment to the comprehensive plan or zoning map
may be made at any time.
   (A)   An application shall be made on the city's official application form
with the appropriate fee. The application shall include at least the following
information:
      (1)   A narrative description of the proposed amendment and the reasons
for the request;
      (2)   Maps drawn to scale showing the specific property or site that is
the subject of the application and also showing the land use proposal for the
site, if a design exists;
      (3)   The site plan of the property shall include all dimensions of the
property, locations of existing buildings or other structures, points of
access, types of land uses on abutting properties, general slope and
topographic features, flood plain and the location all existing utilities on or
near the site; and
      (4)   Findings of fact stating how the proposal addresses all appropriate
goals and policies of the comprehensive plan or statewide planning goals and
administrative rules, as appropriate.
   (B)   A request for an urban growth boundary amendment shall be in
accordance with the review and amendment schedules contained in the
comprehensive plan or the city/county urbanization agreement.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 27.3)
§ 154.438 MAJOR OR LEGISLATIVE AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Major or legislative amendments are those which may have widespread
and/or significant impact on the neighborhood or community beyond the limits of
the specific property. A major amendment may also involve a qualitative change
of land use or a spatial change affecting a large area or a large number of
properties.
   (B)   Major or legislative amendments require at least one public hearing
before the Planning Commission. If approved by the Commission, the City Council
will also conduct at least one hearing prior to making the final decision.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be addressed by the Planning Commission
and City Council, along with any other considerations that may be unique or
appropriate to the application being processed.
      (1)   The proposal shall be consistent with the city's adopted goals and
policies pertaining to land use, growth and development.
      (2)   The proposal shall be consistent with all applicable statewide
planning goals, including the urbanization factors of goal #14.
      (3)   There shall be at least a conceptual development plan for the
subject property that is the subject of a request for a zoning or plan
amendment, and that plan shall demonstrate the city's and property owner's
abilities to provide all needed public facilities, services and utilities to
the site, including streets.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 27.4)
§ 154.439 MINOR AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Minor or quasi-judicial amendments to the comprehensive plan or zoning
maps are those which involve one parcel or a small group of parcels and which
will not have any significant impact on other lands.
   (B)   Minor amendments require at least one public hearing before the
Planning Commission. If approved by the Commission, the City Council will also
conduct at least one hearing prior to making the final decision. If denied by
the Planning Commission, the applicant may appeal that decision to the City
Council in accordance with the city's appeal procedures.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be addressed by the Planning Commission
and City Council, along with any other considerations that may be unique or
appropriate to the application being processed.
      (1)   The proposal shall be consistent with the city's adopted goals and
policies pertaining to land use, growth and development.
      (2)   The proposal shall be consistent with all applicable statewide
planning goals.
      (3)   A conceptual or specific development plan shall accompany the
application to show how the site will be developed and to show that proper
facilities, services and utilities can be provided by the developer or other
provider to serve the site needs.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 27.5)
§ 154.440 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD).
   (A)   The request for a needed comprehensive plan or zoning map amendment
may be included in a planned unit development application package.
   (B)   The processing of a PUD application that involves a plan or zoning
amendment shall not proceed until those amendments have been decided.
   (C)   Approval of a PUD-related plan or zoning amendment may be conditional
or tentative, and contingent upon specific performance requirements or time
limits. When those requirements have been satisfied, the City Council may give
final approval.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 27.6)
§ 154.441 NOTIFICATION OF AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   All major or legislative amendments shall be submitted to the Land
Conservation and Development Commission at least 45 days prior to the first
public hearing.
   (B)   The county shall also be given 45-days' notice of the first hearing
for a major or legislative amendment.
   (C)   Following approval of any major or legislative amendment, copies of
the final order or ordinance, along with maps showing the location of the
change, shall be forwarded to both the county and LCDC. Similar official
notification shall be given to the applicant(s), surrounding property owners
and other parties to the proceedings.
   (D)   Notice of approval of all minor amendments shall be given in writing
to the applicant(s), surrounding property owners and other parties to the
proceedings.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 27.7)
APPEAL PROCEDURES
§ 154.455 PURPOSE.
   A decision on an application could be in error, or based on inaccurate or
wrong information. The appeal procedures of this section have been established
to provide a process for the correction of an erroneous decision.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 28.1)
§ 154.456 FILING THE APPEAL.
   (A)   Any decision by city staff or Planning Commission pertaining to a land
use matter or an application to use or develop property within the city may be
appealed to the City Council for review.
   (B)   An appeal may only be made by a party to the decision. A PARTY shall
mean any person, organization or agency entitled to notice by the procedures
leading to the action taken, or any person whose rights or property may be
substantially affected by the decision. A person may also be recognized as a
party by the chairperson of the body conducting a public meeting or hearing
prior to the final decision.
   (C)   An appeal shall be made in writing in letter format. The following
information shall be included in the letter:
      (1)   Reference to the specific decision, the body making that decision
and the date of the decision;
      (2)   Explanation of the appellant's relationship to the subject property
or action and how the decision will adversely affect the appellant or his or
her property; and
      (3)   Statement(s) as to:
         (a)   How the decision-making body incorrectly interpreted specific
portions of relevant ordinances, the city's comprehensive plan, other
requirements of law in arriving at its decision; or
         (b)   What important information was not considered in making the
decision.
   (D)   An appeal shall be filed with the city no later than ten calendar days
after the decision has been made. If the tenth day falls on a weekend or
holiday, the period shall include the next regular work day.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 28.2)
§ 154.457 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   An application for a minor amendment to the comprehensive plan or
zoning map may be made at any time.
   (B)   An application shall be made on the city's official application form
with the appropriate fee. The application shall include at least the following
information:
      (1)   A narrative description of the proposed amendment and the reasons
for the request; and
      (2)   Maps drawn to scale showing the specific property or site that is
the subject of the application and also showing the land use proposal for the
site, if a design exists.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 28.3)
§ 154.458 ACTION ON THE APPEAL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an appeal, a public hearing shall be scheduled and
conducted.
   (B)   In accepting public testimony at the public hearing, the City Council
shall allow all parties to speak and present their arguments, may permit others
to speak, at the discretion of the chairperson, and shall also review the
record of the previous decision.
   (C)   If there is significant new information that was not available at the
time of the appealed decision, or if there are special circumstances or unusual
characteristics of the property involved, then the City Council may determine
that the original decision was correct; but that the matter should be remanded
to staff or another body to reconsider the request and new information.
   (D)   The burden of proof on any appeal rests with the appellant.
   (E)   The proper filing of an appeal shall stay the effective date of the
original decision until a final decision is rendered through the local appeal
process. If the appeal is not filed within the specified time period and in the
proper manner, the decision shall be final.
   (F)   When the original decision followed a public hearing, the appeal of
that decision shall be heard and considered only on the record of that decision
and testimony and arguments shall be confined to that record. If the decision
being appealed did not involve a public hearing, the record shall consist of
the application materials, the record of the decision, supporting documentation
from both staff and the applicant prior to the decision, and the appellant's
appeal statements.
   (G)   A decision by the City Council to overturn or modify a previous
decision shall be accompanied by findings pertaining to one or more of the
following:
      (1)   The staff person or other authority responsible for the appealed
decision did not correctly interpret the requirements of the comprehensive
plan, zoning ordinance or other relevant city codes or regulations.
      (2)   The staff person or other authority did not consider all of the
relevant information In the record or otherwise available at the time and which
was pertinent to the case.
   (H)   If the City Council affirms the original decision, it may adopt by
reference the findings and conclusions previously made, may alter or delete any
part of those findings, or may make additional findings. The City Council may
also amend or add to any conditions of approval that were originally imposed.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 28.3)
§ 154.459 NOTICE OF APPEAL HEARINGS.
   (A)   Notice of a hearing on appeal shall be given to the same persons and
in the same manner as required by the original action.
   (B)   If a public hearing was not a part of the original decision, such as
in the case of a staff decision, then the notification requirements shall be as
follows:
      (1)   A public hearing notice shall be published once in a newspaper of
general circulation in Shady Cove at least ten calendar days prior to the date
of the hearing.
      (2)   Notification of the public hearing shall be sent by mail to the
appellant; the original applicant, all owners of record of tax lots within a
radius of 200 feet of the subject property, and any other known parties to the
case. This notification shall be mailed at least ten calendar days prior to the
date of the hearing.
      (3)   The staff may also provide written notice of the hearing to other
known interested persons or agencies, and to those who have requested such
notice. However, receipt of notice does not in itself grant such person or
agency the status of party in the hearing.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 28.4)
§ 154.460 APPEALS TO THE CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council is ultimately responsible for hearing and deciding on
appeals of land use decisions in Shady Cove.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 28.5)
§ 154.461 APPEALS TO THE LAND USE BOARD.
   Any party aggrieved by the final decision of the City Council in a
discretionary permit or zone change proceeding may have that appeal reviewed by
the Land Use Board of Appeals, in accordance with O.R.S. Chapter 197.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 28.6)
§ 154.462 DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   No decision or action by the City Council or other body authorized to
hear an appeal shall be invalid due to ex parte contact of bias resulting from
such contact with a member of the decision-making body, provided that the
member who received such contact:
      (1)   Places on the record the substance of the contact, including date,
place, persons present and other known information; and
      (2)   Makes a public announcement of the ex parte contact, bias, etc., at
or immediately before the public hearing is opened.
   (B)   Communication between the City Council or other hearings body and city
staff prior to the hearing is not considered ex parte contact, provided staff
is not personally involved in the case or a party thereto.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 28.7)
VACATION RENTAL DWELLINGS
§ 154.475 CONDITIONAL USE.
   (A)   Approval of this subchapter adds vacation rentals as a conditional use
in all areas zoned residential.
   (B)   Vacation rentals that were included in the city’s trial between June
1, 2014 and December 31, 2014 will be grandfathered, and exempt from the
conditional use requirement, provided that the owner of that property has a
valid vacation rental business license for fiscal year 2015-2016. Should the
property owner of the grandfathered residence fail to meet the foregoing or
expand the size of that residence, the conditional use process will be in
effect.
(Ord. 275, passed 8-6-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Business licenses in general, see
Ch. 110
§ 154.476 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Maximum occupancy: ten people.
   (B)   Maximum number of vehicles: four.
   (C)   Vehicles must be parked on the rental property, not on the public
right-of-way.
   (D)   Not more than 50% of the front yard setback area may be used for
parking. The balance must be landscaped to prevent parking.
   (E)   No outdoor activities, constituting a nuisance or loud noise are
permitted after 9:00 p.m.
   (F)   Vacation rentals must comply with all city policies, standards and
ordinances.
   (G)   Animals, other than service animals, are not permitted.
   (H)   Vacation rental property owners must subscribe to a scheduled waste
collection service and provide garbage and recycling receptacles on the
property.
   (I)   With the exception of enclosed barbecues, any outside fire is
prohibited.
(Ord. 275, passed 8-6-2015)
§ 154.477 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Smoke alarms must be present and functioning. Smoke alarms ten years
and older must be replaced with new smoke alarms that have a ten-year battery
and hush button. Smoke alarms must be installed on each floor of the residence,
including basement and attached garage, if existing.
   (B)   At least one 2A-10BC rated fire extinguisher must be visible and
readily accessible for each floor of the residence including basement, if
existing. Portable fire extinguishers shall be fully charged and serviced
annually.
   (C)   Exit doors cannot be blocked to prevent egress. Corridors and exit
ways must be free of obstructions. Each sleeping room will have at least one
operable window for use as a secondary means of escape.
   (D)   At least one plug-in rechargeable flashlight will be readily
accessible on each occupied floor of the residence.
   (E)   If on the second floor, there is no other means of escape, two story
vacation rentals must provide a roll out ladder for use as a secondary means of
escape.
   (F)   A carbon monoxide alarm must be present and functioning in a structure
having a carbon monoxide source as defined in O.R.S. 105.836.
(Ord. 275, passed 8-6-2015)
§ 154.478 GENERAL.
   (A)   A 500-foot minimum spacing between vacation rental properties, on the
same side of the river, is required.
   (B)   A copy of the vacation rental standards shall be posted in a
conspicuous place inside the vacation rental.
   (C)   Owners of vacation rental property must have a local contact, and
provide the City Administrator with the name and telephone number for that
contact.
   (D)   Written consent is required from affected property owners if the
vacation rental property is accessed by a shared driveway. A copy of the
written consent is to be provided to the City Administrator.
   (E)   Transient occupancy tax will apply to all rentals of 30 days or less.
(Ord. 275, passed 8-6-2015)
§ 154.479 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Annually, prior to the issuance of a business license for vacation
rentals, the city's CSO will make a premise visit. The visit will ensure that
all safety requirements (smoke alarms, fire extinguishers, flash lights and
exit provisions) are in place as well as a posted sign reflecting vacation
rental standards.
   (B)   Complaint handling.
      (1)   Any confirmed complaint made to the city, regarding vacation
rentals, will be evaluated by the City Administrator for validity. If deemed
valid the complaint will be directed to the city's CSO for action.
      (2)   Complaints filed directly with the sheriff’s office, will be
handled by that group. Information concerning resultant action will be provided
to the City Administrator.
   (C)   Valid complaint action.
      (1)   A first valid complaint will result in a warning.
      (2)   A second valid complaint is subject to a fine of up to $500 per
day, for each day during the period of the rental which generated the
complaint.
      (3)   A third valid complaint will result in cancellation of the business
license, and may include additional fine(s).
   (D)   With the exception of the grandfathered property noted in §
154.475, property owners offering their property for vacation rental without
going through the conditional use process and/or possessing a valid business
license is a violation of this subchapter. In addition to a cease and desist
order, the property owner will be subject to a fine of up to $500 for each day
the property is/was rented for vacation purposes.
(Ord. 275, passed 8-6-2015)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization or corporation
to erect, construct, establish, move into or onto, alter, enlarge, change
occupancy type, or use or cause to be used, any building, structure,
improvement, on premises located within the city limits contrary to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 2.1)
   (B)   (1)   The city shall have the authority to designate authority to
enter any building or premises for the purpose of investigation and inspection;
provided that, no dwelling shall be so entered without consent of the occupant,
unless a 24-hour notice of intention to enter has been served upon the
occupant.
      (2)   The City Attorney, or city appointed official, upon request of the
City Council, shall institute any necessary legal proceedings or enforcement
procedures of the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   The Police Department shall assist the designated official or City
Council appointed official in the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter.
      (4)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be cited for
a misdemeanor or infraction and fined as enumerated herein.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 2.2)
   (C)   Penalties for violation are established pursuant hereto.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 2.3)
   (D)   (1)   A structure within the city limits that is erected, constructed,
moved, altered, enlarged or modified contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, or a structure within the city limits that remains within the city
limits contrary to the provisions of this chapter, shall be subject to an order
of modification or removal. The court or other forum may impose an order of
modification or removal. The court or other forum may impose an order of
modification or removal in combination with fines in order to effectively
ensure compliance with the city zoning requirements and discourage future
violations. This order shall be directed against the violator(s) and the fee
title owner of the affected property.
      (2)   A structure that has been ordered modified or removed becomes a
public nuisance, and if those against whom the order is directed fail to remove
or modify the structure, then the city may cause same to be done and may have a
lien on the property for the cost of doing so, all in the manner proscribed by
the laws of the city pertaining to public nuisances.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-20-1994, § 2.4)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS
         
II.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
5        10-27-1972  Calling special election to annex land to fire district
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
116      3-1-1990    Granting a nonexclusive cable communications system
                     franchise to Lost Creek CATV Inc.
                     Authorizing Lost Creek CATV Inc. to assign its coaxial
116-01   4-12-1990   cable signal distribution franchise to Shady Cove Cable
                     Partners L.P.
117      5-24-1990   Granting solid waste and garbage collection franchise to
                     Pat's Sanitary Service
                     Authorizing Shady Cove Cable Partners L.P. to assign its
116-03   10-28-1993  coaxial cable signal distribution franchise to Phoenix
                     Cablevision of Oregon Inc.
                     Granting a nonexclusive communications facility and
153-298  2-19-1997   electric light and power lines franchise to Pacificorp
                     (Pacific Power and Light Company)
186      2-17-2000   Granting a nonexclusive cable communications system
                     franchise to Mallard Cablevision L.L.C.
229      3-17-2005   Amendment; sanitation franchise between the city and
                     Southern Oregon Sanitation Inc. (Repealed by Ord. 250)
231      12-1-2005   Granting a nonexclusive telecommunications franchise to
                     United Telephone Company of the Northwest D.B.A. Sprint
233      4-6-2006    Amendment; electricity franchise between the city and
                     Pacificorp
248      9-4-2008    Granting a nonexclusive gas utility franchise to Avista
                     Corporation
                     Approving a solid waste collection franchise agreement
250      6-25-2009   between the city and Southern Oregon Sanitation Inc.
                     (Repeals Ord. 229)
265      12-6-2012   Granting a non-exclusive fiber optic telecommunications
                     system franchise to Hunter Communications, Inc.
292      5-16-2019   Authorizing a franchise agreement with Avista Corporation
                     dba Avista Utilities, a Washington Corporation.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oregon Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OREGON REVISED STATUTES
O.R.S. Cites Code Section
O.R.S. Cites      Code Section
34.010–34.100   35.24
61                90.01
90.100(31)        90.30
92                153.04;
                  153.08
92.080            153.08
92.100            153.08
105.836           154.477
                  70.02;
161               91.04;
                  92.03
161.405           90.25
161.455           90.25
192.501(5)        116.11
197               154.380;
                  154.461
197.307(5)        154.218
197.314(6)        154.236
197.360           154.382
197.365           154.382
197.375           154.382
199               154.380
209               153.04
215.515           151.001
221.333           70.08
221.359           33.07
223               35.18
223.208           35.18
223.297–223.214 35.18
227.178           154.379;
                  154.381
227.175           154.379;
                  154.380
279A              31.01
279A.060          30.02
279B              31.01
279B.075          31.03
279B.080          31.03
279B.085          31.03
279B.425          31.05
279C              31.01
279C.305          31.04
279C.335          31.04
279C.400–279C.4131.04
419B.550–419B.5590.01
446.062           151.005
446.185           151.005
447.020(2)        151.005
455               151.008
455.020(2)        151.005
455.100–455.450 154.006
455.496           151.005
455.610           151.005
455.680           151.005
460.085           151.005
460.360           151.005
                  116.02,
475.300–475.346 116.26,
                  116.39
475.304           116.61
475.314           116.25
476               151.005
479.015–479.200 151.005
479.210–479.220 151.005
479.730(1)        151.005
480.545           151.005
697.105           116.10
809.725           70.07
811.602           70.04
811.606           70.04
819.110           70.07
819.120           70.07
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Ord. Section Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed                          Ord. Section Code Section
5         10-27-1972                                       TSO I
49        6-21-1979                                        30.02
                                                            115.01–
91        5-16-1985                                        115.11;
                                                            115.99
97        2-6-1986                                         95.75
97-01     9-3-1987                                         95.76
116       3-1-1990                                         TSO II
116-01    4-12-1990                                        TSO II
117       5-24-1990                                        TSO II
123       8-6-1992                                         114.01–
                                                            114.12
225       10-20-1994                           1.1          154.001
225       10-20-1994                           1.2          154.002
225       10-20-1994                           1.3          154.003
225       10-20-1994                           1.5          154.005
225       10-20-1994                           2.1          154.999
225       10-20-1994                           2.2          154.999
225       10-20-1994                           2.3          154.999
225       10-20-1994                           2.4          154.999
225       10-20-1994                           3.1          154.020
225       10-20-1994                           3.2          154.021
225       10-20-1994                           3.3          154.022
225       10-20-1994                           4            154.023
225       10-20-1994                           5            154.006
225       10-20-1994                           6.1          154.375
225       10-20-1994                           6.2          154.376
225       10-20-1994                           6.3          154.377
225       10-20-1994                           6.4          154.378
225       10-20-1994                           6.5          154.379
225       10-20-1994                           6.6          154.380
225       10-20-1994                           6.7          154.381
225       10-20-1994                           6.8          154.382
225       10-20-1994                           7.1          154.035
225       10-20-1994                           7.2          154.036
225       10-20-1994                           7.3          154.037
225       10-20-1994                           7.4          154.038
225       10-20-1994                           8.1          154.050
225       10-20-1994                           8.2          154.051
225       10-20-1994                           8.3          154.052
225       10-20-1994                           8.4          154.053
225       10-20-1994                           9.1          154.065
225       10-20-1994                           9.2          154.066
225       10-20-1994                           9.3          154.067
225       10-20-1994                           9.4          154.068
225       10-20-1994                           10.1         154.155
225       10-20-1994                           10.2         154.156
225       10-20-1994                           10.3         154.157
225       10-20-1994                           10.4         154.158
225       10-20-1994                           11           154.200
225       10-20-1994                           12.1         154.080
225       10-20-1994                           12.2         154.081
225       10-20-1994                           12.3         154.082
225       10-20-1994                           12.4         154.083
225       10-20-1994                           12.5         154.084
225       10-20-1994                           12.6         154.085
225       10-20-1994                           12.7         154.086
225       10-20-1994                           13.1         154.100
225       10-20-1994                           13.2         154.101
225       10-20-1994                           13.3         154.102
225       10-20-1994                           13.4         154.103
225       10-20-1994                           13.5         154.104
225       10-20-1994                           13.6         154.105
225       10-20-1994                           13.7         154.106
225       10-20-1994                           15.1         154.120
225       10-20-1994                           15.2         154.121
225       10-20-1994                           15.3         154.122
225       10-20-1994                           16.1         154.135
225       10-20-1994                           16.2         154.136
225       10-20-1994                           16.3         154.137
225       10-20-1994                           16.4         154.138
225       10-20-1994                           16.5         154.139
225       10-20-1994                           16.6         154.140
225       10-20-1994                           16.7         154.141
225       10-20-1994                           16.8         154.142
225       10-20-1994                           17.1         154.215
225       10-20-1994                           17.2         154.216
225       10-20-1994                           17.3         154.217
225       10-20-1994                           17.4         154.218
225       10-20-1994                           17.5         154.219
225       10-20-1994                           18.1         154.230
225       10-20-1994                           18.2         154.231
225       10-20-1994                           18.3         154.232
225       10-20-1994                           18.4         154.233
225       10-20-1994                           18.5         154.234
225       10-20-1994                           18.6         154.235
225       10-20-1994                           18.7         154.236
225       10-20-1994                           19.1         154.250
225       10-20-1994                           19.2         154.251
225       10-20-1994                           19.3         154.252
225       10-20-1994                           19.4         154.253
225       10-20-1994                           19.5         154.254
225       10-20-1994                           19.6         154.255
225       10-20-1994                           19.7         154.256
225       10-20-1994                           20.1         154.270
225       10-20-1994                           20.2         154.271
225       10-20-1994                           20.3         154.272
225       10-20-1994                           20.4         154.273
225       10-20-1994                           20.5         154.274
225       10-20-1994                           20.6         154.275
225       10-20-1994                           20.7         154.276
225       10-20-1994                           21.1         154.395
225       10-20-1994                           21.2         154.396
225       10-20-1994                           21.3         154.397
225       10-20-1994                           21.4         154.398
225       10-20-1994                           21.5         154.399
225       10-20-1994                           21.6         154.400
225       10-20-1994                           21.7         154.401
225       10-20-1994                           21.8         154.402
225       10-20-1994                           21.9         154.403
225       10-20-1994                           21.10        154.404
225       10-20-1994                           22.1         154.415
225       10-20-1994                           22.2         154.416
225       10-20-1994                           22.3         154.417
225       10-20-1994                           22.4         154.418
225       10-20-1994                           22.5         154.419
225       10-20-1994                           22.6         154.420
225       10-20-1994                           23.1         154.290
225       10-20-1994                           23.2         154.291
225       10-20-1994                           23.3         154.292
225       10-20-1994                           23.4         154.293
225       10-20-1994                           23.5         154.294
225       10-20-1994                           23.6         154.295
225       10-20-1994                           24.1         154.310
225       10-20-1994                           24.2         154.311
225       10-20-1994                           24.3         154.312
225       10-20-1994                           24.4         154.313
225       10-20-1994                           24.5         154.314
225       10-20-1994                           24.6         154.315
225       10-20-1994                           24.7         154.316
225       10-20-1994                           24.8         154.317
225       10-20-1994                           25.1         154.170
225       10-20-1994                           25.2         154.171
225       10-20-1994                           25.3         154.172
225       10-20-1994                           25.4         154.173
225       10-20-1994                           25.5         154.174
225       10-20-1994                           25.6         154.175
225       10-20-1994                           25.7         154.176
225       10-20-1994                           25.8         154.177
225       10-20-1994                           25.9         154.178
225       10-20-1994                           25.10        154.179
225       10-20-1994                           25.11        154.180
225       10-20-1994                           25.12        154.181
225       10-20-1994                           25.13        154.182
225       10-20-1994                           25.14        154.183
225       10-20-1994                           25.15        154.184
225       10-20-1994                           25.16        154.185
225       10-20-1994                           25.17        154.186
225       10-20-1994                           25.18        154.187
225       10-20-1994                           26.1         154.330
225       10-20-1994                           26.2         154.331
225       10-20-1994                           26.3         154.332
225       10-20-1994                           26.4         154.333
225       10-20-1994                           26.5         154.334
225       10-20-1994                           26.6         154.335
225       10-20-1994                           26.7         154.336
225       10-20-1994                           26.8         154.337
225       10-20-1994                           27.1         154.435
225       10-20-1994                           27.2         154.436
225       10-20-1994                           27.3         154.437
225       10-20-1994                           27.4         154.438
225       10-20-1994                           27.5         154.439
225       10-20-1994                           27.6         154.440
225       10-20-1994                           27.7         154.441
225       10-20-1994                           28.1         154.455
225       10-20-1994                           28.2         154.456
225       10-20-1994                           28.3         154.457;
                                                            154.458
225       10-20-1994                           28.4         154.459
225       10-20-1994                           28.5         154.460
225       10-20-1994                           28.6         154.461
225       10-20-1994                           28.7         154.462
225       10-20-1994                           29.1         154.350
225       10-20-1994                           29.1         154.351
225       10-20-1994                           29.2         154.352
225       10-20-1994                           29.3         154.353
225       10-20-1994                           29.4         154.354
225       10-20-1994                           29.5         154.355
225       10-20-1994                           29.6         154.356
225       10-20-1994                           29.7         154.357
225       10-20-1994                           29.8         154.358
225       10-20-1994                           29.9         154.359
225       10-20-1994                           29.10        154.360
225       10-20-1994                           29.11        154.361
225       10-20-1994                           29.12        154.362
116-03    10-28-1993                                       TSO II
140       2-16-1995                                        112.01–
                                                            112.14
140-01    5-18-1995                                        112.15
                                                            113.01–
147       5-2-1996                                         113.11;
                                                            113.99
153-298   2-19-1997                                        TSO II
                                                            110.01–
96-07-597 5-15-1997                                        110.14;
                                                            110.99
155       4-16-1998                                        35.03
                                                            50.15–
157       6-18-1998                                        50.28;
                                                            50.99
                                                            110.25–
159       9-17-1998                                        110.27;
                                                            110.99
161       11-5-1998                                        113.08
162       11-5-1998                                        112.09
164       11-19-1998                                       35.02
168       12-17-1998                                       30.01
169       12-17-1998                                       Charter
171       1-21-1999                                        112.06;
                                                            112.07
                                                            94.15–
172       5-20-1999                                        94.20;
                                                            94.99
175       5-20-1999                                        32.01–
                                                            32.06
179       9-2-1999                                         150.01
182       12-2-1999                                        35.03
186       2-17-2000                                        TSO II
189       5-18-2000                                        35.03
190       6-1-2000                                         32.01–
                                                            32.06
196       1-18-2001                                        35.03
197       1-18-2001                                        50.02
                                                            113.01;
                                                            113.02;
199       12-20-2001                                       113.05;
                                                            113.06;
                                                            113.99
200       3-21-2002                                        35.03
                                                            111.01–
201       5-2-2002                                         111.04;
                                                            111.99
                                                            110.09;
206       5-1-2003                                         110.11;
                                                            110.15
208       5-1-2003                                         35.03
                                                            92.01–
212       11-6-2003                                        92.04;
                                                            92.99
                                                            33.01–
213       11-6-2003                                        33.07;
                                                            33.99
                                                            91.01–
216       11-20-2003                                       91.05;
                                                            91.99
222       10-7-2004                                        152.01
                                                            95.01–
                                                            95.05;
                                                            95.15;
                                                            95.16;
223       11-18-2004                                       95.30–
                                                            95.32;
                                                            95.45–
                                                            95.48;
                                                            95.60–
                                                            95.66
                                                            153.01–
224       12-2-2004                                        153.24;
                                                            153.99
229       3-17-2005                                        TSO II
231       12-1-2005                                        TSO II
232       3-16-2006                                        113.02
233       4-6-2006                                         TSO II
235       8-3-2006                                         150.02
                                                            94.01;
237       9-7-2006                                         94.02;
                                                            94.99
225       10-12-2006                           1.4          154.004
                                                            94.35–
241       3-15-2007                                        94.38;
                                                            94.99
242       4-19-2007                                        34.01
243       6-21-2007                                        152.01
244       8-16-2007                                        30.01
247    2-18-2010                                        153.16,
                                                            153.21
248       9-4-2008                                         TSO II
250       6-25-2009                                        TSO II
252       1-7-2010                                         31.01–
                                                            31.08
                                                            154.036;
253       1-21-2010                                        154.037;
                                                            154.038;
                                                            154.200
254       1-21-2010                                        152.01
255       2-18-2010                                        95.02,
                                                            95.30
256       5-20-2010                                        Adopting Ordinance
                                                            151.001–
                                                            151.012;
                                                            151.025–
                                                            151.031;
259       3-17-2011                                        151.045–
                                                            151.054;
                                                            151.065–
                                                            151.068;
                                                            151.080;
                                                            151.999
260       4-21-2011                                        154.376–
                                                            154.378
263       5-17-2012                                        50.01
264       6-21-2012                                        34.01
265       12-6-2012                                        T.S.O. II
                                                            116.01–
268       9-4-2014                                         116.13,
                                                            116.99
269       9-18-2014                                        154.350–
                                                            154.362
                                                            116.25–
270       4-2-2015                                         116.39,
                                                            116.99
271       5-21-2015                                        35.10–
                                                            35.28
272       5-21-2015                                        154.081
274       8-6-2015                                         90.25–
                                                            90.30
                                                            154.037;
                                                            154.052;
275       8-6-2015                                         154.067;
                                                            154.475–
                                                            154.479
277       6-2-2016 (passed by electorate 11-8-             116.50–
          2016)                                             116.52
279       6-16-2016                                        152.01
281       8-18-2016                                        116.60–
                                                            116.65
282       11-17-2016                                       152.01;
                                                            154.121
283       3-16-2017                                        50.27
285       7-6-2017                                         116.29
                                                            151.001–
                                                            151.012;
                                                            151.025–
                                                            151.031;
286       12-7-2017                                        151.045–
                                                            151.054;
                                                            151.065–
                                                            151.068;
                                                            151.080;
                                                            151.999
                                                            154.103;
287       4-5-2018                                         154.314;
                                                            154.318
                                                            154.006,
                                                            154.036,
                                                            154.051,
288       8-2-2018                                         154.066,
                                                            154.081,
                                                            154.280,
                                                            154.281
289       11-15-2018                                       154.319–
                                                            154.321
290       1-3-2019                                         95.06
291       6-6-2019                                         154.352–
                                                            154.363
292       5-16-2019                                        T.S.O. II
293       9-5-2019                                         154.006
                                                            95.03,
294       2-20-2020                                        95.61,
                                                            153.14
                                                            70.01–
296       12-3-2020                                        70.09,
                                                            70.99
                                                            90.01–
304       1-20-2022                                        90.10,
                                                            90.99
                                                          
 
