SUBLIMITY, OREGON
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2024 S-1 Supplement, current through
Ordinance 768, passed 11-13-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 765
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORIDNANCES FOR THE CITY OF SUBLIMITY, REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF SUBLIMITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE
OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of City of Sublimity
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety,
and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Oregon empower and
authorize the City of Sublimity to revise, amend, restate, codify, and compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance book form; and
   WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Sublimity has authorized a general
compilation, revision, and codification of the ordinances of the City of
Sublimity of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance
in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date under the City Charter’s emergency clause.
   NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY OF SUBLIMITY ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City of Sublimity as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form, which is attached to
this ordinance as Exhibit A, are hereby adopted as and shall constitute the
“Code of Ordinances of the City of Sublimity, Oregon” called “City Code”
hereafter.
   Section 2.   The City Code adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following titles and chapters:
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
   10. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
   30. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   31. CITY ORGANIZATIONS
   32. PUBLIC CONTRACTING
   33. REAL PROPERTY COMPENSATION
   34. ELECTIONS
   35. FINANCES
   36. LAW ENFORCEMENT; JUDICIARY HEARINGS
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
   50. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   51. PUBLIC WORKS DESIGN STANDARDS
   52. CROSS-CONNECTIONS
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
   70. TRAFFIC; GENERALLY
   71. GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   72. PARKING REGULATIONS
   73. ABANDONED VEHICLES
   74. PARADES AND PROCESSIONS
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
   90. ANIMALS
   91. NUISANCES
   92. PARKS AND RECREATION
   93. PUBLIC ALARM SYSTEMS
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
   110. BUSINESS LICENSING
   111. CANVASSERS, SOLICITORS, AND OTHER ITINERANT MERCHANTS
   112. SOCIAL GAMING
   113. ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES
   114. GARAGE SALES
   115. MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
   130. OREGON CRIMINAL CODE
   131. CURFEW
   132. DRUGS AND NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
   150. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   151. STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   152. HISTORIC PRESERVATION
   153. COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ZONE MAP
   154. DEVELOPMENT CODE
   Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the
City Code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in
such City Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authoring the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the City Code.
   Section 4.   Such City Code shall be deemed published on the day the Council
adopts it, and the Council authorizes and orders the City Clerk to file a copy
of the City Code in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 5.   Such City Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such City Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and
places of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties, and
regulations therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is
properly signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings
and notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect upon adoption
in accordance with the Charter of the City of Sublimity, Chapter VIII, Section
28.
   ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Sublimity, Oregon on this 13th
day of March, 2023.
                                              /s/ James Kingsbury
                                             James Kingsbury, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Katie Scott
Katie Scott, City Recorder
CHARTER OF THE CITY OF SUBLIMITY
MARION COUNTY, OREGON
Section
Preamble: Sublimity Charter
Chapter I: Name and Boundaries
   
1.   Title of enactment
   
2.   Name of city
   
3.   Boundaries
Chapter II: Powers
   
4.   Powers of the city
   
5.   Construction of charter
Chapter III: Form of Government
   
6.   Where power vested
   
7.   Council
   
8.   Councilors
   
9.   Mayor
   
10.   Other officers
   
11.   Salaries
   
12.   Qualifications of officers
Chapter IV: Council
   
13.   Meetings
   
14.   Quorum
   
15.   Journal
   
16.   Proceedings to the public
   
17.   Mayor’s functions at council meeting
   
18.   Vote required
Chapter V: Powers and Duties of Officers
   
19.   Mayor
   
20.   Municipal judge
   
21.   Recorder
Chapter VI: Elections
   
22.   State law
   
23.   Nominations
Chapter VII: Vacancies in Office
   
24.   What creates vacancy
   
25.   Filling of vacancies
Chapter VIII: Ordinances
   
26.   Enacting clause
   
27.   Mode of enactment
   
28.   When ordinances take effect
Chapter IX: Public Improvements
   
29.   Condemnation
   
29.   Improvements
   
31.   Special assessments
   
32.   Bids
Chapter X: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
33.   Debt limit
   
34.   Torts
   
35.   Existing ordinances continued
   
36.   Repeal of previously enacted provisions
   
37.   Time of effect of charter
CHARTER OF THE CITY OF SUBLIMITY
MARION COUNTY, OREGON
   TO PROVIDE FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CITY OF SUBLIMITY, MARION COUNTY,
OREGON; AND TO REPEAL ALL CHARTER PROVISIONS OF THE CITY ENACTED PRIOR TO THE
TIME THAT THIS CHARTER TAKES EFFECT.
   BE IT ENACTED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SUBLIMITY, MARION COUNTY, OREGON:
CHAPTER I
Name and Boundaries
Section 1.   TITLE OF ENACTMENT.
   This enactment may be referred to as the City of Sublimity Charter of 1990.
Section 2.   NAME OF CITY.
   The City of Sublimity, Marion County, Oregon, shall continue to be a
municipal corporation with the name “City of Sublimity.”
Section 3.   BOUNDARIES.
   The city shall include all territory encompassed by its boundaries as they
now exist or hereafter are modified by the voters, by the council, or by any
other agency with legal power to modify them. The recorder shall keep at city
hall at least two copies of this charter in each of which shall be maintained
ah accurate, up-to-date description of the city boundaries. The copies and
description shall be available for public inspection at any time during regular
city hall office hours.
CHAPTER II
Powers
Section 4.   POWERS OF THE CITY.
   The city shall have all powers which the constitutions, statutes, and common
law of the United States and of this state expressly or impliedly grant or
allow municipalities as fully as though this charter specifically enumerated
each of those powers.
Section 5.   CONSTRUCTION OF CHARTER.
   In this charter no mention of a particular power shall be construed to be
exclusive or to restrict the scope of the powers which the city would have if
the particular power were not mentioned. The charter shall be liberally
construed to the end that the city may have municipal affairs, including all
powers that cities may assume pursuant to state laws and to the municipal home
rule provisions of the state constitution.
CHAPTER III
Form of Government
Section 6.   WHERE POWER VESTED.
   Except as this charter provides otherwise, all powers of the city shall be
vested in the council.
Section 7.   COUNCIL.
   The council shall be composed of the Mayor and four councilors elected from
the city at large. All councilors in office when this Charter Amendment is
adopted shall continue to hold office until the expiration of their terms.
Section 8.   COUNCILORS.
   At each regular general biennial election two Councilmen shall be elected.
All councilors hereafter elected, shall hold office for a term of four years or
until their successors have been elected and have qualified.
Section 9.   MAYOR.
   At each regular general biennial election, a Mayor shall be elected to hold
for a term of two years beginning on January 1 of the year next following
election, or until a successor has been elected and qualified.
Section 10.   OTHER OFFICERS.
   Additional officers of the city shall be a municipal judge or judges, a
recorder, and such other officers as the council deems necessary. Each of these
officers shall be appointed and may be removed by the mayor with the consent of
the council. The council may combine any two or more appointive city offices.
The council may designate any appointive officer to supervise any or her
appointive officer except the municipal judge in the exercise of judicial
functions.
Section 11.   SALARIES.
   The compensation for the services of each city officer and employee shall be
the amount fixed by the council.
Section 12.   QUALIFICATIONS OF OFFICERS.
   No person shall be eligible for an elective office of the city unless at the
time of election said person is a qualified elector within the meaning of the
state constitution and has resided in the city during the twelve months
immediately preceding the election. The council shall be the final judge of the
qualifications and election of its own members, subject, however, to review by
a court of competent jurisdiction.
CHAPTER IV
Council
Section 13.   MEETINGS.
   The council shall hold a regular meeting at least once each month in the
city at a time and at a place which it designates. It may adopt rules for the
government of its members and proceedings. Upon the motion of the Mayor, or at
the request, of three members of the council shall, by giving notice thereof to
all members of the council then in the city, the mayor may call a special
meeting of the council for a time not earlier than three nor later than forty-
eight hours after the notice is given. Special meetings of the council may also
be held at any time by the common consent of all the members of the council.
Section 14.   QUORUM.
   A majority of members of the council shall constitute a quorum for its
business, but a smaller number may meet and compel the attendance of absent
members in a manner provided by ordinance.
Section 15.   JOURNAL.
   The council shall cause a journal of its proceedings to be kept. Upon the
request of any of its members, the ayes and nays upon any question before it
shall be taken, and a record of the vote entered.
Section 16.   PROCEEDINGS TO BE PUBLIC.
   No action by the council shall have legal effect unless the motion for the
action and the vote by which it is disposed of take place at proceeding open to
the public.
Section 17.   MAYOR'S FUNCTIONS AT COUNCIL MEETING.
   The mayor shall be the chairperson of the council and preside over its
deliberations. The mayor shall vote on all questions before it. The mayor shall
have authority to preserve order, enforce the rules of the council, and
determine the order of business under the rules of the council. With the
approval of the council the mayor may appoint one council member each to serve
as (1) Street Commissioner, (2) Water Commissioner, (3) Sewer Commissioner, and
(4) such other officer as the council deems necessary. It shall be the
responsibility of the Mayor to see that the duties of the several positions
referred to in this section are performed in accordance with the directions of
the council. Whenever the mayor is unable to perform the functions of the
office, the council shall appoint an acting mayor from its body.
Section 18.   VOTE REQUIRED.
   Except as this charter otherwise provides, the concurrence of a majority of
the members of the council present at a council meeting shall be necessary to
decide any question before the council, a quorum being present.
CHAPTER V
Powers and Duties of Officers
Section 19.   MAYOR.
   The mayor shall appoint the committees designated by the council. The mayor
shall sign all approved records of proceedings of the council. The mayor shall
have no veto power and shall sign all ordinances passed by the council within
three days from the date of their enactment. After the council approves a bond
of a city officer or a bond for a license, contract, or proposal, the mayor
shall endorse the bond.
Section 20.   MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   The municipal judge shall be the judicial officer of the city. The municipal
judge shall hold within the city a court known as the municipal court for the
city of Sublimity, Marion County, Oregon. The court shall be open for the
transaction of judicial business at times specified by the council. All area
within the city shall be within the territorial jurisdiction of the court.
   The municipal judge shall exercise original and exclusive jurisdiction of
all crimes and offenses defined and made punishable by ordinances of the city
and of all actions brought to recover or enforce forfeitures or penalties
defined or authorized by ordinances by the city.
   The municipal judge shall have authority to issue process for the arrest of
any person accused of an offense against the ordinances of the city, to commit
any such person to jail or admit said person to bail pending trial, to issue
subpoenas, to compel witnesses to appear and testify in court on the trial of
any cause before the judge, to compel obedience to such subpoenas, to issue any
process necessary to carry into effect the judgments of the court, and to
punish witnesses and others for contempt of the court. When not governed by
ordinances or this charter, all proceedings in the municipal court for the
violation of a city ordinance shall be governed by the applicable general laws
of the state governing justices of the peace and justice courts. Trials in the
municipal court of cases for violation of city ordinances shall be had without
juries, unless the defendant, on demanding a jury, shall deposit in court a sum
sufficient to pay the per diem of such jury for one day.
Section 21.   Recorder.
   The Recorder shall serve ex officio as clerk of the council, attend all its
meetings unless excused therefrom by the council, and keep an accurate record
of its proceedings in a book provided for that purpose. The Recorder shall sign
and the Mayor countersign, all orders on the treasury. In the Recorder's
absence from a council meeting, the Mayor shall appoint a clerk of the council
pro tem who, while acting in that capacity, shall have all the authority and
duties of the recorder.
CHAPTER VI
Elections
Section 22.   State Law.
   Except as this charter or a city ordinance prescribes to the contrary, a
city election shall conform to state law applicable to the election.
Section 23.   Nominations.
   A person may be nominated in a manner prescribed by general ordinance to run
for an elective office of the city.
CHAPTER VII
Vacancies in Office
Section 24.   WHAT CREATES VACANCY.
   An office shall be deemed vacant upon the incumbent’s death; adjudicated
incompetence; conviction of a felony, other offenses pertaining to that office,
or unlawful destruction of public records; resignation; recall from office; or
ceasing to possess the qualifications for the office; upon the failure of the
person elected or appointed to the office to qualify therefor within ten days
after the time for the term of office to commence; or in the case of a mayor or
councilors, upon the mayor’s or councilor’s absence from the city for 30 days
without the consent of the council or upon the mayor's or councilor's absence
from meetings of the council for 60 days without like consent, and upon a
declaration by the council of the vacancy.
Section 25.   FILLING OF VACANCIES.
   Vacancies in elective offices in the city shall be filled by a majority of
the incumbent members of the council. The appointee’s term of office shall
begin immediately upon appointment and shall continue throughout the unexpired
term of appointee's predecessor. During the temporary disability of any officer
or during absence temporarily from the city for any cause, the office may be
filled pro tem in the manner provided for filling vacancies in office
permanently.
CHAPTER VIII
Ordinances
Section 26.   ENACTING CLAUSE.
   The enacting clause of all ordinances hereafter enacted shall be, “The City
of Sublimity ordains as follows:”
Section 27.   MODE OF ENACTMENT.
   (1)   Except as this section provides to the contrary, every ordinance of
the council shall, before being put upon its final passage, be read fully and
distinctly in open council meeting on two different days.
   (2)   Except as this section provides to the contrary, an ordinance may be
enacted at a single meeting of the council by unanimous vote of all council
members present, upon being read first in full and then by title.
   (3)   Any of the readings may be by title only, (a) if no council member
present at the meeting requests to have the ordinance read in full or (b) if a
copy of the ordinance is provided for each council member and three copies are
provided for public inspection in the office of the city recorder not later
than one week before the first reading of the ordinance and notice of their
availability is given forthwith upon the filing, by (i) written notice posted
at the city hall and at two other public places in the city or (ii) by
advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. An ordinance
enacted after being read by title alone may have no legal effect if it differs
substantially from its terms as it was thus filed prior to such reading, unless
each section incorporating, such a difference is read fully and distinctly in
open council meeting as finally amended prior to being approved by the council.
   (4)   Upon the final vote on an ordinance, the ayes and nays of the members
shall be taken and recorded in the journal.
   (5) Upon the enactment of an ordinance the recorder shall sign it with the
date of its passage and the name and title of office, and within three days
thereafter the mayor shall sign it with the date of signing, the mayor’s name
and title of office.
Section 28.   WHEN ORDINANCES TAKE EFFECT.
   An ordinance enacted by the council shall take effect on the thirtieth day
after its enactment. When the council deems it advisable, however, an ordinance
may provide a later time for it to take effect, and in case of an emergency, it
may take effect immediately.
CHAPTER IX
Public Improvements
Section 29.   CONDEMNATION.
   Any necessity of taking property for the city by condemnation shall be
determined by the council and declared by a resolution of the council
describing the property and stating the uses to which it shall be devoted.
Section 29.   IMPROVEMENTS.
   The procedure for making, altering, vacating, or abandoning a public
improvement shall be governed by general ordinance, or to the extent not so
governed, by the applicable general laws of the state.
   Action on any proposed public improvement, except a sidewalk or an
improvement unanimously declared by the council to be needed at once because of
an emergency, shall be suspended for six months upon a remonstrance thereto by
the owners of two-thirds of the property to be specially assessed therefor. For
the purpose of this section “owner” shall mean the record holder of legal title
to the land, except that if there is a purchaser of the land according to a
recorded land sale contract or according, to a verified writing by the record
holder of legal title to the land filed with the city recorder, the said
purchaser shall be deemed the “owner”.
Section 31.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The procedure for levying, collecting, and enforcing the payment of special
assessments for public improvements or other services to be charged against the
real property shall be governed by general ordinances.
Section 32.   BIDS.
   All city contracts shall be subject to state law applicable to public
municipal contracts.
CHAPTER X
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 33.   DEBT LIMIT.
   The city’s indebtedness may not exceed debt limits imposed by state law. All
city officials and employees who create or officially approve any indebtedness
in excess of this limitation shall be jointly and severally liable for the
excess.
Section 34.   TORTS.
   In no event shall the city be liable in, damages for an injury to person, a
damage to property, or a death, caused by a defect or a dangerous condition in
a public thoroughfare, site, or facility, unless the city has had actual notice
prior to the injury, damage, or death that the defect or condition existed and
has had a reasonable time thereafter in which to repair or remove it.
   No action shall be maintained against the city for damages growing out of
such injury, damage, or death unless the claimant first gives written notice to
the council within 30 days after the injury, damage, or death is sustained,
stating specifically the time when, the place where, and the circumstances
under which it was sustained, and that said person will claim damages therefor
of the city in an amount which said person specifies, but in no event shall the
action be started until 30 days have elapsed after the presentation of such
notice to the council.
Section 35.   EXISTING ORDINANCES CONTINUED.
   All ordinances of the city consistent with this charter and in force when it
takes effect shall remain in effect until amended or repealed.
Section 36.   REPEAL OF PREVIOUSLY ENACTED PROVISIONS.
   All previous charter provisions of the city including charter amendments are
hereby repealed.
Section 37.   TIME OF EFFECT OF CHARTER.
   This charter shall take effect July 1, 1990, but officers holding office
when this charter is enacted shall have all of the powers and authority of
officers hereafter elected pursuant to this charter.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.18   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“City Code of Sublimity, Oregon”, for which designation “code of ordinances”,
“codified ordinances”, or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and
section headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the
code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BUSINESS DAY. Any 24-hour day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or federal
or state legal holiday.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Sublimity
as presently established or as amended by ordinance, annexation, or other legal
actions at a future time. The term CITY when used in this code may also be used
to refer to the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CITY RECORDER. The City Recorder or the City Recorder’s designees.
      CODE. This municipal code as modified by amendment, revision, and
adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Sublimity; also “governing
body”.
      COUNTY. Marion County, Oregon.
      DAY. Calendar day unless otherwise indicated as business day or working
day.
      GOVERNING BODY. City Council.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month, not 30 days.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. An individual, person, association, business, corporation,
estate, firm, joint stock company, joint venture, partnership, trust, business
trust, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause prescribing
and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to any
unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers, or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oregon.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the City
Council or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (B)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (C)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express such intent, the spelling shall be corrected and
such word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of such error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean at least 24-hours notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the City Council shall take effect as provided in
the city charter. If there is no city charter, all ordinances passed by the
City Council shall take effect as provided by the City Council or applicable
state law.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any amending ordinances are listed following
the text of the code section.
      Example: (Ord. 161, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 170, passed 1-2-1979; Ord.
185, passed 4-1-1990)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
      Example: (O.R.S. 192.410)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
      Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This city shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see O.R.S. 192.314
§ 10.18 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this code for which no other
specific penalty is provided shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not
to exceed $500, subject to division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this code which is identical to
a state statute containing a penalty shall, upon conviction, be punished by the
penalty prescribed by state statute.
   (C)   Each calendar date on which a violation occurs constitutes a separate
violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   PUBLIC CONTRACTING
      
33.   REAL PROPERTY COMPENSATION
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   FINANCES
      
36.   LAW ENFORCEMENT; JUDICIARY HEARINGS
      
37.   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Indemnification of city officials
   
30.02   Participation in the Mid-Willamette Valley Council of Governments
Regulating Access to City Property
   
30.15   Definitions
   
30.16   Enter or remain unlawfully
   
30.17   Prohibited activities
   
30.18   Written notice
   
30.19   Oral notice
 
   
30.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The city shall indemnify and reimburse the Mayor, Council members,
Recorder and all city employees and officials, their heirs, or personal
representative, against judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement and
reasonable expenses, including attorney fees and other costs of litigation, and
for amounts actually and necessarily incurred or paid on account of compromise,
settlement, or discharge of any claim asserted or any judgment or decree
rendered against such person in connection with any action, suit, or proceeding
instituted or threatened, civil or criminal, administrative or investigative,
including any appeal relating thereto, to which he or she or they may be made a
part by reason of his, her or their position with the city; provided that such
person has not been guilty of willful malfeasance in the performance of duties
and the city is not prohibited by law from indemnifying or reimbursing such
person. The foregoing right of indemnification or reimbursement shall not be
exclusive of other rights to which such person, that person’s heirs, or
personal representative, may be entitled as a matter of law.
   (B)   This section only applies to the extent that the indemnification or
reimbursement of any amount is not made pursuant to any insurance coverage
obtained by the city or from any other source.
(Ord. 358, passed 11-9-1992)
§ 30.02 PARTICIPATION IN THE MID-WILLAMETTE VALLEY COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS.
   (A)   It is the intent of the City Council to create, along with the other
parties to the agreement, an intergovernmental entity known as the Mid-
Willamette Valley Council of Governments.
   (B)   The effective date, specification of public purposes for which the
MWVCOG is created, and the powers, duties, and functions of the MWVCOG are as
stated in the agreement attached hereto and, by this reference, a copy of which
is on file in the office of the City Clerk and is available for public copying
and inspection.
(Ord. 354, passed 6-22-1992)
REGULATING ACCESS TO CITY PROPERTY
§ 30.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. Premises which by their physical nature, function,
custom, usage, notice or lack thereof, or other circumstances at the time would
cause a reasonable person to believe that no permission to enter or remain is
required.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. A person, representative, or employee of the city who has
lawful control of the premises by official position or other relationship. The
term also includes, but is not limited to city employees, city officers
including the Mayor, Council members and City Attorney, a law enforcement
officer, any other person designated by the Mayor or City Recorder or their
designee as the person in charge of the premises and any other person using the
premises by virtue of a valid permit issued by the City Recorder.
   PREMISES. Includes, but is not limited to, any building, any real property,
city hall, or parks, whether owned or leased by the city.
(Ord. 330, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 30.16 ENTER OR REMAIN UNLAWFULLY.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Enter or remain in or upon city premises when premises, at the time of
such entry or remaining, are not open to the public or when the entrant is not
otherwise licensed or privileged to do so; or
   (B)   Fail to leave city premises that are open to the public after being
lawfully directed to do so by the person in charge.
(Ord. 330, passed 9-10-1990) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.17 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   A person in charge may request a person to leave the city premises if the
person requested to leave:
   (A)   Is engaged in fighting or in violent, tumultuous, or threatening
behavior;
   (B)   Makes unreasonable noise;
   (C)   Disturbs any lawful assembly of persons without lawful authority;
   (D)   Obstructs vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
   (E)   Congregates with other persons on city premises and refuses to comply
with a lawful order of law enforcement to disperse;
   (F)   Creates a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act which
the person is not licensed or privileged to do;
   (G)   Subjects another to offensive physical contact;
   (H)   Publicly insults another by abusive or obscene words or gestures in a
manner likely to provoke a violent or disorderly response; or
   (I)   Is engaged in conduct detrimental to the good order and welfare of the
city.
(Ord. 330, passed 9-10-1990) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.18 WRITTEN NOTICE.
   A written notice in substantially the following form may be given:
NOTICE OF CRIMINAL TRESPASS
You, _______________, have been directed to leave the premises located at
_______________ which are under the control of the City of Sublimity.
If you fail to leave as directed or if you return without authorization or just
cause, you will be subject to prosecution for criminal trespass in the second
degree as provided by O.R.S. 164.245.
It is the policy of the City of Sublimity that violators of O.R.S. 164.245 will
be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.
                         _______________________________
                         (Signature of Authorized Person)
                         _______________________________
                         (Date)         (Time of Day)
 
(Ord. 330, passed 9-10-1990) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.19 ORAL NOTICE.
   An oral notice may be given in lieu of the written notice prescribed above.
The form of the notice given shall not affect the legal efficacy of any
prosecution.
(Ord. 330, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A person violating §§
30.15 through
30.19 shall be subject to arrest and prosecution for criminal trespass in the
second degree as provided by O.R.S. 164.245.
(Ord. 330, passed 9-10-1990)
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
31.01   Re-establishment
   
31.02   Membership
   
31.03   Term of office
   
31.04   Organization of the Commission
   
31.05   Duties and powers of the Planning Commission officers
   
31.06   Misconduct, nonperformance of duty
   
31.07   Staff support
   
31.08   Compensation
   
31.09   Quorum and meeting procedures
   
31.10   Commission recommendations
   
31.11   Powers and duties
   
31.12   Expenditures
   
31.13   Ethics
Public Contract Board of Review
   
31.25   Contract Review Board
   
31.26   Rule making procedure
   
31.27   Adoption of Contract Review Board rules
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.01 RE-ESTABLISHMENT.
   The city’s Planning Commission is hereby recreated and continued, and
hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”.
(Ord. 706, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 31.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Commission shall consist of a total of five members appointed by
the City Council. The appointees shall not be elected officials, members of the
city budget committee, or employees of the city. The appointees shall reside
inside the city limits.
   (B)   No more than two voting members of the Commission may engage
principally in buying, selling, or developing of real estate for profit as
individuals, or be members of any partnership, or officers or employees of any
corporation, that engages principally in the buying, selling, or developing of
real estate for profit. No more than two members shall be engaged in the same
kind of occupation, business, trade, or profession.
(Ord. 706, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 31.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Commission members shall hold office for four years on staggered terms which
terms shall be initially determined by lot as follows: one position for one
year; one position for two years; one position for three years; and two
positions for four years. Immediately thereafter, the Commission shall notify
the City Council in writing of such allotment. Their successors shall hold
office for four years. Any vacancy shall be filled by the City Council for the
unexpired term of the predecessor.
(Ord. 706, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 31.04 ORGANIZATION OF THE COMMISSION.
   The Commission shall elect its own Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson, from
its members at its first meeting in January of each year. In the event of
vacancy or removal in the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson’s position, the
Commission shall fill the same by election at its next regular meeting.
(Ord. 706, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 31.05 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION OFFICERS.
   The duties and powers of the officers of the Planning Commission shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Chairperson.
      (1)   Preside at all meetings of the Commission;
      (2)   Call special meetings of the Commission as needed in accordance
with this subchapter;
      (3)   Sign all documents of the Commission;
      (4)   Review Planning Commission agendas with staff;
      (5)   Act as a spokesperson for the Commission;
      (6)   Encourage active discussion of all items brought before the
Commission;
      (7)   In conjunction with staff, orient new members to the Planning
Commission; and
      (8)   Report to the Council on the status of the Planning Commission at
least twice a year.
   (B)   Vice-Chairperson. During the absence, disability, or disqualification
of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson shall exercise or perform all the
duties and be subject to all the responsibilities of the Chairperson.
(Ord. 706, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 31.06 MISCONDUCT, NONPERFORMANCE OF DUTY.
   A member of the Commission may be removed by the City Council, after
hearing, for misconduct or nonperformance of duty, including, but not limited
to, being absent from three or more consecutive regular meetings without excuse
from the Commission.
(Ord. 706, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 31.07 STAFF SUPPORT.
   The city will provide support to the Commission for meeting notification,
word processing, minutes preparation, copying, and information gathering to the
extent the city budget permits.
(Ord. 706, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 31.08 COMPENSATION.
   Commission members shall receive no compensation but shall be reimbursed for
duly authorized expenses.
(Ord. 706, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 31.09 QUORUM AND MEETING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Three voting members of the Commission shall constitute a
quorum, but a lesser number may adjourn the meeting to a later date.
      (2)   The Commission may make and alter rules and regulations for its
government and procedure consistent with the laws of this state, the city’s
Charter and ordinances.
      (3)   The Commission shall meet at such times and places as may be called
by the City Council, Planning Commission Chairperson, or by three members by
written notice served upon each member of the Commission at least 24 hours
before the time specified for the proposed meeting.
   (B)   In the event that the Planning Commission does not contain enough
members to constitute a quorum, any agenda item shall be referred to the City
Council for action, including final disposition as the Council deems
appropriate, at the first Council meeting after notice and time requirements
have been met.
(Ord. 706, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 31.10 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS.
   All recommendations and suggestions made to the Council shall be in writing.
(Ord. 706, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 31.11 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission has power and authority as follows:
   (A)   To make recommendations and suggestions to the Council, other public
officials, and individuals concerning any matter relating to community planning
and development and concerning:
      (1)   The laying out, widening, extending, and locating of public
thoroughfares, parking of vehicles, relief of traffic congestion;
      (2)   Betterment of housing and sanitation conditions; and
      (3)   Establishment of districts for limiting the use, height, area,
bulk, and other characteristics of buildings and structures related to land
development.
   (B)   Complete a review of the comprehensive plan as directed by the City
Council, or at the time of periodic review as scheduled by the state, and
recommend amendments to the plan to the City Council;
   (C)   Determine appeals of Type I development permits and land use actions,
and accept and determine Type II land use actions pursuant to Chapter 3 of the
city’s Development Code;
   (D)   Upon holding a public hearing, make a recommendation to the City
Council regarding Type III and IV land use actions, including amendments to the
comprehensive plan, Development Code, and zone changes;
   (E)   Formulate and recommend to the City Council, various programs,
policies, and ordinances intended to implement the comprehensive plan;
   (F)   Perform other duties related to some aspect of community planning and
development at the request of the City Council; and
   (G)   Do and perform all other acts and things necessary or proper to carry
out the provisions of O.R.S. 227.010 to 227.170, 227.175, and 227.180.
(Ord. 706, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 31.12 EXPENDITURES.
   The Commission shall have no authority to make expenditures on behalf of the
city or to obligate the city for payment of any sums of money, except for fees
covered by §
150.01 of this code of ordinances, and as specifically provided by prior
written authorization by the Council authorizing such expenditures by
appropriate ordinance or resolution, which ordinance or resolution shall
provide the administrative method by which such funds shall be drawn and
expended.
(Ord. 706, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 31.13 ETHICS.
   Commission members shall abide by all applicable ethical standards and
practices, including, but not limited to, those required by O.R.S. Chapter 244
(Government Ethics).
   (A)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   A member of the Commission shall not participate in any Commission
proceeding or action in which any of the following has a direct or substantial
financial interest: the member or his or her spouse, brother, sister, child,
parent, father-in-law, mother-in-law, any business in which he or she is then
serving or has served within the previous two years, or any business with which
he or she is negotiating for or has an arrangement or understanding concerning
prospective partnership or employment.
      (2)   Any actual or potential interest shall be disclosed at the meeting
of the Commission where the action is being taken.
   (B)   Quasi-judicial hearings. Commission members shall disclose ex-parte
contacts, prehearing bias, or conflicts of interest at the beginning of every
quasi-judicial public hearing. Commission members unable to render an unbiased
decision because of contact with parties outside the hearing, prehearing bias,
or a conflict of interest shall not participate as a member of the Commission
on that particular hearing issue.
(Ord. 706, passed 6-9-2008)
PUBLIC CONTRACT BOARD OF REVIEW
§ 31.25 CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD.
   Pursuant to O.R.S. 279A.060, the City of Sublimity designates the governing
body of the city as the Public Contract Review Board for the city.
(Ord. 340, passed 11-11-1991)
§ 31.26 RULE MAKING PROCEDURE.
   The City Council will establish from time to time Public Contract Review
Board rules. Rules shall be adopted and amended by ordinance.
(Ord. 340, passed 11-11-1991)
§ 31.27 ADOPTION OF CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD RULES.
   (A)   Adoption of Contract Review Board rules.
      (1)   The city hereby adopts by reference and incorporates herein as if
fully set forth, O.R.S. Chapters 279A, 279B, and 279C and the following Oregon
Administrative Rules in effect on this date and as may be amended from time to
time, subject to the exclusions therefrom and amendments thereto as hereafter
set forth in this section, as the Public Contract Review Board rules and
regulations for the city:
         (a)   OAR Chapter 137, Divisions 30, and 40; and
         (b)   OAR Chapter 125, Divisions 300, 310, 320, and 360.
      (2)   The above rules prescribe public contract regulations and
exemptions for the city and shall be interpreted as reasonably necessary to
serve as the public contract review rules for the city.
      (3)   The city shall generally be considered to be the public agency,
public contracting agency, or public contract review authority mentioned
therein as the context requires.
   (B)   Adoption of Contract Review Board rules. The city periodically
requires the services of a consulting individual or firm to accomplish all or
part of a project. It is the policy of the city to select as expeditiously as
possible the best qualified consultant available. Divisions (D), (E), (F), and
(G) below set forth the rules and regulations to be followed by the city during
screening and selection for personal service contracts. These rules and
regulations will be adhered to in all cases except when the City Council
determines that an emergency exists which requires immediate action.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONSULTANT. An individual or firm that has been found qualified to do
specified types of work for the City of Sublimity.
      PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACT. Contracts for services performed as an
independent contractor in a professional capacity, services as a consultant, or
specialized services.
   (D)   Formal selection procedure. This procedure will be used whenever
professional services of the type governed by this rule are required and the
estimated fee to the consultant exceeds an amount that shall be determined by
the City Council. Exceptions to this procedure are specified in division (E)
below. The City Council may on smaller projects elect to use the formal
selection procedure whenever it determines that it would be prudent and
advantageous to do so:
      (1)   Announcement. The City Council will make at least one public
announcement of its need for personal services in an appropriate trade
periodical or newspaper of general circulation. The announcement shall describe
the proposed project, the scope of the services required, project completion
dates, and describe any special requirements. The announcement shall invite
qualified prospective contractors to indicate to the city their interest in
performing the services required. The announcement will specify a closing date
by which the statement must be received by the city and the city’s address;
      (2)   Application. Prospective contractors must submit a statement which
describes their capabilities, credentials, and performance data sufficient to
establish their qualification for the project;
      (3)   Initial screening. The City Council shall evaluate the
qualifications of all applicants responding to the announcement by the closing
date, and select from among the respondents a minimum of three prospective
contractors whose statements evidence the highest level of qualification.
Should fewer than three statements be received, then each prospective
contractor submitting a statement which meets the city’s minimum qualifications
will be interviewed; and
      (4)   The final selection procedure.
         (a)   Interviews. The City Council will hold discussions with the
three finalists selected from initial screening. Applicant capability,
experience, and compensation requirements shall determine the City Council’s
final selection; and
         (b)   Award of contracts. The City Council shall make the final
selection, and award contracts to consultants.
   (E)   Informal selection procedure.
      (1)   This procedure may be used when the estimated fee to the consultant
does not exceed an amount that shall be determined by the City Council; or at
the City Council’s discretion, when the project consists of work which has been
substantially described, planned, or otherwise previously studied or rendered
in an earlier city contract or that of another state agency, provided that the
original selection procedure used for the project was a formal procedure. This
procedure shall not be used when the estimated fee to a consultant firm exceeds
such determined amount, except by specific written approval of the City
Council; and
      (2)   Selection. The city will contact a minimum of three prospective
contractors with which it has had previous successful experience or which are
known by the city to be qualified to offer the sought-after services. A
projected fee will be requested and a selection made by the City Council based
upon the consultant’s capability experience, project approach, and compensation
requirements.
   (F)   Emergency appointment procedure. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit or otherwise limit the city’s right to make direct consultant
appointments when conditions require a prompt action to protect life or
property. In such instance, the recommended appointment and a written
description of the conditions requiring the use of this appointment procedure
shall be submitted by the mayor to the City Council for action. The City
Council will determine if an emergency exists, declare the emergency and, when
appropriate, approve the appointment.
   (G)   Personal service contract files. The City Council will maintain a file
on the selection process for all personal services contracts for whichever is
longer, 10 years after either awarding the contract or the service under the
contract terminates, which will include:
      (1)   The method and copy of announcement;
      (2)   The names of firms/individuals and cost estimates considered;
      (3)   A justification of need for the contract;
      (4)   The basis for selection;
      (5)   Rationale by which rates were established;
      (6) How reasonableness of price was determined; and
      (7) A copy of the resulting contract.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 345A, passed 5-8-2000)
CHAPTER 32: PUBLIC CONTRACTING
Section
   
32.01   Public contracts policy
   
32.02   Application of public contract regulations
   
32.03   Regulation by City Council
   
32.04   Model rules
   
32.05   Designation of solicitation agents
   
32.06   Definitions
   
32.07   Process for approval of special solicitation methods and exemptions
   
32.08   Solicitation methods for classes of contracts
   
32.09   Informal solicitation procedures
   
32.10   Use of brand name specifications for public improvements
   
32.11   Bid, performance, and payment bonds
   
32.12   Electronic advertisement of public improvement contracts
   
32.13   Appeal of debarment or prequalification decision
§ 32.01 PUBLIC CONTRACTS POLICY.
   (A)   Short title. The provisions of this chapter and all rules adopted
under this chapter may be cited as the city’s public contracting regulations.
   (B)   Purpose of public contracting regulations. It is the policy of the
city in adopting the public contracting regulations to utilize public
contracting practices and methods that maximize the efficient use of public
resources and the purchasing power of public funds by:
      (1)   Promoting impartial and open competition;
      (2)   Using solicitation materials that are complete and contain a clear
statement of contract specifications and requirements; and
      (3)   Taking full advantage of evolving procurement methods that suit the
contracting needs of the city.
   (C)   Interpretation of public contracting rules. In furtherance of the
purpose of the objectives set forth in division (B) above, it is the city’s
intent that the city public contracting regulations be interpreted to authorize
the full use of all contracting powers and authorities described in O.R.S.
Chapters 279A, 279B, and 279C.
(Ord. 610, passed 2-28-2005)
§ 32.02 APPLICATION OF PUBLIC CONTRACT REGULATIONS.
   In accordance with O.R.S. 279A.025, the city’s public contracting
regulations and the Oregon Public Contracting Code do not apply to the
following classes of contracts.
   (A)   Between governments. Contracts between the city and a public body or
agency of the state or its political subdivisions, or between the city and an
agency of the federal government;
   (B)   Grants. A grant contract is an agreement under which the city is
either a grantee or a grantor of moneys, property, or other assistance,
including loans, loan guarantees, credit enhancements, gifts, bequests,
commodities, or other assets, for the purpose of supporting or stimulating a
program or activity of the grantee and in which no substantial involvement by
the grantor is anticipated in the program or activity other than involvement
associated with monitoring compliance with the grant conditions. The making or
receiving of a grant is not a public contract subject to the Oregon Public
Contracting Code; however, any grant made by city for the purpose of
constructing a public improvement or public works project shall impose
conditions on the grantee that ensure that expenditures of the grant to design
or construct the public improvement or public works project are made in
accordance with the Oregon Public Contracting Code and these regulations;
   (C)   Legal witnesses and consultants. Contracts for professional or expert
witnesses or consultants to provide services or testimony relating to existing
or potential litigation or legal matters in which the city is or may become
interested;
   (D)   Real property. Acquisitions or disposals of real property or interests
in real property;
   (E)   Textbooks. Contracts for the procurement or distribution of textbooks;
   (F)   Oregon corrections enterprises. Procurements from an Oregon
corrections enterprises program;
   (G)   Finance. Contracts, agreements, or other documents entered into,
issued, or established in connection with:
      (1)   The incurring of debt by the city, including any associated
contracts, agreements, or other documents, regardless of whether the
obligations that the contracts, agreements, or other documents establish are
general, special, or limited;
      (2)   The making of program loans and similar extensions or advances of
funds, aid, or assistance by the city to a public or private person for the
purpose of carrying out, promoting or sustaining activities or programs
authorized by law other than for the construction of public works or public
improvements;
      (3)   The investment of funds by the city as authorized by law; or
      (4)   Banking, money management, or other predominantly financial
transactions of the city that, by their character, cannot practically be
established under the competitive contractor selection procedures, based upon
the findings of the City Council.
   (H)   Employee benefits. Contracts for employee benefit plans as provided in
O.R.S. 243.105(1), 243.125(4), 243.221, 243.275, 243.291, 243.303, and 243.565;
   (I)   Exempt under state laws. Any other public contracting specifically
exempted from the Oregon Public Contracting Code by another provision of law;
and
   (J)   Federal law. Except as otherwise expressly provided in O.R.S. 279C.800
to 279C.870, applicable federal statutes and regulations govern when federal
funds are involved and the federal statutes or regulations conflict with any
provision of the Oregon Public Contracting Code or these regulations, or
require additional conditions in public contracts not authorized by the Oregon
Public Contracting Code, being O.R.S. 279A, 279B, and 279C, or these
regulations.
(Ord. 610, passed 2-28-2005)
§ 32.03 REGULATION BY CITY COUNCIL.
   Except as expressly delegated under these regulations, the City Council
reserves to itself the exercise of all of the duties and authority of a
contract review board and a contracting agency under state law, including, but
not limited to, the power and authority to:
   (A)   Solicitation methods applicable to contracts. Approve the use of
contracting methods and exemptions from contracting methods for a specific
contract or certain classes of contracts;
   (B)   Brand name specifications. Exempt the use of brand name specifications
for public improvement contracts;
   (C)   Waiver of performance and payment bonds. Approve the partial or
complete waiver of the requirement for the delivery of a performance or payment
bond for construction of a public improvement;
   (D)   Electronic advertisement of public improvement contracts. Authorize
the use of electronic advertisements for contracts in lieu of publication in a
newspaper of general circulation;
   (E)   Appeals. Hear properly filed appeals of the City Council’s
determination of debarment, or concerning prequalification or contract award;
   (F)   Rulemaking. Adopt contracting rules under O.R.S. 279A.065, O.R.S.
279A.070 including, without limitation, rules for the procurement, management,
disposal, and control of goods, services, personal services, and public
improvements;
   (G)   Award. Award all contracts;
   (H)   Delegation. Delegate to any employee or agent of city any of the
duties or authority of a contracting agency; and
   (I)   Mandatory review of rules. Whenever the State Legislative Assembly
enacts laws that cause the Attorney General to modify its Model Rules, the City
Council shall review these regulations to determine whether any modifications
to the regulations need to be adopted by the city to ensure compliance with
statutory changes.
(Ord. 610, passed 2-28-2005)
§ 32.04 MODEL RULES.
   The Model Rules adopted by the Attorney General under O.R.S. 279A.065 (Model
Rules) are hereby adopted as the public contracting rules for the city, to the
extent that the Model Rules do not conflict with the provisions of this chapter
including any amendments to this chapter, and further provided that, despite
the provisions of the Model Rules concerning the selection of architects,
engineers, land surveyors, and related consultants, the city’s evaluation of
architects, engineers, land surveyors, and related consultants may include
price as a dominant criterion for selection.
(Ord. 610, passed 2-28-2005)
§ 32.05 DESIGNATION OF SOLICITATION AGENTS.
   The following officials of the city are designated as the solicitation
agents for the following classes of contracts:
   (A)   Design and construction of public improvements: Public Works Director;
   (B)   Personal services contracts, other than for design of public
improvements: City Recorder; and
   (C)   Procurement and disposal of goods and services: City Recorder.
(Ord. 610, passed 2-28-2005)
§ 32.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AWARD. The selection of a person to provide goods, services, or public
improvements under a public contract. The award of a contract is not binding on
the city until the contract is executed and delivered by the city.
   BID. A binding, sealed, written offer to provide goods, services, or public
improvements for a specified price or prices.
   CONCESSION AGREEMENT. A contract that authorizes and requires a private
entity or individual to promote or sell, for its own business purposes,
specified types of goods or services from real property owned or managed by the
city, and under which the concessionaire makes payments to the city based, at
least in part, on the concessionaire’s revenues or sales. The term CONCESSION
AGREEMENT does not include a mere rental agreement, license, or lease for the
use of premises.
   CONTRACT PRICE. The total amount paid or to be paid under a contract,
including any approved alternates, and any fully executed change orders or
amendments.
   CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD or LOCAL CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD. The City Council.
   COOPERATIVE PROCUREMENT. A procurement conducted by or on behalf of one or
more contracting agencies.
   DEBARMENT. A declaration by the city under O.R.S. 279B.130 or O.R.S.
279C.440 that prohibits a potential contractor from competing for the city’s
public contracts for a prescribed period of time.
   DISPOSAL. Any arrangement for the transfer of property by the city under
which the city relinquishes ownership.
   EMERGENCY. Circumstances that create a substantial risk of loss, damage, or
interruption of services, or a substantial threat to property, public health,
welfare, or safety; and require prompt execution of a contract to remedy the
condition.
   FINDINGS. The statements of fact that provide justification for a
determination. FINDINGS may include, but are not limited to, information
regarding operation, budget, and financial data; public benefits; cost savings;
competition in public contracts; quality and aesthetic considerations, value
engineering; specialized expertise needed; public safety; market conditions;
technical complexity; availability, performance, and funding sources.
   GOODS. Any item or combination of supplies, equipment, materials, or other
personal property, including any tangible, intangible, and intellectual
property and rights and licenses in relation thereto.
   INFORMAL SOLICITATION. A solicitation made in accordance with the city’s
public contracting regulations to a limited number of potential contractors, in
which the solicitation agent attempts to obtain at least three written quotes
or proposals.
   INVITATION TO BID. A publicly advertised request for competitive sealed
bids.
   MODEL RULES. The public contracting rules adopted by the Attorney General
under O.R.S. 279A.065.
   OFFEROR. A person who submits a bid, quote, or proposal to enter into a
public contract with the city.
   OREGON PUBLIC CONTRACTING CODE. O.R.S. Chapters 279A, 279B, and 279C.
   PERSON. A natural person or any other private or governmental entity, having
the legal capacity to enter into a binding contract.
   PROPOSAL. A binding offer to provide goods, services, or public improvements
with the understanding that acceptance will depend on the evaluation of factors
other than, or in addition to, price. A PROPOSAL may be made in response to a
request for proposals or under an informal solicitation.
   PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACT.
      (1)   A contract with an independent contractor predominantly for
services that require special training or certification, skill, technical,
creative, professional, or communication skills or talents, unique and
specialized knowledge, or the exercise of judgment skills, and for which the
quality of the service depends on attributes that are unique to the service
provider. Such services include, but are not limited to, the services of
architects, engineers, land surveyors, attorneys, auditors, and other licensed
professionals, artists, designers, computer programmers, performers,
consultants, and property managers.
      (2)   The City Council shall have discretion to determine whether
additional types of services not specifically mentioned in this definition fit
within the definition of personal services.
   PUBLIC CONTRACT. A sale or other disposal, or a purchase, lease, rental, or
other acquisition, by the city of personal property, services, including
personal services, public improvements, public works, minor alterations, or
ordinary repair or maintenance necessary to preserve a public improvement.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. A project for construction, reconstruction, or major
renovation on real property by or for the city. PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT does not
include:
      (1)   Projects for which no funds of the city are directly or indirectly
used, except for participation that is incidental or related primarily to
project design or inspection; or
      (2)   Emergency work, minor alteration, ordinary repair, or maintenance
necessary to preserve a public improvement.
   QUALIFIED POOL. A pool of vendors who are pre-qualified to compete for the
award of contracts for certain types of contracts or to provide certain types
of services.
   QUOTE. A price offer made in response to an informal or qualified pool
solicitation to provide goods, services, or public improvements.
   REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS. A publicly advertised request for sealed competitive
proposals.
   SERVICES. Includes all types of services (including construction labor)
other than personal services.
   SOLICITATION.
      (1)   An invitation to one or more potential contractors to submit a bid,
proposal, quote, statement of qualifications or letter of interest to the city
with respect to a proposed project, procurement or other contracting
opportunity.
      (2)   The word SOLICITATION also refers to the process by which the city
requests, receives, and evaluates potential contractors and awards public
contracts.
   SOLICITATION AGENT. With respect to a particular solicitation or contract,
the city employee charged with responsibility for conducting the solicitation
or making a recommendation on award to the City Council.
   SOLICITATION DOCUMENTS. All informational materials issued by the city for a
solicitation, including, but not limited to, advertisements, instructions,
submission requirements and schedules, award criteria, contract terms and
specifications, and all laws, regulations, and documents incorporated by
reference.
   STANDARDS OF RESPONSIBILITY. The qualifications of eligibility for award of
a public contract. An offeror meets the STANDARDS OF RESPONSIBILITY if the
offeror has:
      (1)   Available the appropriate financial, material, equipment, facility,
and personnel resources and expertise, or ability to obtain the resources and
expertise, necessary to indicate the capability of the offeror to meet all
contractual responsibilities;
      (2)   A satisfactory record of performance. The solicitation agent shall
document the record of performance of an offeror if the solicitation agent
finds the offeror to be not responsible under this division (2) of this
definition;
      (3)   A satisfactory record of integrity. The solicitation agent shall
document the record of integrity of an offeror if the solicitation agent finds
the offeror to be not responsible under this division (3) of this definition;
      (4)   Qualified legally to contract with the city;
      (5)   Supplied all necessary information in connection with the inquiry
concerning responsibility. If an offeror fails to promptly supply information
requested by the solicitation agent concerning responsibility, the solicitation
agent shall base the determination of responsibility upon any available
information or may find the offeror non-responsible; and
      (6)   Not been debarred by the city, and, in the case of public
improvement contracts, has not been listed by the Construction Contractors
Board as a contractor who is not qualified to hold a public improvement
contract.
   SURPLUS PROPERTY. Personal property owned by the city which is no longer
needed for use by the department to which such property has been assigned.
(Ord. 610, passed 2-28-2005)
§ 32.07 PROCESS FOR APPROVAL OF SPECIAL SOLICITATION METHODS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Authority of City Council. In its capacity as Contract Review Board
for the city, the City Council, upon its own initiative may create special
selection, evaluation, and award procedures for, or may exempt from
competition, the award of a specific contract or class of contracts as provided
in this section.
   (B)   Basis for approval.
      (1)   The approval of a special solicitation method or exemption from
competition must be based upon a record before the City Council that contains
the following:
         (a)   The nature of the contract or class of contracts for which the
special solicitation or exemption is requested;
         (b)   The estimated contract price or cost of the project, if
relevant;
         (c)   Findings to support the substantial cost savings, enhancement in
quality or performance, or other public benefit anticipated by the proposed
selection method, or exemption from competitive solicitation;
         (d)   Findings to support the reason that approval of the request
would be unlikely to encourage favoritism or diminish competition for the
public contract or class of public contracts, or would otherwise substantially
promote the public interest in a manner that could not practicably be realized
by complying with the solicitation requirements that would otherwise be
applicable under these regulations;
         (e)   A description of the proposed alternative contracting methods to
be employed; and
         (f)   The estimated date by which it would be necessary to let the
contract(s).
      (2)   In making a determination regarding a special selection method, the
City Council may consider the type, cost, amount of the contract, or class of
contracts, number of persons available to make offers, and such other factors
as it may deem appropriate.
   (C)   Hearing.
      (1)   The city shall approve the special solicitation or exemption after
a public hearing before the City Council following notice by publication in at
least one newspaper of general circulation in the city’s area.
      (2)   At the public hearing, the city shall offer an opportunity for any
interested party to appear and present comment.
      (3)   The City Council will consider the findings and may approve the
exemption as proposed or as modified by the City Council after providing an
opportunity for public comment.
   (D)   Special requirements for public improvement contracts.
      (1)   Notification of the public hearing for exemption of a public
improvement contract, or class of public improvement contracts, shall be
published in a trade newspaper of general statewide circulation at least 14
days prior to the hearing.
      (2)   The notice shall state that the public hearing is for the purpose
of taking comments on the city’s draft findings for an exemption from the
standard solicitation method. At the time of the notice, copies of the draft
findings shall be made available to the public.
   (E)   Commencement of solicitation prior to approval. A solicitation may be
issued prior to the approval of a special exemption under this section,
provided that the closing of the solicitation may not be earlier than five days
after the date of the hearing at which the City Council approves the exemption.
If the City Council fails to approve a requested exemption, or requires the use
of a solicitation procedure other than the procedures described in the issued
solicitation documents, the issued solicitation may either be modified by
addendum, or cancelled.
(Ord. 610, passed 2-28-2005)
§ 32.08 SOLICITATION METHODS FOR CLASSES OF CONTRACTS.
   The following classes of public contracts and the method(s) that are
approved for the award of each of the classes are hereby established by the
City Council.
   (A)   Purchases from nonprofit agencies for disabled individuals. The city
shall give a preference to goods, services, and public improvements available
from qualified nonprofit agencies for disabled individuals in accordance with
the provisions of O.R.S. 279.835 through 279.850.
   (B)   Public improvement contracts.
      (1)   Any public improvement. Unless otherwise provided in these
regulations or approved for a special exemption, public improvement contracts
in any amount may be issued only under an invitation to bid;
      (2)   Non-transportation public improvements. Public improvement
contracts other than contracts for a highway, bridge, or other transportation
project for which the estimated contract price does not exceed an amount that
shall be determined by the City Council may be awarded using an informal
solicitation for quotes; and
      (3)   Transportation public improvements. Contracts for which the
estimated contract price does not exceed an amount that shall be determined by
the City Council for highways, bridges, or other transportation projects may be
awarded using an informal solicitation for quotes.
   (C)   Personal services contracts.
      (1)   Any personal services contract. Personal services contracts in any
amount may be awarded under a publicly advertised request for competitive
sealed proposals.
      (2)   Personal sendee contracts; informal amounts. Contracts for personal
services for which the estimated contract price does not exceed an amount that
shall be determined by the City Council may be awarded using an informal
solicitation for proposals.
      (3)   Award from qualified pool. Contracts for personal services for
which the estimated contract price does not exceed an amount that shall be
determined by the City Council may be awarded by direct appointment without
competition from a qualified pool.
      (4)   Personal service contracts; city’s best interest. Contracts for
which the solicitation agent estimates that payments will not exceed an amount
that shall be determined by the City Council in any fiscal year or another
amount that shall be determined by the City Council over the full term,
including optional renewals, may be awarded under any method deemed in the
city’s best interest by the solicitation agent, including by direct
appointment.
      (5)   Personal service contracts for continuation of work. Contracts of
not more than an amount that shall be determined by the City Council for the
continuation of work by a contractor who performed preliminary studies,
analysis, or planning for the work under a prior contract may be awarded
without competition if the prior contract was awarded under a competitive
process and the solicitation agent determines that use of the original
contractor will significantly reduce the costs of, or risks associated with,
the work.
   (D)   Hybrid contracts. The following classes of contracts include elements
of construction of public improvements as well as personal services and may be
awarded under a request for proposals, unless exempt from competitive
solicitation.
      (1)   Design/build and CM/GC contracts.
         (a)   Contracts for the construction of public improvements using a
design/build or construction manager/general contractor construction method
shall be awarded under a request for proposals.
         (b)   The determination to construct a project using a design/build or
construction manager/general contractor construction method must be approved by
the City Council or designee, upon application of the solicitation agent, in
which the solicitation agent submits facts that support a finding that the
construction of the improvement under the proposed method is likely to result
in cost savings, higher quality, reduced errors, or other benefits to the city.
      (2)   Energy savings performance contracts. Unless the contract qualifies
for award under another classification in this section, contractors for energy
savings performance contracts shall be selected under a request for proposals
in accordance with the city’s public contracting regulations.
   (E)   Contracts for goods and services.
      (1)   Any procurement. The procurement of goods or services, or goods and
services in any amount may be made under either an invitation to bid or a
request for proposals.
      (2)   Procurements. The procurement of goods or services, or goods and
services, for which the estimated contract price does not exceed an amount that
shall be determined by the City Council may be made under an informal
solicitation for either quotes or proposals.
   (F)   Contracts subject to award at solicitation agent’s discretion. The
following classes of contracts may be awarded in any manner which the
solicitation agent deems appropriate to the city’s needs, including by direct
appointment or purchase. Except where otherwise provided the solicitation agent
shall make a record of the method of award:
      (1)   Advertising. Contracts for the placing of notice or advertisements
in any medium;
      (2)   Amendments. Contract amendments shall not be considered to be
separate contracts if made in accordance with the public contracting
regulations;
      (3)   Animals. Contracts for the purchase of animals;
      (4)   Contracts. Contracts of any type for which the contract price does
not exceed an amount that shall be determined by the City Council without a
record of the method of award;
      (5)   Copyrighted materials; library materials. Contracts for the
acquisition of materials entitled to copyright, including, but not limited to,
works of art and design, literature, and music, or materials even if not
entitled to copyright, purchased for use as library lending materials;
      (6)   Equipment repair. Contracts for equipment repair or overhauling,
provided the service or parts required are unknown and the cost cannot be
determined without extensive preliminary dismantling or testing;
      (7)   Government regulated items. Contracts for the purchase of items for
which prices or selection of suppliers are regulated by a governmental
authority;
      (8)   Insurance. Insurance and service contracts as provided for under
O.R.S. 414.115, 414.125, 414.135, and 414.145;
      (9)   Non-owned property. Contracts or arrangements for the sale or other
disposal of abandoned property or other personal property not owned by the
city;
      (10)   Sole source contracts. Contracts for goods or services which are
available from a single source may be awarded without competition;
      (11)   Specialty goods for resale. Contracts for the purchase of
specialty goods by the city for resale to consumers;
      (12)   Sponsor agreements. Sponsorship agreements, under which the city
receives a gift or donation in exchange for recognition of the donor;
      (13)   Structures. Contracts for the disposal of structures located on
city-owned property;
      (14)   Renewals. Contracts that are being renewed in accordance with
their terms are not considered to be newly issued contracts and are not subject
to competitive procurement procedures;
      (15)   Temporary extensions or renewals. Contracts for a single period of
one year or less, for the temporary extension or renewal of an expiring and
non-renewable, or recently expired, contract, other than a contract for public
improvements;
      (16)   Temporary use of city-owned property. The city may negotiate and
enter into a license, permit, or other contract for the temporary use of city-
owned property without using a competitive selection process if:
         (a)   The contract results from an unsolicited proposal to the city
based on the unique attributes of the property or the unique needs of the
proposer;
         (b)   The proposed use of the property is consistent with the city’s
use of the property and the public interest; and
         (c)   The city reserves the right to terminate the contract without
penalty, if the city determines that the contract is no longer consistent with
the city’s present or planned use of the property or the public interest.
      (17)   Used property. A solicitation agent, for procurements up to an
amount that shall be determined by the City Council, and the City Council, for
procurements in excess of such determined amount may contract for the purchase
of used property by negotiation if such property is suitable for the city’s
needs and can be purchased for a lower cost than substantially similarly new
property. For this purpose thee cost of used property shall be based upon the
life-cycle cost of the property over the period for which the property will be
used by the city. The City Council shall record the findings that support the
purchase; and
      (18)   Utilities. Contracts for the purchase of steam, power, heat,
water, telecommunications services, and other utilities.
   (G)   Contracts required by emergency circumstances.
      (1)   In general. When an official with authority to enter into a
contract on behalf of the city determines that immediate execution of a
contract within the official’s authority is necessary to prevent substantial
damage or injury to persons or property, the official may execute the contract
without competitive selection and award or the City Council’s approval, but,
where time permits, the official shall attempt to use competitive price and
quality evaluation before selecting an emergency contractor.
      (2)   Reporting. An official who enters into an emergency contract shall,
as soon as possible, in light of the emergency circumstances:
         (a)   Document the nature of the emergency; the method used for
selection of the particular contractor and the reason why the selection method
was deemed in the best interest of the city and the public; and
         (b)   Notify the City Council of the facts and circumstances
surrounding the emergency execution of the contract.
      (3)   Emergency public improvement contracts. A public improvement
contract may only be awarded under emergency circumstances if the City Council
has made a written declaration of emergency. Any public improvement contract
award under emergency conditions must be awarded within 60 days following the
declaration of an emergency unless the City Council grants an extension of the
emergency period. Where the time delay needed to obtain a payment or
performance bond for the contract could result in injury or substantial
property damage, the City Council may waive the requirement for all or a
portion of required performance and payment bonds.
   (H)   Federal purchasing programs. Goods and services may be purchased
without competitive procedures under a local government purchasing program
administered by the United States General Services Administration (“GSA”) as
provided in this division (H).
      (1)   The procurement must be made in accordance with procedures
established by GSA for procurements by local governments, and under purchase
orders or contracts submitted to and approved by the City Council. The
solicitation agent shall provide the City Council with a copy of the letter,
memorandum, or other documentation from GSA establishing permission to the city
to purchase under the federal program.
      (2)   The price of the goods or services must be established under price
agreements between the federally approved vendor and GSA.
      (3)   The price of the goods or services must be less than the price at
which such goods or services are available under state or local cooperative
purchasing programs that are available to the city.
      (4)   If a single purchase of goods or services exceeds an amount that
shall be determined by the City Council, the solicitation agent must obtain
informal written quotes or proposals from at least two additional vendors (if
reasonably available) and find, in writing, that the goods or services offered
by GSA represent the best value for the city. This division (H)(4) does not
apply to the purchase of equipment manufactured or sold solely for military or
law enforcement purposes.
   (I)   Cooperative procurement contracts. Cooperative procurements may be
made without competitive solicitation as provided in the Oregon Public
Contracting Code, being O.R.S. 279A, 279B, and 279C.
   (J)   Surplus property.
      (1)   General methods. Surplus property may be disposed of by any of the
following methods upon a determination by the solicitation agent that the
method of disposal is in the best interest of the city. Factors that may be
considered by the solicitation agent include costs of sale, administrative
costs, and public benefits to the city. The solicitation agent shall maintain a
record of the reason for the disposal method selected, and the manner of
disposal, including the name of the person to whom the surplus property was
transferred:
         (a)   Governments. Without competition, by transfer or sale to another
governmental department or public agency;
         (b)   Auction. By publicly advertised auction to the highest bidder;
         (c)   Bids. By public advertised invitation to bid;
         (d)   Liquidation sale. By liquidation sale using a commercially
recognized third-party liquidator selected in accordance with rules for the
award of personal services contracts;
         (e)   Fixed price sale. The solicitation agent may establish a selling
price based upon an independent appraisal or published schedule of values
generally accepted by the insurance industry, schedule and advertise a sale
date, and sell to the first buyer meeting the sales terms;
         (f)   Trade-in. By trade-in, in conjunction with acquisition of other
price-based items under a competitive solicitation. The solicitation shall
require the offer to state the total value assigned to the surplus property to
be traded; and
         (g)   Donation. By donation to any organization operating within or
providing a service to residents of the city which is recognized by the
Internal Revenue Service as an organization described in § 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
      (2)   Disposal of property with minimal value. Surplus property which has
a value of less than an amount that shall be determined by the City Council, or
for which the costs of sale are likely to exceed sale proceeds may be disposed
of by any means determined to be cost-effective, including by disposal as
waste. The official making the disposal shall make a record of the value of the
item and the manner of disposal.
      (3)   Personal use items. An item (or indivisible set) of specialized and
personal use, other than law enforcement officer’s handguns, with a current
value of less than an amount that shall be determined by the City Council may
be sold to the employee or retired or terminated employee for whose use it was
purchased. These items may be sold for fair market value without bid and by a
process deemed most efficient by the City Council.
      (4)   Law enforcement officers’ handguns. Upon honorable retirement from
service with the city, a law enforcement officer may purchase the handgun that
she or he was using at the time of retirement. The purchase price shall be the
fair market value of the handgun as determined by an independent appraisal
performed by a qualified weapons appraiser. An officer electing to exercise
this option shall notify the city at least 30 days prior to his or her expected
retirement date and request an appraisal of the handgun. Upon receipt of the
appraisal fee from the officer the city shall arrange for the appraisal. A copy
of the completed appraisal shall be provided to the officer, who shall have up
to 30 days from the date of retirement to purchase the handgun for the
appraised fair market value.
      (5)   Restriction on sale to city employees. City employees shall not be
restricted from competing, as members of the public, for the purchase of
publicly sold surplus property, but shall not be permitted to offer to purchase
property to be sold to the first qualifying bidder until at least three days
after the first date on which notice of the sale is first publicly advertised.
      (6)   Conveyance to purchaser. Upon the consummation of a sale of surplus
personal property, the city shall make, execute, and deliver, a bill of sale
signed on behalf of the city, conveying the property in question to the
purchaser and delivering possession, or the right to take possession, of the
property to the purchaser.
   (K)   Concession agreements.
      (1)   General. No part of a concession agreement shall contain or
constitute a waiver of any generally applicable rules, code provisions, or
requirements of the city concerning regulation, registration, licensing,
inspection, or permit requirements for any construction, rental, or business
activity.
      (2)   Classes of contracts eligible for award without competition. The
following concession agreements may be awarded by any method deemed appropriate
by the solicitation agent, including without limitation, by direct appointment,
private negotiation, from a qualified pool, or using a competitive process:
         (a)   Contracts. Contracts under which the solicitation agent
estimates that receipts by the city will not exceed an amount that shall be
determined by the City Council in any fiscal year and another amount that shall
be determined by the City Council in the aggregate; and
         (b)   Single event concessions. Concessions to sell or promote food,
beverages, merchandise, or services at a single public event shall be awarded
based on any method determined by the City Council to provide a fair
opportunity to all persons desiring to operate a concession, but in which the
promotion of the public interest and success of the event shall be of
predominant importance.
      (3)   Competitive award. Concession agreements solicited by the city for
the use of designated public premises for a term greater than a single event
shall be awarded as follows:
         (a)   Small concessions. For concession agreements for which the
concessionaire’s projected annual gross revenues are estimated to be an amount
that shall be determined by the City Council or less, the City Council has
discretion to use either an informal solicitation or formal request for
proposals process applicable to contracts for personal services. If the
proposals received indicate a probability that the concessionaire’s annual
gross revenues will exceed such determined amount, the solicitation agent may,
but shall not be required to, reissue the solicitation as a request for
proposals; and
         (b)   Major concessions. Concession agreements for which the
concessionaire’s projected annual gross revenues under the contract are
estimated to exceed an amount that shall be determined by the City Council
annually shall be awarded using a request for proposals.
(Ord. 610, passed 2-28-2005; Ord. 610A, passed 3-9-2015)
§ 32.09 INFORMAL SOLICITATION PROCEDURES.
   The city may use the following procedure for informal solicitations in lieu
of the procedures set forth in the Model Rules.
   (A)   Informally solicited quotes and proposals.
      (1)   Solicitation of offers. When authorized by these regulations, an
informal solicitation may be made by general or limited advertisement to a
certain group of vendors, by direct inquiry to persons selected by the
solicitation agent, or in any other manner which the solicitation agent deems
suitable for obtaining competitive quotes or proposals. The solicitation agent
shall deliver or otherwise make available to potential offerors, a written
scope of work, a description of how quotes or proposals are to be submitted and
description of the criteria for award.
      (2)   Award. The solicitation agent shall attempt to obtain a minimum of
three written quotes or proposals before making an award. If the award is made
solely on the basis of price, the solicitation agent shall award the contract
to the responsible offeror that submits the lowest responsive quote. If the
award is based on criteria other than, or in addition to, price, the
solicitation agent shall award the contract to the responsible offeror that
will best serve the interest of the city, based on the criteria for award.
      (3)   Records. A written record of all persons solicited and offers
received shall be maintained. If three offers cannot be obtained, a lesser
number will suffice, provided that a written record is made of the effort to
obtain the quotes.
   (B)   Qualified pools.
      (1)   General. To create a qualified pool, the City Council may invite
prospective contractors to submit their qualifications to the city for
inclusion as participants in a pool of contractors qualified to provide certain
types of goods, services, or projects including personal services and public
improvements.
      (2)   Advertisement.
         (a)   The invitation to participate in a qualified pool shall be
advertised in the manner provided for advertisements of invitations to bid and
requests for proposals by publication in at least one newspaper of general
statewide circulation at the city’s main office, and on its website.
         (b)   If qualification will be for a term that exceeds one year or
allows open entry on a continuous basis, the invitation to participate in the
pool must be re-published at least once per year and shall be posted at the
city’s main office and on its website.
      (3)   Contents of solicitation. Requests for participation in a qualified
pool shall describe the scope of goods or services or projects for which the
pool will be maintained, and the minimum qualifications for participation in
the pool, which may include, but shall not be limited to, qualifications
related to financial stability, contracts with manufacturers or distributors,
certification as an emerging small business, insurance, licensure, education,
training, experience and demonstrated skills of key personnel, access to
equipment, and other relevant qualifications that are important to the
contracting needs of the city.
      (4)   Contract.
         (a)   The operation of each qualified pool may be governed by the
provisions of a pool contract to which the city and all pool participants are
parties. The contract shall contain all terms required by the city, including,
without limitation, terms related to price, performance, business registration
or licensure, continuing education, insurance, and requirements for the
submission, on an annual or other periodic basis, of evidence of continuing
qualification.
         (b)   The qualified pool contract shall describe the selection
procedures that the city may use to issue contract job orders. The selection
procedures shall be objective and open to all pool participants and afford all
participants the opportunity to compete for or receive job awards.
         (c)   Unless expressly provided in the contract, participation in a
qualified pool will not entitle a participant to the award of any city
contract.
      (5)   Use of qualified pools. Subject to the provisions of these
regulations concerning methods of solicitation for classes of contracts, the
City Council shall award all contracts for goods or services of the type for
which a qualified pool is created from among the pool’s participants, unless
the City Council determines that best interests of the city require
solicitation by public advertisement, in which case, pool participants shall be
notified of the solicitation and invited to submit competitive proposals.
      (6)   Amendment and termination. The city may discontinue a qualified
pool at any time, or may change the requirements for eligibility as a
participant in the pool at any time, by giving notice to all participants in
the qualified pool.
      (7)   Protest of failure to qualify. The city shall notify any applicant
who fails to qualify for participation in a pool that it may appeal a qualified
pool decision to the City Council in the manner described in §
32.13.
(Ord. 610, passed 2-28-2005)
§ 32.10 USE OF BRAND NAME SPECIFICATIONS FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   In general. Specifications for contracts shall not expressly or
implicitly require any product by one brand name or mark, nor the product of
one particular manufacturer or seller, except for the following reasons:
      (1)   It is unlikely that such exemption will encourage favoritism in the
awarding of public improvement contracts or substantially diminish competition
for public improvement contracts;
      (2)   The specification of a product by brand name or mark, or the
product of a particular manufacturer or seller, would result in substantial
cost savings to the city;
      (3)   There is only one manufacturer or seller of the product of the
quality required; or
      (4)   Efficient utilization of existing equipment, systems, or supplies
requires the acquisition of compatible equipment or supplies.
   (B)   Authority of City Council. The City Council shall have authority to
determine whether an exemption for the use of a specific brand name
specification should be granted by recording findings that support the
exemption based on the provisions of division (A) above.
   (C)   Brand name or equivalent. Nothing in this section prohibits the city
from using a “brand name or equivalent” specification, from specifying one or
more comparable products as examples of the quality, performance,
functionality, or other characteristics of the product needed by the city, or
from establishing a qualified product list.
(Ord. 610, passed 2-28-2005)
§ 32.11 BID, PERFORMANCE, AND PAYMENT BONDS.
   (A)   Solicitation agent may require bonds. The solicitation agent may
require bid security and a good and sufficient performance and payment bond
even though the contract is of a class that is exempt from the requirement.
   (B)   Bid security. Except as otherwise exempted, the solicitations for all
contracts that include the construction of a public improvement and for which
the estimated contract price will exceed an amount that shall be determined by
the City Council shall require bid security. Bid security for a request for
proposal may be based on the city’s estimated contract price.
   (C)   Performance bonds.
      (1)   General. Except as provided in these regulations, all public
contracts are exempt from the requirement for the furnishing of a performance
bond.
      (2)   Contracts involving public improvements. Prior to executing a
contract for more than an amount that shall be determined by the City Council
that includes the construction of a public improvement, the contractor must
deliver a performance bond in an amount equal to the full contract price
conditioned on the faithful performance of the contract in accordance with the
plans, specifications, and conditions of the contract. The performance bond
must be solely for the protection of the city and any public agency that is
providing funding for the project for which the contract was awarded.
      (3)   Cash-in-lieu. The city may permit the successful offeror to submit
a cashier’s check or certified check in lieu of all or a portion of the
required performance bond.
   (D)   Payment bonds.
      (1)   General. Except as provided in these regulations, all public
contracts are exempt from the requirement for the furnishing of a payment bond.
      (2)   Contracts involving public improvements. Prior to executing a
contract for more than such amount that shall be determined by the City Council
that includes the construction of a public improvement, the contractor must
deliver a payment bond equal to the full contract price, solely for the
protection of claimants under O.R.S. 279C.600.
   (E)   Design/build contracts. If the public improvement contract is with a
single person to provide both design and construction of a public improvement,
the obligation of the performance bond for the faithful performance of the
contract must also be for the preparation and completion of the design and
related services covered under the contract. Notwithstanding when a cause of
action, claim, or demand accrues or arises, the surety is not liable after
final completion of the contract, or longer if provided for in the contract,
for damages of any nature, economic, or otherwise and including corrective
work, attributable to the design aspect of a design-build project, or for the
costs of design revisions needed to implement corrective work.
   (F)   Construction manager/general contractor contracts.
      (1)   If the public improvement contract is with a single person to
provide construction manager and general contractor services, in which a
guaranteed maximum price may be established by an amendment authorizing
construction period services following preconstruction period services, the
contractor shall provide the bonds required by division (A) above upon
execution of an amendment establishing the guaranteed maximum price.
      (2)   The city shall also require the contractor to provide bonds equal
to the value of construction services authorized by any early work amendment in
advance of the guaranteed maximum price amendment. Such bonds must be provided
before construction starts.
   (G)   Surety; obligation.
      (1)   Each performance bond and each payment bond must be executed solely
by a surety company or companies holding a certificate of authority to transact
surety business in the state. The bonds may not constitute the surety
obligation of an individual or individuals.
      (2)   The performance and payment bonds must be payable to the city or to
the public agency or agencies for whose benefit the bond is issued, as
specified in the solicitation documents, and shall be in a form approved by the
solicitation agent.
   (H)   Emergencies. In cases of emergency, or when the interest or property
of the city probably would suffer material injury by delay or other cause, the
requirement of furnishing a good and sufficient performance bond and a good and
sufficient payment bond for the faithful performance of any public improvement
contract may be excused, if a declaration of such emergency is made in
accordance with the provisions of §
32.08(G), unless the City Council requires otherwise.
(Ord. 610, passed 2-28-2005)
§ 32.12 ELECTRONIC ADVERTISEMENT OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT CONTRACTS.
   In lieu of publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city’s
area, the advertisement for an invitation to bid or request for proposals for a
contract involving a public improvement may be published electronically by
posting on the city’s website, provided that the following conditions are met:
   (A)   The placement of the advertisement is on a location within the website
that is maintained on a regular basis for the posting of information concerning
solicitations for projects of the type for which the invitation to bid or
request for proposals is issued; and
   (B)   The solicitation agent determines that the use of electronic
publication will be at least as effective in encouraging meaningful competition
as publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city’s area and
will provide costs savings for the city, or that the use of electronic
publication will be more effective than publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city’s area in encouraging meaningful competition.
(Ord. 610, passed 2-28-2005)
§ 32.13 APPEAL OF DEBARMENT OR PREQUALIFICATION DECISION.
   (A)   Right to hearing. Any person who has been debarred from competing for
city contracts or for whom prequalification has been denied, revoked, or
revised may appeal the city’s decision to the City Council as provided in this
section.
   (B)   Filing of appeal. The person must file a written notice of appeal with
the City Recorder within three business days after the prospective contractor’s
receipt of notice of the determination of debarment, or denial of
prequalification.
   (C)   Notification of City Council. Immediately upon receipt of such notice
of appeal, the City Recorder shall notify the City Council of the appeal.
   (D)   Hearing. The procedure for appeal from a debarment or denial,
revocation, or revision of prequalification shall be as follows:
      (1)   Promptly upon receipt of notice of appeal, the city shall notify
the appellant of the time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The city shall conduct the hearing and decide the appeal within 30
days after receiving notice of the appeal from the City Recorder; and
      (3)   At the hearing, the City Council shall consider de novo the notice
of debarment, or the notice of denial, revocation, or revision of
prequalification, the standards of responsibility upon which the decision on
prequalification was based, or the reasons listed for debarment, and any
evidence provided by the parties.
   (E)   Decision. The City Council shall set forth in writing the reasons for
the decision.
   (F)   Costs. The City Council may allocate the City Council’s costs for the
hearing between the appellant and the city. The allocation shall be based upon
facts found by the City Council and stated in the City Council’s decision that,
in the City Council’s opinion, warrant such allocation of costs. If the City
Council does not allocate costs, the costs shall be paid as by the appellant,
if the decision is upheld, or by the city, if the decision is overturned.
   (G)   Judicial review. The decision of the City Council may be reviewed only
upon a petition in the circuit court of the county filed within 15 days after
the date of the City Council’s decision.
(Ord. 610, passed 2-28-2005)
CHAPTER 33: REAL PROPERTY COMPENSATION
Section
   
33.01   Purpose
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Claim filing procedures
   
33.04   City Recorder investigation and recommendation
   
33.05   City Council public hearing
   
33.06   City Council action on claim
   
33.07   Processing fee; deposit required
   
33.08   Appellate rights
   
33.09   Record keeping
   
33.10   Interpretation; no third party causes of action are established
   
33.11   Tax assessment
§ 33.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is intended to implement the provisions added to O.R.S. Chapter
197 by Ballot Measure 37 (November 2, 2004). These provisions establish a
prompt, open, thorough, and consistent process that enables property owners an
adequate and fair opportunity to present claims, while at the same time
allowing the city to review the claim and make an appropriate determination of
its validity and what remedy might be available; establishes a record for the
city’s administration of its land use program in the future; and collects
sufficient information to be capable of judicial review. Adoption of this
chapter is authorized by Ballot Measure 37, Section 7.
(Ord. 601, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY RECORDER. The City Recorder of the City of Sublimity, or designee.
   CLAIM. Any claim filed under the provisions of this chapter.
   CLAIMANT. The property owner making a claim under this chapter, or their
designee, so long as written authorization is provided to the city by the
property owner for the designee to represent the property owner in making a
claim.
   EXEMPT LAND USE REGULATION. A land use regulation that:
      (1)   Restricts or prohibits activities commonly and historically
recognized as public nuisances under common law;
      (2)   Restricts or prohibits activities for the protection of public
health and safety, such as fire and building codes, health and sanitation
regulations, solid or hazardous waste regulations, pollution control
regulations, wetlands and floodplain regulations, grading and fill regulations,
landslide hazard regulations, and street regulations, wireless communication
facility siting, regulations, tree preservation chapters, sign code, setback
and fencing regulations, and natural resource regulations to the extent these
enumerated regulations and others which are similar, to the extent they are
determined necessary for fire and safety reasons;
      (3)   Is required in order to comply with federal law;
      (4)   Restricts or prohibits the use of property for the purpose of
selling pornography or performing nude dancing;
      (5)   Was enacted prior to the date of acquisition of the property by the
owner or a family member of the owner who owned the subject property prior to
acquisition or inheritance by the owner, whichever occurred first; or
      (6)   Imposes any development fee or systems development charge for
construction, parks, sewer, or water. This exemption does not apply to any such
fee that is imposed as a result of any transportation chapter.
   FAMILY MEMBER. Includes the wife, husband, son, daughter, mother, father,
brother, brother-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
mother-in-law, father-in-law, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, stepparent,
stepchild, grandparent, or grandchild of the owner of the property, an estate
of any of the foregoing family members, or a legal entity owned by any one or
combination of these family members or the owner of the property.
   LAND USE REGULATION. Includes:
      (1)   Any statute regulating the use of land or any interest therein;
      (2)   Administrative rules and goals of the Land Conservation and
Development Commission;
      (3)   Local government comprehensive plans, zoning chapters, land
division chapters, and transportation chapters;
      (4)   Statutes and administrative rules regulating farming and forest
practices as applicable to lands in the city; and
      (5)   Any intergovernmental agreement or urban growth boundary agreement
that affects the use of land.
   OWNER. The present owner of the property, or any interest therein.
   VALID CLAIM. A claim submitted by the owner of real property that is subject
to a land use regulation adopted or enforced by the city that restricts the use
of the private real property in a manner that reduces the fair market value of
the real property as determined by the city pursuant to the terms of this
chapter.
(Ord. 601, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 33.03 CLAIM FILING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A person seeking to file a claim under this chapter must be the
present owner of the property that is the subject of the claim at the time the
claim is submitted. The claim shall be filed with the City Recorder’s office,
or as designated by the City Recorder.
   (B)   A claim shall include a completed claim form, which will be provided
by the city, together with the following additional information:
      (1)   The name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of all owners,
and anyone with any interest in the property, including lien holders, trustees,
renters, lessees, or easement holders, and a description of the ownership
interest of each;
      (2)   The address, tax lot, and legal description of the real property
that is the subject of the claim, together with a title report issued by a
title company no more than 30 days prior to the submission of the claim that
reflects the ownership interest in the property, or other documentation
reflecting sole ownership of the property by the claimant, and the date the
property was acquired by the present owner;
      (3)   The specific current land use regulation(s) that claimant alleges
restricts the use of the real property and allegedly causes a reduction in the
fair market value of the subject property;
      (4)   The claimant shall specify the remedy sought. The claimant may
specify alternative remedies. In the event the claimant is seeking just
compensation, the amount of the claim, based on the alleged reduction in value
of the real property shall be supported by an appraisal by an appraiser
licensed by the state establishing the reduction in the fair market value of
the property as of the date of the claim;
      (5)   Copies of any leases or covenants, conditions, and restrictions
(CCRs) applicable to the real property, if any, that impose restrictions on the
use of the property, or which would affect its valuation;
      (6)   Identification of the particular use that is proposed for the real
property and proof that the requested use was allowed as proposed at the time
the owner acquired the real property. Where necessary, the city may require a
site plan, elevation drawings, or other detailed description of the proposed
use in order to determine the validity of the claim;
      (7)   State that any and all claims under this chapter are included in
this claim, or that if overlapping claims for the same property with other
governmental entities (such as the county or state) exist, that they are being
filed with the appropriate entity contemporaneously with the claim filed with
the city. Where there are more than one claim filed on a single tract of land,
the city shall have the right to consolidate those claims for determination;
      (8)   Evidence the city has enforced current land use regulations against
claimant’s real property in such a way as to restrict the use of that real
property with the effect of reducing the fair market value of that real
property. In the determination of fair market value, market conditions shall be
taken into account, and shall be valued as of the date of acquisition by the
present owner thereof. A claim shall be considered ripe for submission when a
claimant produces evidence of a land use decision that denies or conditions an
approval for a use on the subject property, or citation or denial of building
permit or other approval that meets the test of this chapter for validity of a
claim. The simple existence of a current land use regulation, without some
affirmative enforcement thereof by the city, is not sufficient to satisfy this
application requirement;
      (9)   A list of names of property owners, certified by either a title
company or the County Assessor, or all current owners of record of all
properties that lie within 300 feet of the perimeter boundary of the real
property subject to the claim;
      (10)   A narrative statement from the claimant or designee which provides
information about the history of the property and its ownership as well as
explanation and justification for why the claim is valid, and stating precisely
what remedy is being requested from the city. The narrative should include as
much detail as possible about the use that is proposed, which is restricted and
devalued by present land use regulations;
      (11)   A list of any and all overlay or special chapters (such as
landslide hazards, floodplain, wetlands, and the like) that apply to the
subject property, as well as any special designations that may apply to the
subject property (such as downtown, historic district, LID, and the like);
      (12)   Copies of any prior land use decisions or land use or building
permits issued for or relating to the subject property;
      (13)   Signatures of all owners or those claiming ownership in the real
property over which the claim is being made; and
      (14)   A deposit for costs in the amount of that shall be determined by
the City Council, or such other amount determined by the City Recorder, and
which is administered, billed, and collected as provided for in this chapter.
   (C)   No period of time relative to the filing of a claim shall be
considered to have accrued until such time as the city has reviewed the claim
and submission requirements and deemed them to have been complete.
Notwithstanding a claimant’s failure to provide all of the information required
herein, the city may review and act on a claim that has not been deemed
complete if it appears to the city in its sole discretion that no further
information will be provided.
   (D)   The burden of proof of the validity of a claim lies with the claimant.
The burden of presenting sufficient evidence for which the city can
legitimately apply the provisions of this chapter also lies with the claimant.
(Ord. 601, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 33.04 CITY RECORDER INVESTIGATION AND RECOMMENDATION.
   (A)   Following an investigation of a claim, the City Recorder or designee
shall recommend in writing to the Council that the claim be a recommendation to
the City Council that the claim be:
      (1)   Denied as not being a valid claim under this chapter;
      (2)   Investigated further to ascertain validity or appropriate remedy;
or
      (3)   Declared valid, and thereafter to recommend whether the remedy
requested is appropriate, or whether some alternative remedy allowed by this
chapter is appropriate. If recommending compensation, the amount and the basis
and reasoning for recommending the amount. If recommending a waiver or
modification, of the restrictive the land use regulation, the details of the
scope and extent of the waiver or modification shall be set forth.
   (B)   The City Recorder’s recommendation shall be issued within 30 days of
the date the claim is deemed to be complete. The recommendation shall be
forwarded to the claimant and to the City Council, and a hearing as hereinafter
provided for shall be conducted.
(Ord. 601, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 33.05 CITY COUNCIL PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   The City Council shall conduct a public hearing before taking final
action on a recommendation from the City Recorder. Notice of the public hearing
shall be provided to the claimant, to owners and occupants of property within
300 feet of the perimeter of the subject property, neighborhood groups, or
community organizations officially recognized by the City Council whose
boundaries include the subject property, and to any other person or entity that
makes written request notice of hearing.
   (B)   The normal Council rules for the conduct of public hearings shall
apply to hearings held under this chapter.
(Ord. 601, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 33.06 CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON CLAIM.
   (A)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing, and prior to the expiration of
180 days from the date the claim was deemed complete, the City Council shall:
      (1)   Deny the demand based on, but not limited to, any one or more of
the following findings and conclusions:
         (a)   The land use regulation does not restrict the use of the private
real property;
         (b)   The fair market value of the property is not reduced by the
enactment, enforcement, or application of the land use regulation;
         (c)   The demand was not timely filed;
         (d)   The owner failed to comply with the requirements for making a
demand as set forth in this chapter;
         (e)   The owner is not the present property owner, or the property was
not owned by a family member if that is required for compensation, or was not
the property owner at the time the land use regulation was enacted, enforced,
or applied;
         (f)   The land use regulation is an exempt regulation as defined in
this chapter;
         (g)   The land use regulation in question is not an enactment of the
city;
         (h)   The city has not taken final action to enact, enforce, or apply
the land use regulation to the property; or
         (i)   The owner is not entitled to compensation under this chapter,
for a reason other than those provided herein.
      (2)   Adopt a resolution with findings therein that supports a
determination that the claim is valid, and determines the appropriate remedy
for the claim. The City Council may direct that the claimant be compensated in
an amount set forth in the resolution for the reduction in value of the
property as provided for herein, or the City Council may direct the removal or
modification to the challenged land use regulation as it relates to the subject
property.
   (B)   The City Council’s decision as to the validity of the claim shall be
based on the provisions of Ballot Measure 37 and as implemented through this
chapter.
   (C)   The City Council’s decision as to the remedy to provide in the event
of a valid claim being established shall be based on whether the public
interest would be better served by compensating the owner or by removing or
modifying the challenged land use regulation with respect to the subject
property; the availability of funds; the request of the claimant; testimony and
evidence presented during the public hearing; and the recommendation of the
City Recorder.
   (D)   If the City Council removes or modifies the challenged land use
regulation, it may, at its discretion, put back into effect with respect to the
subject property, all of the land use regulations in effect at the time the
claimant acquired the property.
   (E)   The City Council shall have the right to condition any grant of waiver
or modification of land use regulations for any purpose which protects the
health, safety, and welfare of the public. Any condition so imposed must be
clear and concise and related directly to the claim and the use being proposed
therein. Failure to comply with any condition of approval is grounds for
revocation of the approval of the claim, grounds for recovering any
compensation paid and grounds for revocation of any other action taken under
this chapter. All conditions, time limits, or other restrictions imposed with
approval of a claim will bind all subsequent owners of the subject property.
   (F)   A decision by the City Council to remove or modify a land use
regulation shall result in the proposed use allowed by the waiver or
modification being thereafter considered a non-conforming use under Oregon
Revised Statutes, Oregon Administrative Rules and the city’s Development Code.
Upon grant of waiver or modification, the claimant shall cause notice thereof
by way of a “license” form provided by the city, to be recorded in the deed
records of the subject property so that all future owners thereof are put on
notice of the non-conforming use status of the development on the subject
property.
   (G)   Any waiver or modification of land use regulations granted pursuant to
this chapter shall be exercised within six years of the grant of waiver or
modification. Any waiver or modification not exercised within six is
automatically terminated and of no further force and effect.
   (H)   No waiver or modification of land use regulations granted pursuant to
this chapter shall be transferred to any third party. Any transfer of the
rights granted pursuant to this chapter to a third party shall result in the
automatic termination of the waiver or modification grant.
(Ord. 601, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 33.07 PROCESSING FEE; DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The city shall maintain a record of the city’s costs in processing a
claim, including the costs of obtaining information required herein which a
property owner does not provide to the city. When the deposit is exhausted, the
City Recorder may require another deposit that is sufficient to complete city
action on the claim. Following final action by the city on the claim, the City
Recorder shall send to the property owner a final bill showing the total actual
costs, including staff and legal costs, that the city incurred in reviewing and
acting on the claim, together with the deposits posted, and either refund or
bill the balance as dictated by the deposit ledger.
   (B)   If the property owner owes an amount to the city as calculated in
division (A) above, and does not pay the amount due within 30 days, then the
city shall pursue collection, including filing a lien on the property. The city
shall be entitled to costs of collection, including attorney fees, costs, and
disbursements incurred in collection.
(Ord. 601, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 33.08 APPELLATE RIGHTS.
   Any decision under this chapter is not a land use decision, and none of the
formalities required of land use decisions by statute, rule, or local chapter
are necessary. Appeal of any final decision of the city made hereunder shall
not be to the state’s Land Use Board of Appeals, but to the county circuit
court.
(Ord. 601, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 33.09 RECORD KEEPING.
   The city shall keep a central record of all claims made hereunder and the
disposition thereof. Specific notation shall be made on the comprehensive plan
and zone maps of the existence and extent of any waiver or modification granted
under this chapter. The city shall provide basic information on the filing and
disposition of all claims at any central repository established by the
Department of Land Conservation and Development.
(Ord. 601, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 33.10 INTERPRETATION; NO THIRD PARTY CAUSES OF ACTION ARE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   For all claims filed, the applicable state law is Oregon. Any demand
that has not been processed completely under this chapter shall be subject to
any such amendments, modifications, clarifications, or other actions taken at
the state level and this chapter shall be read in a manner so as not to
conflict with such amendments, modifications, clarifications, or other actions
taken at the state level.
   (B)   This chapter is adopted solely to address demands filed under the
authority of those provisions of O.R.S. Chapter 197 added or made a part of
said Chapter by Ballot Measure 37, passed November 2, 2004.
   (C)   This chapter is not intended to create any cause of action in any
third party against either the city or the claimant on account of the issuance
of any remedy to any claim determined to be valid hereunder. This extends to
neighbors, security interest holders, special interest groups, or any other
person or entity with an interest in the outcome of any claim.
(Ord. 601, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 33.11 TAX ASSESSMENT.
   If a claim is determined to be valid, and the remedy granted is waiver or
modification of a land use regulation, the City Recorder shall notify the
County Tax Assessor of the change in use.
(Ord. 601, passed 12-13-2004)
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Elections
   
34.02   Notice of elections
   
34.03   Regulation of elections
   
34.04   Canvas of returns
   
34.05   Tie votes
   
34.06   Commencement of terms of office
   
34.07   Oath of office
   
34.08   Nominations
§ 34.01 ELECTIONS.
   Regular and special city elections shall be held in accordance with
applicable state election laws. Regular city elections shall be held for city
offices at the times and places when regular general biennial state elections
are held.
(Ord. 328, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 34.02 NOTICE OF ELECTIONS.
   The Recorder, pursuant to directions from the Council, shall give at least
ten days’ notice of the filing deadline for each city election by posting
notice thereof at a conspicuous place in the City Hall and in one public place
in each voting precinct of the city and on the city website. The notice shall
state the officers to be elected, the ballot title of measure to be voted upon,
and the time and place of the election.
(Ord. 328, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 34.03 REGULATION OF ELECTIONS.
   Except as this chapter provides otherwise and as the Council provides
otherwise by ordinances relating to elections, the general laws of the state
shall apply to the conduct of all city elections, recounts of the returns
therefrom and contests thereof.
(Ord. 328, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 34.04 CANVAS OF RETURNS.
   (A)   In all elections held in conjunction with state and county elections,
the state laws governing the filing of returns by the County Clerk shall apply.
The results of all elections shall be made a matter of record in the journal of
the proceedings of the Council.
   (B)   The journal shall contain a statement of the total number of votes
cast at each election, the votes cast for each person and for and against each
proposition, the name of each person elected to office, the office to which
that person has been elected, and a reference to each measure enacted or
approved. Immediately after the canvass is completed, the Recorder shall make
and sign a certificate of election of each person elected and deliver the
certificate to said person. A certificate so made and delivered shall be prima
facie evidence of the truth of the statements contained in it.
(Ord. 328, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 34.05 TIE VOTES.
   In the event of a tie vote for candidates for an elective officer the
successful candidate shall be determined at a public meeting of the Council
where one of two cards shall be drawn from an opaque container by the City
Recorder. The card corresponding to the candidate will be the winner. One card
will be marked “1” and the other marked “2”. The “1” card will be for the
candidate with the last name that is first in alphabetical order, “2” for the
last name that comes next in alphabetical order. In the case of a tie with more
than two candidates additional cards will be added in the same designating
order.
(Ord. 328, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 34.06 COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The term of office of a person elected at a regular city election
shall commence on the first day of the year immediately following the election.
   (B)   The term of office of a person elected at a special election shall
commence on the specified date in the resolution or ordinance authorizing the
election.
(Ord. 328, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 34.07 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Before entering upon the duties of the office, each officer shall take an
oath or shall affirm that the elected officer will support the constitutions
and laws of the United States and of Oregon and that the elected officer will
faithfully perform the duties of the office.
(Ord. 328, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 34.08 NOMINATIONS.
   (A)   A qualified elector who shall have resided in the city during the 12
months immediately preceding the election may be nominated for an elective city
position. Nomination shall be by petition specifying the position sought, in a
form prescribed by the Council. Such petition shall be signed by not fewer than
five electors residing within the city. No elector shall sign more than one
petition for each vacant position. If an elector does so, the elector’s
signature shall be valid only on the first sufficient petition filed for the
position.
   (B)   The signatures to a nomination petition need not all be appended to
one paper, but to each separate paper of the petition shall be attached an
affidavit of the circulator thereof, indicating the number of signers of the
paper and stating that each signature appended thereto was made in the
elector’s presence and is the genuine signature of the person whose name it
purports to be. With each signature shall be stated the signer’s place of
residence, identified by its street and number or other sufficient description.
All nomination papers, including verification by the County Clerk of petition
signatures, comprising a petition shall be assembled and filed with the City
Recorder as one instrument within the dates prescribed.
   (C)   The Recorder shall make a record of the exact time at which each
petition is filed and shall take and preserve the name and address of the
person by whom it is filed. If the petition is insufficient in any particular,
the Recorder shall return it immediately to the person who filed it, certifying
in writing wherein the petition is insufficient. Such deficient petition may be
amended and filed again as a new petition, or a substitute petition for the
same candidate may be filed, within the regular time for filing nomination
petitions.
   (D)   The Recorder shall notify an eligible person of that persons’
nomination, and such person shall file with the Recorder written acceptance of
that person’s nomination, in such form as the Council may require, within five
days of notification of nomination. Upon receipt of such acceptance of
nomination, the Recorder shall cause the nominee’s name to be printed on the
ballots. The petition of nomination for a successful candidate at an election
shall be preserved in the office of the Recorder until the term of office for
which the candidate is elected expires.
(Ord. 328, passed 9-10-1990)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCES
Section
Fees
   
35.01   Fees for cost of regulatory review
Transient Room Tax
   
35.15   Title
   
35.16   Definitions
   
35.17   Tax imposed
   
35.18   Collection of tax by operator; rules for collections
   
35.19   Operator’s duties
   
35.20   Exemptions
   
35.21   Registration of operator; form and contents; execution; certification
of authority
   
35.22   Due date; returns and payments
   
35.23   Penalties and interest
   
35.24   Deficiency determinations; fraud, evasion, operator delay
   
35.25   Redeterminations
   
35.26   Security for collection of tax
   
35.27   Lien
   
35.28   Refunds
   
35.29   Collection fee
   
35.30   Administration
   
35.31   Appeals to Common Council
 
   
35.99   Penalty
FEES
§ 35.01 FEES FOR COST OF REGULATORY REVIEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any addition or modification of a housing, commercial, or
industrial use requiring the construction, alteration, modification, removal,
or installation of an improvement.
      DEVELOPMENT REQUEST. Any development application, petition, or similar
inquiry requiring regulatory review by the city.
      IMPROVEMENT. Any new or modified fixture or capital improvement located
on public or private property (or property dedicated to the public) and capable
of being connected to city owned or maintained storm water, sanitary sewer,
streets, lighting, rights-of-way, or water facilities.
      PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, partnership, unincorporated
association, limited liability partnership, limited liability corporation, or
other entity capable of owning property.
      REGULATORY REVIEW. Any review work involving the design, site, plan, or
other material provided by a person with a development request that involves
review performed by the city, its engineer, planner, attorney, or other
consultant and agents.
   (B)   Regulatory review fee.
      (1)   A regulatory review fee is hereby established in the city to cover
all costs associated with review work performed by or on behalf of the city
when it receives a development request. The regulatory review fee shall be as
follows:
         (a)   A sum in an amount that shall be determined by the City Council
for residential construction of one to four residential units; and
         (b)   For all other development, the sum of 5% of the city’s estimate
of the development’s value.
      (2)   The regulatory review fee shall be due and payable at the time the
development request is received by the city. The city may allow payment of said
fee by a cash escrow, bond, irrevocable standby letter of credit, or other
similar financial security. The selection of the financial device and the
amount thereof shall be in the sole discretion of the City Recorder. Until and
unless the appropriate sums and financial security are provided, no development
review shall be deemed complete for any purposes.
      (3)   The city may require, in addition to the payment of the minimum fee
and the provision of financial security, that the person requesting regulatory
review sign a promissory note or other document acknowledging their agreement
as to their responsibility for the costs associated with regulatory review. In
any event, the person requesting regulatory review of a development shall
remain personally liable for any and all costs associated with the regulatory
review of the development.
      (4)   Costs of regulatory review may be made an “assessment lien” for
purposes of priority as provided for in O.R.S. 87.392 on the real property
affected by the development.
(Ord. 728, passed 5-9-2016)
TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
§ 35.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Transient Occupancy
Tax Ordinance of the City of Sublimity”.
(Ord. 378, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 35.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCRUAL ACCOUNTING. The operator enters the rent due from a transient on his
or her records when the rent is earned whether or not it is paid.
   CASH ACCOUNTING. The operator does not enter the rent due from a transient
on his or her records until rent is paid.
   COMMON COUNCIL. The Common Council of the City of Sublimity, Oregon.
   HOTEL. Any structure, or any portion of any structure which is occupied or
intended or designed for transient occupancy for 27 days or less, for dwelling,
lodging, or sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home or
house, motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house,
apartment house, public or private dormitory, fraternity, sorority, public or
private club, space in mobile home or trailer parks, or similar structure or
portions thereof so occupied, provided such occupancy is for 27 days or less.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession for
lodging or sleeping purposes of any room or rooms in a hotel, or space in a
mobile home or trailer park or portion thereof.
   OPERATOR. The person who is proprietor of the hotel in any capacity. Whether
the OPERATOR performs his or her functions through managing agent of any type
or character other than an employee, the managing agent shall also be deemed an
OPERATOR for the purposes of this subchapter and shall have the same duties and
liabilities as his or her principal. Compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter by either the principal or the managing agent shall be considered to
be compliance by both.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
social club, fraternal organization, fraternity, sorority, public or private
dormitory, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business trust,
receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a
unit.
   RENT. The consideration charged, whether or not received by the operator,
for the occupancy of space in a hotel valued in money, goods, labor, credits,
property, or other consideration valued in money, without any deduction.
   RENT PACKAGE PLAN. The consideration charged for both food and rent where a
single rate is made for the total of both. The amount applicable to rent for
determination of transient room tax under this subchapter shall be the same
charge made for rent when consideration is not a part of a package plan.
   TAX. Either the tax payable by the transient, or the aggregate amount of
taxes due from an operator during the period for which he or she is required to
report his or her collections.
   TRANSIENT. Any individual who exercises occupancy or is entitled to
occupancy in a hotel for a period of 27 consecutive calendar days or less,
counting portions of calendar days as full days. The day a transient checks out
of the hotel shall not be included in determining the 27-day period if the
transient is not charged rent for that day by the operator.
      (1)   Any such individual so occupying space in a hotel shall be deemed
to be a TRANSIENT until the period of 27 days has expired unless there is an
agreement tin writing between the operator and the occupant providing for a
longer period of occupancy.
      (2)   In determining whether a person is a TRANSIENT, uninterrupted
periods of time extending both prior and subsequent to the effective date of
this subchapter may be considered. A person who pays for lodging on a monthly
basis, irrespective of the number of days in such month, shall not be deemed a
TRANSIENT.
(Ord. 378, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 35.17 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, on and after November 1,
1994, each transient shall pay a tax in the amount of 7% of the rent charged by
the operator.
   (B)   The tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city which is
extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the city.
   (C)   The transient shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the
time the rent is paid.
   (D)   The operator shall enter the tax on his or her records when rent is
collected if the operator keeps his or her records on the cash accounting basis
and when earned if the operator keeps his or her records on the accrual
accounting basis.
   (E)   If rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax
shall be paid by the transient to the operator with each installment. If, for
any reason, the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the City
Recorder may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the city.
   (F)   In all cases, the rent paid or charged for occupancy, shall exclude
the sale of any goods, services and commodities, other than the furnishing of
rooms, accommodations, and parking space in mobile home parts or trailer parks.
(Ord. 378, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 35.18 COLLECTION OF TAX BY OPERATOR; RULES FOR COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Every operator renting rooms in this city, the occupancy of which is
not exempted under the terms of this subchapter, shall collect a tax from the
occupant. The tax collected or accrued by the operator constitutes a debt owing
by the operator to the city.
   (B)   In all cases of credit or deferred payment of rent, the payment of tax
to the operator may be deferred until the rent is paid, and the operator shall
not be liable for the tax until credits are paid or deferred payments are made.
   (C)   The City Recorder shall enforce provisions of this subchapter and
shall have the power to adopt policies and procedures not inconsistent with
this subchapter as may be necessary to aid in the enforcement.
   (D)   For rent collected on portions of a dollar the first one cent of tax
shall be collected on nine cents through 21 cents, inclusive; the second one
cent shall be collected on 22 cents through 35 cents, inclusive; the third one
cent shall be collected on 36 cents through 48 cents, inclusive; the fourth one
cent shall be collected on 49 cents through 61 cents, inclusive; the fifth one
cent shall be collected on 62 cents through 74 cents inclusive; and the sixth
one cent shall be collected on 75 cents through 87 cents and the seventh one
cent shall be collected on 88 cents through $1. These amounts are subject to
change based on the determination of the City Council.
(Ord. 378, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 35.19 OPERATOR’S DUTIES.
   Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this subchapter at the same
time as the rent is collected from every transient. The amount of tax shall be
separately stated upon the operator’s records, and any receipt rendered by the
operator. No operator of a hotel shall advertise that the tax or any part of
the tax will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be
added to the rent, or that, when added, any part will be refunded, except in
the manner provided by this subchapter. The operator shall pay the tax to this
city as imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 378, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 35.20 EXEMPTIONS.
   No tax imposed under this subchapter shall be imposed upon:
   (A)   Any occupant for more than 27 successive calendar days (a person who
pays for lodging on a monthly basis, irrespective of the number of days in such
month, shall not be deemed a transient);
   (B)   Any occupant whose rent is of a value less than an amount that shall
be determined by the City Council per day;
   (C)   Any person who rents a private home, vacation cabin, or like facility
from any owner who rents such facilities incidentally to his or her own use
thereof; and
   (D)   Any occupant whose rent is paid for hospital room or to a medical
clinic, convalescent home, or home for aged people.
(Ord. 378, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 35.21 REGISTRATION OF OPERATOR; FORM AND CONTENTS; EXECUTION; CERTIFICATION
OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Every person engaging or about to engage in business as an operator of
a hotel in this city shall register with the City Recorder on a form provided
by him or her. Operators engaged in business at the time this subchapter is
adopted must register not later than 30 calendar days after said adoption.
Operators starting business after this subchapter is adopted must register
within 15 calendar days after commencing business. The privilege of
registration after the date of imposition of such tax shall not relieve any
person from the obligation of payment of collection of tax regardless of
registration. Registration shall set forth the name under which an operator
transacts or intends to transact business, the location of his or her place or
places of business, and such other information to facilitate the collection of
the tax as the City Recorder may require. The registration shall be signed by
the operator. The City Recorder shall, within ten days after registration,
issue without charge a certificate of authority to each registrant to collect
the tax from the occupant, together with a duplicate thereof for each
additional place of business of each registrant. Certificates shall be
nonassignable and nontransferable and shall be surrendered immediately to the
City Recorder upon the cessation of business at the location named or upon its
sale or transfer. Each certificate and duplicate shall state the place of
business to which it is applicable and shall be prominently displayed therein
so as to be seen and come to the notice readily of all occupants and persons
seeking occupancy.
   (B)   Said certificate shall, among other things, state the following:
      (1)   The name of the operator;
      (2)   The address of the hotel;
      (3)   The date upon which the certificate was issued; and
      (4)   “This Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that
the person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the
Transient Occupancy Tax Subchapter of the City of Sublimity by registration
with the City Recorder for the purpose of collecting from transients the room
tax imposed by said city and remitting said tax to the City Recorder. This
certificate does not authorize any person to conduct any unlawful business or
to conduct any lawful business in an unlawful manner, or to operate a hotel
without strictly complying with all local applicable laws including but not
limited to those requiring a permit from any board, commission, department, or
office of the City of Sublimity. This certificate does not constitute a
permit”.
(Ord. 378, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 35.22 DUE DATE; RETURNS AND PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be paid by the transient to
the operator at the time that rent is paid. All amounts of such taxes collected
by any operator shall be paid to the City Recorder on a quarterly basis on the
thirtieth day of the month, immediately following, for the preceding quarter;
and are delinquent on the last day of the month in which they are due.
   (B)   On or before the thirtieth day of the month following each quarter of
collection, a return for the preceding quarter’s tax collections shall be filed
with the City Recorder. The return shall be filed in such form as the City
Recorder may prescribe by every operator liable for payment of tax.
   (C)   Returns shall show the amount of tax collected or otherwise due for
the related period. The City Recorder may require returns to show the total
rentals upon which tax was collected or otherwise due, gross receipts of
operator for such period, and an explanation in detail of any discrepancy
between such amounts, and the amount of rents exempt, if any.
   (D)   The person required to file the return shall deliver the return,
together with the remittance of the amount of the tax due, to the City Recorder
at his or her office either by personal delivery or by mail. If the return is
mailed, the postmark shall be considered the date of delivery for determining
delinquencies.
   (E)   (1)   For good cause, the City Recorder may extend, for not to exceed
one month, the time for making any return or payment of tax. No further
extension shall be granted, except by the Common Council.
      (2)   Any operator to whom an extension is granted shall pay interest at
the rate of 1% per month on the amount of tax due without proration for a
fraction of a month.
      (3)   If a return is not filed, and the tax and interest due is not paid
by the end of the extension granted, then the interest shall become a part of
the tax for computation of penalties described elsewhere in this subchapter.
   (F)   The City Recorder, if he or she deems it necessary in order to ensure
payment or facilitate collection by the city of the amount of taxes in any
individual case, may require returns and payment of the amount of taxes for
other than quarterly periods.
(Ord. 378, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 35.23 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Original delinquency. Any operator who has not been granted an
extension of time for remittance of tax due and who fails to remit any tax
imposed by this subchapter prior to delinquency shall pay a penalty of 10% of
the amount of the tax due in addition to the amount of the tax.
   (B)   Continued delinquency. Any operator who has not been granted an
extension of time for remittance of tax due, and who failed to pay any
delinquent remittance on or before a period of 30 days following the date on
which the remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency
penalty of 15% of the amount of the tax due plus the amount of the tax and the
10% penalty first imposed.
   (C)   Fraud. If the City Recorder determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this subchapter is due to fraud or intent to evade the
provisions thereof, a penalty of 25% of the amount of the tax shall be added
thereto in addition to the penalties stated in divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who fails
to remit any tax imposed by this subchapter shall pay interest at the rate of
one-half of one percent per month or fraction thereof without proration for
portions of a month, on the amount of the tax due, exclusive of penalties, from
the date on which the remittance first became delinquent until paid.
   (E)   Penalties merged with tax. Every penalty imposed and such interest as
accrues under the provisions of this section shall be merged with and become a
part of the tax herein required to be paid.
   (F)   Petition for waiver. Any operator who fails to remit the tax herein
levied within the time herein stated shall pay the penalties herein stated
provided, however, the operator may petition the City Recorder for wavier and
refund of the penalty or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 378, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 35.24 DEFICIENCY DETERMINATIONS; FRAUD, EVASION, OPERATOR DELAY.
   (A)   Deficiency determination. If the City Recorder determines that the
returns are incorrect, he or she may compute and determine the amount required
to be paid upon the basis of the facts contained in the return or returns or
upon the basis of any information within his or her possession. One or more
deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one, or more than
one period, and the amount so determined shall be due and payable immediately
upon service of notice as herein provided after which the amount determined is
delinquent. Penalties on deficiencies shall be applied as set forth in §
35.23.
      (1)   In making a determination the City Recorder may offset
overpayments, if any, which may have been previously made for a period or
periods, against any underpayment for a subsequent period or periods, or
against penalties, and interest, on the underpayments. The interest on
underpayments shall be computed in the manner set forth in §
35.23.
      (2)   The City Recorder shall give to the operator or occupant a written
notice of his or her determination. The notice may be served personally or by
mail; if by mail, the notice shall be addressed to the operator at his or her
address as it appears in the records of the City Recorder. In case of service
by mail or any notice required by this subchapter, the service is completed at
the time of deposit in the United States Post Office.
      (3)   Except in the case of fraud, intent to evade this subchapter or
authorized rules and regulations, every deficiency determination shall be made
and notice thereof mailed within three years after the last day of the month
following the close of the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to
be determined or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period
expires later.
      (4)   Any determination shall become due and payable immediately upon
receipt of notice and shall become final within ten days after the City
Recorder has given notice thereof. However, the operator may petition
redemption and refund if the petition is filed before the determination becomes
final as herein provided.
   (B)   Fraud, refusal to collect, evasion. If any operator shall fail or
refuse to collect said tax or to make, within the time provided in this
subchapter, any report and remittance of said tax or any portion thereof
required by this subchapter, or makes a fraudulent return or otherwise
willfully attempts to evade this subchapter, the City Recorder shall proceed in
such a manner as he or she may deem best to obtain facts and information on
which to base an estimate of the tax due. As soon as the City Recorder has
determined the tax due that is imposed by this subchapter from any operator who
has failed or refused to collect the same and to report and remit said tax, he
or she shall proceed to determine and assess against such operator the tax,
interest, and penalties, provided for by this subchapter.
      (1)   In case such determination is made, the City Recorder shall give a
notice in the manner aforesaid of the amount so assessed. Such determination
and notice shall be made and mailed within three years after discovery by the
City Recorder of any fraud, intent to evade or failure or refusal to collect
said tax or failure to file return.
      (2)   Any determination shall become due and payable immediately upon
receipt of notice and shall become final within ten days after the City
Recorder has given notice thereof, provided, however, the operator may petition
redemption and refund if the petition is filed before the determination becomes
final as herein provided.
   (C)   Operator delay. If the City Recorder believes that the collection of
any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected and paid to the city will
be jeopardized by delay, or if any determination will be jeopardized by delay,
he or she shall thereupon make a determination of the tax or amount of tax
required to be collected, noting the fact upon the determination. The amount so
determined as herein provided shall be immediately due and payable, and the
operator shall immediately pay the same determination to the City Recorder
after service of notice thereof, provided, however, the operator may petition,
after payment has been made, for redemption and refund of such determination,
if the petition is filed within ten days from the date of service of notice by
the City Recorder.
(Ord. 378, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 35.25 REDETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Any person against whom a determination is made under §
35.24 or any person directly interested may petition for a redetermination and
redemption and refund within the time required in §
35.24. If a petition for redetermination and refund is not filed within the
time required therein, the determination becomes final at the expiration of the
allowable time.
   (B)   If a petition for redetermination and refund is filed within the
allowable period, the City Recorder shall reconsider the determination, and, if
the person has so requested in his or her petition, shall grant the person an
oral hearing and shall give him or her ten days’ notice of the time and place
of the hearing. The City Recorder may continue the hearing from time to time as
may be necessary.
   (C)   The City Recorder may decrease or increase the amount of the
determination as a result of the hearing, and if an increase is determined,
such increase shall be payable immediately after the hearing.
   (D)   The order or decision of the City Recorder, upon a petition for
redetermination of redemption and refund, becomes final ten days after service
upon the petitioner of notice thereof, unless appeal of such order or decision
is filed with the Common Council within the ten days after service of such
notice.
   (E)   No petition for redetermination of redemption and refund or appeal
therefrom shall be effective for any purpose unless the operator has first
complied with the payment provisions hereof.
(Ord. 378, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 35.26 SECURITY FOR COLLECTION OF TAX.
   The City Recorder, whenever he or she deems it necessary to ensure
compliance with this subchapter, may require any operator subject thereto to
deposit with him or her such security in the form of cash, bond, or other
security as the City Recorder may determine.The amount of the security shall be
fixed by the City Recorder but shall not be greater than twice the operator’s
estimated average monthly liability for the period for which he or she files
returns, determined in such manner as the City Recorder deems proper, or in
another such amount as shall be determined by the City Council, whichever
amount is the lesser. The amount of the security may be increased or decreased
by the City Recorder subject to the limitations herein provided. At any time
within three years after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected
becomes due and payable or at any time within three years after any
determination becomes final, the City Recorder may bring an action in the
courts of this state, or any other state, or of the United States in the name
of the City of Sublimity to collect the amount delinquent together with
penalties and interest.
(Ord. 378, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 35.27 LIEN.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter together with the interest and
penalties herein provided and the filing fees paid to the City Recorder, and
advertising costs which may be incurred when same becomes delinquent as set
forth in this subchapter shall be and, until paid, remain a lien from the date
of its recording with the City Recorder, and superior to all subsequent
recorded liens on all tangible personal property used in the hotel of an
operator within Sublimity and may be foreclosed on and sold as may be necessary
to discharge said lien, if the lien has been recorded with the City Recorder.
Notice of lien may be issued by the City Recorder whenever the operator is in
default in the payment of said tax, interest, and penalty and shall be recorded
with the City Recorder, and a copy sent to the delinquent operator. The
personal property subject to such lien seized by any deputy or employee of the
City Recorder may be sold at the department seizing the same at public auction
after ten days notice which shall mean one publication in a newspaper published
in the county.
   (B)   Any lien for taxes as shown on the records of the proper county
official shall, upon the payment of all taxes, penalties, and interest thereon,
be released by the City Recorder when the full amount determined to be due has
been paid to the city and the operator or person making such payment shall
receive a receipt therefor stating that the full amount of taxes, penalties,
and interest thereon have been paid and that the lien is thereby released and
the record of lien is satisfied.
(Ord. 378, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 35.28 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Operators refunds. Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, or
interest has been paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or received by the City Recorder under this subchapter, it may be
refunded, provided a verified claim in writing therefor, stating the specific
reason upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the City Recorder within
three years from the date of payment. The claim shall be made on forms provided
by the City Recorder. If the claim is approved by the City Recorder, the excess
amount collected or paid may be refunded or may be credited on any amounts then
due and payable from the operator from whom it was collected or by whom paid
and the balance may be refunded to such operator, his or her administrators,
executors or assignees. All refunds shall be charged to the Transient Room Tax
Account set forth in §
35.30(A).
   (B)   Transient refunds. Whenever the tax required by this subchapter has
been collected by the operator, and deposited by the operator with the City
Recorder, and it is later determined that the tax was erroneously or illegally
collected or received by the City Recorder, it may be refunded by him or her to
the transient, provided a verified claim in writing therefor, stating the
specific reason on which the claim is founded, is filed with said City Recorder
within three years from the date of payment All refunds shall be charged to the
Transient Room Tax Fund set forth in §
35.30(A).
(Ord. 378, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 35.29 COLLECTION FEE.
   Every operator liable for the collection and remittance of the tax imposed
by this subchapter may withhold 5% of the net tax due to cover the operator’s
expense in the collection and remittance of said tax.
(Ord. 378, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 35.30 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Special account. The City Recorder shall deposit all money collected
pursuant to this subchapter to the credit of the Transient Occupancy Account.
The City Recorder shall report annually the status of this account on June 30
of each year.
   (B)   Records required from operators and the like; form. Every operator
shall keep guest records of room sales and accounting books and records of the
room sales. All records shall be retained by the operator for a period of three
years and six months after they come into being.
   (C)   Examination of records; investigations. The City Recorder or any
person authorized in writing by him or her may examine, during normal business
hours, the books, papers, and accounting records relating to room sales of any
operator after notification to the operator liable for the tax and may
investigate the business of the operator in order to verify the accuracy of any
return made, or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and
determine the amount required to be paid. To assist in this process, the City
Recorder may request certified copies of annual tax return covering operator.
   (D)   Confidential character of information obtained; disclosure unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for the City Recorder or any person having an
administrative or clerical duty under the provisions of this subchapter to make
known in any manner whatever the business affairs, operators, or information
obtained by an investigation of records and equipment of any person required to
obtain a transient occupancy registration certificate, or pay a transient
occupancy tax, or any other person visited or examined in the discharge of
official duty, or the amount or source of income, profits, losses,
expenditures, or any particular thereof, set forth in any statement or
application, or to permit any statement or application, or copy of either, or
any book containing any abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or examined
by any person, provided that nothing in this division (D) shall be construed to
prevent:
      (1)   The disclosure to, or the examination of records and equipment by
another city official, employee, or agent for collection of taxes for the sole
purpose of administering or enforcing any provisions of this subchapter; or
collecting taxes imposed hereunder;
      (2)   The disclosure after the filing of a written request to that
effect, to the taxpayer himself or herself, receivers, trustees, executors,
administrators, assignees, and guarantors, if directly interested, of
information as to any paid tax, any unpaid tax or amount of tax required to be
collected, or interest, and penalties; further provided; however, that the City
Attorney approves each such disclosure and that the City Recorder may refuse to
make any disclosure referred to in this division (D) when in his or her opinion
the public interest would suffer thereby;
      (3)   The disclosure of the names and addresses of any persons to whom
transient occupancy registration certificates have been issued; or
      (4)   The disclosure of general statistics regarding taxes collected or
business done in the city.
(Ord. 378, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 35.31 APPEALS TO COMMON COUNCIL.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the City Recorder may appeal to the
Common Council of the city by filing a notice of appeal with the City Recorder
within ten days of the serving or the mailing of the notice of the decision
given by the City Recorder. The City Recorder shall transmit said notice of
appeal, together with the file of said appealed matter to the Common Council
who shall fix a time and place for hearing such appeal from the decision of the
City Recorder. The Common Council shall give the appellant not less than ten
days written notice of the time and place of hearing of said appealed matter.
Action by the Common Council on appeals shall be by resolution.
(Ord. 378, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any operator or other person so required to
fail or refuse to register as required in §§
35.15 through
35.31, or to furnish any return required to be made, or fail to pay the tax
collected, or fail or refuse to furnish a supplemental return or other data
required by the City Recorder or to render a false or fraudulent return. No
person required to make, render, sign, or verify any report shall make any
false or fraudulent report, with intent to defeat or evade the determination of
any amount due required by §§
35.15 through
35.31.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) above, the City Attorney, in
addition to other remedies permitted by law, may commence and prosecute to
final determination in any court of competent jurisdiction an action at law to
collect the tax imposed.
      (3)   Any person willfully violating any of the provisions of §§
35.15 through
35.31 shall be punished therefor, as provided in §
35.23.
(Ord. 378, passed 10-10-1994)
CHAPTER 36: LAW ENFORCEMENT; JUDICIARY HEARINGS
Section
Municipal Court and Judge
   
36.01   Creation
   
36.02   Judicial officer of the city
   
36.03   Territorial jurisdiction
   
36.04   Crime and offense jurisdiction
   
36.05   Authority of municipal court judge
   
36.06   Creation of office of municipal judge pro tem
   
36.07   Applicability of state laws
   
36.08   Court rules
   
36.09   Court schedule
   
36.10   Effective date; declaration of emergency
MUNICIPAL COURT AND JUDGE
§ 36.01 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a court for the city to be known as “the
municipal court for the City of Sublimity”.
   (B)   There is hereby created the office of municipal judge.
(Ord. 758, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 36.02 JUDICIAL OFFICER OF THE CITY.
   The municipal judge shall be the judicial officer of the city and shall
preside over the municipal court of the city.
(Ord. 758, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 36.03 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The incorporated area, now or hereafter, within the city shall be within the
territorial jurisdiction of the municipal court and the municipal judge.
(Ord. 758, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 36.04 CRIME AND OFFENSE JURISDICTION.
   The municipal judge shall exercise original and exclusive jurisdiction of
all crimes and offenses defined and made punishable by ordinance of the city
and of all actions brought to recover or enforce forfeitures or penalties
defined or authorized by an ordinance of the city. The municipal judge also has
jurisdiction over traffic crimes as defined by O.R.S. 801.545 committed within
the boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 758, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 36.05 AUTHORITY OF MUNICIPAL COURT JUDGE.
   (A)   In cases charged as misdemeanors, the municipal judge shall have
authority to issue process for the arrest of any person accused of an offense
against the ordinances of the city, and to commit any such person to jail or
admit him or her to bail pending trial.
   (B)   In all cases, the municipal judge shall have authority to issue
subpoenas, to compel witnesses to appear and testify in court on the trial of
any cause before him or her, to compel obedience to such subpoenas, to issue
any process necessary to carry in effect the judgments of the court, and to
punish witnesses for contempt of court.
(Ord. 758, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 36.06 CREATION OF OFFICE OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE PRO TEM.
   The office of municipal judge pro tem is hereby created. The city may
appoint one or more persons to serve as municipal judge pro tem. The municipal
judge pro tem shall be appointed in the same manner as the municipal judge. The
municipal judge pro tem shall serve as municipal judge pro tem when the
municipal court judge is absent from the city, incapacitated, or otherwise
unable to discharge the duties of municipal judge. When occupying the office of
municipal judge, the municipal judge pro tem shall have all the powers and
authority of the municipal judge.
(Ord. 758, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 36.07 APPLICABILITY OF STATE LAWS.
   When not governed by ordinance or by the city’s Charter, all proceedings in
the municipal court for the city for the violation of a city ordinance shall be
governed by the applicable general laws of the state governing justices of the
peace and justice courts.
(Ord. 758, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 36.08 COURT RULES.
   The municipal judge shall have authority to form and adopt such reasonable
rules for the conduct of the business of the municipal court for the city;
provided, however, that he or she shall not form or adopt any rule which is in
contravention with the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of
the State, the laws of the state, or any ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 758, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 36.09 COURT SCHEDULE.
   The municipal court shall be in session only for such length of time as may
be necessary to complete the judicial business of the city.
(Ord. 758, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 36.10 EFFECTIVE DATE; DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   The city has ordinances that have been violated and the city does not have a
reasonable means of enforcing those ordinances without establishing a municipal
court. As such, the City Council declared an emergency and the ordinance
codified herein took effect immediately, after passage by the City Council and
approval by the Mayor, being January 10, 2022.
(Ord. 758, passed 1-10-2022)
(Ord. 758, passed 1-10-2022)
CHAPTER 37: SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE
Section
   
37.01   Purpose
   
37.02   Scope
   
37.03   Definitions
   
37.04   System development charge established
   
37.05   Methodology
   
37.06   Authorized expenditures
   
37.07   Expenditure restrictions
   
37.08   Improvement plan
   
37.09   Collection of charge
   
37.10   Delinquent charges; hearing
   
37.11   Installment payment
   
37.12   Exemptions
   
37.13   Credits
   
37.14   Segregation and use of revenue
   
37.15   Appeal procedure
   
37.16   Prohibited connection
   
37.99   Penalty
§ 37.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the system development charge is to impose an equitable share
of the public costs of capital improvements for water, wastewater drainage,
streets, flood control, and parks upon those developments that create the need
for or increase the demands on capital improvements.
(Ord. 344, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 768, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 37.02 SCOPE.
   The system development charge imposed by this chapter is separate from and
in addition to any applicable tax, assessment, charge, or fee otherwise
provided by law or imposed as a condition of development.
(Ord. 344, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 768, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 37.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS. Facilities or assets used for:
      (1)   Water supply, treatment and distribution;
      (2)   Waste water collection, transmission, treatment and disposal;
      (3)   Drainage and flood control;
      (4)   Transportation, including but not limited to streets, sidewalks,
bike lanes and paths, street lights, traffic signs and signals, public
transportation, vehicle parking and bridges; or
      (5)   Parks and recreation, including but not limited to neighborhood
parks, community parks, public open space and trail systems, buildings, courts,
fields and other like facilities.
   DEVELOPER. Any person responsible for a development.
   DEVELOPMENT. Conducting a building or mining operation, making a physical
change in the use or appearance of a structure or land, dividing land into two
or more parcels (including partitions and subdivisions), and creating or
terminating a right of access.
   IMPROVEMENT FEE. A fee for costs associated with capital improvements to be
constructed after the date the fee is adopted pursuant to §
37.04.
   LAND AREA. The area of a parcel of land as measured by projection of the
parcel boundaries upon a horizontal plane with the exception of a portion of
the parcel within a recorded right-of-way or easement subject to a servitude
for a public street or scenic or preservation purpose.
   OWNER. The owner or owners of record title or the purchaser or purchasers
under a recorded sale agreement, and other persons having an interest of record
in the described real property.
   PARCEL OF LAND. A lot, parcel, block or other tract of land that is occupied
or may be occupied by a structure or structures or other use, and that includes
the yards and other open spaces required under the zoning, subdivision, or
other development ordinances.
   QUALIFIED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS. A capital improvement that is:
      (1)   Required as a condition of residential development approval;
      (2)   Identified in the plan adopted pursuant to §
37.08; and
      (3)   Not located on or contiguous to a parcel of land that is the
subject of the residential development approval.
   REIMBURSEMENT FEE. A fee for costs associated with capital improvements
constructed or under construction on the date the fee is adopted pursuant to §
37.04.
   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE. A reimbursement fee, an improvement fee or a
combination thereof assessed or collected at any of the times specified in §
37.09. SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE does not include connection or hook-up fees
for sanitary sewers, storm drains or water lines, such fees are designed by the
city only to reimburse the city for actual or average costs for such
connections. SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE does not include fees assessed or
collected as part of a local improvement district or a charge in lieu of a
local improvement district assessment, or the cost of complying with
requirements or conditions imposed by a land use decision.
(Ord. 344, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 768, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 37.04 SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   System development charges shall be established and may be revised by
resolution of the Council.
   (B)   Unless otherwise exempted by the provisions of this chapter or other
local or state law, a system development charge is hereby imposed upon all
developers of parcels of land within the city and lands outside the boundary of
the city that connect to or otherwise use the sewer facilities, storm sewers,
or water facilities of the city.
   (C)   System development charges for each type of capital improvement may be
created through application of the methodologies described in §
37.05. The amounts of each system development charge shall be adopted initially
by Council resolution. Changes in the amounts shall also be adopted by
resolution, except changes resulting solely from inflationary cost impacts.
Inflationary cost impacts shall be measured and calculated each January by the
City Clerk or Clerk’s designee and charged accordingly. Such calculations will
be based upon changes in the Engineering News Record Construction Index (ENR
Index) for Seattle, Washington.
(Ord. 344, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 768, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 37.05 METHODOLOGY.
   (A)   The methodology used to establish the reimbursement fee shall consider
the cost of then-existing facilities, prior contributions by then-existing
users, the value of unused capacity, rate-making principles employed to finance
publicly owned capital improvements, and other relevant factors identified by
the Council. The methodology shall promote the objective that future systems
users shall contribute no more than an equitable share of the cost of then-
existing facilities.
   (B)   The methodology used to establish the improvement fee shall consider
the cost of projected capital improvements needed to increase the capacity of
the systems to which the fee is related.
   (C)   The methodology used to establish the improvement fee or the
reimbursement fee, or both shall be contained in an ordinance or resolution
adopted by the Council.
(Ord. 344, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 768, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 37.06 AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   Reimbursement fees shall be applied only to capital improvements
associated with the systems for which the fees are assessed, including
expenditures relating to repayment of indebtedness.
   (B)   (1)   Improvement fees shall be spent only on capacity increasing
capital improvements, including expenditures relating to repayment of future
debt for the improvements. An increase in system capacity occurs if a capital
improvement increases the level of performance or service provided by existing
facilities or provides new facilities. The portion of the capital improvements
funded by improvement fees must be related to demands created by development.
      (2)   A capital improvement being funded wholly or in part from revenues
derived from the improvement fee shall be included in the plan adopted by the
city pursuant to §
37.08.
   (C)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B) of this section, system
development charge revenues may be expended on the direct costs of complying
with the provisions of this chapter, including the costs of developing system
development charge methodologies and providing an annual accounting of system
development charge expenditures and costs of properly administering, collecting
and accounting for system development charges.
(Ord. 344, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 768, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 37.07 EXPENDITURE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   System development charges shall not be expended for costs associated
with the construction of administrative office facilities that are more than an
incidental part of other capital improvements.
   (B)   System development charges shall not be expended for costs of the
operation or routine maintenance of capital improvements.
(Ord. 344, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 768, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 37.08 IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   The Council shall adopt a plan that:
   (A)   Lists the capital improvements that may be funded with improvement fee
revenues;
   (B)   Lists the estimated costs and time of construction of each
improvement; and
   (C)   Describes the process for modifying the plan.
(Ord. 344, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 768, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 37.09 COLLECTION OF CHARGE.
   (A)   The system development charge is payable upon issuance of:
      (1)   A building permit;
      (2)   A development permit for development not requiring the issuance of
a building permit; or
      (3)   A permit to connect to the water, sanitary sewer or storm drainage
systems.
   (B)   If no building, development, or connection permit is required, the
system development charge is payable at the time the usage of the capital
improvement is increased.
   (C)   If development is commenced or connection is made to the water, sewer
or storm drainage systems without an appropriate permit, the system development
charge is immediately payable upon the earliest date that a permit was
required.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall collect the applicable system development charge
when a permit that allows building or development of a parcel is issued or when
a connection to the water or sewer system of the city is made.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall not issue such permit or allow such connection
until the charge has been paid in full, or until provision for installment
payments has been made pursuant to §
37.11, or unless an exemption is granted pursuant to §
37.12.
(Ord. 344, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 768, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 37.10 DELINQUENT CHARGES; HEARING.
   (A)   When, for any reason, the system development charge has not been paid,
the City Clerk shall report to the Council the amount of the uncollected
charge, the description of the real property to which the charge is
attributable, the date upon which the charge was due, and the name of the
developer.
   (B)   The City Council shall schedule a public hearing on the matter and
direct that notice of the hearing be given to each developer with a copy of the
City Clerk’s report concerning the unpaid charge. Notice of the hearing shall
be given either personally or by certified mail, return receipt requested, or
by both personal and mailed notice, and by posting notice on the parcel at
least ten days before the date set for the hearing.
   (C)   At the hearing, the Council may accept, reject, or modify the
determination of the City Clerk as set forth in the report. If the Council
finds that a system development charge is unpaid and uncollected, it shall
direct the City Clerk to docket the unpaid and uncollected system development
charge in the lien docket. Upon completion of the docketing, the city shall
have a lien against the described land for the full amount of the unpaid
charge, together with interest at the legal rate of 10% and with the city’s
actual cost of serving notice of the hearing on the developer. The lien shall
be enforceable in the manner provided in O.R.S. Chapter 223.
(Ord. 344, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 768, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 37.11 INSTALLMENT PAYMENT.
   (A)   When a system development charge of $25 or more is due and
collectible, the developer of the parcel of land subject to the development
charge may apply for payment in 20 semi-annual installments, to include
interest on the unpaid balance, in accordance with O.R.S. § 223.208.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall provide application forms for installment
payments, which shall include a waiver of all rights to contest the validity of
the lien, except for the correction of computational errors.
   (C)   An applicant for installment payments shall have the burden of
demonstrating the applicant’s authority to assent to the imposition of a lien
on the parcel and that the interest of the applicant is adequate to secure
payment of the lien.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall report to the City Council the amount of the
system development charge, the dates on which the payments are due, the name of
the developer, and the description of the parcel.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall docket the lien in the lien docket. From that
time the city shall have a lien upon the described parcel for the amount of the
system development charge, together with interest on the unpaid balance at the
rate established by the Council. The lien shall be enforceable in the manner
provided in O.R.S. Chapter 223.
(Ord. 344, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 768, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 37.12 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A developer whose structures and uses were established and existing on
or before the effective
date of this chapter is exempt from a system development charge, except water
and sewer charges, to the extent of the structure or use then existing and to
the extent of the parcel of land as it is constituted on that date. Developers
affected by this division (A) shall pay the water or sewer charges pursuant to
the terms of this chapter upon the receipt of a permit to connect to the water
or sewer system.
   (B)   A developer constructing additions to single-family dwellings that do
not constitute the addition of a dwelling unit, as defined by the State Uniform
Building Code is exempt from all portions of the system development charge.
   (C)   A developer whose development consists of an alteration, addition,
replacement or change in use that does not increase the parcel’s or structure’s
use of the public improvement facility is exempt from all portions of the
system development charge.
   (D)   A developer whose project is financed by city revenues is exempt from
all portions of the system development charge.
(Ord. 344, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 768, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 37.13 CREDITS.
   (A)   As used in this section and in the definition of “qualified public
improvements” in § 37.03 the word CONTIGUOUS means: in a public way which
abuts.
   (B)   When development occurs that must pay a system development charge
under § 37.04, the system development charge for the existing use shall be
calculated and if it is less than the system development charge for the
proposed use, the different between the system development charge for the
existing use and the system development charge for the proposed use shall be
the system development charge required under § 37.04. If the change in use
results in the systems development charge for the proposed use being less than
the system development charge for the existing use, no system development
charge shall be required; however, no refund or credit shall be given.
   (C)   A credit shall be given for the cost of a qualified public improvement
associated with a development. If a qualified public improvement is located
partially on and partially off the parcel of land that is the subject of the
development approval, the credit shall be given only for the cost of the
portion of the improvement not located on or wholly contiguous to the parcel of
land. The credit provided for by this division (C) shall be only for the public
improvement charge charged for the type of improvement being constructed and
shall not exceed the public improvement charge even if the cost of the capital
improvement exceeds the applicable public improvement charge.
   (D)   In situations where the amount of credit exceeds the amount of the
system development charge, the excess credit is not transferable to another
development. It may be transferred to another phase of the original
development.
   (E)   Credit shall not be transferable from one type of capital improvements
to another.
(Ord. 344, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 768, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 37.14 SEGREGATION AND USE OF REVENUE.
   (A)   All funds derived from a particular type of system development charge
are to be segregated by accounting practices from all other funds of the city.
That portion of the system development charge calculated and collected on
account of a specific facility system shall be used for no purpose other than
those set forth in § 37.06.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall provide the City Council with an annual
accounting, based on the city’s fiscal year, for system development charges
showing the total amount of system development charge revenues collected for
each type of facility and the project’s funds from each account.
(Ord. 344, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 768, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 37.15 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A person challenging the propriety of an expenditure of system
development charge revenues may appeal the decision or the expenditure to the
City Council by filing a written request with the City Clerk describing with
particularity the decision of the City Council and the expenditure from which
the person appeals. An appeal of an expenditure must be filed within two years
of the date of the alleged improper expenditure.
   (B)   Appeals of any other decision required or permitted to be made by the
City Clerk under this chapter must be filed within ten days of the date of the
decision.
   (C)   After providing notice to the appellant, the Council shall determine
whether the City Clerk’s decision or the expenditure is in accordance with this
chapter and the provisions of O.R.S. §§ 223.297 to 223.314 and may affirm,
modify, or overrule the decisions. If the Council determines that there has
been an improper expenditure of system development charge revenues, the Council
shall direct that a sum equal to the misspent amount shall be deposited within
one year to the credit of the account or fund from which it was spent.
   (D)   A legal action challenging the methodology adopted by the Council
pursuant to § 37.05 shall not be filed later than 60 days after the adoption.
(Ord. 344, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 768, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 37.16 PROHIBITED CONNECTION.
   No person may connect to the water or sewer systems of the city unless the
appropriate system development charge has been paid or the lien or installment
payment method has been applied for and approved.
(Ord. 344, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 768, passed 11-13-2023) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of §
37.16 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 344, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 768, passed 11-13-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   PUBLIC WORKS DESIGN STANDARDS
      
52.   CROSS-CONNECTIONS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Establishing rates for collection, transport, and conveyance of solid
wastes and recyclable materials
§ 50.01 ESTABLISHING RATES FOR COLLECTION, TRANSPORT, AND CONVEYANCE OF SOLID
WASTES AND RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   Rates may be determined from time to time by the Council through passage of
a resolution or ordinance altering said rates.
(Ord. 742, passed 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 51: PUBLIC WORKS DESIGN STANDARDS
Section
   
51.01   Public Works Design Standards; adopted by reference
§ 51.01 PUBLIC WORKS DESIGN STANDARDS; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The city’s Public Works Design Standards, as set forth in Exhibit “A”
attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated fully herein by
reference, are hereby adopted. The Public Works Standards may be amended from
time to time by the Council through the passage of an ordinance or resolution.
The Public Works Standards are available at:
   https://www.cityofsublimity.org/publicworks/page/public-works-design-
standards
   (B)   Inasmuch as the amendment of the city’s public works design standards
are necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, and
safety, an emergency was declared to exist, and the ordinance codified herein
took effect immediately upon its approval by the City Council.
(Ord.759, passed 6-13-2022)
CHAPTER 52: CROSS-CONNECTIONS
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Cross-connections prohibited
   
52.03   Use of backflow prevention devices
   
52.04   Cross-connection inspection
   
52.05   Fees
   
52.06   Installation permits
   
52.07   Liability
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The physical vertical separation between the free-
flowing discharge end of a potable water supply pipeline and the open or non-
pressure receiving vessel.
   AWWA. The American Water Works Association.
   BACKFLOW or BACK SIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other fluid or substance or
mixture thereof into the domestic water supply system from any source other
than the intended source of water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE or BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE ASSEMBLY. A
backflow prevention device such as a pressure vacuum breaker, a double check
valve, or a reduced pressure principle device, and the attached shut-off valves
on the inlet and outlet ends of the device assembled as a completed unit.
   CHECK VALVE. A valve which allows flow in only one direction.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any actual or potential connection, link, or channel
between a domestic water supply system and a pipe or piping system used or
intended to be used for some other purpose or between a domestic water supply
system and a plumbing fixture, appliance, receptacle, vessel, or other service,
or a source other than the intended source of water supply whereby it may be
possible for contaminated water or water of questionable or unsafe quality, or
fluid substance other than potable water, to enter any part of the domestic
water supply system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly of two independently acting check
valves with shut-off valves on each side of the check valves and test cocks for
checking the watertightness of each check valve.
   PUBLIC HEALTH HAZARD. A condition whereby there are sufficient types and
amounts of biological, chemical, or physical, including radiological, agents
relating to water or sewage which are likely to cause human illness, disorders,
or disability. These include, but are not limited to pathogenic viruses,
bacteria, parasites, toxic chemicals, and radioactive isotopes.
   PURVEYOR. Entity supplying water.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE (R.P. DEVICE). A
device for preventing backflow which has two check valves, a differential
relief valve located between the two check valves, two shut-off valves, one on
the upstream side and the other on the downstream side of the check valves, and
four test cocks for checking the water tightness of the check valves and the
operation of the relief valve.
   SAFE DRINKING WATER. Water which has sufficiently low concentrations of
microbiological, inorganic chemical, organic chemical, radiological, or
physical substances so that individuals drinking such water at normal levels of
consumption will not be exposed to disease organisms or other substances which
may produce harmful physiological effects.
(Ord. 346, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 52.02 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   The installation or maintenance of a cross-connection which will
endanger the water quality of the potable water supply system of the purveyor
shall be unlawful and is prohibited. Any such cross-connection now existing or
hereafter installed is hereby declared to be a public hazard and the same shall
be abated.
      (2)   The control or elimination of cross-connections shall be in
accordance with this chapter and in compliance with Oregon Administrative Rules
for public drinking water system 333-61- 0005 through 333-61-0098.
   (B)   The Public Works Directors shall have the authority to establish
requirements more stringent than state regulations if he or she deems that the
conditions so dictate. The purveyor shall adopt rules and regulations as
necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The Public Works Director is hereby authorized to enforce the
provisions of this chapter in the inspection of existing, new, and remodeled
buildings.
(Ord. 346, passed 4-13-1992) Penalty, see § 
52.99
§ 52.03 USE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or
maintained by the water purveyor unless the water supply is protected as
required by state law and regulation and this chapter. Service of water to any
premises shall be discontinued by the water purveyor if a backflow prevention
device required by this chapter is not installed, tested, and maintained, or if
it is found that a backflow prevention device has been removed, by-passed, or
if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises. Service will not be
restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
   (B)   (1)   The owner’s system shall be open for inspection and tests at all
reasonable times to authorized representatives of the purveyor to determine
whether cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including
violations of these regulations, exist.
      (2)   When such a condition becomes known, the city shall notify the
property owner that the condition must be corrected within 30 days. If the
condition is not corrected within 30 days, the Director of Public Works may
deny or discontinue service to the premises by providing for a physical break
in the service line until the customer has corrected the conditions(s) in
conformance with the state and city statutes relating to plumbing and water
supplies and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices may be required under circumstances
including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply;
      (2)   Premises having cross-connections that are not correctable, or
intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to ascertain whether
or not cross-connections exist;
      (3)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure that cross-connections do not exist;
      (4)   Premises having a history of cross-connections being established or
re-established;
      (5)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply, or whether a cross-connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters;
      (6)   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
in such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard
might result;
      (7)   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the public
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities unless the purveyor determines that no hazard exists. See Oregon
Regulations for public drinking water systems 333-61-0070:
         (a)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics;
         (b)   Laboratories;
         (c)   Metal plating industries;
         (d)   Sewage treatment plants;
         (e)   Food or beverage processing plants;
         (f)   Chemical plants using a water process;
         (g)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
         (h)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
         (i)   Underground irrigation systems; and
         (j)   Others specified by the purveyor.
   (D)   The type of protective device required shall depend on the degree of
hazard which exists.
      (1)   An air-gap separation or a reduced-pressure-principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the public water supply may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature, or other
contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard.
      (2)   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not
hazardous to health, a double check valve assembly or a reduced-pressure-
principle backflow prevention device shall be installed.
   (E)   Backflow prevention devices required by this chapter shall be
installed under the supervision of and with the approval of the purveyor in
accordance with Recommended Installation Practices, Oregon Administrative Rules
Chapter 333, Public Water System, as amended.
   (F)   Any protective device required by this chapter shall be approved by
the Director of Public Works.
   (G)   These devices shall be furnished and installed by and at the expense
of the customer.
   (H)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the user at any premises where backflow
prevention devices are installed to have certified inspections and operational
tests made at the time of installation and at least once per year.
      (2)   In those instances where the Director of Public Works deems the
hazard to be great enough he or she may require certified inspections at more
frequent intervals. These inspections and tests shall be at the expense of the
water user and shall be performed by a certified tester approved by the
Director of Public Works. It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works
to see that these timely tests are made.
      (3)   The user shall notify the Director of Public Works in advance when
the tests are to be undertaken so that he or she or his or her representative
may witness the tests if so desired. These devices shall be repaired,
overhauled, or replaced at the expense of the user whenever said devices are
found to be defective. Records of such tests, repairs, and overhaul shall be
kept and copies sent to the Director of Public Works.
   (I)   Failure of the customer to cooperate in the installation, maintenance,
testing, or inspection of backflow prevention devices required by this chapter
or by state law shall be grounds for the termination of water service to the
premises.
(Ord. 346, passed 4-13-1992) Penalty, see § 
52.99
§ 52.04 CROSS-CONNECTION INSPECTION.
   (A)   No water shall be delivered to any structure hereafter built within
the city or within areas served by city water until the same has been inspected
by the purveyor for possible cross-connections and has been approved as being
free of same.
   (B)   Any construction for industrial or other purposes which is classified
as hazardous facilities where it is reasonable to anticipate intermittent
cross-connections, or as determined by the Director of Public Works, shall be
protected by the installation of one or more backflow prevention devices at the
point of service from the public water supply or any other location designated
by the purveyor.
   (C)   Inspections shall be made at the discretion of the Director of Public
Works on all buildings, structures, or improvements of any nature now receiving
water through the city’s system, for the purpose of ascertaining whether cross-
connections exist. Such inspections shall be made by the purveyor.
(Ord. 346, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 52.05 FEES.
   Fees for inspections by the Public Works Director may be set by resolution.
Fees for turn-ons and shut-offs shall be in accordance with the latest
resolution passed by the city.
(Ord. 346, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 52.06 INSTALLATION PERMITS.
   If cross-connection control devices are found to be necessary, the owner or
designated representative of the property served must apply to the purveyor for
an installation permit. This application shall be forwarded to the county for
their approval.
(Ord. 346, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 52.07 LIABILITY.
   This chapter shall not be construed to hold the city responsible for any
damage to persons or property by reason of the inspection or testing herein, or
the failure to inspect or test or by reason of approval of any cross-
connection.
(Ord. 346, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed the
higher of $500 or the maximum amount allowed under O.R.S. 448.990, as amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 346, passed 4-13-1992)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC; GENERALLY
      
71.   GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
74.   PARADES AND PROCESSIONS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC; GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Short title
   
70.02   Adoption of state law by reference
   
70.03   Applicability of state traffic laws
   
70.04   Definitions
   
70.05   Powers of Council
   
70.06   Duties of the City Recorder
   
70.07   Public danger
   
70.08   Standards
   
70.09   Authority of law enforcement and fire officers
Impoundment
   
70.20   Impoundment of vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This title may be cited as the “Sublimity Traffic Ordinance”.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 70.02 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of O.R.S. Chapters 153, 743, and the Oregon Vehicle Code,
starting with O.R.S. Chapter 801, inclusive, as now constituted, are hereby
adopted by reference in their entirety. Violation of these provisions shall be
an offense against this city, and the procedures therein provided, insofar as
possible, apply to the city, except as hereinafter modified.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 70.03 APPLICABILITY OF STATE TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Violation of a provision identical to a state statute is punishable by a
fine not to exceed the penalty prescribed by the state statute.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 70.04 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to definitions in the Oregon Vehicle Code, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning for this chapter.
   BUS STOP. A roadway space, designated by sign for use by buses to load or
unload passengers.
   CITY STREET. A public road under the jurisdiction of the City of Sublimity.
   HOLIDAY. New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Juneteenth Day, Independence Day,
Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and any other day proclaimed by the
Council to be a holiday.
   LOADING ZONE. A roadway space designated by sign for loading or unloading
passengers or materials during specified hours of specified days.
   MOTOR TRUCK. A motor vehicle with a maximum combined vehicle and load weight
over 20,000 pounds that is designed or used to carry freight, property,
articles, or things.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any camper, motor home, or travel trailer that is
capable of being used for human habitation.
   STREET. Highway, roadway, alley, or street as defined in O.R.S. 801.110,
801.305, and 801.450, including the entire width of the right-of-way.
   TRAFFIC LANE. That area of the roadway used for a single line of traffic
movement.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Any motor vehicles used or designed for use with a semi-
trailer for carrying, conveying, or moving over the highways any freight,
property, article, or thing, and having a vehicle weight of more than 20,000
pounds.
   TRUCK TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power (except a tractor trailer)
which:
      (1)   Has a combined weight of vehicle and maximum load to be carried
thereon of more than 8,000 pounds; and
      (2)   Is designed for carrying property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 70.05 POWERS OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   Subject to state laws, the Council shall exercise all local traffic
authority for the city except those powers expressly delegated by this chapter
or another ordinance.
   (B)   The powers of the Council include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Designation of through streets;
      (2)   Designation of one-way streets;
      (3)   Designation of truck routes;
      (4)   Designation of parking meter zones;
      (5)   Restriction of the use of certain streets by any class or kind of
vehicle to protect the streets from damage or excess traffic;
      (6)   Authorization, by resolution, of greater maximum weights or lengths
than specified by state law for vehicles using city streets or county roads;
      (7)   Initiation of proceedings to change speed zones;
      (8)   Revision of speed limits in parks; and
      (9)   Temporary closure or blocking of streets.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 70.06 DUTIES OF THE CITY RECORDER.
   The City Recorder shall exercise the following duties:
   (A)   Implement ordinances, resolutions, and motions of the Council and the
City Recorder’s orders by installing, maintaining, removing, and altering
traffic control devices. Installation shall be based on standards contained in
the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways and the
Oregon Supplements;
   (B)   Establish, remove, or alter the following classes of traffic controls:
      (1)   Crosswalks, safety zones, and traffic lanes;
      (2)   Intersection channelization and areas where vehicle drivers shall
not make right, left, or U-turns and the time when the prohibition applies; and
      (3)   Parking areas and time limitations, including the form of
permissible parking (e.g., parallel or diagonal).
   (C)   Issue oversize or overweight vehicle permits; and
   (D)   Temporarily close or block streets.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 70.07 PUBLIC DANGER.
   (A)   Under conditions constituting a danger to the public, the City
Recorder may install temporary traffic control devices.
   (B)   Nonfunctioning traffic control devices shall be treated as an all-way
stop by vehicle operators on all affected streets.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 70.08 STANDARDS.
   The regulations of the City Recorder shall be based on:
   (A)   Traffic engineering principles and traffic investigations;
   (B)   Standards, limitations, and rules promulgated by the state’s
Transportation Commission; and
   (C)   Other recognize traffic control standards.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 70.09 AUTHORITY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT AND FIRE OFFICERS.
   (A)   It is the duty of law enforcement officers to enforce the provisions
of these traffic regulations.
   (B)   If a fire or other public emergency occurs, officers of the law
enforcement and fire departments may direct traffic as conditions require,
notwithstanding the provisions of these traffic regulations.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 70.20 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Disposition of a vehicle towed and stored under provisions of state
law for the removal of hazardous vehicles shall be in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Impoundment of a vehicle does not preclude issuance of a citation for
violation of a provision of this title.
   (C)   Stolen vehicles may be towed from public or private property and
stored at the expense of the vehicle owner.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §§
71.01 through
71.08 is punishable by fine in an amount that shall be determined by the City
Council.
   (C)   Violation of §§
72.01 through
72.08,
72.20 through
72.23,
73.01 through
73.12,
74.01 through
74.07 is punishable by fine in an amount that shall be determined by the City
Council.
   (D)   A violation of this title constitutes a civil infraction.
   (E)   Each day that a violation of this title is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   In determining whether a vehicle has been parked in violation of this
title, the period to be considered shall begin when the vehicle is first parked
on the city street and shall continue even if the vehicle is moved to another
location.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
CHAPTER 71: GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Crossing private or public property
   
71.02   Unlawful riding
   
71.03   Roller skates, skateboards, sleds
   
71.04   Bicycle operating rules
   
71.05   Impounding bicycles
   
71.06   Pedestrians
   
71.07   Damaging sidewalks and curbs
   
71.08   Storing motor vehicles on streets
§ 71.01 CROSSING PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not proceed from one street to an
intersecting street by leaving the roadway and crossing private or public
property. This provision does not apply to the operator of a vehicle who stops
on the property to procure or provide goods or services.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle shall not permit a passenger to, and no
passenger shall, ride on a vehicle on a street except within a part of the
vehicle designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision does not
apply to an employee engaged in the discharge of a duty or to a person riding
within a truck body in space intended for merchandise.
   (B)   No person shall board or alight from a vehicle while the vehicle is in
motion on a street.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 ROLLER SKATES, SKATEBOARDS, SLEDS.
   (A)   Use roller skates, rollerblades, or skateboards on sidewalks in a
designated business district or on streets.
   (B)   Use streets for traveling on skateboards, roller skates,
“rollerblades”, skis, toboggans, sleds, or similar devices except to cross at a
crosswalk. When crossing at a crosswalk, such person shall have all rights, and
shall be subject to all duties, applicable to pedestrians.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 BICYCLE OPERATING RULES.
   In addition to observing other applicable provisions of this title and state
law pertaining to bicycles, no person shall:
   (A)   Leave a bicycle other than in a bicycle rack. If no rack is provided,
the person shall leave the bicycle so that it does not obstruct a roadway,
sidewalk, driveway, or building entrance. A bicycle shall not be left in
violation of motor vehicle parking provisions;
   (B)   Leave a bicycle secured to a tree, fire hydrant, or law enforcement or
fire call box;
   (C)   Leave a bicycle in violation of a motor vehicle parking provisions;
   (D)   Ride a bicycle on a sidewalk within the city; and
   (E)   Leave a bicycle on private property without consent of the owner or
person in charge. Consent is implied on private business property unless
bicycle parking is expressly prohibited.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 IMPOUNDING BICYCLES.
   (A)   A bicycle left on a street or other public property for more than 24
hours may be impounded by city’s law enforcement.
   (B)   A bicycle parked in violation of this chapter that also obstructs or
impedes pedestrian or vehicle traffic or otherwise endangers the public may be
immediately impounded by a law enforcement officer, in addition to any citation
issued.
   (C)   If a bicycle impounded under this chapter is licensed, or other means
of identifying its ownership exist, city’s law enforcement shall make
reasonable efforts to notify the owner. No impoundment fee shall be charged to
the owner of a stolen bicycle that has been impounded.
   (D)   Except as provided in division (E) below, a fee in an amount that
shall be determined by the City Council shall be charged to the owner of a
bicycle impounded under this section.
   (E)   A bicycle impounded under this chapter that remains unclaimed after
120 days shall be disposed of in accordance with city procedures for disposal
of abandoned or lost personal property.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 PEDESTRIANS.
   A pedestrian shall cross a street at right angles unless crossing within a
marked crosswalk.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 DAMAGING SIDEWALKS AND CURBS.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not drive on a sidewalk or
roadside planting strip except to cross at an authorized permanent or temporary
driveway.
   (B)   No person shall remove a portion of a curb or move a motor vehicle or
a device moved by a motor vehicle onto a curb or sidewalk without first
obtaining authorization and posting bond, if required by ordinance. A person
who causes damage shall be responsible for the cost of repair.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 STORING MOTOR VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   No person shall park or store, or permit to be parked or stored, any bus or
vacation house trailer, recreational vehicle, camper, boat, and/or boat
trailer, motor home, tent trailer, utility trailer, personal property, or any
motorized or unmotorized vehicle which said person owns or has control of on a
street or on any parking strip, avenue, or public way within the city for
longer than 72 hours. Failing to move a motor vehicle or other personal
property for 72 hours constitutes prima facie evidence of storage.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking; Generally
   
72.01   Method of parking
   
72.02   Prohibited parking or standing
   
72.03   Prohibited practices
   
72.04   Use of loading zone
   
72.05   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
72.06   Lights on parked vehicle
   
72.07   Extension of parking time
   
72.08   Exemptions
Parking Citations and Owner Responsibility
   
72.20   Citation on illegally parking vehicle
   
72.21   Failure to comply with parking citation
   
72.22   Owner responsibility
   
72.23   Registered owner presumption
PARKING; GENERALLY
§ 72.01 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   When parking spaces are designated on a street or public lot, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than in the direction of the traffic
flow and in such a manner that the front vehicle tire closest to the curb is
located within 12 inches of the curb and within a single marked space, unless
the size or shape of the vehicle makes compliance impossible.
   (B)   The operator who first begins maneuvering a motor vehicle into a
vacant parking space on a street or public lot has priority to park in that
space, and no other vehicle operator shall attempt to interfere.
   (C)   When the operator of a vehicle discovers the vehicle is parked close
to a building to which the Fire Department has been summoned, the operator
shall immediately remove the vehicle from the area unless directed otherwise by
law enforcement or fire officers.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 PROHIBITED PARKING OR STANDING.
   No person shall park or stand:
   (A)   A vehicle in violation of the Oregon Vehicle Code or in violation of a
parking limitation device;
   (B)   A vehicle in an alley, except for a stop of not more than 30
consecutive minutes for loading or unloading persons or material;
   (C)   A vehicle in such a manner that it damages or causes to be damaged any
public improvement within the city including streets, alleys, parking strips,
rights-of-way, or other public ways. The person shall be liable to the city for
damage caused thereby;
   (D)   A vehicle upon a street if sanitation problems are creating violation
of O.R.S. 446.345;
   (E)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation owning
or having control of any truck tractors, truck trailer, or motor truck to park
the same upon any street, alley, parking strip, sidewalk, avenue, or public way
in any residential area of the city adjacent to any residence, church, school,
hospital, multiple dwelling, park, or playground in any area of the city.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not be deemed to prohibit the
lawful parking of such equipment upon any street, alley, parking strip,
sidewalk, avenue, or public way in the city for the actual loading or unloading
of goods, wares, or merchandise; provided, however, that “loading” or
“unloading” as used in this section shall be limited to the actual time
consumed in such operation.
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall not be deemed to prohibit
emergency repairs on any such vehicles described above wherein total lapsed
time in making such repairs does not exceed eight hours duration.
      (4)   The parking of any equipment under authority of this section shall
in no event be within 20 feet of the intersection of property lines at any
intersection, except alleys. Any vehicle mentioned in this section parking upon
any street, alley, avenue, parking strip sidewalk, avenue, or public way within
the city in violation of this section may be cited, towed and impounded. The
registered owner or operator shall be liable for all expenses incurred; and
   (F)   No person shall operate for a period exceeding one hour a refrigerated
unit or other motor of a truck tractor, truck trailer, or motor truck while
parked in the city.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   No operator shall park a vehicle, and no owner shall allow a vehicle to be
parked, on a street or other public property for the principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Repairing or servicing the vehicle, except while making repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
   (C)   Displaying temporary advertising from the vehicle; and
   (D)   Selling merchandise from the vehicle, except when authorized.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 USE OF LOADING ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in a place designated as a
loading zone when the hours applicable to that loading zone are in effect for
any purpose other than loading or unloading persons or material. Such a stop
shall not exceed the time limits posted.
   (B)   If no time limits are posted, use of the zone shall be limited to the
actual time consumed in loading or unloading.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law
or when responding to, but not returning from a fire alarm, may park or stand
irrespective of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve drivers of authorized emergency
vehicles from the duty to park or stand with regard for the safety of all
persons.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLE.
   No lights need be displayed on a vehicle that is parked in accordance with
this chapter on a street where there is sufficient light to reveal a person or
object at a distance of at least 500 feet from the vehicle.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 EXTENSION OF PARKING TIME.
   (A)   Where maximum parking time limits are designated, moving a vehicle to
another parking space within the same block shall not extend the time limits
for parking.
   (B)   In determining whether a vehicle has been parked in violation of this
chapter, the period to be considered shall begin when the vehicle is first
parked on the city street and shall continue even if the vehicle is moved to
another location.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter that regulate the parking or standing of
vehicles do not apply to:
   (A)   A city, county, state, or public utility vehicle being used for public
works maintenance, construction, or repair work;
   (B)   A vehicle owned by the United States being used for collection,
transportation, or delivery of mail; or
   (C)   A vehicle of a disabled person who complies with the provisions of
O.R.S. 811.600 to 811.637.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
PARKING CITATIONS AND OWNER RESPONSIBILITY
§ 72.20 CITATION ON ILLEGALLY PARKING VEHICLE.
   (A)   When a vehicle without an operator is found parked in violation of a
restriction imposed by this chapter or state law, the officer finding the
vehicle shall note the license number and any other information displayed on
the vehicle that may identify the owner and shall issue a citation in
conformance with state law.
   (B)   The citation shall instruct the operator to answer to the charge or
pay the penalty imposed within 14 days, during specific hours, and at a
specific place.
   (C)   The officer shall file the original citation with the City Recorder
who shall retain the citation as ex officio Clerk of and subject to the
direction of the Municipal Court.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 72.21 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PARKING CITATION.
   If the operator does not respond to a parking citation attached to the
vehicle within 21 days, the City Recorder shall send a letter to the owner of
the vehicle informing the owner of the violation and giving notice that if the
citation is disregarded for a period of 30 days:
   (A)   The fine will be doubled; and
   (B)   If the vehicle has five or more outstanding citations or unpaid fines
(the minimum amount of which shall be determined by the City Council), it may
be impounded, and an impounded vehicle shall not be released until all
outstanding fines and charges are paid.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 72.22 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of a vehicle that is in violation of a parking restriction shall
be responsible for the offense unless the operator used the vehicle without the
owner’s consent.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 72.23 REGISTERED OWNER PRESUMPTION.
   In a proceeding charging violation of a parking restriction against a
vehicle owner, proof that the vehicle was registered to the defendant at the
time of the violation constitutes a presumption that the defendant was the
owner.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
CHAPTER 73: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Unlawful
   
73.02   Owner of vehicle responsible party
   
73.03   City Recorder’s procedure
   
73.04   Custody of vehicle
   
73.05   Abandoned vehicles on private property
   
73.06   Vehicle appraised
   
73.07   Lien for towing and storage
   
73.08   Owner’s responsibilities
   
73.09   Sale of vehicle not reclaimed
   
73.10   Disposal of vehicle without notice and public auction
   
73.11   Certificate of sale
   
73.12   Return of sale and proceeds
§ 73.01 UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon a vehicle within the city.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 OWNER OF VEHICLE RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
   The owner of the vehicle as shown by the records of the Motor Vehicles
Division shall be considered responsible for the abandonment of a vehicle in
the manner prohibited by this section and shall be liable for the cost of
removal and disposition of the abandoned vehicle.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 CITY RECORDER’S PROCEDURE.
   If the City Recorder has reason to believe a vehicle is disabled or
abandoned the City Recorder or the City Recorder’s designee shall implement the
following procedure.
   (A)   Notice shall be given by affixing a citation to the vehicle and by
mail to the owner and any lessors or security interest holders at the address
of each as shown by the records of the Motor Vehicles Division.
   (B)   The citation and the mailing shall state all of the following:
      (1)   The vehicle will be subject to being taken into custody and removed
by the City Recorder if the vehicle is not removed before the time set by the
City Recorder;
      (2)   The ordinance violated by the vehicle and under which the vehicle
will be removed;
      (3)   The place where the vehicle will be held in custody or the
telephone number and address where the information will be provided;
      (4)   The vehicle, if taken into custody and removed by the city, will be
subject to towing and storage charges and that a lien will attached to the
vehicle and its contents;
      (5)   The vehicle will be sold to satisfy the costs of towing and storage
if the charges are not paid;
      (6)   The owner, possessor, or person having an interest in the vehicle
is entitled to a hearing, before the vehicle is impounded, to contest the
proposed custody and removal if a hearing is timely requested;
      (7)   The owner, possessor, or person having an interest in the vehicle
may also challenge the reasonableness of any towing and storage charges at the
hearing; and
      (8)   The time within which a hearing must be requested and the method
for requesting a hearing.
   (C)   Provide a hearing if one is requested by the owner, possessor, or any
other person who reasonably appears to have an interest in the vehicle to
contest the validity of the removal and custody or proposed removal and custody
of a vehicle. A request for a hearing must be made by submitting a request with
the City Recorder not more than five days from the mailing date of the notice,
not including weekends and holidays. A hearing under this section shall comply
with all of the following:
      (1)   If the City Recorder receives a request for hearing before the
vehicle is taken into custody and removed, the vehicle shall not be removed
unless the vehicle constitutes a hazard;
      (2)   A request for hearing shall be in writing and shall state grounds
upon which the person requesting the hearing believes that the custody and
removal of the vehicle is not justified;
      (3)   Upon receipt of a request for a hearing under this section, the
City Recorder shall schedule a hearing with the Council which shall not be
later than the second regular Council meeting following the filing of the
written appeal, within 72 hours of the receipt of the request and shall provide
notice of the hearing to the person requesting the hearing and to the owners of
the vehicle and any lessors or security interest holders shown in the records
of the Division, if not the same as the person requesting the hearing. The 72-
hour period in this division (C) does not include holidays, Saturdays, or
Sundays.
      (4)   If the Council finds, after hearing and by substantial evidence on
the record, that the custody and removal of a vehicle was:
         (a)   Invalid, the Council shall order the immediate release of the
vehicle to the owner or person with right of possession. If the vehicle is
released under this division (C)(4)(a), the person to whom the vehicle is
released is not liable for any towing or storage charges. If the person has
already paid the towing and storage charges on the vehicle, the City Recorder
shall reimburse the person for the charges. New storage costs on the vehicle
will not start to accrue, however, until more than 24 hours after the time the
vehicle is officially released to the person under this division (C)(4)(a); or
         (b)   Valid, the Council shall order the vehicle to be held in custody
until the costs of the hearing and all towing an storage costs are paid by the
party claiming the vehicle. If the vehicle has not yet been removed, the
Council shall order its removal.
      (5)   A person who fails to appear at a hearing under this section is not
entitled to another hearing unless the person provides reasons satisfactory to
the City Recorder for the person’s failure to appear.
      (6)   The City Recorder is only required to provide one hearing under
this section for each time the City Recorder takes a vehicle into custody and
removes the vehicle or proposes to do so.
      (7)   A hearing under this section may be used to determine the
reasonableness of the charge for towing and storage of the vehicle. Towing and
storage charges set by law, ordinance, or rule or that comply with law,
ordinance, or rule are reasonable for purposes of this division (C)(7).
      (8)   The City Recorder shall provide a written statement of the results
of a hearing held under this section to the person requesting the hearing.
      (9)   Hearings held under this section may be informal in nature, but the
presentation of evidence in a hearing shall be consistent with the presentation
of evidence required for contested cases under O.R.S. 183.450.
      (10)   The hearings officer at a hearing under this section may be an
officer, official, or employee of the appropriate authority but shall not have
participated in any determination or investigation related to taking into
custody and removing the vehicle that is the subject of the hearing.
      (11)   The determination of the Council at a hearing under this section
is final and is not subject to appeal.
   (D)   After providing notice required under this section and, if requested,
a hearing under this section, the City Recorder may take a vehicle into custody
and remove the vehicle if:
      (1)   The City Recorder has reason to believe the vehicle is disabled or
abandoned; and
      (2)   The vehicle has been parked or left standing upon any public way
for a period in excess of 24 hours without authorization by statute or city
ordinance.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 73.04 CUSTODY OF VEHICLE.
   The City Recorder may immediately take custody of a vehicle that is
disabled, abandoned, parked, or left standing unattended on a road or highway
right-of-way and that is in such a location as to constitute a hazard or
obstruction to motor vehicle traffic using the road or highway.
   (A)   After taking a vehicle into custody under this section the City
Recorder shall give notice by mail within 48 hours, not including holidays or
weekends, to the owners of the vehicle and any lessors or security interest
holders as shown in the records of the Motor Vehicles Division with an
explanation of procedures available for obtaining a hearing under §
73.03(C) of this section.
   (B)   Any notice given under this section after a vehicle is taken into
custody and removed shall state all of the following.
      (1)   The vehicle has been taken into custody and removed, the identity
of the appropriate authority that took the vehicle into custody and removed the
vehicle and the statute, ordinance, or rule under which the vehicle has been
taken into custody and removed.
      (2)   The location of the vehicle or the telephone number and address of
the appropriate authority that will provide the information.
      (3)   The vehicle is subject to towing and storage charges, the amount of
charges that have accrued to the date of the notice and the daily storage
charges.
      (4)   The vehicle and its contents are subject to a lien for payment of
the towing and storage charges and that the vehicle and its contents will be
sold to cover the charges if the charges are not paid by a date specified by
the City Recorder.
      (5)   The owner, possessor, or person having an interest in the vehicle
and its contents is entitled to a prompt hearing to contest the validity of
taking the vehicle into custody and removing it and to contest the
reasonableness of the charges for towing and storage if a hearing is timely
requested.
      (6)   The time within which a hearing must be requested and the method
for requesting a hearing.
      (7)   The vehicle and its contents may be immediately reclaimed by
presentation to the City Recorder of satisfactory proof of ownership or right
to possession and either payment of the towing and storage charges or the
deposit of cash security or a bond equal to the charges with the City Recorder.
   (C)   If a hearing is requested, the City Recorder shall provide the hearing
as described under §
73.03(C) of this section.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 73.05 ABANDONED VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The City Recorder may take custody of and remove a vehicle that is on
private property if:
      (1)   The owner or person in lawful possession of the land requests the
removal; and
      (2)   The vehicle is parked or left standing upon the property without
the express consent of the owner or person in lawful possession or control of
the property.
   (B)   The City Recorder is not required to give notice of hearing when
taking custody of a vehicle under this section.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 73.06 VEHICLE APPRAISED.
   The City Recorder, upon taking custody of a vehicle under this section,
shall have the vehicle appraised within a reasonable time by a person
possessing a valid appraiser certificate under state law.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 73.07 LIEN FOR TOWING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by this section, a person shall have a
lien on the vehicle and its contents if the person, at the request of the City
Recorder, tows any vehicle enumerated in this section.
   (B)   A lien established under this section shall be on the vehicle and its
contents for the just and reasonable charges for the towing service performed
and any storage provided. The person holding the lien may retain possession of
the vehicle and contents until the charges on which the lien is based are paid.
A lien described under this section does not attach to the contents of any
vehicle taken from public property until 15 days after taking the vehicle into
custody.
   (C)   A person who tows any vehicle, at the request of the City Recorder,
under this section shall provide written notice, approved by the City Recorder,
containing information on the procedures necessary to obtain a hearing under §
73.03(C). The notice shall be provided to each person who seeks to redeem the
vehicle.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 73.08 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The owner, a person entitled to possession or any person with an interest
shown on the certificate of title of a vehicle taken into custody under this
section is liable for all costs and expenses incurred in the removal,
preservation, and custody of the vehicle and its contents except that:
   (A)   The owner or person entitled to the vehicle is not liable for nor
shall be required to pay storage charges for a period in excess of 60 days;
   (B)   A security interest holder is not liable under this division (B)
unless the security interest holder reclaims the vehicle;
   (C)   May reclaim the vehicle at any time after it is taken into custody and
before the vehicle is sold or disposed of under §§
73.09 or
73.10 upon presentation to the City Recorder of satisfactory proof of ownership
or right to possession and upon payment of costs and expenses for which the
person is liable under this section;
   (D)   If the vehicle is taken into custody under §
73.03(D) or
73.04, has a right to request and have a hearing under §
73.03(C);
   (E)   If the vehicle is sold or disposed of under §§
73.09 or
73.10 has no further right, title, or claim to or interest in the vehicle or
the contents of the vehicle;
   (F)   If the vehicle is sold or disposed of under §
73.09, has a right to claim the balance of the proceeds from the sale or
disposition at any time within two years after the sale or disposition of the
vehicle; and
   (G)   Has no right to a hearing if the vehicle is taken into custody under §
73.05.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 73.09 SALE OF VEHICLE NOT RECLAIMED.
   (A)   (1)   If a vehicle taken into custody under this section is not
reclaimed within 30 days after it is taken into custody, the City Recorder
shall sell the vehicle and its contents at public auction in the manner
prescribed by state law; or
      (2)   Dispose of the vehicle as provided in §
73.10.
   (B)   The contents of any vehicle sold under this section are subject to the
same conditions of sale as the vehicle in which they are found.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 73.10 DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE WITHOUT NOTICE AND PUBLIC AUCTION.
   (A)   If the vehicle is appraised at less than an amount that shall be
determined by the City Council, the City Recorder may dispose of the vehicle
without notice and public auction if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The owner of the vehicle and any lessor or security interest holder
shown in the records of the Division sign a release under oath, disclaiming any
future interest in the vehicle; or
      (2)   The owner and any lessor or security interest holder shown in the
records of the Division have been sent notification of the location of the
vehicle and, within 15 days after the date the notification is mailed, the
persons notified have not signed releases or the vehicle has not been
reclaimed. Failure to sign a release or to reclaim the vehicle shall constitute
a waiver of interest in the vehicle.
   (B)   If the City Recorder intends to dispose of a vehicle under this
section, the City Recorder shall do all of the following:
      (1)   File with the Division an affidavit describing the vehicle, and
stating the location and appraised value of the vehicle and that the vehicle
will be junked or dismantled;
      (2)   Surrender the registration plates of the vehicle, if any, to the
Division;
      (3)   Include in the affidavit a statement that any notice required under
this section has been provided; and
      (4)   Forward any release of interest completed under this section to the
Division.
   (C)   Upon completion of the requirements under this section, the City
Recorder may sell the vehicle without notice and public auction to any of the
person described in this division (C). The City Recorder shall issue to the
person purchasing the vehicle a certificate of sale described under §
73.11. The City Recorder may sell a vehicle under this section to the
following:
      (1)   A wrecker possessing a valid wrecker certificate under state law;
      (2)   Any other person who complies with the requirements and executes
the forms furnished by the Motor Vehicles Division. The forms required by the
Motor Vehicles Division shall be included with the certificate of sale
described in §
73.11.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 73.11 CERTIFICATE OF SALE.
   When any vehicle is sold under §§
73.09 or
73.10, the City Recorder, at the time of the payment of the purchase price,
shall execute a certificate of sale in duplicate. The original certificate of
sale shall be delivered to the purchaser and the copy shall be retained by the
City Recorder. The certificate of sale shall contain the name and address of
the purchaser, the date of sale, the consideration paid, a description of the
vehicle and a stipulation that no warranty is made as to the condition or title
of the vehicle.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 73.12 RETURN OF SALE AND PROCEEDS.
   (A)   When any vehicle is sold under §§
73.10 or
73.11, the City Recorder shall transmit to the Motor Vehicles Division, and to
the City Recorder, a return of sale setting forth:
      (1)   A description of the vehicle;
      (2)   The purchase price;
      (3)   The name and address of the purchaser;
      (4)   The costs incurred in the sale; and
      (5)   The costs and expenses incurred in the removal, preservation and
custody of the vehicle.
   (B)   The City Recorder shall transmit to the manager or designee with the
return of sale, the balance of the proceeds of the sale. The City Recorder may
deduct from the proceeds the costs incurred in the sale and the costs and
expenses incurred in the removal, preservation, and custody of the vehicle.
Upon receipt of the return of sale and such proceeds, the City Recorder shall
deposit such proceeds in the General Fund of the city and file in the City
Recorder’s office the return of sale.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
CHAPTER 74: PARADES AND PROCESSIONS
Section
   
74.01   Parades
   
74.02   Parade permit
   
74.03   Issuance or denial of permit
   
74.04   Appeal
   
74.05   Parade offenses
   
74.06   Permit revocable
   
74.07   Funeral processions
§ 74.01 PARADES.
   No person shall organize or participate in a parade that may disrupt or
interfere with traffic without obtaining a permit. A permit shall be required
for a procession using the public right-of-way that consists of ten or more
persons or five or more vehicles.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.02 PARADE PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for a parade permit shall be made to the City Recorder at
least 30 days before the date of the parade unless the time limit is waived by
the City Recorder.
   (B)   The application shall be signed by the person designated as
Chairperson of the parade and shall include the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the person responsible for the parade;
      (2)   The date of the parade;
      (3)   The desired route, including assembling and dispersal points;
      (4)   The number of persons, vehicles, and animals that will participate;
and
      (5)   The proposed starting and ending time.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 74.03 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Recorder shall issue a parade permit conditioned on the
applicant’s written agreement to comply with terms of the permit unless the
City Recorder finds that:
      (1)   The time, route, and size of the parade will disrupt the movement
or other traffic to an unreasonable extent;
      (2)   The parade is of a size or nature that requires the diversion of so
great a number of law enforcement officers to properly police the line of
movement and contiguous areas that allowing the parade would deny reasonable
law enforcement protection to the jurisdiction;
      (3)   The parade will interfere with another parade or other activity for
which a permit has been issued;
      (4)   Information contained in the application is found to be false or a
material detail is omitted; and
      (5)   The applicant refuses to agree to abide by or comply with all
conditions of the permit.
   (B)   If one or more of the conditions listed in division (A) above, other
than division (A)(5) above exists, the City Recorder may include provisions in
the permit that are necessary to alleviate the conditions, including, but not
limited to:
      (1)   Requiring an alternate date;
      (2)   Requiring an alternate route; and
      (3)   Restricting the size of the parade.
   (C)   The City Recorder shall notify the applicant of the decision within
five days after receipt of the application.
   (D)   If the City Recorder proposes alternatives or refuses to issue a
permit, the applicant may appeal the decision to the Council.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 74.04 APPEAL.
   (A)   An applicant may appeal the decision of the City Recorder by filing a
written request of appeal with the manager or designee within five days after
the City Recorder has proposed alternatives or refused to issue a permit.
   (B)   The Council shall schedule a hearing, which shall not be later than
the second regular meeting following the filing of the written appeal, and
shall notify the applicant of the date and time.
   (C)   The determination by the Council shall be final.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 74.05 PARADE OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person shall unreasonably interfere with a parade or a parade
participant.
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle that is not part of a parade between
the vehicles or persons in the parade.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.06 PERMIT REVOCABLE.
   The City Recorder may revoke a parade permit if circumstances clearly show
that the parade no longer can be conducted consistent with public safety.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991)
§ 74.07 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   No permit is required for a funeral procession.
   (B)   A funeral procession shall proceed to the place of interment by the
most direct route that is both legal and practical.
   (C)   The procession shall be accompanied by adequate escort vehicles for
traffic control.
   (D)   All motor vehicles in the funeral procession shall be operated with
their lights on.
   (E)   No person shall unreasonably interfere with a funeral procession.
   (F)   No person shall operate a vehicle that is not a part of the procession
between the vehicles of a funeral procession.
(Ord. 338, passed 10-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   PUBLIC ALARM SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Licensing
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Enforcement authority
   
90.04   Enforcement complaint
   
90.05   Interference with animal control officer
   
90.06   Registration requirements
   
90.07   Offenses
   
90.08   Dangerous animals
   
90.09   Wild animals
   
90.10   Disposition of habitual offenders
   
90.11   Shelter requirements
   
90.12   Keeping of livestock and/or poultry within the city limits
   
90.13   Dead animals; carcass removal
   
90.14   Summary destruction of certain animals
   
90.15   Rabid animals
   
90.16   Registration required
Impoundment
   
90.30   Authority
   
90.31   Notice
   
90.32   Redemption by owner or keeper
   
90.33   Disposition of animal
   
90.34   Sick or injured animals
   
90.35   Record keeping
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 LICENSING.
   Dog licensing within the city shall be subject to and within the exclusive
jurisdiction of Marion County.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any one of the lower animals as distinguished from, and not
including, man, belonging to the animal kingdom of the living beings, typically
differing from plants, and including mammals, fowl, reptiles, and fish.
   DOG. Male and female canine.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. An animal conditioned so as to live and breed in a tame
environment and normally amenable to human habitats.
   ENFORCEMENT COMPLAINT. The document(s) which, when properly served upon the
alleged violator of an ordinance which is punishable as an infraction, brings
the matter before the appropriate court for resolution. An ENFORCEMENT
COMPLAINT shall provide a scheduled fine, set by the municipal judge, which may
be paid in lieu of appearance in court.
   FOWL. A bird of any kind.
   INFRACTION. An offense or violation of a city ordinance punishable only by a
fine, forfeiture, suspension or revocation of the registration or other
privilege, or other civil penalty.
   INJURY. Includes, at minimum, the breaking or scraping of bodily tissue of
any person or animal, no matter how slight.
   KEEPER. Any person, firm, or association having the custody of or authority
to control the animal.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which four or more dogs more than six months
old are kept.
   LIVESTOCK. Horses, mules, jackasses, burros, cattle, sheep, goats, donkeys,
swine, and any fur-bearing animal bred and maintained, commercially or
otherwise, within pens, cages, and hutches.
   MISTREATMENT. Improper care of an annual, which includes, but is not limited
to, abusive treatment, neglect, overdriving, overloading, torturing,
tormenting, cruel acts, beating, mutilation, deprivation of necessary
sustenance, or abandonment of any animal.
   OWNER OF PROPERTY. Any person who has legal or equitable interest in real
property, or who has a possessory interest therein, or who resides on the
property, or is a guest of any person who owns, rents, or leases said property.
   POULTRY. Domestic fowl, such as chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese, or other
fowl raised for meat or eggs.
   REGISTRATION. Written information, notation, or memorandum of record filed
with city or applicable public body, in accordance with its laws and rules.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. An animal which is off or outside the premises belonging
to the owner, keeper, or person having control, custody, or possession of the
animal, or not in the company of and under the control of its owner or keeper
by means of an adequate leash, pen, cage, coop, vehicle, or other means of
confinement or immediate supervision.
   WILD ANIMAL. An animal which normally lives in a state of nature and is not
ordinarily tame or domesticated and usually not amenable to human habitats.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 90.03 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the law enforcement agency providing law
enforcement services within the city. The for the purposes of this chapter,
those officers or persons are referred to as the animal control official.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 90.04 ENFORCEMENT COMPLAINT.
   Any person authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter may issue an
enforcement complaint to any person found in violation of the provisions of
this chapter. The issuing official shall cause the enforcement complaint to be
delivered to the person alleged to have violated the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 90.05 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to interfere in any way with an animal
control official engaged in enforcing, seizing, impounding, or lawfully
disposing of any animal under the authority of this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful to release any animal from the custody of the animal
control official after such animal has been seized or impounded under the
authority of this chapter.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every person owning or keeping any animal requiring registration or a
license as may be defined by federal, state, county, or municipal law or
regulation shall register or license such animal in accordance with the
specific regulation or law requiring the registration or license.
   (B)   Registration tags, when required, shall be attached to the animal when
such animal is not in the immediate possession or direct supervision of the
owner or keeper.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 OFFENSES.
   (A)   No dog, livestock, or poultry shall run at large within the city
limits upon any public street or other public place or trespass upon private
property not owned or controlled by the owner or keeper of such animal.
   (B)   No person shall keep or possess or otherwise maintain a rooster within
the city limits
   (C)   No domestic or wild animal shall:
      (1)   Make excessive or unreasonable noise in such a manner as to disturb
or annoy any person or deprive any person of peace and quiet, other than the
owner or keeper of such animal;
      (2)   Cause injury to a person, animal, or property, or show a propensity
to cause injury to persons, animals, or property;
      (3)   Chase persons or vehicles;
      (4)   Injure or kill an animal belonging to a person other than the owner
or keeper of such animal;
      (5)   Chase, injure, or kill any animal raised or kept for use or profit;
or
      (6)   Damage property belonging to a person other than the animal’s owner
or keeper.
   (D)   No person who keeps, possesses, or otherwise maintains any animal
shall allow the accumulation of raw or untreated animal manure which creates an
offensive odor to occur upon any property, whether public or private.
   (E)   No person shall:
      (1)   Subject any animal to mistreatment; or
      (2)   Kill any animal under the custody or control of another without
legal privilege.
   (F)   The owner, keeper, or person in charge of an animal found to have
committed an offense is punishable in accordance with the terms hereof and any
other applicable governmental regulations.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep, possess, or otherwise maintain under their
control any dangerous, ferocious, or biting animal.
   (B)   “Dangerous, ferocious, or biting animal” includes any such animal
which, with a lack of provocation, is likely to injure, attack, or otherwise
threaten the lawful presence of any person or animal.
   (C)   In addition to any fines or other penalties provided in this chapter,
the Council may order such disposition of any dangerous, ferocious, or biting
animal as it considers necessary for the safety or health of the public.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or possess or otherwise maintain any wild animal
within the city limits, except for purposes of public display.
   (B)   PUBLIC DISPLAY means keeping in a public place approved by the Council
for the sole purpose of exhibiting wild animals held in captivity and open to
the general public during reasonable hours.
   (C)   No wild animal shall be allowed to run at large or to run at large
upon the property of the person authorized to keep, possess, or otherwise
control such animal.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 DISPOSITION OF HABITUAL OFFENDERS.
   In addition to any fines or other penalties provided herein, if an animal
has been found to repeatedly violate the provisions herein, the Council may
order such disposition of the animal as it considers necessary for the safety
or health of the public.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 90.11 SHELTER REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner or keeper of any animal shall provide adequate shelter for such
animal. ADEQUATE SHELTER means that which provides protection from the
meteorological elements. The Council may prohibit the housing or keeping of any
animal within the city limits when such housing or keeping may impair the
public health, welfare, safety, or create a nuisance. The Council may direct
the animal control official to deliver a written notice to the owner or keeper
of such animal, directing the owner or keeper to remove the animal within seven
days from the service of such notice.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK AND/OR POULTRY WITHIN THE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Livestock. No person owning, possessing, or having control of
livestock, shall keep the animals except in a fenced area and on a lot having
an area of at least 32,670 square feet (0.75 acre) per animal.
   (B)   Poultry. No person owning, possessing, or having control of poultry,
shall keep the animals except in a fenced area. No person shall keep or possess
or otherwise maintain a rooster within the city limits.
   (C)   Fencing; livestock. Fencing used for the purpose of containing
livestock, as required by this section, shall not be located within 20 feet of
a property boundary line.
   (D)   Fencing; poultry. Fencing used for the purpose of containing poultry,
as required by this section, shall not be located within ten feet of a property
boundary line.
   (E)   Non-conforming use. For livestock being kept on parcels of less than
32,670 square feet (0.75 acre) per animal, this section shall not preclude any
person from continuing to keep or replace livestock which were being kept
within the city limits of the city on or before July 1, 1992, provided the
animal is in a fenced area and a permit to continue to keep the animal was
obtained from the city prior to September 1, 1992.
   (F)   Cessation of use. For parcels of less than 32,670 square feet (0.75
acres), if a non-conforming use for keeping of the livestock is discontinued
for a period of 90 days or more, or if the property comes under different
ownership, the keeping of livestock shall cease and may not be resumed.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 DEAD ANIMALS; CARCASS REMOVAL.
   No person may permit the carcass of any animal kept, possessed, or otherwise
maintained under that person’s control to remain upon any public street or
other public place or upon any private property for over 24 hours.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 SUMMARY DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   Any animal, whether domestic or wild, which presents an imminent threat of
serious physical injury or death to any person or other animal, or which has
caused injury or death to any person or other animal, and which, under the
immediate circumstances, cannot be captured or impounded as provided in this
chapter, may be summarily destroyed in as humane a manner as is practicable
under the existing circumstances.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 90.15 RABID ANIMALS.
   The statutes and regulations of the state and county shall apply.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 90.16 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every dog that resides within the city shall be registered according to the
terms and requirements of the rules, ordinances, and policies of the county.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 90.30 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Any animal control official is authorized to impound any animal found
in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any animal that bites a person or another animal or that has caused
injury to any person or another animal may be summarily seized by any person
and, if seized, shall be promptly delivered to the animal control official. Any
animal control official may house an animal impounded under the provisions of
this chapter at a city kennel, a veterinary clinic, or other animal shelter.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 90.31 NOTICE.
   (A)   When the owner of an animal impounded under the provisions of this
chapter is known, the owner or keeper shall be given notice of the impoundment,
either orally or in writing, by personal service, or by mailing to such owner
or keeper’s last known address.
   (B)   When the owner or keeper of an impounded animal is not known or cannot
be contacted, a notice of such impoundment shall be posted in three public
places within the city. The notice shall contain a general description of the
animal showing breed or common type animal name, sex if known, color and
general markings, and shall designate the disposition date of said animal, as
provided in this chapter, unless sooner redeemed.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 90.32 REDEMPTION BY OWNER OR KEEPER.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of impounded animals shall have three days from
the date of notice of impoundment, whether mailed, posted, or delivered orally,
to claim the animal if the dog is without a license or identification tag, and
at least five days if the dog has a license or identification tag. If the owner
or keeper fails to claim the animal within the specified time period, the
animal shall be disposed of as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   The owner or keeper of an impounded animal may redeem the animal upon
payment to the city of the impoundment fee for such animal. If the animal is
not registered upon impoundment, upon redemption such person shall either
register the animal or provide a deposit for registration. The deposit shall be
an amount that shall be determined by the City Council.
   (C)   The impoundment fee as provided in division (B) above shall bean
amount that shall be determined by the City Council for the first impoundment
and another amount that shall be determined by the City Council for each
subsequent impoundment.
   (D)   If the animal is impounded at a veterinary clinic or other animal
shelter, the owner shall pay, in lieu of the impoundment fee provided for in
division (C) above, any costs resulting from the impoundment directly to the
clinic or shelter.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 90.33 DISPOSITION OF ANIMAL.
   If no person claims or redeems an impounded animal within the time fixed by
the applicable notice, such animal shall be sold, given away, destroyed, or
released to kennel facilities by the animal control official.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 90.34 SICK OR INJURED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal control official who has lawfully seized or impounded an
animal under the provisions of this chapter and determines that the animal is
in apparent need of immediate medical attention due to illness or injury, may
authorize the necessary medical attention and/or have the animal destroyed.
   (B)   The animal control official shall make a reasonable effort to locate
the owner or keeper of such sick or injured animal before authorizing such
medical attention or destruction of the animal.
   (C)   The owner or keeper of such sick or injured animal shall be liable for
any costs incurred for medical treatment rendered to the animal and/or for its
destruction.
   (D)   If the owner or keeper of such sick or injured animal is not located,
the animal may be disposed of as provided in §
90.33.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 90.35 RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   The animal control official shall make a report of each animal
impounded.
   (B)   Such report shall indicate the date and time impounded, where seized
and where impounded, description of the animal impounded, and the name and
address of the owner or keeper, if known. Upon disposition of the animal, the
report shall indicate the name and address of the person to whom the animal is
released, the date of release, or the date it is destroyed.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter is punishable as an infraction
by a fine not to exceed an amount that shall be determined by the City Council
per violation. Each day that a violation exists shall be deemed a separate
violation.
(Ord. 718, passed 10-8-2012)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Public health nuisances
   
91.03   Attractive nuisances
   
91.04   Snow and ice
   
91.05   Scattering rubbish
   
91.06   Prohibiting consumption of alcoholic beverages on public property
   
91.07   Trees and vegetation obstructing view
   
91.08   Barbed wire or electric fences
   
91.09   Inadequate drainage
   
91.10   Obstruction of sidewalks and alleys
   
91.11   Obstructing waterways or public thoroughfares
   
91.12   Utility wires strung too low
   
91.13   Damaged, derelict, and dangerous structures
   
91.14   Noxious vegetation
   
91.15   Noise and vibrations
   
91.16   Posted notices
   
91.17   Advertising; public property, prohibition
   
91.18   Advertising; private property, prohibition
   
91.19   Advertising; public property, exceptions
   
91.20   Advertising; removal
   
91.21   Junk accumulation
   
91.22   Discarded vehicles
   
91.23   Unenumerated nuisances
Abatement
   
91.35   Notice
   
91.36   Abatement of dangerous structures
   
91.37   Protest hearing
   
91.38   Joint responsibility
   
91.39   Procedure
   
91.40   Assessment of costs
   
91.41   Summary abatement
   
91.42   Abatement as additional remedy
   
91.43   Occupancy of residential property after notice of violation
   
91.44   Interference with repair, demolition, or abatement prohibited
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERTISING. Any method, procedure, or substance used to announce, present,
or display any fact, opinion, or other information by means of pictures, words,
or designs, or otherwise, whether written, printed, painted, or in any other
way expressed.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The County Building Inspector, or its designee, or the
individual(s) designated by the City Recorder to administer and enforce the
building codes, and inspect buildings.
   CESSPOOL. Septic tanks or other subsurface sewage disposal facilities that
are in an unsanitary condition or which cause an offensive odor.
   DEBRIS. Accumulations of rubbish, manure, and other refuse that are not
removed within a reasonable time and that have the potential to affect the
health of residents of the city or the cleanliness or visual attractiveness of
the area.
   DECAYED FOOD. Spoiled or unwholesome food not fit for human consumption.
   DISCARDED VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any vehicle which is in one or more of the following conditions:
         (a)   Inoperative;
         (b)   Wrecked;
         (c)   Dismantled;
         (d)   Partially dismantled
         (e)   Abandoned;
         (f)   Junked; or
         (g)   Not displaying a current registration plate from a state
Department or Division of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   DISCARDED VEHICLES also includes major parts of vehicles,
including, but not limited to, bodies, engines, body parts, transmissions, or
rear ends.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Code Enforcement Officer of the city, or the
individual designated by the City Recorder to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   JUNK. Motor vehicle parts, machinery, machinery parts, appliances, or parts
thereof, iron, or other metal, wires, glass, paper, lumber, wood, or other
waste or discarded material, whether or not such items are used in connection
with a business enterprise.
   LOUD, DISTURBING NOISES. A noise that creates a plainly audible sound within
any dwelling unit which does not contain the source of the sound.
   ODOR. Premises that are in such a state or condition as to cause an
offensive odor, or that are in an unsanitary condition.
   PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY. An agent, occupant, lessee, contract
purchaser, or other person having possession or control of property or the
supervision of any construction project.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE. The persons responsible for abating a nuisance,
including:
      (1)   The owner;
      (2)   The person in charge of property; or
      (3)   The person who caused a nuisance to come into or continue in
existence.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE SOUND. Any sound that is clearly distinguishable from other
sounds, such as, but not limited to, amplified speech sufficiently loud to be
understood by a person with normal hearing, or when a person with normal
hearing can readily discern whether an amplified or reproduced human voice is
raised or normal, or any musical sound sufficiently loud to permit the melody
or rhythm to be recognized by a person with normal hearing, or any other sound
sufficiently loud to materially affect the ability of a person with normal
hearing to understand a verbal communication made in a normal conversational
tone from a distance of ten feet or less.
   PRIVIES. An open vault or receptacle for human waste constructed and
maintained within the city, except those constructed or maintained in
connection with construction projects or outdoor, community gatherings of large
groups of people, in accordance with the State Health Division regulations.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A building, way, place, or accommodation, whether publicly or
privately owned, open and available to the general public.
   PUBLIC THOROUGHFARE. A street, alley, bicycle path, pedestrian way, or trail
that is open to the public.
   PUTRESCIBLE MATERIAL. Organic material that can decompose and may give rise
to foul or offensive odors or foul or offensive by-products.
   REFUSE/RUBBISH. Any material discarded or rejected as useless or worthless.
   SLAUGHTERHOUSES. An establishment where animals are killed and processed for
meat, where animal by-products are rendered, or where animal hides are tanned.
For purposes of this chapter, an establishment where livestock are kept in a
confined manner shall also be considered a SLAUGHTERHOUSE.
   SOLID WASTE. All putrescible and nonputrescible wastes including, but not
limited to, garbage, rubbish, refuse, ashes, wastepaper, and cardboard, sewage
sludge, septic tank, and cesspool pumpings or other sludge; commercial,
industrial, demolition, and construction wastes; motor vehicle parts; discarded
home or industrial appliances; manure; vegetable or animal solid or semi-solid
waste; dead animals or other wastes; but the term does not include:
      (1)   Hazardous wastes as defined by O.R.S. Chapter 459 or regulations
adopted by the Department of Environmental Quality or the Environmental Quality
Commission; or
      (2)   Materials used for fertilizer or for other purposes or which are
salvageable, as such materials are used on land and in agricultural operations
and the growing and harvesting of crops and the raising of fowl or animals.
   SOUND PRODUCTION OR REPRODUCTION DEVICE. Any radio, stereo, loudspeaker,
amplifier, television, tape player, or other similar machine or mechanical or
electrical device intended for the production, reproduction, or amplification
of sound.
   STAGNANT WATER. Water that affords a breeding place for mosquitoes and other
insect pests.
   SURFACE DRAINAGE. Drainage of liquid wastes from private premises.
   VEHICLE. Any device in, upon, or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 91.02 PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES.
   No person shall cause or permit on property owned or controlled by that
person any nuisance affecting the public health. Cesspools, debris, decayed
food, odor, privies, slaughterhouses, and other similar establishments,
stagnant water, and surface drainage are nuisances affecting the public health
and shall be abated as provided in §§
91.37 through
91.42.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 ATTRACTIVE NUISANCES.
   (A)   No person shall create an attractive nuisance or hazard by:
      (1)   Maintaining or leaving in a place accessible to children a
container with a compartment of more than one and one-half cubic feet capacity
and a door or lid which locks or fastens automatically when closed and which
cannot be easily opened from the inside, including specifically any used
icebox, refrigerator or freezer of any size or shape; or
      (2)   Being the owner or otherwise having possession of property upon
which there is a well, cistern, cesspool, excavation, or other hole of a depth
of four feet or more and a top width of 12 inches or more and failing or
refusing to cover or fence it with a suitable protective construction.
   (B)   No owner or person in charge of property shall permit on the property:
      (1)   Unguarded machinery, equipment, or other devices that is
attractive, dangerous, and accessible to the public;
      (2)   Lumber, logs, or piling placed or stored in a manner so as to be
attractive, dangerous, or accessible to the public; and
      (3)   An open pit, quarry, cistern, or other excavation without
safeguards or barriers to prevent such places from being accessed by the
public.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to authorized construction projects with
reasonable safeguards to prevent injury or death to the public.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 SNOW AND ICE.
   No owner or person in charge of property, improved or unimproved, abutting
on a public sidewalk shall permit:
   (A)   Snow to remain on the sidewalk for a period longer than the first 24
hours after daybreak after the snow has fallen; or
   (B)   Ice to remain on the sidewalk for more than 24 hours after daybreak
after the ice has formed unless the ice is covered with sand, ashes, or other
suitable material to assure safe travel.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 SCATTERING RUBBISH.
   No person shall deposit upon public or private property any kind of rubbish,
trash, debris, refuse, or any substance that would mar the appearance, create a
stench or fire hazard, detract from the cleanliness or safety of the property,
or would be likely to injure a person, animal, or vehicle traveling upon a
public way.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 PROHIBITING CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall drink or consume alcoholic beverages in or upon any public
street or sidewalk, alley, public grounds, parks, or city-owned facilities and
properties.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 TREES AND VEGETATION OBSTRUCTING VIEW.
   (A)   No owner or person in charge of property that abuts on a street or
public sidewalk shall permit trees or vegetation on the property to interfere
with street or sidewalk traffic.
   (B)   The owner or person in charge of property shall keep all trees and
vegetation on the property, including the adjoining parking strip, trimmed to a
height of not less than eight feet above the sidewalk and not less than 14 feet
above the roadway.
   (C)   No owner or person in charge of property shall allow any hedge or
other obstructing vegetation within the vision clearance area (also known as
the sight distance triangle) described in this section per the requirements
contained in Sublimity Development Code § 2.209.8.
      (1)   The vision clearance area shall not contain temporary or permanent
obstructions to vision exceeding 30 inches in height above the curb level.
      (2)   Vision clearance shall not be required at a height ten feet or more
above the curb level.
      (3)   The vision clearance provisions of this section shall not be
construed as waiving or altering any yard, landscaping, or setback requirements
that may be required in the Sublimity Development Code or any other applicable
local ordinance, which may be file on the city’s website at
www.cityofsublimity.org.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 BARBED WIRE OR ELECTRIC FENCES.
   (A)   No owner or person in charge of property shall construct or maintain a
barbed wire fence, or permit barbed wire to remain as a part of a fence, except
for agricultural uses, and fencing for a conforming, city approved businesses
in a commercial or industrial zone district, with a height limit of six feet
that may include the use of one foot of double barbed 12.5 gage fencing at the
top portion, as permitted under Development Code § 2.401.09.
   (B)   No owner or person in charge of property shall construct, maintain, or
operate an electric fence except for agricultural uses as permitted under
Development Code § 2.401.09(A).
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 INADEQUATE DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No owner or person in charge of property shall cause or permit any
water from any ditch, canal, flume, reservoir pipeline, or conduit above or
below the ground to leak or flow over or under any premises, public street,
sidewalk, or other public property where such leak or flow shall endanger the
public health, safety, welfare, or convenience.
   (B)   No owner or person in charge of a building or structure shall cause or
permit rainwater, ice, or snow to fall from the building or structure onto a
public sidewalk or to flow across the sidewalk. The owner or person in charge
of any structure shall install and maintain in proper repair adequate
drainpipes or a drainage system, so that any overflow water accumulating on the
roof or about the building is not carried across or upon the sidewalk.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 OBSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided in this section, no person shall place
or maintain any item obstructing a sidewalk or alley that extends more than 36
inches into the public right-of-way.
   (B)   No person may obstruct any portion of a sidewalk, street, or alley
with any building material in connection with the alteration or construction of
buildings without first obtaining a permit from the City Recorder.
   (C)   If obstruction is permitted under division (B) above, not more than
one-third of the street or alley shall be occupied or obstructed with material,
and only in front of the property where the building is being altered or
constructed.
   (D)   Any person who maintains an obstruction under division (B) above
shall, upon request of the City Recorder, give written proof of carrying
liability insurance to cover any hazard.
   (E)   If a permit is granted to allow obstruction, the person so obstructing
shall maintain a substantial temporary sidewalk around construction. A guard
railing and amber light as a danger signal shall be kept at each end of the
obstruction during the hours between sunset to sunrise.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the display of
goods and materials upon private property, nor shall it apply to persons
receiving or discharging goods or merchandise across a sidewalk or alley in
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 OBSTRUCTING WATERWAYS OR PUBLIC THOROUGHFARES.
   No person shall interfere with, obstruct, create a congested condition or
render dangerous for passage any stream, canal, or any public park, square,
sidewalk, public way, alley, street, or highway.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 UTILITY WIRES STRUNG TOO LOW.
   No wires used for the transmission of electricity or for any communication
purposes shall be strung less than 15 feet above the surface of the ground.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 DAMAGED, DERELICT, AND DANGEROUS STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Generally. No property shall contain any dangerous or derelict
structure as described in this chapter. All such buildings or structures shall
be repaired or demolished.
   (B)   Derelict structures.
      (1)   A derelict structure is any unoccupied non-residential building,
structure, or portion thereof, that meets any of the following criteria or any
residential building which is at least 50% unoccupied and meets any of the
following criteria:
         (a)   Has been ordered vacated by the Enforcement Officer pursuant to
§
91.36(B);
         (b)   Has been issued a notice of infraction by the Enforcement
Officer pursuant to §
91.35;
         (c)   Is unsecured;
         (d)   Is boarded unless the boarding is required by the Enforcement
Officer; or
         (e)   Has, while vacant, had a nuisance declared by the city on the
property upon which it is located.
      (2)   Any property which has been declared by the Building Official to
include a derelict structure shall be considered in violation of this chapter
until:
         (a)   The structure has been lawfully occupied;
         (b)   The structure has been demolished and the lot cleared and graded
after approval is issued by the city, with final inspection and approval by the
Building Official; or
         (c)   The owner has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Building
Official that the property is free of all conditions causing its status as a
derelict structure.
   (C)   Dangerous structures. Any structure which through damage, neglect, or
lack of maintenance, has any or all of the following conditions or defects to
the extent that life, health, property, or safety of the public or the
structure’s occupants are endangered, shall be deemed to be a dangerous
structure, declared a nuisance, and such condition or defects shall be abated
pursuant to §
91.35.
      (1)   High loads. Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or
portion of a structure, due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and
one-half times the working stress or stresses allowed by the current state
building codes for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location.
      (2)   Weakened or unstable structural members or appendages. Whenever any
portion of a structure has been damaged by fire, earthquake, wind, flood, or by
any other cause, to such an extent that the structural strength or stability is
materially less than it was before such catastrophe and is less than the
minimum requirements of the current state building codes for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose, or location; or Whenever appendages including
parapet walls, cornices, spires, towers, tanks, statuaries, or other appendages
or structural members which are supported by, attached to, or part of a
building, and which are in a deteriorated condition or otherwise unable to
sustain the design loads which are specified in the current state building
codes.
      (3)   Buckled or leaning walls, structural members. Whenever the exterior
walls or other vertical structural members list, lean, or buckle to such an
extent that a plumb line passing through the center of gravity does not fall
inside the middle one-third of the base.
      (4)   Vulnerability to earthquakes, high winds.
         (a)   Whenever any portion of a structure is wrecked, warped, buckled,
or has settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction; or
         (b)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance,
or ornamentation of the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one half of that specified in the
current state building codes for new buildings of similar structure, purpose,
or location without exceeding the working stresses permitted in the current
Oregon building codes for such buildings.
      (5)   Insufficient strength or fire resistance. Whenever any structure
which, whether or not erected in accordance with all applicable laws and
ordinances:
         (a)   Has in any non-supporting part, member, or portion, less than
50% of the strength or the fire-resisting qualities or characteristics required
by law for a newly constructed building of like area, height, and occupancy in
the same location; or
         (b)   Has in any supporting part, member, or portion less than 66% of
the strength or the fire-resisting qualities or characteristics required by law
in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height, and occupancy
in the same location.
      (6)   Risk of failure or collapse.
         (a)   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is likely
to fail, or to become disabled or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property; or
         (b)   Whenever the structure, or any portion thereof, is likely to
partially or completely collapse as a result of any cause, including but not
limited to:
            1.   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
            2.   Faulty construction;
            3.   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such structure; or
            4.   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation.
      (7)   Excessive damage or deterioration. Whenever the structure exclusive
of the foundation:
         (a)   Shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting
member or members;
         (b)   Fifty percent damage or deterioration of its non-supporting
members; or
         (c)   Fifty percent damage or deterioration of its enclosing or
outside wall coverings.
      (8)   Demolition remnants on site. Whenever any portion of a structure,
including unfilled excavations, remains on a site for more than 30 days after
the demolition or destruction of the structure.
      (9)   Fire hazard. Whenever any structure is a fire hazard as a result of
any cause, including but not limited to dilapidated condition, deterioration,
or damage; inadequate exits; lack of sufficient fire-resistive construction; or
faulty electric wiring, gas connections, or heating apparatus.
      (10)   Other hazards to health, safety, or public welfare.
         (a)   Whenever, for any reason, the structure, or any portion thereof,
is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is lawfully constructed or
currently is being used; or
         (b)   Whenever a structure is structurally unsafe or is otherwise
hazardous to human life, including but not limited to whenever a structure
constitutes a hazard to health, safety, or public welfare by reason of
inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, unsanitary conditions, obsolescence, fire
hazard, disaster, damage, or abandonment.
      (11)   Public nuisance. Whenever the structure has been so damaged by
fire, wind, earthquake, or flood or any other cause, or has become so
dilapidated or deteriorated as to become an attractive nuisance or a harbor for
vagrants or criminals.
      (12)   Chronic dereliction. Whenever a derelict structure remains
unoccupied for a period in excess of six months or period less than six months
when the structure or portion thereof constitutes an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
      (13)   Violations of codes, laws. Whenever any structure has been
constructed, exists, or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement
or prohibition applicable to such structure provided by the building
regulations of this city, as specified in the current state building codes or
any law or ordinance of this state or city relating to the condition, location,
or structure or buildings.
   (D)   Abatement of dangerous structures.
      (1)   All structures or portions thereof which are determined after
inspection by the Building Official to be dangerous as defined in this chapter
are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition, or removal in accordance with the procedures
specified herein.
      (2)   If the Building Official determines that a structure is dangerous,
as defined by this chapter, the Enforcement Officer shall commence proceedings
to cause the repair, vacation, or demolition of the structure.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 91.14 NOXIOUS VEGETATION.
   (A)   The term “noxious vegetation” does not include vegetation that
constitutes an agricultural crop nor vegetation on a parcel of property or any
portion of a parcel of property that is greater than 100 feet from a public
right-of-way, alley, property line, or dwelling unit, unless that vegetation is
a health hazard, a fire hazard, or a traffic hazard that violates the vision
clearance area requirements found in Sublimity Development Code § 2.209.8,
which may be found on the city’s website at www.cityofsublimity.org.
   (B)   The term “noxious vegetation” does include:
      (1)   Weeds more than ten inches high;
      (2)   Grass more than ten inches high and not within the exception stated
in division (A) above;
      (3)   Poison oak;
      (4)   Poison ivy;
      (5)   Blackberry bushes that extend into a public thoroughfare or across
a property line; and
      (6)   Vegetation that is:
         (a)   A safety hazard because of the possibility of falling branches;
         (b)   A fire hazard because it is near other combustibles;
         (c)   A traffic hazard because it impairs the view of a public
thoroughfare, otherwise makes use of the thoroughfare hazardous, or does not
meet the sight distance triangle requirements contained in Sublimity
Development Code § 2.209.8.
   (C)   No owner or person in charge of property shall allow noxious
vegetation to be on the property or in the right-of-way of a public
thoroughfare abutting on the property. An owner or person in charge of property
shall cut down or destroy grass, shrubbery, brush, bushes, weeds, or other
noxious vegetation as often as needed to prevent them from becoming unsightly,
from becoming a fire hazard, or, in the case of weeds or other noxious
vegetation, from maturing or going to seed.
   (D)   Between March 1 and April 15 of each year, the City Recorder may
publish three times, in a newspaper of general circulation, in the city a copy
of division (C) above as a notice to all owners and persons in charge of
property of the duty to keep their property free from noxious vegetation. The
notice shall state that the city is willing to abate the nuisance on a
particular parcel or property at the request of the owner or person in charge
of the property for a fee sufficient to cover the city’s abatement costs. The
notice shall also state that, in the absence of request, the city intends to
abate all nuisances ten or more days after the final publication of the notice
and to charge the cost of doing so to the owner or the person responsible for
the property, or on the property itself.
   (E)   In lieu of providing notice as provided in division (D) above, between
March 1 and April 15 of each year, the City Recorder may obtain a list of
property owners within the city and may then mail a notice to each listed
property owner. The notice shall include a copy of division (C) above advising
property owners of their duty to keep their property free from noxious
vegetation. The notice shall also state that the city is willing to abate the
nuisance on a particular parcel of property for a fee sufficient to cover the
city’s abatement costs. The notice shall also state that, in the absence of
such request, the city intends to abate all such nuisances at any time and the
city will charge the cost of abating the nuisance on a particular parcel of
property to the owner or the person responsible for the property, or on the
property itself.
   (F)   During any time of each year, the City Recorder may provide notice for
abatement of noxious vegetation as provided in §
91.37.
   (G)   If the notices provided for in divisions (D) or (E) above are used,
they shall be in lieu of the notice required by §
91.37.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.15 NOISE AND VIBRATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall make, assist in making, continue, or cause to be made
any loud, disturbing, or unnecessary noise which either annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, safety, or peace of others
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. except as otherwise provided.
   (B)   Loud, disturbing, and unnecessary noises include, but are not limited
to:
      (1)   The keeping of any animal which, by causing frequent or continued
noise, disturbs the comfort and repose of any person in the vicinity;
      (2)   The attaching of a bell to an animal or allowing a bell to remain
on an animal;
      (3)   The use of a vehicle or engine, either stationary or moving, so out
of repair, loaded, or operated as to create any loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling, or other noise;
      (4)   The sounding of a horn or signaling device on a vehicle on a
street, public place or private place, except as a necessary warning of danger;
      (5)   The use of a mechanical device operated by compressed air, steam,
or otherwise, unless the noise created thereby is effectively muffled;
      (6)   The erection, including excavation, demolition, alteration, or
repair of a building in residential districts other than between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of
the public welfare and safety, and then only with permit granted by the City
Recorder for a period not to exceed ten days. The permit may be renewed for
periods of five days while the emergency continues to exist. If the City
Recorder determines that the public health, safety, and welfare will not be
impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration, or repair of a building
between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., and if the City Recorder shall
further determine that loss or inconvenience would result to any person unless
the work is permitted within those hours, the City Recorder may grant
permission for such work to be done within specified hours between 6:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m., upon application therefor being made at the time the permit for
the work is awarded or during the progress of the work. The owner of property
may do work on property actually occupied by the owner between the hours of 6:
00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. without obtaining a permit;
      (7)   The use of a gong or siren upon a vehicle other than an emergency
services vehicle except when used as part of a community function such as a
parade or other special promotion for which a permit has been issued;
      (8)   The creation of loud or disturbing noises on a street adjacent to a
school, institution of learning, church, or court of justice, while the same
are in use, or on a street adjacent to a nursing home, or other institution for
the care of the sick or infirm, which interferes with the safe operation of
such institution or disturbs or unduly annoys occupants;
      (9)   The discharge in the open air of the exhaust of a steam engine,
internal combustion engine, motorboat, or motor vehicle, except through muffler
or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises;
      (10)   (a)   The use or operation of an automatic or electric piano,
phonograph, radio, television, loudspeaker, or any instrument for sound
producing, or any sound production device so loudly as to disturb persons in
the vicinity thereof, or in such a manner as renders the use thereof a
nuisance.
         (b)   However, upon application to the chief law enforcement officer,
permits may be granted to responsible persons or organizations for the
broadcast or amplification of programs of music, news, speeches, or general
entertainment as a part of a national, state, or municipal event, public
festivals, or outstanding events of a noncommercial nature;
      (11)   The making of a noise by crying, calling, or shouting or by means
of a whistle, rattle, bell, gong, clapper, horn, hammer, drum, musical
instrument, or other device for the purpose of advertising goods, wares, or
merchandise, attracting attention, or inviting patronage of a person to a
business; and
      (12)   The conducting, operating, or maintaining of a commercial or
industrial business within 100 feet of a private residence, apartment, rooming
house, or hotel in such manner as to cause loud or disturbing noises to be
emitted there from between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (C)   No person shall make, assist in making, continue, or cause to be made
any loud, disturbing, or unnecessary noise which either annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, safety, or peace of others
at any time in the following manner:
      (1)   The use or operation of any sound production or reproduction
device, car alarm, or horn on public property or on a public right-of-way so as
to cause a plainly audible sound 50 feet or more from such device, except as
allowed by permits in division (B)(10) above or in the case of an actual
emergency;
      (2)   The operation, or to permit the use or operation of any device
designed for sound production or reproduction, including, but not limited to
any radio, television set, musical instrument, phonograph, loud speaker, bell,
chime, horn, in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance and as defined in
division (B)(4) and (B)(10) above, except as allowed by permits in division (B)
(10) above, so as to be plainly audible within any dwelling unit which is not
the source of the sound.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 POSTED NOTICES.
   No person shall affix a sign, placard, bill, or poster upon personal or real
property, private, or public, without first obtaining permission from the owner
thereof or from the proper public authority.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 ADVERTISING; PUBLIC PROPERTY, PROHIBITION.
   Except as otherwise specifically permitted, no person may:
   (A)   Place, display, scatter, or distribute any advertising matter on or
across any public street, sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare;
   (B)   Erect, place, or display any structure or device which is used to
display advertising matter on or across any public street, sidewalk, or other
public thoroughfare; and
   (C)   Attach any advertising matter to any tree, pole, or post situated on
any public property within the city.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 ADVERTISING; PRIVATE PROPERTY, PROHIBITION.
   No person may display any advertising matter on or across any private
property within the city without the express consent of the owner or person in
charge of such property.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 ADVERTISING; PUBLIC PROPERTY, EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The City Recorder may permit any person to display or distribute
advertising on city-owned property for meetings or entertainment. If the
request is denied, the applicant may appeal to the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council may, upon request, permit any person to erect a sign
or device adjacent to any property to display advertising matter pertaining to
the business or activity carried on at said premises, and which will extend
over or across any portion of a public thoroughfare. Any person desiring such
permission shall apply to the City Recorder who shall forward the request to
the City Council. If the City Council finds that such sign or device is not
likely to endanger any person or property, it may grant the application,
dictating the terms and conditions for such erection and use, or it may reject
the application.
   (C)   Any sign or device permitted under this section must conform to
standards in the Oregon Structural Specialty Code as adopted by the county,
where such standards are applicable, which Code may be found on the Oregon
Building Codes website www.oregon.gov/bcd/codes-stand/Pages/adopted-codes.aspx.
   (D)   Nothing in §§
91.18 through
91.20 shall prohibit the proper display of notices of any election to be held
by the federal or state governments or any subdivision thereof, or of notices
of judicial sales, or any other notices or advertisements issued or displayed
pursuant to law or ordinance.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 91.20 ADVERTISING; REMOVAL.
   The chief law enforcement officer or designate may immediately remove and
dispose of any advertising matter or sign or other device displayed or erected
within the city in violation of any of the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 91.21 JUNK ACCUMULATION.
   No person shall keep any junk outdoors on any street, lot, or premises, or
in a building that is not wholly or entirely enclosed except the doors on the
building used for ingress and egress.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 DISCARDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall store or permit the storing of a discarded vehicle on
any private property for more than 72 hours, unless it is completely enclosed
within a building or in a space entirely enclosed by a solid fence, hedge, or
screen, not less than six feet in height, or unless it is in connection with a
business enterprise dealing in junked vehicles lawfully conducted within the
city.
   (B)   In addition to or in lieu of the procedures contained in §§
91.37 through
91.40 for abating nuisances, vehicles found in violation of division (A) above
may be impounded and disposed of in accordance with the applicable state law
for vehicles abandoned in public places.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 UNENUMERATED NUISANCES.
   (A)   The acts, conditions, or objects, specifically enumerated and defined
in §§
91.02 through
91.22 are declared public nuisances, and such acts, conditions, or objects may
be abated by any of the procedures set forth in §§
91.37 through
91.40.
   (B)   In addition to the nuisances specifically enumerated in this chapter,
every other thing, substance, or act which is determined by the Council to be
injurious or detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare is declared a
nuisance and may be abated as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009)
ABATEMENT
§ 91.35 NOTICE.
   (A)   If satisfied that a nuisance exists, the Enforcement Officer shall
cause a notice to be posted on the premises or at the site of the nuisance,
directing the person responsible to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   At the time of posting, the Enforcement Officer shall cause a copy of
the notice to be forwarded by registered or certified mail to the person
responsible at the last known address, or the notice may be personally served.
   (C)   The notice to abate shall contain:
      (1)   A description of the real property, by street address or otherwise,
on which the nuisance exists;
      (2)   A direction to abate the nuisance within ten days from the date of
the notice;
      (3)   A description of the nuisance;
      (4)   A statement that, unless the nuisance is removed, the city may
abate the nuisance and the cost of the abatement will be charged to the person
responsible;
      (5)   A statement that failure to abate a nuisance may warrant imposition
of a fine; and
      (6)   A statement that the person responsible may protest the order to
abate by giving written notice to the City Recorder within ten days from the
date of the notice.
   (D)   If the person responsible is not the owner, an additional notice shall
be served on the owner, whose name and address appear on the county tax
records, stating that the cost of abatement not paid by the person responsible
may be assessed to and become a lien on the property.
   (E)   Upon completion of the posting and mailing, the Enforcement Officer
shall execute and file certificates stating the date and place of the mailing
and posting.
   (F)   If there is an inaccuracy in the name or address of the person
responsible, the posted notice shall be sufficient.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 91.36 ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS STRUCTURES.
   All structures or portions thereof which are determined after inspection by
the Building Official to be dangerous as defined in this chapter are hereby
declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition, or removal in accordance with the procedures specified herein. If
the Building Official determines that a structure is dangerous, as defined by
this chapter, the Enforcement Officer shall commence proceedings to cause the
repair, vacation, or demolition of the structure.
   (A)   Notice of status as derelict or dangerous structure.
      (1)   Notice. When the Building Official determines that a structure is a
derelict or dangerous structure, the Enforcement Officer shall give notice of
the infraction to the owner pursuant to this chapter. Additional notice to
other affected persons, such as tenants and holders of a security interest
shall be given. In addition to the notice required by §
91.35, the Enforcement Officer shall give the statement of actions required to
cure or remedy the condition and, if necessary, the order to vacate described
in division (B) below.
      (2)   Statement of actions required.
         (a)   Notice of the statement of action shall be given in conjunction
with the notice of infraction pursuant to §
91.35.
         (b)   The statement of the action required to cure or remedy a
condition giving rise to classification of a structure as derelict or dangerous
shall include the following.
            1.   If the Building Official has determined that the building or
structure must be repaired, the statement shall require that all required
permits be secured and the work physically commenced within such time from the
date of the statement and completed within such time as the Enforcement Officer
shall determine is reasonable under all of the circumstances, but no more than
ten days, or the building or structure be demolished.
            2.   If the Building Official has determined that the building or
structure must be vacated, the statement shall order that the building or
structure shall be vacated within a time certain from the date of the statement
as determined by the Enforcement Officer to be reasonable, but no more than
seven days.
            3.   If the Building Official has determined that:
               a.   The building or structure is vacant;
               b.   The building or structure is structurally sound and does
not present a fire hazard; and
               c.   The building or structure has presented or is likely to
present a danger to individuals who may enter the building or structure even
though they are unauthorized to do so, the statement shall require that the
building or structure be secured against unauthorized entry by means which may
include, but are not limited to, the boarding up of doors and windows.
            4.   If the Building Official has determined that the building or
structure must be demolished, the statement shall order that the building be
vacated within such time as the Enforcement Officer shall determine is
reasonable from the date of the statement; that all required permits be secured
from the date of the statement, and that the demolition be completed within
such time as the Enforcement Officer shall determine is reasonable.
            5.   Statements advising that if any required repair or demolition
work (without vacation also being required) is not commenced within the time
specified, the Enforcement Officer will order the building vacated and posted
to prevent further occupancy until the work is completed, and may proceed to
cause the work to be done and charge the costs thereof against the property or
its owners.
   (B)   Notice of unsafe occupancy.
      (1)   Posting notice. In conjunction with an order to vacate, a notice
shall be posted at or upon each exit of the building and shall be in
substantially the following form:
 
DO NOT ENTER
UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
It is a violation of the Sublimity Nuisance Ordinance to enter or occupy this
building or to remove or deface this notice.
Enforcement Officer
City of Sublimity
 
      (2)   Compliance.
         (a)   Upon an order to vacate and the posting of an unsafe building
notice, no person shall remain in or enter any building which has been so
posted, except that entry may be made to repair, demolish, or remove such
building under permit.
         (b)   No person shall remove or deface any such notice after it is
posted until the required repairs, demolition, or removal have been completed
and either a final inspection has been conducted in the case of residential
structure or a certificate of occupancy issued pursuant to the provisions of
the building code ordinance.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 91.37 PROTEST HEARING.
   (A)   Within the time limit set by the notice under §§
91.35 or
91.36, the person responsible shall remove the nuisance or show that no
nuisance exists.
   (B)   A person responsible, protesting that no nuisance exists, shall file
with the City Recorder a written statement that specifies the basis for so
protesting.
   (C)   (1)   The statement shall be referred to the Council as a part of its
regular agenda at its next succeeding meeting.
      (2)   At the time set for consideration of the abatement, the person
protesting may appear and be heard by the Council. The Council shall determine
whether or not a nuisance exists, or whether abatement of any nuisance will
work a hardship on the property owner or person in charge of property out of
proportion to the benefit to the public.
      (3)   Council determinations shall be required only in those cases where
a written statement has been filed as provided.
   (D)   If the Council determines that a nuisance does exist and that
abatement will not work an unreasonable hardship, the person responsible shall
abate the nuisance within ten days after the Council determination, or within
such other time limit as may be set by the Council.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 91.38 JOINT RESPONSIBILITY.
   If more than one person is a person responsible, they shall be jointly and
severally liable for abating the nuisance, or for the costs incurred by the
city in abating the nuisance.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 91.39 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   If, within the time allowed, the nuisance has not been abated by the
person responsible, the Council may cause the nuisance to be abated.
   (B)   The Enforcement Officer has the right at reasonable times to enter
into or upon the property to investigate or cause the removal of a nuisance.
   (C)   The person charged with removing any nuisance shall use all reasonable
care so as to do a minimum of damage to any ornamental grass or bushes or any
structure or other item not the subject of the abatement.
   (D)   The City Recorder shall keep an accurate record of the expense
incurred by the city in physically abating the nuisance and shall include
therein a charge in an amount that shall be determined by the City Council or
10% of those expenses, whichever is greater, for administrative overhead.
   (E)   The cost of any abatement by the city shall be paid from the General
Fund, and all income resulting from the enforcement of §
91.41 and the collection of such costs shall be credited to said fund.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 91.40 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   The City Recorder shall deliver, by personal service or by mail, both
regular and certified mail (return receipt requested), to the person
responsible and to the owner a notice stating:
      (1)   The total cost of abatement, including the administrative overhead;
      (2)   That the cost as indicated will be assessed to and become a lien
against the property unless paid within 30 days from the date of the notice;
and
      (3)   That if the person responsible objects to the cost of the abatement
as indicated, that person may file a notice of objection with the City Recorder
not more than ten days from the date of the notice.
   (B)   Upon the expiration of ten days after the date of the notice, the
Council, in the regular course of business, shall hear and determine any
objections to the costs assessed.
   (C)   If the costs of the abatement are not paid within 30 days from the
date of the notice an assessment of the costs as stated or determined by the
Council shall be made by resolution and shall then be entered in the docket of
city liens against the property from which the nuisance was removed or abated.
   (D)   The lien shall be enforced in the same manner as liens for street
improvements are enforced and shall bear interest at the rate of 9% per year.
The interest shall be computed from the date of entry of the lien in the lien
docket.
   (E)   If there is an inaccuracy in the name of the owner or person
responsible, if such persons do not receive the notice of the proposed
assessment, the assessment shall remain a valid lien against the property.
   (F)   If neither the person responsible nor the owner has received notice of
the proposed assessment, then the city shall publish the notice of the proposed
assessment once in a newspaper of general circulation.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 91.41 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   The procedure provided by §§
91.37 through
91.40 is not exclusive, but is in addition to procedures provided by other
sections of this chapter for the removal of nuisances, and the chief law
enforcement officer or the City Recorder may proceed summarily to abate a
health or other nuisance which unmistakably exists, and which imminently
endangers human life or property.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 91.42 ABATEMENT AS ADDITIONAL REMEDY.
   The abatement of a nuisance is not a penalty for violating this chapter, but
is an additional remedy. The imposition of a penalty does not relieve a person
of the duty to abate the nuisance; however, abatement of a nuisance within the
time set by the notice to abate, or if a written protest has been filed,
abatement within ten days of Council determination that a nuisance exists, will
relieve the person responsible from the imposition of any fine for such
nuisance.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 91.43 OCCUPANCY OF RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY AFTER NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   If a notice of violation of §
91.13 has been issued, and if the affected dwelling unit(s) is or becomes
vacant, it shall be unlawful to reoccupy or permit re-occupancy of the unit(s)
for residential purposes until the necessary permits are obtained, corrections
made and permit inspection approvals given. Notwithstanding division (A) above,
the Enforcement Officer may permit re-occupancy of the dwelling unit if in the
Building Official’s opinion, all nuisance conditions have been addressed and
rectified.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 91.44 INTERFERENCE WITH REPAIR, DEMOLITION, OR ABATEMENT PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, impede, or interfere with any
person lawfully engaged in;
   (A)   The work of repairing, vacating, warehousing, or demolishing any
structure pursuant to the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   The abatement of a nuisance pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter; and
   (C)   The performance of any necessary act preliminary to or incidental to
such work as authorized by this chapter or directed pursuant to it.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter is punishable upon conviction by a fine as provided in division (B)
below. This penalty may be assessed against the owner and the person in charge
of the property. Each day that the violation persists after notification shall
be deemed as a separate offense.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter shall be punishable as an infraction by a
fine an in amount that shall be determined by the City Council for each
infraction.
(Ord. 709, passed 3-9-2009)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Excluding persons from parks and public facilities
Regulations for City Parks
   
92.15   Scope and policy
   
92.16   General
   
92.17   Rules, regulations, and fees
   
92.18   Prohibited activities
   
92.19   Exemptions and miscellaneous provisions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 EXCLUDING PERSONS FROM PARKS AND PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   If a person violates any city ordinance, or any laws of the state while in a
public park or public facility, a law enforcement officer may exclude that
person from any or all parks or public facilities for a period of not more than
30 days in accordance with the following procedure.
   (A)   Written notice shall be given to the person to be excluded from a park
or public facility. The exclusion period shall take immediate effect.
   (B)   The notice shall prominently specify the beginning and ending dates of
the exclusion period.
   (C)   The notice shall prominently display a trespass warning describing the
potential consequences of unlawful behavior after receipt of an exclusion
notice and for entering a park during the exclusion period.
   (D)   At any time within the exclusion period, a person having received a
notice may apply in writing to the chief law enforcement officer or his or her
designate for a temporary waiver from the exclusion for good reason shown.
(Ord. 703, passed 9-10-2007)
REGULATIONS FOR CITY PARKS
§ 92.15 SCOPE AND POLICY.
   This chapter is adopted to establish the hours of operations and the
regulations for the park areas located within the city.
(Ord. 749, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 92.16 GENERAL.
   The City Administrator, or designee, is authorized to ensure compliance of
the public with the park area rules and order any person violating these rules
to leave the park area. Except where specifically authorized by permit, no
person, other than authorized personnel, shall enter or remain in any park area
between dusk and dawn, as posted at each park. No person shall obstruct,
harass, or interfere with the official duties of the City Administrator in
enforcement of park area rules.
(Ord. 749, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 RULES, REGULATIONS, AND FEES.
   (A)   Applicants to reserve park use are reserving the Park Shelter. No
other part of the park - restrooms, playgrounds, and parking areas - may be
reserved.
   (B)   Section 91.06 of this code of ordinances does not allow alcohol to be
consumed on city property, including the city’s parks.
   (C)   The applicant will properly dispose of all trash generated from the
event and provide cleanup during and after the event.
   (D)   At least one person over 21 years of age must be in continuous
attendance at the event.
   (E)   Music and public address systems are permitted so long as the sound is
not heard at a distance of 100 feet or greater from the source of the sound. If
the noise level exceeds reasonable sound limits, the city, and/or the County
Sheriff’s Department may immediately terminate the music.
   (F)   Facility hours are generally from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., but no one
is allowed in the park after dark.
   (G)   Park Shelter reservations are not transferable.
   (H)   The city will charge a reservation fee to be set by Council
resolution. A separate fee will be charged for non-residents and a valid Oregon
driver’s license is required to prove Sublimity residency. This fee may be
adjusted on an annual basis by resolution of the Council.
   (I)   The city begins taking reservations for the calendar year for city
parks on or after January 2. A notice of the reservation date and time will be
placed on the park shelter facility one day before the reservation date.
Reservations will be available daily between April 1 and October 31.
   (J)   The applicant must conform to the smoking requirements promulgated by
the state’s Indoor Clean Air Act (ICAA), being O.R.S. 433.835 et seq. and
Administrative Rules 333-015-0025 et seq. A copy of this act is available at
City Hall or:
atwww.healthoregon.org/morefreshair
   (K)   Applicants and their guests must comply with all city, state, and
federal laws.
(Ord. 749, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   The following are prohibited:
   (A)   Inflatables, such as bounce houses, are not allowed in the park;
   (B)   Use of rice, confetti, glitter, small paper particles, or any similar
objects used for decoration or any other purpose is prohibited in any park
premises or in the parking areas. Water balloons and fireworks are not allowed
in the park or parking areas;
   (C)   All decorations, tape, tape residue, and signage must be removed. Use
of staples, tacks, and nails is prohibited;
   (D)   Use or operation of any noise-producing machine, vehicle, device, or
instrument in a manner that is disturbing to other park area visitors;
   (E)   Possession, discharge, or causing to be discharged any firecrackers,
explosives, torpedoes, rockets, fireworks, or other substances which could be
harmful to park area visitors or resources without prior permission from the
city;
   (F)   Use of a metal detector within the park area;
   (G)   Blocking, obstructing or interfering with vehicular or pedestrian
traffic on any road, parking area, trail, walkway, pathway, or common area;
   (H)   Occupying or interfering with access to any structure, office,
restroom, or other facility in a manner which interferes with the intended use
of such a structure or facility by park users or employees;
   (I)   Engaging in, promoting, instigating, or encouraging fighting, or
similar violent conduct which would threaten the physical well-being of the
public;
   (J)   No unleased or uncontrolled dog or other animal may be brought or kept
in a park area;
   (K)   No person shall camp in any park area;
   (L)   Fires in park areas:
      (1)   Shall be either park camp stoves or fireplaces provided for such
purpose;
      (2)   Portable stoves in established park picnic areas;
      (3)   No fire shall be left unattended or be permitted to cause damage to
park facilities or areas. Every fire shall be extinguished before its users
leave the park area; or
      (4)   At the discretion of the City Recorder, or designee, fires normally
permitted in park areas may be restricted or prohibited due to high fire hazard
conditions.
   (M)   Except in designated area, no sign, marker, or inscription of any kind
shall be placed within a park area without prior permission;
   (N)   No person may distribute circulars, notices, leaflets, pamphlets, or
written or printed information of any kind within a park area unless the person
has first obtained permission from the city;
   (O)   Operating a concession, soliciting, selling, or offering for sale,
peddling, hawking, or vending any goods, wares, merchandise, food, liquids, or
services;
   (P)   Advertising any goods or services by any means;
   (Q)   No person shall sponsor, promote, or conduct any non-traditional park
activity within the boundaries of any city park without having first obtained a
permit from the city. “Non-traditional” activities include, but are not limited
to:
      (1)   Use by large numbers of people;
      (2)   Non-recreational use of a facility;
      (3)   Use of a facility for which it was not designed to accommodate; and
      (4)   Use which involves unusual activities such as construction
projects, placement of utilities, or erection of substantial structures or
displays.
   (R)   Applicants for non-traditional activities may apply for a permit from
the city. The city may approve with conditions or deny the permit application
consistent with the policies set forth herein. The following shall be
considered in evaluating the permit application:
      (1)   The ability of the applicant to finance, plan, and manage the
activity in accordance with sanitation, safety, medical care, fire control,
security, crowd, noise, and traffic control requirements, consistent with the
protection of the park resources;
      (2)   The extent to which the proposed activity threatens interference
with customer usage of the park;
      (3)   The experience of the applicant in performing similar activities in
the past; and
      (4)   Measures undertaken to mitigate any changes in customary park usage
or damage to park resources caused by the activity.
(Ord. 749, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 EXEMPTIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The city may exempt an applicant from certain requirements set forth
in this chapter when:
      (1)   The applicant is a governmental subdivision or bona fide charitable
organization;
      (2)   The event will be attended by the public for no more than one day;
and
      (3)   The requirements can be waived without creating a significant risk
or threat of harm to public peace, health, or safety, or to park resources.
   (B)   In the event of emergencies or threats to public safety, the city may
stop the activity and require the applicant to clear the activity area of
visitors.
   (C)   No application or proposal for a park activity permit shall be
considered by the city unless:
      (1)   The applicant or its principal representative is at least 21 years
of age; and
      (2)   The applicant has satisfied all outstanding liabilities and
requirements to the city resulting from any prior activity involving property
under the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 749, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any applicant, person, sponsor, principal representative, firm, or
corporation violating any park rule commits a violation punishable, upon
conviction, by a fine not to exceed an amount that shall be determined by the
City Council, and may also be subject to criminal trespass charges under the
Oregon Criminal Code, as adopted by the city ordinance. Each occurrence of a
violation of a park area rule shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 749, passed 12-14-2020)
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Maintenance and repair responsibility
   
93.03   Testing of alarms
   
93.04   Fire drill notification
   
93.05   Responsibility for alarm deactivation
   
93.06   Sound limitations
   
93.07   Permit required
   
93.08   Application; issuance of permit; fees
   
93.09   False alarms
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. A device or system of interconnected devices, including
hardware and related accessories designed to give warning of a fire, burglary,
robbery, medical emergency, or other hazardous conditions occurring on the
protected premises except residential smoke detectors which are not connected
to a receiving panel at an alarm reception point and does not emit sound
outside the residence.
(Ord. 745, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 93.02 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR RESPONSIBILITY.
   The holder of an alarm system permit shall at all times be responsible for
the proper maintenance and repair of the system and for the repair or
replacement of any component, method of installation, design feature, or like
condition which may give rise to a false alarm.
(Ord. 745, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 TESTING OF ALARMS.
   All alarm system testing shall be conducted in accordance with the
following: all service and tests of any alarm system that may result in
transmission of alarm signals to the emergency communication center shall be
conducted only after notification to the emergency communication center of the
intention to conduct such service or tests. Failure to notify will result in a
false alarm assessment.
(Ord. 745, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 93.04 FIRE DRILL NOTIFICATION.
   Fire drills that incorporate activation of the alarm system with resultant
transmission of alarm signals to the emergency communication center shall not
be conducted without prior notification to the emergency communication center.
(Ord. 745, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 93.05 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ALARM DEACTIVATION.
   All permit holders shall furnish and update names and phone numbers of at
least two responsible persons having access to the premises who may be notified
to assist personnel in the event the alarm is activated.
(Ord. 745, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 93.06 SOUND LIMITATIONS.
   Local alarms other than fire alarms shall not make a sound like that of
sirens on emergency vehicles or of civil defense warning systems. Owners of
local alarms shall be responsible to maintain and turn the alarm system off in
case of malfunction. No local alarm sounding device shall sound for more than
five minutes and shall incorporate an automatic cutoff.
(Ord. 745, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 93.07 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall install, use, or maintain any alarm system without
first obtaining a permit for such system from the city.
   (B)   Systems approved and installed prior to the adoption of this chapter
shall be governed by such rules and regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 745, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; FEES.
   (A)   Each applicant for an alarm system permit shall be made on a form
issued by the city.
   (B)   Each permit application shall be accompanied by a fee to be set by
Council resolution.
   (C)   A non-compliant charge shall be assessed in addition to the
application fee if a user fails to obtain a permit prior to activation of the
alarm.
   (D)   Fees shall be subject to revision by resolution of the City Council as
conditions merit.
   (E)   False alarms fees are: assessed by means set below and fees charged as
set by Council resolution.
      (1)   First five false alarms during permit year: no charge;
      (2)   Sixth through fifteenth false alarm: per alarm; and
      (3)   For each false alarm after the fifteenth, per alarm.
   (F)   Upon receipt of the permit application and fee, the city shall
undertake such investigation as is deemed necessary. If it appears the proposed
system will comply with the provisions of this chapter and any other applicable
rules and regulations, the city shall issue to the applicant a permit bearing
an identifying number and specifying the type of alarm system for which it is
issued.
   (G)   The city is exempt from any fees and/or false alarm charges as
outlined in this chapter.
(Ord. 745, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 93.09 FALSE ALARMS.
   As a condition of any alarm system permit issued under the provisions of
this chapter and for maintenance of any similar system installed prior to
adoption of this chapter, the permittee shall pay the city for false alarms
generated by the permittee’s alarm system according to the conditions set forth
in §
93.08(E).
(Ord. 745, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of a provision of this chapter is punishable by a fine not
to exceed an amount that shall be determined by the City Council per violation.
Each day’s violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate violation.
   (B)   In addition to other remedies and fees provided for in this chapter,
any person authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter may issue an
enforcement complaint to any person found in violation of the provision of this
chapter.
(Ord. 745, passed 12-14-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   CANVASSERS, SOLICITORS, AND OTHER ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      
112.   SOCIAL GAMING
      
113.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES
      
114.   GARAGE SALES
      
115.   MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   License required
   
110.04   Application for license
   
110.05   Authorization to grant or deny a business license
   
110.06   Application review processes
   
110.07   Conditions and temporary license
   
110.08   Termination of a business license
   
110.09   Posting of license
   
110.10   License expiration and renewal
   
110.11   Junk dealers
   
110.12   Secondhand dealers and pawn brokers
   
110.13   Food cart
   
110.14   Public nuisance
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety, and
welfare and to assist businesses with law enforcement and fire protection by
requiring all businesses within the corporate limits of the city to obtain a
business license.
(Ord. 726, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. An individual, firm, company, corporation, association, or
partnership conducting any trade, profession, occupation, or pursuit for gain,
or a tax-exempt organization which grows, manufactures, or processes plants or
crops, or sells food or liquor on its premises. A BUSINESS ENTITY does not
include:
      (1)   Tax-exempt organizations. Any organization that has an exemption
from income taxes, from the Internal Revenue Service and the State of Oregon
Department of Revenue, except as noted above;
      (2)   Exclusively licensed businesses. Businesses exclusively licensed by
the state, or the activities of which are exclusively subject to regulations by
the United States as being solely interstate in character; and
      (3)   Garage sales. The periodic sale of personal property by an
individual or group of individuals at their own personal residence.
   CITY RECORDER. The individual designated the City Recorder or person
authorized by the City Recorder.
   FOOD CART. A vehicle that is propelled, or can be pulled or pushed on a
sidewalk, street, or highway, in which food is prepared, processed, or
converted, or is used in selling or dispensing food to the customer. A
“lemonade stand” or the like operated by a person less than 18 years of age is
not a FOOD CART.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT/SOLICITOR.
      (1)   Any person, representative, or employee of such person who,
traveling or not traveling from place to place, carries goods, merchandise,
food products to sell, offers to sell, takes, or attempts to take orders for
the sale of such goods or services or any type of personal property for
delivery or performance in the future.
      (2)   This definition includes, but shall not be limited to, persons
carrying or exposing for sale a sample of the item for sale or demonstrates the
service to be performed, collects advance payments on sales, without making
this activity a permanent and continuous business within the city.
      (3)   ITINERANT MERCHANT includes peddler, hawker, and huckster.
      (4)   SOLICITOR includes canvasser, except where such person is eliciting
information, not in contemplation of present or future sales.
      (5)   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, such activity shall not
include established businesses for the sale of goods, wares, or merchandise;
the rendering or offering to render services, professional or otherwise, to the
public generally; the engaging in the manufacturing, distribution, or leasing
of goods, wares, or merchandise; the renting of apartments, hotel rooms, motor
courts, trailer camps, or cabins; or the engaging in the mercantile, commercial
contracting, industrial, manufacturing, or construction occupation, carried on
for profit from a business firm address within the city; selling products of
the farm or orchard produced by the seller or family; vendors of newspapers;
wholesalers making deliveries to or taking orders from established businesses;
and distributors making deliveries of dairy products.
      (6)   This shall not include ordinary labor for hire.
   JUNK. Includes, but is not limited to, used vehicles, vehicle parts, or
abandoned vehicles; used machinery, machinery parts, used iron, or other metal,
glass, waste material, discarded material, or abandoned personal property of
any nature, except reconditioned or rebuilt vehicle parts, sold by a wholesale
distributor having an established place of business to an established business
for resale.
   JUNK DEALER. A person engaged in the business of junk sales, operating, or
maintaining a junk yard, or a place or building within the city for the storage
or dismantling vehicles, devices, or machines.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person engaged in conducting, managing, or carrying on the
business of loaning money, for himself, herself, or for another, upon personal
property, personal security, pawns, or pledges; or engaged in the business of
purchasing articles of personal property and reselling or agreeing to resell
such articles to the vendors, or their assigns, at a price agreed upon at or
before the time of such purchase.
   PAWNSHOP. Any room, store, or place in which any pawnbroker business is
carried on or conducted.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. A business location inside the city which is within an
enclosed building which meets the requirements of all city and county building
requirements and all other city ordinances.
   SECONDHAND DEALER. A person who is engaged in the established or itinerant
business of selling secondhand tools, wares, merchandise, or goods for private
gain, or conducts auctions (used/new goods), except temporary auctions, garage
sales, and sale of books, or magazines or collectibles.
   TEMPORARY BUSINESS ENTITY.
      (1)   A business entity whose conduct in the city is temporary. This
includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Peddlers, e.g., business entities who travel within the city and
sell and deliver merchandise or services at one and the same time;
         (b)   Solicitors, e.g., business entities traveling within the city,
carrying goods, but taking orders for future delivery;
         (c)    Business entities occupying a temporary fixed location, e.g.,
food carts and the like;
         (d)   Transient merchants selling and delivering from stock on hand;
and including any auction, antique, rummage, tailgate, or any other sale of
similar nature wherein all or part of the goods consist of used personal
property.
      (2)   TEMPORARY BUSINESS ENTITY shall not apply to any sale, which is
operated by, or the proceeds go to, a recognized charitable (or religious)
organization or institution.
(Ord. 726, passed 12-14-2015; Ord. 767, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 110.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   On or within 30 days from the effective date of this chapter, the
following business entities are required to obtain a business license from the
city:
      (1)   Business entities described under the definition of a business
entity found in §
110.02, which operate from a place of business within the city limits; and
      (2)   Temporary business entities defined in §
110.02.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any business entity to
conduct, engage in, carry on or practice any trade, profession, occupation, or
pursuit for gain within the city without first securing a business license from
the city and paying the license fee prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. 726, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 110.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for all licenses required by this chapter shall be made to the
city on forms prescribed by the city. Application for all licenses and permits
required by this chapter shall provide for information necessary to determine
the identity and address of the applicant and of the owner of any enterprise
and/or person to contact in case of an emergency, nature of activity or device
to be licensed, and shall provide for such other information required by this
chapter, or to accomplish an appropriate review. The application shall be
signed and sworn to by the applicant. An application fee in an amount set by
resolution shall accompany each license application.
(Ord. 726, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 110.05 AUTHORIZATION TO GRANT OR DENY A BUSINESS LICENSE.
   The City Recorder may approve a business license application, where it can
be shown that the business conforms to city ordinances and other applicable
local, state, and federal laws, including, but not limited to: the city’s
Development Code; the building code; uniform fire code; the city’s Public Works
Design Standards; and state licensing requirements. A business license will be
denied if the proposed use does not comply with any Development Code
regulation, building or fire code requirement, Public Works Design Standard,
state licensing/certification requirement, all city ordinances and all other
applicable local, state, and federal laws.
(Ord. 726, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 110.06 APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESSES.
   The procedure for taking action on an application for a business license
shall be as follows.
   (A)   A person may initiate a request for a business license by filing an
application with the city using forms prescribed by the city and by paying the
necessary filing fee.
   (B)   Before the City Recorder may act on a business license application,
the application shall be reviewed for compliance with the City Development
Code, building code, fire code, and Public Works Design Standards, and all
other requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Within 15 working days after the application is submitted to the city,
the City Recorder shall either approve or deny the application.
   (D)   The decision of the City Recorder may be appealed to the City Council,
by filing a written appeal with the city within 15 days of the City Recorder’s
decision. The City Council will consider the appeal at the next regularly
scheduled City Council meeting. The City Council may uphold the decision,
modify the decision and any conditions of approval or reverse the decision of
the City Recorder. The decision of the City Council is final.
   (E)   The City Recorder shall sign all approved business licenses.
(Ord. 726, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 110.07 CONDITIONS AND TEMPORARY LICENSE.
   In approving a business license, the City Recorder may attach conditions,
which he or she finds are necessary to comply with the city’s Development Code,
building, fire, and public works standards. Such conditions shall apply to the
applicant for such a business license and to any purchaser, renter, lessee, or
subsequent owner of the subject business. The City Recorder may grant a
temporary business license for up to six months to allow the applicant to
comply with the conditions of approval.
(Ord. 726, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 110.08 TERMINATION OF A BUSINESS LICENSE.
   A business license may be revoked on any one or more of the following
grounds:
   (A)   Approval of the business license was obtained by fraud or
misrepresentation;
   (B)   The use for which approval was granted has ceased to exist;
   (C)   The use does not meet the conditions specifically established for it
at the time of approval of the application; and
   (D)   The business is in violation of any other applicable statute,
ordinance, or regulation.
(Ord. 726, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 110.09 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the license or permit shall
be posted in a conspicuous place upon the business premises, available for
inspection by the public, employees, and prospective employees of the business.
   (B)   If the licensee has no office, business premises, or other established
place of business within the city, the license shall be at all times in the
possession of the representative of the business present within the city while
business is being transacted by any employee or representative within the city.
(Ord. 726, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 110.10 LICENSE EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Business licenses are valid for one year. Licenses issued between
January 1 and June 30 shall expire on December 31. Licenses granted after July
1 of a given year shall expire on December 31 of the following calendar year.
   (B)   Business licenses shall be void if the name of the business changes,
the location of the business changes, ownership changes, or the business goes
out of business.
   (C)   Business licenses shall be renewed annually.
   (D)   Business license fees and renewal fees shall be set by separate
resolution.
(Ord. 726, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 110.11 JUNK DEALERS.
   (A)   License required.
      (1)   Junk dealers, as defined in this chapter, doing business in the
city shall have a license unless otherwise exempt.
      (2)   Any bona fide automobile establishment conducted solely and
exclusively for the sale of used automobiles is exempt from the licensing
requirements of this section.
   (B)   Bond required. Every application for a license as a junk dealer shall
be accompanied by a bond to the city in the penal sum in an amount that shall
be determined by the City Council, with surety approved by the City Recorder.
The bond shall be for the term of the license and shall be conditioned upon due
observance of the provisions of all city ordinances and all laws applicable to
junk dealers.
   (C)   Record keeping. A junk dealer conducting an establishment, or an
itinerant junk dealer, shall keep a daily ledger, written in indelible form, of
all junk or articles purchased, including a description thereof, name, and
address of the person from whom purchased or acquired, day, and hour of
purchase, and price paid. Such record shall be open for inspection by any law
enforcement officer at all reasonable times. No entry in such records may be
changed, erased, obliterated, or defaced.
   (D)   Premises.
      (1)   The premises and structures of a junk dealer shall be kept in a
sanitary manner.
      (2)   Representatives of the law enforcement office may go upon and
inspect such premises at all reasonable times.
      (3)   The premises upon which the business of a junk dealer is carried on
shall be enclosed by a proper fence or other structure not less than six feet
high above the street level, constructed so that no dust or other material may
pass through, and kept properly painted and in good repair.
      (4)   No material or article shall be piled so as to protrude above the
fence.
      (5)   No street, sidewalk, or portion thereof, may be used at any time to
store, pile, or maintain any junk, except as necessary in the actual moving of
such material.
   (E)   Purchases from minors restricted. A junk dealer shall not purchase or
acquire from any person less than 18 years of age any junk, except old rags or
paper, without the written consent of the parents or the guardian of such
person.
   (F)   Retention of articles.
      (1)   All junk purchased or received shall be retained for five days
before disposal, except old rags and paper.
      (2)   Whenever any junk dealer is notified by a law enforcement officer
to retain any article purchased by such dealer so that law enforcement can
ascertain whether the article is stolen, the dealer, upon receipt of the
notice, shall retain at the place of business such articles for 15 days after
receipt of the notice. Any junk purchased by the dealer, which is determined to
be stolen property, may be seized by law enforcement and may be returned to the
rightful owner without any recovery of purchase price to the dealer from the
owner or the city.
(Ord. 726, passed 12-14-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 SECONDHAND DEALERS AND PAWN BROKERS.
   (A)   License required. Secondhand dealers and pawnbrokers as defined in
this chapter, doing business in the city shall have a license unless otherwise
exempted herein.
   (B)   Record keeping.
      (1)   Any secondhand dealer or pawnbroker, or an itinerant secondhand
dealer or itinerant pawnbroker conducting a business in the city, shall keep a
daily ledger written in the English language, in indelible form, of any
articles received on deposit, pledged, or purchased, including a description
thereof; day and hour of purchase; name and address of person from whom
received on deposit, pledged, or purchased; the amount loaned or price paid;
and, if applicable, the number of the pawn ticket. Such record shall be open
for inspection by any law enforcement officer at all reasonable times. No entry
in such records may be changed, erased, obliterated, or defaced.
      (2)   Pawn tickets issued shall be numbered consecutively, and if stubs
are used in connection with such pawn tickets, each stub shall be numbered
consecutively to conform to the ticket.
      (3)   If any article so on deposit, pledge, or purchase has engraved
thereon any number, word, or initials, or contains any setting of any kind, the
description of such records shall contain such number, word, or initial, and
shall show the kind of settings and number of each kind.
      (4)   No secondhand dealer shall be required to record such description
of any property purchased from manufacturers or wholesale dealers having an
established place of business, or secured from any person doing business and
having an established place of business in the city, but such goods shall be
accompanied by a bill of sale or other evidence of legitimate purchase and must
be shown to any law enforcement officer upon request.
      (5)   The record concerning articles or material shall be kept for at
least one year after the date of receipt of such articles or materials.
      (6)   When any licensee discontinues business, such records or duly
authenticated copies thereof shall be delivered to law enforcement or shall be
disposed of as it directs.
   (C)   Record forms.
      (1)   In addition to any other records required to be kept by this
chapter, all secondhand dealers and pawnbrokers shall, at the time of taking,
receiving, or purchasing any article for the licensed business, place the
description of the following articles or things pledged, pawned, received, or
purchased, upon a pawn ticket:
         (a)   Jewelry, gems, or precious metals with a retail market value of
over an amount that shall be determined by the City Council;
         (b)   Television, video, and stereo equipment;
         (c)   Cameras and camera equipment;
         (d)   Firearms, operable, or not operable;
         (e)   Furniture with a retail market value of over an amount that
shall be determined by the City Council; and
         (f)   Power tools.
      (2)   The pawn ticket form shall be approved by and shall include such
information as the chief law enforcement officer may direct. Every person
regulated by the provisions of this chapter shall deliver to the law
enforcement office every Monday all such pawn tickets describing articles or
things pledged, pawned, bought, taken, or received during the preceding week;
such pawn tickets must be fully completed.
   (D)   Property sales.
      (1)   No property listed above shall be sold from secondhand dealer or
pawnbroker’s place of business for seven days after purchase.
      (2)   Whenever any law enforcement officer serves notice in writing to
any secondhand dealer or pawnbroker not to sell any property received on
deposit, or purchased, or permit same to be redeemed, the property shall not be
sold, redeemed, or otherwise disposed of until such time as may be determined
by law enforcement, not exceeding 15 days from the day of notice aforesaid. Any
property purchased by the dealer which is determined to be stolen property, may
be seized by law enforcement and may be returned to the rightful owner without
any recovery of purchase price to the dealer from the owner or the city.
   (E)   Articles to be tagged. Any secondhand dealer or pawnbroker receiving
in pledge, by purchase or otherwise, any article or goods shall affix to the
article or goods a tag upon which shall be written a number, in legible
characters, which number shall correspond to the number in the book required to
be kept as heretofore provided or provide an alternative form of identifying
articles to correspond to the book record approved by law enforcement.
   (F)   Dealings with minors and persons under the influence of intoxicants
prohibited. No secondhand dealer or pawnbroker shall buy or receive on deposit
or for pledge any article or thing whatsoever from or sell any article or thing
to any person under the influence of intoxicants or to any person under the age
of 18 years.
   (G)   Inspection of articles and records. Any person licensed to do business
as a secondhand dealer or pawnbroker, and any person employed by such dealer,
shall permit a representative of the law enforcement office entry to his or her
business premises for the limited purpose of inspecting any articles received
on deposit, pledged, or purchased in the business as regulated by this chapter
and/or the records incident thereto, to ensure compliance with the provisions
of this chapter. Such inspections may be made at any reasonable time.
(Ord. 726, passed 12-14-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13 FOOD CART.
   (A)   Purpose. The food cart permit process is intended to regulate food
carts.
   (B)   Scope and applicability. The provisions of this section and other
applicable sections shall apply to food carts. The food cart permit process
shall apply to all food carts.
   (C)   Permit process. A temporary business entity license shall be obtained
for a food cart in addition to the permit described herein.
      (1)   Application and fee. An application for a food cart permit shall be
filed with the City Recorder and accompanied by the appropriate fee. The
applicant is responsible for submitting a complete application. Applications
are complete when the city receives written responses to all evaluation
standards. Council may set the application fee amount by resolution from time
to time.
      (2)   Review and approval process. A food cart permit application shall
be submitted, reviewed, and approved each time a food cart is proposed to be in
the city limits following the procedures.
         (a)   City staff shall review the application. Upon receipt of an
application for a food cart permit, the city staff shall review the application
for completeness.
            1.   Incomplete applications shall not be reviewed.
            2.   If incomplete, staff shall notify the applicant, the applicant
will have 30 days to submit the needed information.
         (b)   The application shall be deemed complete for review either:
            1.   Upon receipt of the required additional information; or
            2.   If the applicant fails to submit the requested information, on
the thirty-first day after the application was originally submitted.
         (c)   Within 30 days of receipt of a complete application or such
longer period agreed to by both staff and the applicant, staff shall review the
application and decide by evaluating the proposal against division (D) of this
section.
         (d)   Staff shall notify the applicant of the decision in writing.
      (3)   Submittal requirements.
         (a)   The following information shall be submitted as part of an
application for a food cart permit:
            1.   A copy of the city business license.
            2.   A copy of the Marion County Health Department permit.
            3.   A copy of the food cart vehicle license.
            4.   A copy of the food cart vehicle insurance.
            5.   A statement acknowledging the proposed food cart can be in the
city limits no more than 12 times in the current calendar year and the period
of each of the 12 visits cannot exceed 72 hours with no more than 24 operating
hours in each 72-hour period.
            6.   The site shall include paved parking and drive aisles,
restrooms, city water as needed, city sewer as needed, power, and a garbage
container within ten feet of the food cart and maintained by the vendor.
            7.   When located within 250 feet of a residential zoning district
shall obtain its power from an existing building on the site and no generator
shall be operated on the site.
            8.   Shall not be located within 20 feet of a public street right-
of-way.
            9.   The food cart shall not block driveways, entrances, or parking
aisles, or be placed in a landscaped planter.
            10.   Proof of ownership of the subject property, or where the
applicant is not the property owner, a signed authorization by the owner
stating the owner will allow the food cart on the property.
         (b)   A site plan shall be submitted showing the following:
            1.   The existing building(s) with a permitted primary commercial
use on the subject property and that the food cart is accessory to, and
subordinate to, the permitted primary use on the site, i.e., the food cart is
smaller than the existing building(s) on the site.
            2.   Existing accesses, parking, and drive aisles, and that they
are paved.
            3.   The location of the landscaping on the site and that the food
cart will not be in the landscaped areas.
            4.   Existing private and public streets.
            5.   The proposed location of the food cart will not be in a public
right-of-way, a city park, or city-owned parking lot.
            6.   The proposed location of the food cart will not block
driveways, entrances, or parking lot drive aisles, and it will not be within 20
feet of a public street right-of-way.
            7.   The proposed location of the garbage container(s) and that it
is within ten feet of the food cart.
            8.   The location of the restrooms on the subject property, the
location of city water as needed, the location of the power.
            9.   When the subject property is located within 250 feet of a
residential zoning district, show where the food cart will obtain its power
from an existing building on the site.
      (4)   Approval criteria. The review of a food cart permit shall be based
upon compliance with the standards set forth in division (D) of this section.
   (D)   Standards. A food cart shall comply with the following standards and
other applicable standards.
      (1)   A city business license shall be obtained before being in the city
limits.
      (2)   A Marion County Health Department permit shall be obtained before
applying to the city for a food cart permit and a copy of the permit shall be
included in the food cart permit application.
      (3)   A vehicle required to be licensed by the State of Oregon shall be
legally licensed and a copy of the license shall be included in the food cart
permit application.
      (4)   A vehicle required to be insured by the State of Oregon shall be
insured and a copy of the insurance shall be included in the food cart permit
application.
      (5)   A food cart permit shall be obtained before locating in the city
limits.
      (6)   May locate only in the Commercial-General (C-1) District and for no
more than 12 times each calendar year for a period not exceeding 72 hours with
no more than 24 operational hours in each 72-hour period.
      (7)   Shall not locate in a public right-of-way, a city park or city-
owned parking lot, except where it is part of a “special event permit” approved
by the City Council where it would be allowed to locate in a public right-of-
way, city park or city-owned parking lot.
      (8)   Shall be accessory to, and subordinate to, a permitted primary
commercial use on the site.
      (9)   The site shall include paved parking and drive aisles, restrooms,
city water as needed, city sewer as needed, power, and a garbage container
within ten feet of the food cart and maintained by the vendor.
      (10)   When the subject property is located within 250 feet of a
residential zoning district, the food cart shall obtain its power from an
existing building on the site and no generator shall be operated on the site.
      (11)   Shall not be located within 20 feet of a public street right-of-
way.
      (12)   The food cart shall not block driveways, entrances, or parking lot
drive aisles, or be placed in a landscaped area required by the development
code.
   (E)   Expiration of approval; no extension of time.
      (1)   Permits shall be effective for a 72-hour period beginning on the
day the food cart is located on the subject property.
      (2)   Permits shall be voided immediately if the standards in division
(D) of this section are violated.
      (3)   No extension of the 12 times per calendar year or the 72-hour
period is allowed.
(Ord. 767, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 110.14 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any premises, house, building, structure, or place of any kind which is used
in violation of this chapter is a public nuisance. The city may institute
appropriate suit or legal action in a court of competent jurisdiction to abate,
and temporarily and permanently enjoin, such nuisance. The court has the right
to make temporary and final orders as in any other injunction proceedings. The
city shall not be required to give bond in any such proceeding.
(Ord. 726, passed 12-14-2015; Ord. 767, passed 10-9-2023) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   Violations.
         (a)   Each day that any person conducts any business in violation of
the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a separate offense.
         (b)   Any violation of this chapter is the responsibility of not only
the business entity, but also the partners, executive director, officers, and
manager.
      (2)   Penalties. Any person or business entity that violates any
provision of this chapter shall be punished by a fine not to exceed an amount
that shall be determined by the City Council for each offense.
   (B)   Enforcement. The city may institute appropriate suit or legal action
in a court of competent jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of any decision
or order issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies available for a violation of this
chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable
federal, state, or local law. It is within the discretion of the city to seek
cumulative remedies for a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 726, passed 12-14-2015)
CHAPTER 111: CANVASSERS, SOLICITORS, AND
OTHER ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Licensing
   
111.03   Applying for licenses
   
111.04   Cost of licenses
   
111.05   Waiver of and exemption from requirements
   
111.06   Use of streets
   
111.07   Noise control
   
111.08   Grounds for revocation of license
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER. A CANVASSER can also be a solicitor but one who, in addition, is
giving goods away or eliciting information for the purpose of soliciting future
sales.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. A person whose business is buying and selling goods for
profit while traveling from place to place.
   SOLICITORS. Any person who travels from place to place taking orders for the
sale of services, merchandise, food items, or food products for delivery in the
future, or shows samples, including from a vehicle, or provides demonstrations
for the purpose of selling.
(Ord. 746, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 111.02 LICENSING.
   (A)   The individuals defined in §
111.01 shall have a city license, unless otherwise exempted by this chapter,
prior to any efforts to sell or promote their goods or services. This license
may be attached to clothing or must be shown, upon request, by anyone to whom a
sale or promotion is initiated.
   (B)   An itinerant merchant, solicitor, or canvasser may file applications
for licenses for all representatives or employees as part of the primary
application. The application will include the names of all persons to be
recognized as representatives or employees of the license. The license will be
issued to the employer designating the names and numbers of persons named in
the application.
   (C)   The employer may make substitutions and may request city staff to
amend the license from one representative or employee to another without
payment of additional fees, upon furnishing the required license information
for the substituted person.
(Ord. 746, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 111.03 APPLYING FOR LICENSES.
   Both representatives and employees of organizations seeking to apply for
licenses to operate within the city shall provide the information shown on the
application forms kept at City Hall.
(Ord. 746, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 111.04 COST OF LICENSES.
   (A)   An individual itinerant merchant, solicitor, or canvasser, or an
organization with no more than two employees shall pay a fee to be set by
resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   The City Administrator/Office Manager or designee will determine
additional fees for organizations deploying more than two employees or
individuals simultaneously within the city limits.
(Ord. 746, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 111.05 WAIVER OF AND EXEMPTION FROM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any of the requirements and limitations of this chapter may be waived
by the City Administrator/Office Manager or designee or City Council.
Application for a waiver shall be in writing and shall include the specific
reasons for requesting the waiver.
   (B)   Activities which are exempt:
      (1)   Entertainment devices maintained by any service club or fraternal
order for use by its members without charge;
      (2)   Dances or performances conducted for the sole benefit of any
charitable, benevolent, or fraternal organization, service club, civic body, or
school; and
      (3)   Collections of donations of personal property or money for any
religious organization, recognized charity, or local civic activity.
(Ord. 746, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 111.06 USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   Itinerant merchants, solicitors, or canvassers shall not have any
exclusive right to any location in the public streets, nor shall they be
permitted a stationary location, nor shall they be permitted to operate in any
congested area where such operations might impede or inconvenience the public.
   (B)   The judgment of the city’s law enforcement officer or the City
Administrator/Office Manager or designee shall be deemed conclusive as to
whether the area is congested, or the public is impeded or inconvenienced in
anyway.
(Ord. 746, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 111.07 NOISE CONTROL.
   (A)   An itinerant merchant, solicitor, or canvasser, or any person in their
behalf, shall not shout or use any sound devices, including any type of sound-
amplifying device, in any public or private premises of the city, the sound
being for the primary purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares, or
merchandise which licensee is promoting to sell.
   (B)   The judgment of the city’s law enforcement officer or the City
Administrator/Office Manager or designee shall be deemed conclusive as to
whether the area is congested, or the public is impeded or inconvenienced in
any way.
(Ord. 746, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 111.08 GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Licenses issued to itinerant merchants, solicitors, or canvassers may be
revoked by the City Administrator/Office Manager, or designee, after verbal or
written notice, and hearing before the Council if requested, for any of the
following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for license;
   (B)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business pursuits as itinerant merchants, solicitors, or
canvassers;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter or other local, state, or federal laws;
   (D)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
   (E)   Conducting the activity or enterprise in an unlawful manner or in such
a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or a menace to the health,
safety, or general welfare of the public; and
   (F)   The judgment of the city’s law enforcement officer or the City
Administrator/Office Manager or designee shall be deemed conclusive as to
whether such activities or enterprises disregard the tenets of this section.
(Ord. 746, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of a provision of this chapter is punishable by a fine not to
exceed an amount that shall be determined by the City Council per violation.
Each day’s violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 746, passed 12-14-2020)
CHAPTER 112: SOCIAL GAMING
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   License investigation
   
112.04   Criteria for grant or denial of application
   
112.05   License not transferable
   
112.06   Suspension and revocation of license
   
112.07   Regulations
   
112.08   Signs
   
112.09   License fees
   
112.10   Annual fees for nonprofit organizations
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTEST OF CHANCE. Any contest, game, gaming scheme, or gaming device in
which the outcome depends in a material degree upon an element of chance,
notwithstanding that skill of the contestants may also be a factor therein.
   GAMBLING.
      (1)   When a person stakes or risks something of value upon the outcome
of a contest of chance or a future contingent event not under his or her
control or influence, upon an agreement or understanding that he or she or
someone else will receive something of value in the event of a certain outcome.
      (2)   GAMBLING does not include:
         (a)   Social games; or
         (b)   Bona fide business transactions valid under the law of contracts
for the purchase or sale at a future date of securities or commodities, and
agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance, including,
but not limited to, contracts of indemnity or guaranty and life, health, or
accident insurance.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any device, machine, paraphernalia, or equipment that is
used or usable in the playing phases of unlawful gambling, whether it consists
of gambling between persons or gambling by a person involving the playing of a
machine. Amusement devices, which do not return to the operator or player
thereof anything but free additional games or plays, shall not be considered to
be GAMBLING DEVICES.
   GAMEROOM. Any space, room, or enclosure furnished or equipped with a table
used or intended to be used for the playing of social games only and the use of
which is available to the public. This definition shall not apply to any bona
fide nonprofit society, club, or fraternal organization as defined in §
112.10.
   SOCIAL GAME. A game, which does not include lotteries, between players in a
private business, private club, or place of public accommodation where no house
player, house bank, or house odds exist and there is no income from the
operation of the social game.
(Ord. 314, passed 4-11-1988)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in, carry on, maintain, or conduct, or cause to be
engaged in, carried on, maintained, or conducted, any social game without first
obtaining a gameroom license from the Council. The license shall be subject to
renewal on January 1 of each year upon payment of the license fees provided in
§
112.09.
(Ord. 314, passed 4-11-1988)
§ 112.03 LICENSE INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   An applicant for a gameroom license shall submit an application in the
form prescribed by the City Recorder. The application shall include:
      (1)   The true names and addresses of all persons financially interested
in the business;
      (2)   The personal history and business experiences of such persons; and
      (3)   The past criminal record, if any, of all persons who have an
interest in the business.
   (B)   The term PERSON FINANCIALLY INTERESTED shall include all persons who
exercise ownership or management control over the business.
   (C)   An application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable investigation
fee in an amount that shall be determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 314, passed 4-11-1988)
§ 112.04 CRITERIA FOR GRANT OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   In addition to conforming to the requirements listed in §
112.03, the license shall not be granted if:
   (A)   Any person financially interested in the business has been previously
convicted of a felony within the last ten years;
   (B)   Any person financially interested in the business has been convicted
of five or more misdemeanors, the last of which was within the last five years;
   (C)   Any person financially interested in the business has been convicted
of any crime involving gambling within the last five years or any person who
has any financial interest in the business has forfeited bail for any crime
involving gambling within the last five years;
   (D)   Any person financially interested in the business has been directly or
indirectly involved in a forfeiture proceeding regarding a gambling device as
defined in state law where such gambling device has been ordered destroyed
within the last five years;
   (E)   Any false or misleading information is supplied in the application or
any information requested is omitted from the application;
   (F)   Any person financially interested in the business has had a license
which has in his or her name revoked or suspended three or more times by the
state’s Liquor Control Commission, the last of which was in the last five
years; and
   (G)   Any person financially interested in the business has committed any
other conduct involving moral turpitude within the last five years.
(Ord. 314, passed 4-11-1988)
§ 112.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No gameroom license shall be assignable or transferable. The addition or the
substitution of a person financially interested in a license business shall be
reported immediately to the City Recorder, who shall order an investigation by
law enforcement. The change shall be approved or denied by the Council.
Applications for change of financial ownership shall be accompanied by
anonrefundable investigation fee in an amount that shall be determined by the
City Council.
(Ord. 314, passed 4-11-1988)
§ 112.06 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Recorder or City Council shall temporarily suspend any
gameroom license issued hereunder if:
      (1)   Any person financially interested in the business has been
previously convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Any person financially interested in the business has been
convicted of five or more misdemeanors;
      (3)   Any person financially interested in the business has been
convicted of or forfeited bail for any crime involving gambling;
      (4)   Any person financially interested in the business has been directly
or indirectly involved in a forfeiture proceeding regarding a gambling device
where such gambling device has been ordered destroyed or a bond has been
forfeited in lieu of the gambling device being destroyed;
      (5)   Any false or misleading information is supplied in the application
or any information requested is omitted from the application;
      (6)   Any person financially interested in the business has had a license
in his or her name revoked or suspended three or more times by the state’s
Liquor Control Commission;
      (7)   Any person financially interested in the business or employee
violates any provision of §§
112.02 through
112.10; or
      (8)   Any person financially interested in the business commits any other
conduct involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The City Council shall revoke any gameroom license if the license
holder violates any provision of this chapter or violates any of the provisions
of division (A) above.
(Ord. 314, passed 4-11-1988)
§ 112.07 REGULATIONS.
   No person shall operate a gameroom in violation of any of the following
regulations and rules.
   (A)   There shall be a limit for blackjack and a limit for poker on any bet
with a three-raise limit, with a betting limit per player, and total game limit
in any other social game. These limit amounts shall be determined by the City
Council.
   (B)   Licensees holding or obtaining licenses under the provisions of §§
112.01 through
112.10 shall agree to be bound by and observe the terms, conditions, and
provisions of those sections and of the regulations and rules established
thereby.
   (C)   Each of the games conducted or operated in the city under the
provisions of §§
112.01 through
112.10 shall be subject to the provisions of state law and the code and
ordinances of the city.
   (D)   All gamerooms shall be open to law enforcement inspection during the
hours of operation. Doors leading into the cardroom must remain unlocked during
the hours of operation. Gameroom licenses shall be available for inspection
during the hours of operation.
   (E)   No licensee shall participate in a social game nor pure players, back
a social game, farm out a social game, assign, or sublet a social game
otherwise lawfully permitted on the premises in which the licensee has an
interest or works.
   (F)   The playing of all social games, except those conducted in
organizations defined in §
112.10, shall be so arranged as to provide equal access and visibility to any
interested party.
   (G)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be permitted to participate
in a social game or to enter or remain upon gameroom premises.
   (H)   No charge shall be collected from a player for the privilege of
participating in a social game.
   (I)   No participant in a social game shall be charged a price for any
consumer goods which is higher or lower than the price charged nonparticipants.
   (J)   All social games shall be played with cash or with chips which are
clearly marked to show their value.
(Ord. 314, passed 4-11-1988)
§ 112.08 SIGNS.
   Signs advertising gambling, the playing of social games, advertising
specific forms of card playing, enticing participants or procuring players are
prohibited.
(Ord. 314, passed 4-11-1988)
§ 112.09 LICENSE FEES.
   For each gameroom licensed, except as provided in §
112.10, each licensee shall pay an annual fee in an amount that shall be
determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 314, passed 4-11-1988)
§ 112.10 ANNUAL FEES FOR NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
   A nonprofit society, club, or fraternal organization, having adopted bylaws
and having duly elected directors and members, may be granted a gameroom
license at an annual fee in an amount that shall be determined by the City
Council if:
   (A)   The social games are for the exclusive use of members of the society,
club, or fraternal organization;
   (B)   No charge is made for participation;
   (C)   The conduct of a social game is not the primary reason for existence
of the society, club, or fraternal organization; and
   (D)   The annual fee is payable on or before January 1 of each year. The
annual fee shall be prorated for new applicants for the period July 1 to
December 31 to one-half the annual fee.
(Ord. 314, passed 4-11-1988)
CHAPTER 113: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Requirements
   
113.03   Distance measurements
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Intended to cover a broad range of activities
characterized by live, closed circuit, or reproduced material which has an
emphasis on nudity or specified sexual activity, or both. Adult businesses
generally limit their patrons to persons at least 18 years of age. The term
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS also includes the full range of adult theaters and
related businesses such as adult bookstores, adult theaters, adult arcades,
adult cabarets, adult paraphernalia shops, and other establishments which
feature a combination of adult activities or merchandise which collectively
make up a substantial or significant portion of the establishment’s activities
or merchandise. The term ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS also includes other uses
to the uses mentioned above, including presenting material for patrons to view
(live, closed circuit, or reproductions), purchase, or rent, a substantial
portion of which is characterized by an emphasis on nudity or specified sexual
activity, or both; and limiting entrance to patrons who are over 18 years of
age.
   NUDITY or NUDE. Being devoid of a covering for the male or female genitalia
consisting of an opaque material which does not simulate the organ covered and
in the case of a female exposing to view one or both breasts without a circular
covering, centered on the areola that is at least three inches in diameter and
does not simulate the organ covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Real or simulated acts of human sexual
intercourse, human/animal sexual intercourse, masturbation, sadomasochistic
abuse, sodomy, or the exhibition of human sexual organs in a stimulated state
or the characterization thereof in printed form.
(Ord. 308, passed 9-14-1987)
§ 113.02 REQUIREMENTS.
   No adult entertainment business shall be located within a distance closer
than 660 feet from the following zones and land uses in existence at the time
the adult entertainment business is established:
   (A)   Another adult entertainment business;
   (B)   The boundary of a residential zone;
   (C)   A library;
   (D)   A hospital;
   (E)   A day care center;
   (F)   A public or private elementary, junior high, or high school;
   (G)   A convalescent center or nursing home;
   (H)   A park or public playground;
   (I)   A mortuary;
   (J)   A cemetery;
   (K)   A medical or dental clinic;
   (L)   A church;
   (M)   A supermarket; and
   (N)   A teen recreation center.
(Ord. 308, passed 9-14-1987) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 DISTANCE MEASUREMENTS.
   The distance in §
113.02 shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or obstructions, from the closest point of the structure or portion
of the structure containing the adult entertainment business to the closest
point of the protected zone or use.
(Ord. 308, passed 9-14-1987) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding an amount that
shall be determined by the City Council., and each day that the unlawful
condition exists shall be a separate violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 308, passed 9-14-1987)
CHAPTER 114: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
114.01   Requirements
   
114.02   Time and occurrence limitations
   
114.03   Signs
   
114.04   Fees
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall engage in any business or activity within the city
limits without first obtaining a permit from the City Hall.
   (B)   The permit shall be used only by the applicant and cannot be
transferred to anyone else.
   (C)   The permit shall always be posted in plain view during the sale.
   (D)   All garage sales shall be conducted wholly within the confines of a
building or other structure and all merchandise shall be kept and displayed
within the building, structure, or driveway.
(Ord. 744, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 TIME AND OCCURRENCE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No more than two permits per calendar year shall be issued for any
person or for any one location.
   (B)   Permits shall be valid for a period not to exceed 72 consecutive hours
or include more than four families.
(Ord. 744, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs must be freestanding and may not be placed on telephone poles,
power poles, or post- supported traffic control signs.
   (B)   Signs may not be placed in the public right-of-way next to a road.
   (C)   All signs must be removed immediately following the sale.
   (D)   Any signs not in compliance will be removed immediately and a fine
shall be issued against the responsible party.
(Ord. 744, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 FEES.
   Fees for permits will be set by separate resolution by the City Council.
(Ord. 744, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of a provision of this chapter is punishable by a fine not to
exceed an amount that shall be determined by the City Council. Each day’s
violation constitutes a separate violation.
(Ord. 744, passed 12-14-2020)
CHAPTER 115: MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Ban declared
   
115.03   Exception
   
115.04   Referral
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MARIJUANA. The plant Cannabis family Cannabaceae, any part of the plant
Cannabis family Cannabaceae, and the seeds of the plant Cannabis family
Cannabaceae.
   MARIJUANA PROCESSING SITE. An entity registered with the Oregon Health
Authority to process marijuana.
   MARIJUANA PROCESSOR. An entity licensed by the state’s Liquor Control
Commission to process marijuana.
   MARIJUANA PRODUCER. An entity licensed by the state’s Liquor Control
Commission to manufacture, plant, cultivate, grow, or harvest marijuana.
   MARIJUANA RETAILER. An entity licensed by the state’s Liquor Control
Commission to sell marijuana items to a consumer in this state.
   MARIJUANA WHOLESALER. An entity licensed by the state’s Liquor Control
Commission to purchase items in this state for resale to a person other than a
consumer.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. An entity registered with the Oregon Health
Authority to transfer marijuana.
(Ord. 725, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 115.02 BAN DECLARED.
   As described in § 134 of House Bill 3400 (2015), the city hereby prohibits
the establishment of the following in the area subject to the jurisdiction of
the city:
   (A)   Marijuana processing sites;
   (B)   Medical marijuana dispensaries;
   (C)   Marijuana producers;
   (D)   Marijuana processors;
   (E)   Marijuana wholesalers; and
   (F)   Marijuana retailers.
(Ord. 725, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 115.03 EXCEPTION.
   The prohibition set out in this chapter does not apply to a marijuana
processing site or medical marijuana dispensary that meets the conditions set
out in subsections 6 or 7 of §§ 134, 136, or 137 of House Bill 3400 (2015).
(Ord. 725, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 115.04 REFERRAL.
   This chapter shall be referred to the electors of the city at the next
statewide general election on Tuesday, November 8, 2016.
(Ord. 725, passed 12-14-2015)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OREGON CRIMINAL CODE
      
131.   CURFEW
      
132.   DRUGS AND NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES
CHAPTER 130: OREGON CRIMINAL CODE
Section
   
130.01   Adopted by reference
§ 130.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Oregon Criminal Code and Uniform Controlled Substances Act, as codified
in the Oregon Revised Statutes is hereby adopted in its entirety. Violation of
these provisions shall be an offense against this city and the procedures
therein provided, insofar as possible, apply to the city, except as hereinafter
modified.
(Ord. 385, passed 5-13-1996)
CHAPTER 131: CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Curfew
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 16 years to be
upon the streets or in any public place in the city between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless such child be in the custody of or accompanied by a
parent or guardian or a suitable adult person selected by such parent or
guardian; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed to
apply to any such child while actually engaged in traveling to or from a place
of employment, school class, religious meeting, theater, skating rink, swimming
pool, or while upon any errand of mercy or emergency, under direction of his or
her parent or guardian or other adult person having the immediate care,
custody, or control of such child; or, the minor is emancipated pursuant to
O.R.S. 419B.550 to 419B.558.
   (B)   If any such child be found upon the streets or in any public place in
violation of this chapter, and such violation be his or her first offense, it
shall be the duty of any peace officer forthwith to place such child under
custody and to take, or cause such child to be taken, to his or her home. The
parent, guardian, or other person having the custody and care of such child
shall be notified of such violation.
(Ord. 109A, passed 2-12-1962) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   After having been notified that any child in his or her care, custody
or control has once violated the provisions of this chapter, any parent,
guardian, or other responsible adult person who shall knowingly suffer or
permit his or her child or ward to be a second time upon the streets or in any
public place in violation of the provisions of this chapter, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine in an amount that shall be determined by the City Council or by
imprisonment in the city jail for a term not less than one nor more than 25
days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.
   (B)   Whenever any child shall be found committing a second offense against
the provisions of this chapter, under such circumstances or under such
conditions as may, in the opinion of any peace officer, tend to render such
child dependent or delinquent under the laws of the state, such peace officer
shall forthwith lodge an appropriate complaint with the juvenile court for such
further proceedings as such court may deem appropriate under the circumstances.
(Ord. 109A, passed 2-12-1962)
CHAPTER 132: DRUGS AND NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES
Section
Noxious Substances
   
132.01   Definition
   
132.02   Description of substances and effect
   
132.03   Presume intent to achieve condition
   
132.04   Presume use in the city
   
132.05   Exceptions
Drug Paraphernalia
   
132.20   Purpose
   
132.21   Definitions
   
132.22   Factors to be considered
   
132.23   Offenses
   
132.24   Nuisance
   
132.25   Defenses
   
132.26   Psilocybin
 
   
132.99   Penalty
NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES
§ 132.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NOXIOUS SUBSTANCE or TOXIC INHALANT. Includes, but is not limited to, model
airplane glue, finger nail polish, or any other substance or chemical which may
potentially cause conditions of intoxication, inebriation, stupefaction,
hallucination, or dulling of the brain or nervous system.
(Ord. 306, passed 9-14-1987)
§ 132.02 DESCRIPTION OF SUBSTANCES AND EFFECT.
   No person shall deliberately inhale any drug, or any other noxious
substance, vapor, or chemical containing any ketones, aldenydes, organic
acetates, either chlorinated hydrocarbons or other substances containing
solvents, releasing vapors in such excessive quantities as to cause, or
potentially cause, conditions of intoxication, inebriation, excitement,
stupefaction, hallucination, or dulling of the brain or nervous system.
(Ord. 306, passed 9-14-1987) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 PRESUME INTENT TO ACHIEVE CONDITION.
   The deliberate inhaling of a substance with toxic vapors, as described
above, or which produces a visible manifestation of a condition described in §
132.02, shall be prima facie evidence that the person inhaling did so with the
intent of producing such a state or condition.
(Ord. 306, passed 9-14-1987)
§ 132.04 PRESUME USE IN THE CITY.
   A person found within the city visibly in a state of intoxication,
inebriation, excitement, stupefaction, or hallucination caused by the use of
noxious substances shall be presumed to have inhaled the substance within the
city.
(Ord. 306, passed 9-14-1987)
§ 132.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not be interpreted to apply to the use of toxic
inhalants, or the condition produced by the use of such substances, where the
use is made, and condition produced by or under the express direction or
written prescription of a licensed physician for medical purposes, or is
necessarily incident to employment, or is necessary to effectuate a legitimate
purpose or activity. This is an affirmative defense which must be pleaded and
proved by the defendant.
(Ord. 306, passed 9-14-1987)
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 132.20 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to limit the display, sale, and
availability of drug paraphernalia and deter the negative affects in the city.
   (B)   Some of the negative affects of drug paraphernalia include:
      (1)   Youth who believe drug use is acceptable and common are more likely
to use drugs;
      (2)   Availability of drug paraphernalia increases the chance of relapse
among citizens overcoming drug addiction;
      (3)   Drug paraphernalia often is designed to appeal to youth with kid
friendly colors and shapes and are often promoted near commodities youth tend
to purchase (candy, toys, and the like); and
      (4)   The prevalence of drugs in a neighborhood increases the likelihood
of violence and crime.
   (C)   Limiting the display and availability for sale of paraphernalia will
not eliminate drug abuse, but endeavoring to make access to paraphernalia less
convenient, is intended to discourage the individual drug use.
(Ord. 717, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 132.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. A drug or its immediate precursor classified in
Schedules I through V under the Federal Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. §§
811 to 812, as modified under O.R.S. 475.035.
   DELIVER or DELIVERY. The actual, constructive, or attempted transfer, other
than by administering or dispensing from one person to another of a controlled
substance or drug paraphernalia, whether or not there is an agency relationship
and regardless of consideration.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
      (1)   All equipment, products, and materials of any kind which are used,
marketed for use, or designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the
O.R.S. 475.752 to 475.980.
      (2)   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Kits used, marketed for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
         (b)   Kits used, marketed for use, or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing
controlled substances;
         (c)   Isomerization devices used, marketed for use, or designed for
use in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled
substance;
         (d)   Testing equipment used, marketed for use, or designed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of
controlled substances;
         (e)   Scales and balances used, marketed for use, or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances;
         (f)   Lighting equipment specifically designed for the growing of
controlled substances;
         (g)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose, and lactose, used, marketed for use, or designed
for use in cutting controlled substances;
         (h)   Separation gins and sifters used, marketed for use, or designed
for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining,
marijuana;
         (i)   Containers and other objects used, marketed for use, or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
         (j)   Hypodermic syringes, needles, and other objects used, marketed
for use or intended to be used for injecting illegal controlled substances into
the human body;
         (k)   Objects used, marketed for use, or designed specifically for use
of an inhalant as defined in state law; and
         (l)   Objects used, marketed for use, or designed specifically for use
in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish,
or hashish oil into the human body, such as:
            1.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic
pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured
metal bowls;
            2.   Water pipes;
            3.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            4.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
            5.   Roach clips: meaning objects used to hold burning material,
that has become too small or too short to be held in the hand, such as a
marijuana cigarette;
            6.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            7.   Chamber pipes;
            8.   Carburetor pipes;
            9.   Electric pipes;
            10.   Air-driven pipes;
            11.   Chillums;
            12.   Bongs; and
            13.   Ice pipes or chillers.
   DRUG TEST. A lawfully administered test designed to detect the presence of a
controlled substance.
   MARIJUANA. All parts of the plant Cannabis family Moraceae, whether growing
or not; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant or its
resin. It does not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from
the stalks, oil, or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks
(except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil,, or cake, the sterilized
seed of the plant which is incapable of germination, industrial hemp as defined
in O.R.S. 571.300, or industrial hemp commodities or products.
(Ord. 717, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 132.22 FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.
   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or other
authority should consider, in addition to all other logical, relevant factors,
the following:
   (A)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
   (B)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of the
object, under any municipal, state, or federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
   (C)   The proximity of the object in time and space, to a direct violation
of this subchapter or O.R.S. 475.752 to 475.980;
   (D)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
   (E)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances to the object;
   (F)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning its
use;
   (G)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or depict
its use;
   (H)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
   (I)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the object
(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
   (J)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
   (K)   All objects present, when viewed collectively, can have significant
clues to their intended use as drug paraphernalia.
(Ord. 717, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 132.23 OFFENSES.
   (A)   Possession of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for any person to use
or to possess drug paraphernalia to unlawfully plant, propagate, cultivate,
grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or
otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in violation of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Delivery of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for any person to sell,
deliver, possess with intent to sell or deliver, or manufacture with intent to
sell or deliver drug paraphernalia as defined in this subchapter.
   (C)   Possession or delivery of drug test equipment. It is unlawful for any
person to use, possess, deliver, or manufacture with intent to deliver any
substance or device designed to enable a person to falsify a drug test as
defined in this subchapter.
(Ord. 717, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.24 NUISANCE.
   (A)   Drug paraphernalia are public nuisances. Any peace officer shall
summarily seize any such drug paraphernalia. Seized drug paraphernalia shall be
held subject to the order of the court.
   (B)   Whenever it appears, to the court that a seized item constitutes drug
paraphernalia in violation of this subchapter, the court shall, upon motion of
the district attorney, order the forfeiture and destruction of the drug
paraphernalia.
(Ord. 717, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 132.25 DEFENSES.
   (A)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this subchapter for
possession of drug paraphernalia, if the person holds a valid registry
identification card for medical use, is the person responsible for a registered
grow site or is a designated primary caregiver under the Oregon Medical
Marijuana Act.
   (B)   Holding a valid registry identification card for medical use, being
the person responsible for a registered grow site or a designated primary
caregiver under the Oregon Medical Marijuana Act, being O.R.S. 475C.770 et
seq., is not a defense to prosecution for delivery of drug paraphernalia.
(Ord. 717, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 132.26 PSILOCYBIN.
   The establishment of licensed psilocybin product manufacturers under O.R.S.
475A.290 and licensed psilocybin service centers under O.R.S. 475A.305 is
prohibited within the city.
(Ord. 760, passed 7-12-2022) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of §§
132.01 through
132.05 is punishable by a fine not to exceed an amount that shall be determined
by the City Council or imprisonment not to exceed ten days, or by both fine and
imprisonment; provided, however, if there is a violation of any provision
identical to a state statute with a lesser penalty attaching, punishment shall
be limited to the lesser penalty prescribed by state law.
(Ord. 306, passed 9-14-1987)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
152.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
      
153.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ZONE MAP
      
154.   DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Fees to be charged on applications for land use decisions
   
150.02   Procedure for the approval and denial of building permits
   
150.03   Replatting of undeveloped subdivision plats
§ 150.01 FEES TO BE CHARGED ON APPLICATIONS FOR LAND USE DECISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to ensure the collection of
application fees from land use applicants in amounts which are sufficient to
cover all expenses incurred by the city related to said application, and to set
forth the procedure in collecting said fees.
   (B)   Fees. The city shall establish by resolution a fee schedule which
shall set forth the amount of the application fees to be charged to applicants
for the various land use applications available to be filed within the city.
The fee schedule may be modified and adjusted by the Council from time to time
by resolution. The fees charged and the schedule for payment shall be
sufficient to enable the city to recover all of its fees and costs associated
with processing the application. Such costs shall include, but are not limited
to, contract planning services, staff time, engineer fees, attorney fees, costs
of consultants, and costs of supplies, postage, and publications. Costs shall
be calculated and charged from the date of the application (or pre-application
meeting, if applicable) through and including the final decision by the city,
including the inspection, review, and approval of all actions required by the
applicant pursuant to said final decision (and through and including any
additional warranty period for public improvements, if applicable).
   (C)   Payment. The application fees are a deposit paid by the applicant to
the city to be used by the city to pay the city’s expenses incurred regarding
the application. The applicant shall pay the required application fees at the
time the application is filed with the city. An application shall not be deemed
complete until all required application fees have been paid.
      (1)   In the event the actual costs incurred by the city are less than
the application fee paid by the applicant, the city shall refund the amount of
the application fee which exceeds the city’s actual costs.
      (2)   In the event the actual costs incurred by the city exceed the
amount of the application fee, the city shall bill the additional costs to the
applicant in a timely manner. All additional fees shall be paid within 15 days
of being billed. In the event the additional fees are not paid within said 15
days, the city shall be entitled to place a stop work order on the project, no
further permits shall be issued, and the city shall be authorized to place a
lien on the property.
(Ord. 705, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 150.02 PROCEDURE FOR THE APPROVAL AND DENIAL OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Review of application. Upon receiving the building permit application,
the City Recorder shall, within five working days after receipt, review the
application to determine its completeness and compliance with the applicable
city building and zoning ordinances.
   (B)   Approval. If the application is complete and the proposed building
complies with the applicable city and zoning ordinances, the City Recorder
shall endorse approval and mail the completed application to the county for its
review process. If the City Recorder deems the application for building permit
to be of significant interest to the Council or to have substantial impact upon
the facilities of the city, the City Recorder shall refer the application
directly to the Council for final determination.
   (C)   Denial. If the application is not complete or is not in compliance
with applicable city building or zoning ordinances, the application will be
denied until completed and is in compliance with applicable city building and
zoning ordinances.
   (D)   Request for reconsideration.
      (1)   If the applicant disagrees with the determination that the
application is incomplete or is in non-compliance the applicant may request a
reconsideration of this decision by the City Planning Commission. The request
for reconsideration shall be submitted to the City Recorder in writing.
      (2)   Upon receiving the request for reconsideration the City Recorder
shall schedule the request on the agenda for the next regularly scheduled
Planning Commission meeting in order to review the application with the
applicant. Following this meeting with the applicant, the Planning Commission
shall approve or deny the application.
      (3)   If the application is approved the City Recorder shall mail the
application to the county for its review process. If the application is denied,
the applicant may appeal this decision to the City Council by submitting a
written statement of this intent to the City Recorder within 15 days of the
Planning Commission’s decision.
      (4)   Upon receiving such notice of the applicant’s intent, the City
Recorder shall schedule the appeal on the agenda for the next regularly
scheduled City Council meeting. At this meeting the Council shall make the
final determination on this matter.
(Ord. 341, passed 11-11-1991)
§ 150.03 REPLATTING OF UNDEVELOPED SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   (A)   Policy. The Council may conduct a review of an undeveloped subdivision
after the expiration of ten years after the date of approval. Upon motion, the
Council shall direct an investigation into the status of the lands included
within the subdivision to determine whether the subdivision is undeveloped.
   (B)   Definition.
      LANDS DESCRIBED IN THE PLAT OF ANY SUBDIVISION UNDER REVIEW. Shall be
considered to be developed if any of the following conditions are found upon
review by the Council to exist on such lands:
         (a)   Roadways providing access into and travel within the subdivision
have been or are being constructed to meet the specifications prescribed
therefor by the Council;
         (b)   Facilities for the supply of domestic or industrial water to
lots created by the subdivision have been or are being constructed;
         (c)   Sanitary sewerage disposal facilities have been or are being
constructed for lots created by the subdivision, or septic tanks have been or
are being installed on the land or permits have been issued for their
installation on the land;
         (d)   Buildings have been or are being constructed upon the land or
permits have been issued for the construction of buildings upon the land; and
         (e)   One or more lots described in the plat of the subdivision have
been sold or otherwise transferred prior to the date of the initiation of such
review.
   (C)   Compliance with regulations.   If the Council determines that a
subdivision is undeveloped after its investigation of the subdivision under
division (A) above, it shall also determine:
      (1)   If the undeveloped subdivision complies with the comprehensive
plan, zoning regulations and ordinances, and subdivision ordinances and
regulations currently in effect with respect to lands in the subdivision; and
      (2)   If the undeveloped subdivision does not comply with such plan and
ordinances and regulations, whether the subdivision may be revised to comply
with such plan and ordinances and regulations.
   (D)   Hearing; notice to landowners. If the Council determines that a
subdivision is undeveloped after its investigation of the subdivision under
division (A) above, it shall refer the matter to the Planning Commission which
shall conduct a hearing to determine whether the undeveloped subdivision should
be revised and the subdivision replatted or vacated and all lands within the
subdivision that have been dedicated for public use vacated. Not later than 30
days before the date of a hearing held by the Planning Commission under this
section, the city shall notify, in writing, each owner of record of land
described in the plat of the subdivision under review of the date, place, time,
and purpose of such hearing.
   (E)   Revision, vacation of undeveloped subdivisions.
      (1)   Following a hearing conducted as required under division (D) above,
the Planning Commission may recommend to the City Council as follows:
         (a)   Recommend the revision of the subdivision and a replat of the
subdivision as it considers necessary, if it finds that the subdivision may be
revised to comply with the comprehensive plan, zoning ordinances and
regulations, and other modern subdivision control standards not in existence
when the subdivision was initially approved; or
         (b)   Recommend proceedings be initiated, for vacation of the
subdivision, if it finds that the subdivision cannot be revised in accordance
with the comprehensive plan, zoning ordinances and regulations, and other
modern subdivision control standards not in existence when the subdivision was
initially approved.
      (2)   The matter shall then be referred to the Council for final action.
The Council shall conduct a hearing not later than 60 days after the matter has
been referred by the Planning Commission with notice provided as set forth in
division (D) above. Following hearing, if the Council requires the revision and
replatting of the subdivision, it shall approve the subdivision only upon the
completion of the revisions as required by the Council and the replat of the
subdivision as provided in O.R.S. 92.180 to 92.190.
      (3)   If the Council determines that it is necessary to vacate a
subdivision, the Council shall adopt an ordinance vacating the subdivision and
providing for the vacation of lands within the subdivision that have been
dedicated for public use. Title to lands within a vacated subdivision shall
vest as provided in O.R.S. 271.140 and 368.366. Any owner of lands described in
the plat of the vacated subdivision who is aggrieved by the action of the
Council in vacating the subdivision may appeal such action in the manner
provided in O.R.S. 34.010 to 34.100. The ordinance adopted by the Council for
the vacation of the subdivision of the lands therein dedicated to public use
shall be filed with the County Recording Officer as provided in O.R.S. 271.150.
      (4)   Nothing herein shall prevent the owner of any lands within an
undeveloped subdivision from seeking vacation of such subdivision under city
vacation procedures and, if such vacation proceedings are commenced after the
date of the notice of review of the subdivision by the Council, the review
proceeding shall be suspended during such vacation proceedings. If the
subdivision is vacated at the initiation of any owner, the review proceedings
under this section shall be discontinued; but, if the subdivision is not
vacated at the request of an owner, the review proceedings under this section
shall be resumed at the termination of the vacation proceedings brought by an
owner of lands in the subdivision.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-12-1988)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Streets
   
151.001   Definitions
   
151.002   General regulations
   
151.003   Specific regulations; construction, improvement, and acceptance of
streets
Sidewalks
   
151.015   “Block” defined
   
151.016   Sidewalk and driveway dimensions
   
151.017   Curb dimensions
   
151.018   Pattern
   
151.019   Fall and thickness
   
151.020   Blocks and expansion joints
   
151.021   Water meter box
   
151.022   Material
   
151.023   Curing
   
151.024   Installation as part of street improvement project
   
151.025   Initiation and notice of construction proceedings, hearing
   
151.026   Construction of sidewalks; alternate procedures
   
151.027   Notice of construction, hearing
   
151.028   Costs and assessments
   
151.029   Prohibition of construction
   
151.030   Permit to construct, reconstruct, or repair required
   
151.031   Application
   
151.032   Compliance with
   
151.033   Inspection
   
151.034   Resolution and notice to owners to construct or repair
   
151.035   Procedure when owner refuses to construct or repair
   
151.036   Requirements for new construction abutting streets
   
151.037   Construction plans to show sidewalks
   
151.038   Liability for damages when owner fails to construct or repair
   
151.039   Filling of space between sidewalks and curb
   
151.040   Duty of property owners to keep walks safe, clean, and the like
   
151.041   Deposit of water, oil, and the like from filling stations
   
151.042   Display of goods
   
151.043   Open gratings and the like prohibited
   
151.044   Compliance with chapter
Sidewalk, Curb, Street, and Storm Drainage System Requirements
   
151.055   Definition
   
151.056   Compliance required generally
   
151.057   Exemptions
   
151.058   Site inspection; building permit requirements
   
151.059   Agreements to install; security
   
151.060   Waiver or deferral of required street curb, sidewalk, and storm
drainage system improvements
   
151.061   Construction; passage of resolution
Vacation of Street, Public Place, or Plat
   
151.075   Vacation; petition; consent of property owners
   
151.076   Filing of petition; notice
   
151.077   Preliminary consideration of petition
   
151.078   Hearing; determination
   
151.079   Vacation on Council’s own motion; appeal
   
151.080   Title to vacated areas
   
151.081   Vacations for purposes of rededication
   
151.082   Bond or cash deposit
   
151.083   Consent to vacation for city as owner
Public Improvements
   
151.095   Sidewalk improvements governed
   
151.096   Initiation
   
151.097   Survey of property owners
   
151.098   Initial Council action
   
151.099   General obligation warrants
   
151.100   Resolution and notice of hearing
   
151.101   Manner of doing work
   
151.102   Hearings
   
151.103   Call for bids
   
151.104   Notice of proposed assessment
   
151.105   Method of assessment and alternative methods of financing
   
151.106   Notice of assessment
   
151.107   Liens, lien records, and interest
   
151.108   Foreclosure proceedings
   
151.109   Errors in assessment calculations
   
151.110   Deficit assessment
   
151.111   Rebates
   
151.112   Abandonment of proceedings
   
151.113   Curative provisions
   
151.114   Reassessment
 
   
151.999   Penalty
STREETS
§ 151.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPER. Any individual, firm, or group who undertakes the development of
an area of land.
   DEVELOPMENT. Applying for a building permit, making a physical change in the
use or appearance of land, dividing land into two or more parcels (including
partitions and subdivisions), or creating or changing a street or private road.
   PRIVATE ROAD. A private way solely for the benefit of access to a lot,
tract, or parcel which does not abut a public street.
   RESERVE BLOCK. A strip of land, usually one foot in width, reserved across
the end of a street or alley and terminating at the boundary of a subdivision,
or a strip of land between a dedicated street of less than full width and
adjacent acreage, in either case, reserved or held for future street extension
or widening.
   STREETS. A right-of-way which provides access to adjacent properties for
vehicular, pedestrian, public utilities, and other such uses. The term STREET
shall include such designations as highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway,
road, avenue, boulevard, lane, court, place, or other such terms. A right-of-
way 20 feet or less in width shall not be recognized as a STREET. STREETS
within the city shall fall under the following classifications.
      (1)   ARTERIAL. A thoroughfare or arterial of considerable length
primarily for intercommunication between large areas and with a roadway
designed to handle a large volume of traffic.
      (2)   COLLECTOR. A street accumulating traffic from residential streets
and routing it to an arterial street.
      (3) CUL-DE-SAC. A short (as hereinafter designated), dead end street with
vehicular turn around at the present dead end.
      (4)   RESIDENTIAL STREET. A street used exclusively for access to
abutting properties.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-8-1992)
§ 151.002 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Street widths. When an area is set aside for commercial uses or where
probable future conditions warrant, the Council may require dedication of
streets to a greater width than herein otherwise provided.
      (1)   (a)   All new street rights-of-way shall have the following minimum
width, except a street may be half such width where it is apparent that the
other half will be dedicated from adjacent properties.
 
New Streets      Width of Right-of-Way Curb to Curb Dist. Required Width of
                                                          Sidewalks
Arterial         60 ft.                40 ft.             4 ft.
Collector        60 ft.                40 ft.             4 ft.
Commercial zones 60 ft.                40 ft.             6 ft.
Cul-de-sac       50 ft.                34 ft.             4 ft.
Residential      60 ft.                34 ft.             4 ft.
Turn arounds     45 ft. radius         38 ft.             4 ft.
 
         (b)   Sidewalks shall be located one foot from the right-of-way, or as
designated above, except curb sidewalks. Sidewalk width does not include curb
width.
      (2)   Existing streets with the indicated right-of-way widths shall have
the following standards:
Existing Streets Width of Right-of-Way Curb to Curb Dist. Required Width of
                                                          Sidewalks
Existing Streets Width of Right-of-Way Curb to Curb Dist. Required Width of
                                                          Sidewalks
Arterial (Center 60 ft.                40 ft.             4 ft.
St.) (W. Starr)
Commercial zones 60 ft.                40 ft.             6 ft.
                 60 ft.                40 ft.             4 ft.
Collector        50 ft.                34 ft.             4 ft.
                 40 ft.                34 ft.             4 ft.
Commercial zones 60 ft.                40 ft.             6 ft.
Cul-de-sac       50 ft.                34 ft.             4 ft.
                 60 ft.                34 ft.             4 ft.
Residential      50 ft.                34 ft.             4 ft.
                 40 ft.                30 ft.             4 ft.
                 30 ft. and under      26 ft.             None required
Turn arounds     45 ft. radius         38 ft.             4 ft.
 
   (B)   Private roads. Private roads shall have a minimum width of 30 feet.
   (C)   Streets and highways. Streets, private roads, or highways shall be in
alignment with existing streets in the vicinity of the proposed development,
either by prolongation of existing centerlines or by connection with suitable
curves, shall conform to the location, alignment, and width as indicated on any
official map of streets and highways or any ordinance now or hereafter adopted
by the city, or by the county. Streets or private roads should intersect at or
as near right angles as practicable. These regulations may be modified where
the Council determines that the topography, or the small number of lots
involved, or other unusual conditions, justify such modification.
   (D)   Dedication of a right-of-way. If a parcel of land to be developed
includes a portion of a right-of-way, highway, or road, the location of which
has been determined, the developer shall dedicate such right-of-way for the
purpose of use proposed.
   (E)   Dead end streets. When it appears necessary to continue a street into
a future development or adjacent acreage, streets shall be platted to the
boundary of a development without a turn around. In all other cases, dead end
streets shall have a turn around with a radius of not less than 45 feet to the
property line.
   (F)   Radius at street intersections.
      (1)   The property line radius at street intersection has a designated
right-of-way width of 80 feet or more shall be governed by the interior angle
at the intersection and will be based on the square root of the interior angle
formed at the intersection of the property lines which equals the radius in
feet. The distance shall be increased to the next full foot above the figure
established by said formula.
      (2)   The minimum angle of any intersection shall be 40 degrees.
   (G)   Street grades. No street or private road grade shall be in excess of
8% unless the Council finds that because of topographic conditions a steeper
grade is necessary.
   (H)   Reserve block. Reserve blocks controlling the access to public ways or
which will not prove taxable for special improvements may be required by the
Council but will not be approved unless such strips are necessary for the
protection of the public welfare or of substantial property rights, or both,
and in no case unless the land comprising such strips is placed in the name of
the city for disposal or dedication for street or road purposes whenever such
disposal or dedication has the approval of the Council or such other commission
as may have jurisdiction. In no case shall a reserve block be platted along a
street that is dedicated to the required full width.
   (I)   Additional right-of-way widths. Where topographical requirements
necessitate either cuts or fills for the proper grading of the streets or
private roads, additional right-of-way width may be required to allow all cut
and fill slopes to be within the right-of-way.
   (J)   Street improvements. All street and private road improvements,
including pavement, curbs, sidewalks, and surface drainage shall conform to the
ordinances of the city and be in accord with the specifications and standards
on file in the City Hall, or, if a county road or outside the city limits, the
specifications and standards in the office of the County Engineer.
   (K)   Consideration for variance. Consideration for a variance from these
regulations shall be based upon a written statement by the developer in which
is given complete details of conditions and reasons why a specific variance
should be granted. A request for a variance from these regulations shall be
filed with the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-8-1992)
§ 151.003 SPECIFIC REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION, IMPROVEMENT AND ACCEPTANCE OF
STREETS.
   (A)   No new street shall be accepted by the city for maintenance purposes
until such street is brought up to the standards required in this subchapter.
New streets shall include all property deeded or dedicated to the city and
intended for street use, and all dedicated or existing streets within the city
which have not been brought to the standards of this subchapter. Any future
streets dedicated or deeded to the city shall be in accordance with §
151.002 unless specified differently by the City Council.
   (B)   No private access road will be accepted by the city for maintenance
purposes and said road shall be maintained by its owner. All private access
roads will require prior approval and satisfactory review by the Council of the
following criteria:
      (1)   Clearing, grading to proper grade to required right-of-way width
and surfacing;
      (2)   Storm drainage culverts or restrictive culverts;
      (3)   Base materials for roadways, in place and leveling course in place;
      (4)   Ongoing maintenance and repair responsibilities;
      (5)   Landscaping, including fencing, hedges, screening;
      (6)   Traffic pattern, including sufficient access and turn around space
for public and everyday vehicles; and
      (7)   Utility easements necessary, installation of underground utilities
including sanitary sewer, water mains and service lines, gas, underground
electric, and telephone lines.
   (C)   All streets within the city shall include the following to be provided
at the expense of the abutting property owners:
      (1)   Clearing, grading to proper grade to full right-of-way limits and
surfacing from curb to curb;
      (2)   Storm drainage facilities both within and outside of right-of-way
limits;
      (3)   Base materials for roadways, in place and leveling course in place;
      (4)   Concrete curb and gutter, and also portland cement concrete
sidewalks, the location and width whereof shall conform to the provisions of
the ordinances of the city; and
      (5)   Installation of underground utilities including sanitary sewer,
water mains and service lines, gas, underground electric, and telephone lines.
   (D)   Before any street or private road improvement shall be made, the
abutting owner or his or her representative shall notify the City Engineer or
Street Superintendent, who shall supply, at city expense, the grade lines and
specifications for the clearing and grading of the street and for the
construction and installation of storm drainage. In the event such improvements
are not commenced within six months the owner shall reimburse the city for such
engineering expense.
   (E)   (1)   The base and leveling materials for residential streets or
private roads shall consist of a minimum of six inches of base rock and two
inches of leveling course or surfacing rock, provided the subbase is
consolidated or compacted fill consisting of silty gravel or other suitable
material.
      (2)   On those streets or private roads which, in the opinion of the City
Engineer, do not have a sufficient sub-base, additional gravel may be required
as specified by the City Engineer. The size and type of base leveling and fill
materials shall be as specified by the City Engineer. The base and leveling
materials shall cover the entire street or private road width from curb to
curb, except as hereinafter provided.
   (F)   In the event that a single improvement is to be constructed on a new
street, and the owner thereof also owns the property on the opposite side of
the street, the owner shall improve the street or streets for the entire width
of the street fronting the lot in accordance with this subchapter, such
improvement to extend at least for the total frontage length of the lot. If the
opposite side of the street is in different ownership, the street improvement
shall extend not less than ten feet beyond the centerline of the street from
the lot to be improved.
   (G)   No person shall construct or repair a street, private road, or storm
drainage system without first obtaining a permit from the city. The application
for the permit shall describe the location, width, length, and material
proposed to be used and any such other information as the City Engineer may
deem appropriate.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-8-1992)
SIDEWALKS
§ 151.015 “BLOCK” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. As used in this subchapter, shall mean that part of one side of a
street lying between two nearest cross streets, but if such cross streets are
more than 400 feet apart, measured along the property line, then the term BLOCK
shall mean 400 lineal feet along one side of a street.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.016 SIDEWALK AND DRIVEWAY DIMENSIONS.
   Sidewalk and driveway dimensions shall be as follows.
   (A)   All sidewalks hereafter constructed or relaid within the corporate
limits of the city, unless otherwise determined by the Council, shall be at
least four feet wide, except for commercial areas which will be six or more
feet in width. Plans for sidewalks along county road right-of-way shall be
approved by County Public Works Department.
   (B)   All driveways hereafter constructed or relaid shall have a maximum
width of 35 feet and a minimum width of 12 feet except where otherwise allowed
by special permission of the City Council. There shall be a minimum distance of
30 feet between driveways. The edge of a driveway shall not be closer than ten
feet from the right-of-way line of public roads nor closer than five feet from
private property lines. Two adjoining property owners may be permitted to have
a joint driveway with the property line in the driveway.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.017 CURB DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Curb dimensions shall be as follows: the curb shall extend
at least ten inches into the ground from the ground level after the street has
been graded, six-inch exposure above the paved surface of street, six inches
wide at the top with a three-fourths inch radii on street side and have a slope
on the street side of one inch in six inches, perpendicular on the property
side. All curbs within the city shall conform to standard cross-sections shown
in city’s Public Works Standards. On all streets less than 60 feet in width and
not less than 50 feet in width, the outer edge of the curbing shall be eight
feet from the property line. On all streets less than 50 feet in width, the
street edge of the curbing shall be such distance from the property as the
Council from time to time shall direct; provided, nothing in this section shall
be construed to require the curb lines to be altered or changed on streets
where the same have been permanently improved at the expense of the adjacent
and abutting property, unless by special order from the Council, and providing
further that nothing in this section or in this subchapter shall be construed
to preclude the Council in case of permanent street improvements from providing
a different method and manner of constructing curb lines along such proposed
improvement.
   (B)   Curb cuts or ramps required.
      (1)   The standard for construction of curbs requires not less than two
curb cuts or ramps per lineal block to be located on or near the crosswalks at
intersections. Each curb cut or ramp shall be at least 48 inches wide, where
possible, and a minimum of 36 inches wide where a 48 inch width will not fit,
at a slope not to exceed one-inch rise per 12-inch run. If a 12:1 slope will
not fit, an 8:1 slope is acceptable if so constructed as to allow reasonable
access to the crosswalk for persons with physical disabilities.
      (2)   Standards set for curb cuts and ramps under division (B)(1) above
shall apply whenever a curb or sidewalk is constructed or replaced at any point
in a block which gives reasonable access to a crosswalk.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.018 PATTERN.
   On any side of any street on which concrete sidewalks already exist, the
pattern established by the existing sidewalks, concerning the location of the
sidewalk in relation to the curb and owner’s property line, shall determine the
location for all sidewalks on the side of the street concerned. No deviation is
to be made from established patterns without special permission of the City
Council. On any side of any street where no pattern has been set by existing
sidewalks, no sidewalk is to be constructed until the City Council has rendered
a decision on whether the walk is to be built next to the curb or next to the
owner’s property line.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.019 FALL AND THICKNESS.
   The sidewalk shall have fall of one-fourth inch per foot from the property
line toward the curb line, and shall be at least four inches minimum thickness.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.020 BLOCKS AND EXPANSION JOINTS.
   (A)   All sidewalks shall be marked in blocks of no greater dimensions than
four feet with three- eighths inch tooling running across the walk at right
angles to their length and along both edges of sidewalks. Square blocks the
width of sidewalk. Expansion joints shall be placed along the sidewalk at
points not greater than 48 feet, and at each side of driveways. The joints
shall be made by means of a prepared bituminous felt material one-half inch
thick.
   (B)   The bituminous felt shall be cut to the exact cross-section of the
sidewalk and shall be flush with the top surface and edges of the walk. A
rectangular piece of sheet steel shall be used for backing for the bituminous
felt, and held in place by iron pins until concrete is placed on both sides of
the joint.
   (C)   The joints shall be properly finished on both sides of the expansion
material. Contraction joints formed by one-eighths inch metal plates inserted
in the concrete at intervals not exceeding 16 feet, to be removed after
finishing, or by cutting slab at least one-third its full depth.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.021 WATER METER BOX.
   (A)   Except where otherwise permitted, a water meter box for each residence
or business building is to be installed adjacent to property line side of
sidewalk in any curb sidewalk at the time the sidewalk is constructed.
   (B)   The water meter box is to be furnished to the property owner by the
city at the property owner’s expense.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.022 MATERIAL.
   The concrete mix for sidewalks and curbs shall be such that 2,500 pound
concrete is obtained; approximately one part cement, two parts sands and four
parts washed concrete gravel. (Approximately five sacks ready-mix concrete is
required to meet the 2,500 pound strength of concrete requirement.)
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.023 CURING.
   During the 72-hour period following the placing of concrete, it shall be
protected against premature curing with burlap mats frequently sprinkled with
water, sawdust frequently sprinkled with water, or by other approved curing
methods which will protect it from the detrimental action of the sun, wind, and
rain until thoroughly set.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.024 INSTALLATION AS PART OF STREET IMPROVEMENT PROJECT.
   Sidewalks may be installed along with and as a part of a street improvement
project when street improvements proceedings are instituted.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.025 INITIATION AND NOTICE OF CONSTRUCTION PROCEEDINGS, HEARING.
   Proceedings for the construction of new sidewalks may be initiated by
petition of one or more of the owners of property abutting upon or adjacent to
any street in any block or by resolution of the Council. In either case, if
there are no existing concrete walks in the block affected before any
resolution is adopted directing the construction of new walks, the Council
shall cause the Recorder to give a notice of such proceedings to the owners of
the property abutting upon the street or part of street where new walks are
sought or proposed and, in case of a sidewalk improvement district, to the
owners of the property in such district, which notice shall be posted not less
than five days before the hearing in a conspicuous place along that side of the
street and within the block where the new walks are proposed, and at least two
of such notices shall be posted in each block.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.026 CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS; ALTERNATE PROCEDURES.
   Whenever the Common Council deems it expedient that new sidewalks be
constructed within the city, the Council may, notwithstanding other procedures
provided for by this code, adopt a resolution declaring that the construction
of sidewalks is expedient and describe in such resolution with convenient
certainty the location of said sidewalks and designate the property to be
benefitted and assessed. The Council shall require the City Engineer to file
with the City Recorder plans, specifications, and estimates of the proposed
sidewalk improvement. If the Council shall find such plans, specifications, and
estimates to be satisfactory it shall approve the same and shall define the
boundaries of any sidewalk improvement district, if there be any. The
declaration of the expediency of sidewalks, and the approval of the plans and
specifications therefor may be done at one session of the Council and may be
included in one resolution.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.027 NOTICE OF CONSTRUCTION, HEARING.
   The resolution whereby the Council declares that the construction of
sidewalks is expedient shall fix a time and place at which the Council will
meet and hear all objections of protest against the construction of the
proposed sidewalks and the assessment of the cost thereof against the affected
property. The City Recorder shall give notice of such hearing by publishing
same in some daily newspaper published in the area of the city, nor less than
ten days prior to the date of the hearing, and also by serving said notice upon
the record owner of the property liable to be assessed for the cost of the
improvement by mail directed to the record owner at the last post office
address of such owner known to the City Recorder, and if such post office
address is unknown, the notice shall be posted upon such owner’s property. Any
such posting of notice shall be done not less than five days prior to the date
of the hearing. The City Recorder shall make, or cause to be made, and filed in
the office of the City Attorney, an affidavit of service of such notice. After
the conclusion of the hearing the Common Council shall determine whether to
proceed with the proposed construction of sidewalks, and the Council may
proceed with the said construction notwithstanding objections and remonstrances
thereto. The Council shall determine whether or not the improvement shall be
made by the city in its corporate capacity, using its own forces for that
purpose, or whether the making of the improvement shall be let out on contract
after competitive bids are received.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.028 COSTS AND ASSESSMENTS.
   Upon the completion of the work under the preceding section, the City
Engineer shall file with the Council a statement of the costs thereof, plus 10%
to cover overhead. The Council shall then by ordinance declare the correctness
of such statement and declare the same to be a lien upon the property
benefitted by the improvement.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.029 PROHIBITION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   Proceedings may be instituted by a resolution of the Council, or by petition
of property owners, for the purpose of preventing or prohibiting the
construction of sidewalks within the street area in any given district or along
a specified block or street. Before the Council passes any ordinance to
prohibit or prevent the construction of any sidewalk, a public hearing shall be
held on such resolution or petition in the same manner as provided in §
151.025, and like notice shall be given and reference made to the Planning
Commission; provided, however, that in lieu or in addition to the posting of
such notice, the Council may direct that notice of such hearing be given by
publication in a newspaper published in the area within the ten days preceding
the hearing. The City Recorder or authorized person shall issue no permits for
the construction of any walk in any block or in any part thereof where the
Council by ordinance, has directed no walks to be constructed, and it shall be
unlawful and constituted a violation of this subchapter for any person to
install or construct any walk in any block or along any street where the
Council, by ordinances prohibits walks.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.030 PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT, RECONSTRUCT, OR REPAIR REQUIRED.
   No person shall construct, reconstruct, or repair any sidewalk without first
obtaining a permit to do so from the City Recorder or authorized person.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.031 APPLICATION.
   Application for the permit required by the preceding section shall be made
to the City Recorder and shall describe the location, width, length, and
material proposed to be used, and shall contain such other information as the
City Engineer may deem necessary to secure compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.032 COMPLIANCE WITH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully construct, reconstruct or
repair any sidewalk upon a grade or alignment contrary to the directions of any
permit granted by the City Recorder.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.033 INSPECTION.
   (A)   After a permit to construct, reconstruct, or repair a sidewalk is
issued, it shall be the duty of the City Engineer or Public Works Director to
make such inspection of the sidewalk covered thereby as, in his or her
judgment, is necessary to have full compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and other ordinances that may be applicable.
   (B)   In case the walk is not constructed in accordance with the terms of
this chapter, it shall be the duty of the Council to proceed against the owner
of the property affected, being the owner of the property abutting upon that
part of the street where the sidewalk is being constructed.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.034 RESOLUTION AND NOTICE TO OWNERS TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR.
   Whenever the Council shall require the owner of any property to construct,
reconstruct, or repair sidewalks, the Council shall adopt a resolution to that
effect. Notice of such resolution shall, by the City Recorder, be served upon
the record owner of such property liable to be assessed for the cost and
expense of constructing, reconstructing, or repairing the sidewalks by oral or
mail directed to the record owner at the last post office address of such owner
known to the City Recorder, and if such post office address is unknown to the
City Recorder, such notice shall be directed to such owner at the city. Also,
in case of an owner whose post office address is unknown a copy of the notice
shall be posted within five days after date of mailing upon such owner’s
property. Any such notice shall direct and require such owner to make such
improvement within 30 days from the date of notice or mailing of such notice.
In case the Council finds an unsafe or dangerous condition exists, it may
require that the work be constructed within ten days after the mailing of such
notice. The City Recorder shall make or cause to be made and file in his or her
office an affidavit of service of such notice.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.035 PROCEDURE WHEN OWNER REFUSES TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR.
   Whenever the Council adopts a resolution directing the construction,
reconstruction, or repair of any sidewalk and the owner of the property
affected fails to make such construction, reconstruction, or repair within the
time limited by the resolution, then the City Engineer shall proceed to
construct, reconstruct, or repair such walk, and shall keep an accurate account
of the cost of labor and material required for such construction or repair of
such walk and shall file a written report thereof with the Council, together
with a description of the real property benefitted by the construction,
reconstruction, and repair of such sidewalks as determined by the Council. Such
costs, plus 10% additional to defray the costs of preparing and serving the
notice, engineering, and advertising shall constitute a lien upon the
benefitted property, which lien shall be entered by the City Recorder in the
appropriate lien docket of the city and shall be collected and foreclosed as a
lien for a street assessment is collected and foreclosed.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.036 REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION ABUTTING STREETS.
   It is hereby made the duty and shall be required of every property owner
whose property abuts upon any street to construct curbs and cement sidewalks
conforming to the provisions of this chapter within 100 days from the
completion or occupancy of any building located upon the property of such
owner. For the purpose of this section, sidewalks shall be required along the
length of said property composing the building site abutting any city right-of-
way.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.037 CONSTRUCTION PLANS TO SHOW SIDEWALKS.
   No building permit shall be granted for the construction of any building
along any street unless the required construction plans provide for the
construction of cement sidewalks conforming to this subchapter and any other
city regulations.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.038 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES WHEN OWNER FAILS TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR.
   The owner of any real property situated within the corporate limits of the
city who fails, refuses, or neglects to construct, reconstruct, or repair any
sidewalks after receiving notice to do so and within the time prescribed by
such notice shall be liable to the city for any damages which the city may
sustain by virtue of the payment of any valid claim of any person on account of
personal injuries or property damages resulting to any such person by reason of
the dangerous or defective condition of the sidewalk ordered by the Council to
be constructed, reconstructed, or repaired or by reason of the lack of any such
sidewalk so ordered to be constructed. It shall be the duty of the City
Attorney immediately upon the payment of any claim for damages growing out of
any injury resulting to any person by reason of a defective or dangerous
sidewalk or the lack of a sidewalk, to proceed against the owner of the real
property abutting upon such dangerous or defective sidewalk or the owner of the
property abutting the street at the point where no sidewalk has been
constructed in all cases where due and regular proceedings were had to compel
such owner to construct, reconstruct, or repair any such sidewalk and such
owner has failed, neglected, or refused to construct, reconstruct, or repair
such sidewalk within the time prescribed in such notice for the purpose of
reimbursing the city for any such damage which it may have been compelled to
pay or has paid on property owner’s failure to comply with the notice to
construct, reconstruct, or repair the sidewalk. For such purpose the City
Attorney is hereby authorized to prosecute any civil action in any court of
competent jurisdiction and to recover the costs and disbursements in such
action from the defendant if the city prevails.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.039 FILLING OF SPACE BETWEEN SIDEWALKS AND CURB.
   It shall be the duty of all property owners to fill in and maintain the
space between the curb and the sidewalk in front of their property, and to the
curb lines of the street at the intersections, with earth to level and grade
with the curb and sidewalk.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.040 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS TO KEEP WALKS SAFE, CLEAN, AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be the duty of the owners of all property abutting upon or adjacent
to any sidewalk to keep such sidewalk in a safe condition for the use of the
public, and it shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any
property to keep the sidewalks in front thereof clean and clear of ice, snow,
dirt, or debris for the safe use of the public at all times. Whenever any
owner, lessee, or occupant of any property neglects his or her duty under this
section, it shall be the duty of the City Recorder to notify him or her of such
neglect, and in case he or she then fails within four hours to make such
sidewalk safe or to clean the same or to clear the same of ice, snow, dirt, or
debris within such time as the City Recorder may have specified in the notice,
then the Council shall cause such sidewalk to be made safe, or to be cleaned or
to be cleared of ice, snow, dirt, or debris, the cost and expense shall
constitute and be declared a lien against the property affected.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.041 DEPOSIT OF WATER, OIL, AND THE LIKE FROM FILLING STATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating, conducting, or
maintaining any gasoline filling station, service station, public garage, or
automobile repair shop to discharge, or permit to be discharged from any pump,
pipe, hose, radiator, automobile, or other device any water, oil, gasoline,
cleaning fluid, or other substance upon any sidewalk or to permit the same to
be discharged in such manner that such water, oil, gasoline, cleaning fluid, or
other substance will run or flow upon, over, or across any sidewalk or parking
strip in front of or adjacent to such gasoline filling station, service
station, public garage, or automobile repair shop.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting the washing or
cleaning of any sidewalk or parking strip or any object permanently located
thereon.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.042 DISPLAY OF GOODS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or expose for sale any
furniture, boxes, vegetables, fowl, goods, ware, or materials of any
description on any portion of the sidewalk in front of or adjacent to the
property owned or occupied by such person. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prohibit the display of such goods or materials upon private
property nor shall this section be construed to apply to persons receiving or
discharging goods, ware, or merchandise across a sidewalk; provided, that due
diligence is used in removing the same.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.043 OPEN GRATINGS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   No open gratings or openings of a similar kind shall be installed in a
sidewalk for the purpose of obtaining either light, ventilation, or for any
other purpose.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.044 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, or occupant of any
property, or for any person or agent of either, or for any contractor, or any
agent or employee of any contractor to construct any sidewalk in any manner
contrary to the terms and provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Any sidewalk constructed contrary to the provisions of this chapter
shall be removed or caused to be removed by the property owner affected, within
ten days after he or she receives notice from the City Recorder, and each day
the offending sidewalk remains in place after the owner lessee or occupant of
the property receives notice to remove the same shall constitute a separate
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided by this subchapter or by resolution of the
Council all construction of curbs and sidewalks herein provided shall be done
and completed within 100 days of habitation of the property involved and if not
so done, the Council shall cause the necessary work to be done as a charge
against the property involved and the city shall have all applicable remedies
for collection of such amounts.
(Ord. 351, passed 4-13-1992)
SIDEWALK, CURB, STREET, AND STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IMPROVEMENT. The construction or repair of any sidewalk, curb, street, and/
or storm drainage system.
(Ord. 350, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.056 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED GENERALLY.
   (A)   Except as provided in this subchapter, no person shall receive a
building permit for any construction within the city, and no parcel of land
shall be partitioned within the city, unless the streets, sidewalks, curbs, and
storm drainage system bordering such lot or area to be built upon comply with
the following requirements:
      (1)   The park strip located between the curb or curb line and the edge
of the hard surface portion of the street be surfaced (paved) along the entire
length of owners property;
      (2)   Adequate storm drainage facilities (as determined by the Council)
along the entire length of owners property; and
      (3)   Sidewalks and curbs in conformance with city ordinance along the
entire length of owners property.
   (B)   No person shall receive a building permit for any construction within
the city unless there is an adequate right-of-way providing access to the lot
or parcel to be built upon. If an adequate right-of- sway does not exist, said
right-of-way shall not be created without prior approval from the City Council.
   (C)   No street, sidewalk, curb, or storm drainage system shall be
constructed, relaid, or repaired unless such work complies in all manner with
the provisions of the ordinances and Public Works Standards of the city.
(Ord. 350, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.057 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A person shall be exempt from all street, sidewalk, curb, and storm
drainage system improvement requirements of this chapter for the purpose of
obtaining a residential building permit to perform any of the following
activities:
      (1)   Demolition of an existing structure;
      (2)   Construct a free standing garage;
      (3)   Construct an accessory building which will not be used for human
occupancy;
      (4)   Maintain, remodel, or repair an existing structure; or
      (5)   Construct an addition not to exceed 200 square feet in size.
   (B)   In any case, where an improvement is made in accordance with the
city’s subdivision regulations, the requirements of this subchapter are deemed
to be satisfied, but compliance with this chapter shall not be deemed to
satisfy the requirements of the subdivision regulations where they might apply.
(Ord. 350, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.058 SITE INSPECTION; BUILDING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works shall inspect any site for which an
application for a building permit has been filed to determine if the adjacent
street, curb, sidewalk, and storm drainage system comply with the provisions of
the ordinances and Public Works Standards of the city.
   (B)   If the street, curb, and storm drainage system improvements do not
comply and are required, no building permit shall be issued unless:
      (1)   An exemption has been granted under §
151.057;
      (2)   The city and applicant have executed an agreement stating that the
improvements will be installed within four months, in accordance with §
151.059;
      (3)   The city and applicant have executed an agreement stating that the
improvements are deferred for a period of time exceeding four months, in
accordance with §
151.060; and
      (4)   A waiver has been granted by the City Council in accordance with §
151.060.
(Ord. 350, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.059 AGREEMENTS TO INSTALL; SECURITY.
   (A)   If required street, sidewalk, curb, and storm drainage system
improvements have not been completed when the building permit is requested, the
owner may sign an agreement with the city that such improvements will be
completed at owner’s expense within four months and upon making such an
agreement, the owner may be issued a building permit.
   (B)   The agreement shall provide that, if the work is not completed within
the four months, the city may complete all required improvements and may
recover the full cost and expense together with court costs and attorney fees
necessary to collect said amounts from the owner.
   (C)   The city may require the owner to file with the agreement, to assure
his or her full and faithful performance thereof, one of the following:
      (1)   A surety bond executed by a surety company authorized to transact
business in the state in a form approved by the City Attorney;
      (2)   A personal bond co-signed by at least one additional person
together with evidence of financial responsibility and resources of those
signing the bond sufficient to provide reasonable assurance of ability to
proceed in accordance with the agreement; and
      (3)   Cash.
   (D)   Extension of the original four-month time period may be allowed for
good cause with the approval of the Council.
(Ord. 350, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.060 WAIVER OR DEFERRAL OF REQUIRED STREET CURB, SIDEWALK, AND STORM
DRAINAGE SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Any applicant for a building permit may apply to the city requesting
that the City Council grant either a waiver exempting the applicant’s property
from street, curb, sidewalk, and/or storm drainage system improvement
requirements or defer the construction of required improvements for a period of
time exceeding four months.
   (B)   The Council finds that the following items do not normally constitute
unusual circumstances which warrant granting of a deferral or waiver of street,
curb, sidewalk, or storm drainage system improvement requirements:
      (1)   Financial hardship of the applicant;
      (2)   Lack of sidewalks, curbs, streets, or storm drainage system on
adjacent properties; and
      (3)   Cost.
   (C)   Upon review of a written request the Council may either deny the
request or grant a waiver or deferral of any or all of the required
improvements if it finds that:
      (1)   Street widening is planned within five years and the exact width of
the future street has not yet been determined;
      (2)   Physical obstructions including steep banks or drainage channels
exist on the site which would require extensive public or private improvements
in addition to the street, curb, sidewalk, or storm drainage system;
      (3)   Public improvement projects are planned in the next five years
which would require the city to remove the street, curb, sidewalk, or storm
drainage system improvements;
      (4)   The Council determines the improvements are not needed; and
      (5)   Unusual circumstances or peculiarities of the site exist which, in
the opinion of the Council, warrant a deferral of required street, curb,
sidewalk, and/or storm drainage system improvements.
   (D)   (1)   If the Council grants a deferral of the street, curb, sidewalk,
or storm drainage system improvement, the applicant shall execute and file an
agreement between himself or herself and the city which includes the following:
         (a)   Specifying the improvements that have been deferred;
         (b)   Specifying the period of time within which the required
improvements will be installed; and
         (c)   Stating the agreement is terminated upon installation of all
required curb, sidewalk, street, and storm drainage system improvements.
      (2)   Upon execution of the agreement by both parties, the owner may be
issued a building permit.
   (E)   Extension of any deferment agreement may be allowed for good cause
with the approval of the Council.
(Ord. 350, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 151.061 CONSTRUCTION; PASSAGE OF RESOLUTION.
   (A)   Whenever the Council determines that any street or storm drainage
system shall be constructed or repaired within the city, it shall pass a
resolution to that effect, describing in the said resolution the location of
the proposed street or storm drainage system and the time within which such
work shall be completed.
   (B)   The Council shall allow a minimum of 30 days for resident property
owners and 60 days for non-resident property owners to complete the
construction of any such street or storm drainage system improvement.
   (C)   Such resolution shall state whether the improvements are to be
constructed at the expense of the adjacent or abutting property owners, or at
the general expense of city residents.
   (D)   If the improvements are to be constructed at the expense of the
adjacent or abutting property owners, the city shall following the procedure as
set forth in §§
151.095 through
151.114.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to sidewalks and curbs. The procedure for
sidewalks and curbs is set forth in §§
151.015 through
151.044.
(Ord. 350, passed 4-13-1992)
VACATION OF STREET, PUBLIC PLACE, OR PLAT
§ 151.075 VACATION; PETITION; CONSENT OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Whenever any person interested in any real property within the city
desires to vacate all or part of any street, alley, plat, or other public
place, such person may file a petition therefor setting forth a description of
the ground proposed to be vacated, the purpose for which the ground is proposed
to be used and the reason for such vacation.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be appended to such petition, as a part thereof and
as a basis for granting the same, the consent of the owners of all abutting
property and of not less than two-thirds in area of the real property affected
thereby.
      (2)   The real property affected thereby shall be deemed to be the land
lying on either side of the street or portion thereof proposed to be vacated
and extending laterally to the next street that serves as a parallel street,
but in any case not to exceed 200 feet, and the land for a like lateral
distance on either side of the street for 400 feet along its course beyond each
terminus of the part proposed to be vacated.
      (3)   Where a street is proposed to be vacated to its termini, the land
embraced in an extension of the street for a distance of 400 feet beyond each
terminus shall also be counted. In the vacation of any plat or part thereof the
consent of the owner or owners of two-thirds in area of the property embraced
within such plat or part thereof proposed to be vacated shall be sufficient,
except where such vacation embraces street area, when, as to such street area
the above requirements shall also apply. The consent of the owners of the
required amount of property shall be in writing and duly acknowledged before an
officer authorized to take acknowledgments of deeds.
   (C)   (1)   The person presenting the petition for the vacation shall pay to
the City Recorder an amount that shall be determined by the City Council as a
minimum fee to cover the costs relating to the vacation.
      (2)   If the actual cost of advertising and expenses, and all processing
costs, including employee salaries, related to the vacation exceed the amount
of the minimum fee, a sum sufficient to cover all such costs shall be collected
before the vacation is completed, and payment thereof shall be a condition of
the vacating ordinance.
(Ord. 319, passed 9-12-1988)
§ 151.076 FILING OF PETITION; NOTICE.
   The petition shall be presented to the City Recorder. If found by the
Recorder to be sufficient, the Recorder shall file it and inform at least one
of the petitioners when the petition will come before the Planning Commission
and the Council. A failure to give such information shall not be in any respect
a lack of jurisdiction to proceed on the petition.
(Ord. 319, passed 9-12-1988)
§ 151.077 PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATION OF PETITION.
   (A)   The City Recorder shall refer the petition to the Planning Commission
and to the City Engineer for reports on the proposed vacation. The reports
shall include recommendations on the vacation and any special public
reservation or conditions applicable to the vacation. Upon receiving the
reports, the City Recorder shall forward the petition to the Council for its
consideration. The Council shall schedule a time for a formal hearing upon the
petition and direct the City Recorder to give notice of the petition and
hearing by publishing a notice in a newspaper of general circulation once each
week for four consecutive weeks and to also post written notice of the petition
and hearing in three of the most public places in the city. The notices shall
describe the ground covered by the petition, give the date it was filed, the
name of at least one of the petitioners and the date when the petition, and any
objection or remonstrance, which may be made in writing and filed with the City
Recorder prior to the time of hearing, will be heard and considered.
   (B)   Within five days after the first day of publication of the notice the
City Recorder shall cause to be posted at or near each end of the proposed
vacation a copy of the notice which shall be headed, “Notice of Street
Vacation”, “Notice of Plat Vacation”, or “Notice of Plat and Street Vacation”,
as the case may be; the notice shall be posted in at least two conspicuous
places in the proposed vacation area. The posting and first day of publication
of such notice shall be not less than 28 days before the hearing.
(Ord. 319, passed 9-12-1988)
§ 151.078 HEARING; DETERMINATION.
   (A)   (1)   At the time fixed by the Council for hearing the petition and
any objections filed thereto or at any postponement or continuance of such
matter, the Council shall hear the petition and objections and shall determine
whether the consent of the owners of the requisite area has been obtained,
whether notice has been duly given and whether the public interest will be
prejudiced by the vacation of such plat or street or parts thereof.
      (2)   If such matters are determined in favor of the petition the Council
shall by ordinance make such determination a matter of record and vacate such
plat or street; otherwise it shall deny the petition.
      (3)   The Council may, upon hearing, grant the petition in part and deny
it in part, and make such reservations, or either, as appear to be for the
public interest.
   (B)   The reservations or conditions may pertain to:
      (1)   The maintenance and use of underground public utilities or service
facilities in the portion vacated;
      (2)   Limitations on use of the area above and adjacent to underground
utilities or service facilities;
      (3)   Moving at petitioner’s expense of utility or service facilities
either below, on or above the surface;
      (4)   Construction, extension, or relocation of sidewalks and curbs;
      (5)   Grading or pavement extensions;
      (6)   Dedication for street use or other area in lieu of the area to be
vacated;
      (7)   Replat; and
      (8)   Any other matter of like or different nature relating to the
vacated area and remaining or relocated street area adjacent to petitioner’s
property or area dedicated in lieu of the vacation area.
(Ord. 319, passed 9-12-1988)
§ 151.079 VACATION ON COUNCIL’S OWN MOTION; APPEAL.
   (A)   The Council may initiate vacation proceedings and make such vacation
without a petition or consent of property owners. Notice shall be given as
provided above, but such vacation shall not be made before the date set for
hearing, nor if the owners of a majority of the area affected, object in
writing thereto, nor shall any street area be vacated without the cont of the
owners of the abutting property if the vacation will substantially affect the
market value of such property, unless the Council provides for paying damages.
Provision for paying such damages may be made by a local assessment, or in such
other manner as the Council may determine.
   (B)   Two or more streets, alleys, or parts thereof may be joined in one
proceeding, provided they intersect or are adjacent and parallel to each other.
   (C)   No ordinance for the vacation of all or part of a plat shall be passed
by the Council until the City Recorder has filed in the office of the City
Recording Officer or indorsed on the petition for such vacation a certificate
showing that all city liens and all taxes have been paid on the lands covered
by the plat or portion thereof to be vacated.
   (D)   Any property owner affected by the order of vacation or the order
awarding damages or benefits in such vacation proceedings may appeal to the
Circuit Court of the county in the manner provided by the Council. If the
Council does not provide for such appeal, the appeal shall be taken within the
time and in substantially the manner provided for taking an appeal from justice
or district court in civil cases.
(Ord. 319, passed 9-12-1988)
§ 151.080 TITLE TO VACATED AREAS.
   The title to the street or other public area vacated shall attach to the
lands bordering on such area in equal portions; except that where the area has
been originally dedicated by different persons and the fee title to such area
has not been otherwise disposed of, original boundary lines shall be adhered to
and the street area which lies on each side of such boundary line shall attach
to the abutting property on such side. If a public square is vacated the title
thereto shall vest in the city.
(Ord. 319, passed 9-12-1988)
§ 151.081 VACATIONS FOR PURPOSES OF REDEDICATION.
   No street shall be vacated upon the petition of any person when it is
proposed to replat or rededicate all or part of any street in lieu of the
original unless such petition is accompanied by a plat showing the proposed
manner of replatting or rededicating. If the proposed manner of replatting or
rededicating or any modification thereof which may subsequently be made meets
with the approval of the Council, it shall require a suitable guarantee to be
given for the carrying out of such replatting or rededication or may make any
vacation conditional or to take effect only upon the consummation of such
replatting or rededication.
(Ord. 319, passed 9-12-1988)
§ 151.082 BOND OR CASH DEPOSIT.
   (A)   When the Council is petitioned to vacate any street, public place or
plat, or part thereof, in which water system, gas hydrants, law enforcement or
fire alarm systems, gas mains, steam heating mains, conduits, sewer mains or
laterals, manhole structures, poles, wires, or other utility or public service
facilities are constructed and maintained, and the proposed vacation will
require the removal of the utility or public service facilities or any portion
of them, or if curbs or sidewalks are required to be extended or relocated, or
if grading or additional paving is required, the ordinance vacating the street
or part thereof may provide that the vacation shall not be effective unless the
petitioner shall file with the City Recorder of the city his or her acceptance
of the terms and provisions of the ordinance together with a surety bond or
cash deposit, in such sum as shall be fixed by the Council.
   (B)   The surety bond or cash deposit shall be to the effect that, in the
event the vacation is granted, the petitioner will, within 90 days or such
other time as the Council may fix after the vacation ordinance is effective,
remove or have removed by the owner, all or any part of the utility or public
service facilities as required by the vacation ordinance and reconstruct and
relay the facilities or have them reconstructed and relaid by the owner in the
places as may be required by the City Engineer, and obtain other work as
required by the ordinance in the manner directed by the City Engineer, all at
the expense of the petitioner.
(Ord. 319, passed 9-12-1988)
§ 151.083 CONSENT TO VACATION FOR CITY AS OWNER.
   Whenever city owned property abuts area of a street or plat sought to be
vacated by petition, or is located within “affected area” fixed by statute, the
Mayor may sign consent to the vacation as an owner for the purpose of Council
jurisdiction and consideration.
(Ord. 319, passed 9-12-1988)
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.095 SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS GOVERNED.
   This subchapter shall not affect sidewalk improvements provided for in §§
151.015 through
151.044 and nothing in this subchapter shall be interpreted to repeal or
contradict the provisions of §§
151.015 through
151.044 and said subchapter shall continue to govern sidewalk improvements and
§§
151.015 through
151.044 shall supersede any conflicting provisions contained in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.096 INITIATION.
   A public improvement may be initiated:
   (A)   At the request of the Council;
   (B)   At the request of one or more owners of property to be benefitted
specially by the improvement; or
   (C)   As part of a master development plan prepared by or for the city.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.097 SURVEY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   When an improvement is initiated, the City Council may cause a survey to be
taken of the owners of property to be special benefitted to determine support
or opposition to the proposed improvement. The survey shall inform the owners
of:
   (A)   The nature of the proposed improvement;
   (B)   The approximate unit cost of the improvement;
   (C)   The procedure which will be followed should the improvement be
approved; and
   (D)   The improvement will be abandoned or suspended for six months upon
filing of written remonstrances by the owners of two-thirds of the land to be
assessed unless the improvement is a sidewalk in which case the provisions of
§§
151.015 through
151.044 shall supersede any contrary provisions contained in this subchapter.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.098 INITIAL COUNCIL ACTION.
   (A)   If the survey shows support for the improvement project, the project
may be submitted to the Council.
   (B)   The Council may by resolution or by motion direct the City Engineer to
make a study and written report for the project. Unless the Council directs
otherwise, the study shall include the following:
      (1)   A map or plat showing the general nature, location, and extent of
the proposed improvement and the land to be assessed for the payment of any
part of the cost thereof;
      (2)   Plans, specifications, and estimates of the work to be done;
provided, however, that when the proposed project is to be carried out in
cooperation with any other governmental agency, the report may adopt the plans,
specifications, and estimates of such agency;
      (3)   An estimate of the probable cost of the improvement, including any
legal, administrative, and engineering costs attributable to it;
      (4)   A recommendation as to the method of assessment to be used to
arrive at a fair apportionment of the whole or any portion of the cost of the
improvement to the properties specially benefitted;
      (5)   The description and assessed value of each lot, parcel of land, or
portion to be specially benefitted by the improvement, with the names of the
record owners thereof and, when readily available, the names of the contract
purchasers thereof; and
      (6)   A statement of outstanding assessments against the property to be
assessed.
   (C)   The study shall be filed with the City Recorder.
   (D)   Based upon the results of the study, the Engineer shall make a written
report to the Council.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.099 GENERAL OBLIGATION WARRANTS.
   When issuance of general obligation warrants for the project is contemplated
by the city, the following conditions must be satisfied:
   (A)   There shall be a diversity of ownership, with at least three of the
benefited property owners who are not related;
   (B)   There must be a legal opinion from the city’s bond counsel finding a
public purpose in the project; and
   (C)   The estimated total assessment for the project must not equal or
exceed one and one-half times the total assessed valuation of the benefited
properties, as shown by the last county tax roll.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.100 RESOLUTION AND NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   If the Council approves the report as submitted, the Council shall by
resolution declare its intention to make such improvement and direct the City
Recorder to give notice of such improvement by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city and by mailing copies of such notice by
mail to the owners of property to be assessed for the costs of such
improvement.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the following:
      (1)   That a written report on the improvement is on file in the office
of the City Recorder and is subject to public examination; and
      (2)   That the Council will hold a public hearing on the proposed
improvement on a specified date, which shall not be earlier than ten days
following the publication of notice, at which objections and remonstrances to
such improvement will be heard by the Council; and that if, prior to such
hearing, there are presented to the City Recorder valid written remonstrances
on forms provided by the city of the owners of two-thirds of the property to be
specially benefited by such improvement, then the improvement will be abandoned
for at least six months unless the improvement is a sidewalk not funded by
general obligation warrants of the city or bancroft bonds in which case the
provisions of §§
151.015 through
151.044 shall supersede any contrary provisions contained in this subchapter
and the city may proceed with the sidewalk improvement regardless of
remonstrances by benefitted landowners.
   (C)   A description of the property to be specially benefitted by the
improvement, the estimated total cost of the improvement to be paid for by
special assessments to benefitted properties, and an estimate of the unit cost
of the improvement to the property to be specifically assessed.
   (D)   When the improvement is a sidewalk, §§
151.015 through
151.044 shall apply and shall supersede any contrary provision in this
subchapter so that the Council may order the owners of the lots adjacent to the
proposed sidewalk to construct the sidewalk, at their expense, under the
supervision of the Engineer, and conforming to certain plans and
specifications, and that upon failure to do so, the city will cause the
sidewalk to be constructed and a lien will be placed against the property
adjacent to the site of such sidewalk for the cost thereof regardless of
remonstrances filed by benefitted landowners.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.101 MANNER OF DOING WORK.
   (A)   The Council may provide in the improvement resolution that the
construction work may be done in whole or in part by the city, by a contract,
by any other governmental agency, or by any combination thereof.
   (B)   When the improvement involves construction or reconstruction of a
sidewalk, the Council may provide in the improvement resolution that the
improvement work may be done by the owner and at his or her expense, pursuant
to the procedure set forth in the code.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.102 HEARINGS.
   At the time of the public hearing on the proposed improvement, if the
written remonstrances represent less than the amount of property required to
defeat the proposed improvement, then on the basis of the hearing or written
remonstrances and oral objections, if any, the Council may by motion, at the
time of the hearing or within 60 days thereafter, order the improvement to be
carried out in accordance with the resolution; or the Council may, on its own
motion, abandon the improvement.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.103 CALL FOR BIDS.
   The Council may direct the City Recorder to advertise for bids for
construction of all or any part of the improvement project on the basis of the
Council-approved report and before the passage of the resolution, or after the
passage of the resolution and before the public hearing on the proposed
improvement, or at any time after the public hearing; provided, however, that
no contract shall be let until after the public hearing has been held to hear
remonstrances and oral objections to the proposed improvement. In the event
that any part of the work of the improvement is to be done under contract bids,
then the Council shall determine the time and manner of advertisement for bids,
and the contracts may be let to the responsible bidder whose bid is in the best
interests of the city as determined at the sole discretion of the Council,
provided that the Council shall have the right to reject any or all bids when
they are deemed unreasonable or unsatisfactory in the Council’s discretion. The
city shall provide for the bonding of all contractors for the faithful
performance of any contract let under its authority, and the provisions thereof
in case of default shall be enforced by action in the name of the city.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.104 NOTICE OF PROPOSED ASSESSMENT.
   If the Council determines that the local improvement shall be made, when the
estimated cost is ascertained on the basis of the City Engineer’s estimate, or
the contract award, or city departmental cost, or after the work is done and
the cost thereof has been actually determined, the Council shall determine
whether the property benefited shall bear all or a portion of the cost. “Cost”
shall include the direct administrative overhead costs incurred by the city
pertaining to the improvement project. The Recorder or person designated by the
Council shall prepare the proposed assessment to the respective lots within the
assessment district and file it in the appropriate city office. Notice of the
proposed assessment shall be mailed or personally delivered to the owner of
each lot proposed to be assessed. The notice shall state the amounts of
assessments proposed on that property and shall fix a date by which time
objections shall be filed with the Recorder. Any objection shall state the
grounds thereof.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.105 METHOD OF ASSESSMENT AND ALTERNATIVE METHODS OF FINANCING.
   (A)   The Council, in adopting a method of assessment of the costs of the
improvement, may:
      (1)   Use any just and reasonable method of determining the extent of any
improvement district consistent with the benefits derived;
      (2)   Use any method of apportioning the sum to be assessed as is just
and reasonable among the properties determined to be specially benefitted; and
      (3)   Authorize payment by the city of all or any part of the cost of any
such improvement when, in the opinion of the Council, the topographical or
physical conditions; or unusual or excessive public travel, or other character
of the work involved warrants only a partial payment or no payment by the
benefited property of the costs of the improvement.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall preclude the Council from
using any other available means of financing improvements, including federal or
state grants-in-aid, other charges or fees, revenue bonds, general obligation
bonds, or any other legal means of finance. If such other means of financing
improvements are used, the Council may, in its discretion, levy special
assessments according to the benefits derived to cover any remaining part of
the costs of the improvement.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.106 NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT.
   Within ten days after the ordinance levying assessment has been passed, the
Recorder shall send by registered or certified mail a notice of assessment to
the owner of the assessed property and shall publish notice of such assessment
twice in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. The first publication
shall be made not later than ten days after the date of the assessment
ordinance. The notice of assessment shall recite the date of the assessment
ordinance and shall state that, upon the failure of the owner of the property
assessed to make application to pay the assessment in installments within 30
days from the date of the first publication of the notice, or upon the failure
of the owner to pay the assessment in full within 30 days from the date of the
assessment ordinance, interest will commence to run on the assessment and the
property assessed will be subject to foreclosure. The notice shall also
describe the property assessed, name the owner of the property, and state the
amount of each assessment.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.107 LIENS, LIEN RECORDS, AND INTEREST.
   (A)   After passage of the assessment ordinance by the Council, the City
Recorder shall enter in the docket of city liens a statement of the amounts
assessed upon each particular lot, parcel of land or portion thereof, together
with a description of the improvement, the name of the owners and the date of
the assessment ordinance. Upon such entry in the lien docket, the amount so
entered shall become a lien and charge upon the respective lots, parcels of
land, or portions thereof which have been assessed for such improvement.
   (B)   All assessment liens of the city shall be superior and prior to all
other liens or encumbrances on property insofar as the laws of the state
permit. Interest shall be charged at the rate set by the Council up to a
maximum allowed by law until paid on all amounts not paid within 30 days from
the date of the assessment ordinance.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.108 FORECLOSURE PROCEEDINGS.
   After expiration of 30 days from the date of the assessment ordinance, the
city may proceed to foreclosure or enforce collection of the assessment liens
in the manner provided by the general law of the state; provided, however, that
the city may, at its option, enter a bid for the property being offered at a
foreclosure sale, which bid shall be prior to all bids except those made by
persons who would be entitled under the laws of the state to redeem such
property.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.109 ERRORS IN ASSESSMENT CALCULATIONS.
   (A)   Claimed errors in the calculation of assessments shall be called to
the attention of the Recorder who shall determine whether there has been an
error in fact. Upon finding an error in fact, the Recorder shall recommend to
the Council an amendment to the assessment ordinance.
   (B)   Following enactment of the amendment, the Recorder shall make the
necessary correction in the docket of city liens and send a correct notice of
assessment to the owner by certified mail.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.110 DEFICIT ASSESSMENT.
   If an assessment is made before the total cost of the improvement is
ascertained, and if it is found that the amount of the assessment is
insufficient to defray the expenses of the improvement, the Council may by
motion declare such deficit and prepare a proposed deficit assessment. The
Council shall set a time for a hearing of objections to such deficit assessment
and shall direct the Administrator to give notice according to the provisions
in §
151.100. After the hearing, the Council shall make a just and equitable deficit
assessment by ordinance, which be entered in the docket of city liens as
provided by §
151.106. Notices of the deficit assessment shall be published and mailed, and
the collection of the assessment shall be made in accordance with §§
151.105 and
151.106.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.111 REBATES.
   (A)   If, upon the completion of the improvement project, it is found that
the assessment previously levied upon any property is more than sufficient to
pay the costs of such improvements, then the Council must ascertain and declare
the same by ordinance. When so declared, the excess amounts must be entered on
the lien docket as a credit upon the appropriate assessment.
   (B)   In the event that any assessment has been paid, the person who paid
the assessment, or his or her legal representative, shall be entitled to the
repayment of the rebate credit or the portion thereof which exceeds the amount
unpaid on the original assessment.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.112 ABANDONMENT OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The Council shall have full power and authority to abandon and rescind
proceedings for improvements made pursuant to this chapter at any time prior to
the final completion of such improvements. If liens have been assessed upon any
property under these procedures, they shall be cancelled and any payments made
on such assessments shall be refunded to the person paying them, his or her
assigns or legal representative.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.113 CURATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No improvement assessment shall be rendered invalid by reason of:
      (1)   Failure of the report to contain all of the information required by
§
151.097;
      (2)   Failure to have all of the information required to be in the
improvement resolution, the assessment ordinance, the lien docket, or notices
required to be published and mailed;
      (3)   Failure to list the name of, or mail notice to, the owner of any
property as required by this subchapter; and
      (4)   Any other error, mistake, delay, omission, irregularity, or other
act, jurisdictional or otherwise, in any of the proceedings or steps herein
specified, unless it appears that the assessment is unfair or unjust in its
effect upon the person complaining.
   (B)   The Council shall have the power and authority to remedy and correct
all such matters by suitable action and proceedings.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.114 REASSESSMENT.
   Whenever any assessment, deficit, or reassessment for any improvement which
has been made by the city is set aside, annulled, or declared or rendered void,
or its enforcement is restrained by any court of this state, or any federal
court having jurisdiction thereof, or when the Council is in doubt as to the
validity of such assessment, deficit assessment or reassessment, or any part
thereof, the Council may make a reassessment in the manner provided by the laws
of the state.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-14-1987)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of
the provisions of §§
151.001 through
151.003 shall be fined an amount that shall be determined by the City Council
for each offense. Each day that violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of
the provisions of §§
151.055 through
151.061 shall be fined an amount that shall be determined by the City Council
for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 350, passed 4-13-1992; Ord. 352, passed 6-8-1992)
CHAPTER 152: HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
   
152.01   Application of chapter
   
152.02   Ordinary maintenance and repair
   
152.03   Duty to keep in good repair
   
152.04   Permits
   
152.05   Review procedure
   
152.06   Decision
   
152.07   Criteria
§ 152.01 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall apply to the historic resources listed in the city’s
Historic Structures Inventory within the city’s comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 302, passed 6-29-1987)
§ 152.02 ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance and repair of any exterior architectural feature on any property
covered by this section that does not involve a change in design, material, or
external appearance thereof. Nor does this chapter prevent the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, restoration, demolition, or removal of any such
feature when the Building Official determines that such emergency action is
required for the public safety due to an unsafe or dangerous condition. Prior
to such emergency action, notification shall be provided to the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 302, passed 6-29-1987)
§ 152.03 DUTY TO KEEP IN GOOD REPAIR.
   The owner of a designated historic resource shall keep such resource in good
repair.
(Ord. 302, passed 6-29-1987)
§ 152.04 PERMITS.
   A permit is required for alteration, demolition, or relocation of a
structure which is a designated historic resource.
   (1)   Alteration. Alteration as governed by this chapter means any addition
to, removal from, or change in the appearance of any part or portion of a
designated historic resource.
   (2)   Exception. A permit is not required under this chapter for alteration
of a structure when review of the proposed alteration is required by an agency
of the state or federal government.
(Ord. 302, passed 6-29-1987)
§ 152.05 REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing to review any
application for the alteration, demolition, or relocation of a designated
historic resource. Said public hearing is to be help pursuant to the laws of
the city.
(Ord. 302, passed 6-29-1987)
§ 152.06 DECISION.
   (A)   Within 45 days following the original public hearing, unless the
application is continued at the request of the applicant, the Planning
Commission shall either:
      (1)   Approve the application;
      (2)   Approve the application with modifications or conditions; or
      (3)   Deny the application.
   (B)   Any person who appeared at the public hearing shall be mailed a copy
of the preliminary approval, and may have standing to appeal such preliminary
approval to the City Council by filing written notice of appeal with the City
Recorder within ten days of mailing of the declaration.
   (C)   Upon receipt of notice of appeal, the City Recorder shall set the
matter down for public hearing before the City Council. On appeal, the City
Council may affirm or modify the Planning Commission’s decision.
(Ord. 302, passed 6-29-1987)
§ 152.07 CRITERIA.
   (A)   Alteration. Decisions based on applications for alteration shall be
based on applicable state and local codes and ordinances relating to building,
fire, and life and safety and the following standards.
      (1)   The distinguishing original qualities or character of a building,
structure, or site and its environment shall not be destroyed: The removal or
alteration of any historic material or distinctive architectura1 features
should be avoided when possible.
      (2)   All building, structures, and sites shall be recognized as products
of their own time. Alterations that have no historical basis and which seek to
create an earlier appearance shall be discouraged.
      (3)   Changes which may have taken place in the course of time are
evidence of the history and development of a building, structure, or site and
its environment. These changes may have acquired significance in their own
right, and this significance shall be recognized and respected.
      (4)   Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled craftsmanship
which characterize a building, structure, or site shall be treated with
sensitivity.
      (5)   Deteriorated architectural features shall be repaired rather than
replaced, whenever possible. In the event replacement is necessary, the new
material should match the material being replaced in composition, design,
color, texture, and other visual qualities. Repair or replacement of missing
architectural features should be based on accurate duplications of features,
substantiated by historic, physical, or pictorial evidence rather than on
conjectural designs or the availability of different architectural elements
from other buildings or structures.
      (6)   Every reasonable effort shall be made to protect and preserve
archaeological resources affected by, or adjacent to any project.
      (7)   Contemporary design for alterations and additions to existing
properties shall not be discouraged when such alterations and additions do not
destroy significant historical, architectural, or cultural material, and such
design is compatible with the size, scale, color, material, and character of
the property, neighborhood, or environment.
      (8)   Whenever possible, new additions or alterations to structures shall
be done in such a manner that if such additions or alterations were to be
removed in the future, the essential form, and integrity of the structure would
be unimpaired.
   (B)   Demolition. Decisions on applications for permits to demolish a
designated historic structure shall be based on the following:
      (1)   The state of repair of the building and reasonableness of the cost
of repair;
      (2)   Whether a program or project may exist that could result in
preservation of the structure;
      (3)   Unnecessary and substantial hardship to the applicant that may
result from denial or conditions of approval;
      (4)   Effects on the public welfare if the structure were demolished
considering the significance of the structure and the economic, cultural, and
energy consequences of demolition; and
      (5)   Whether any other reasonable alternative exists.
   (C)   Relocation. Decisions on applications for permits to relocate a
designated historic resource shall be based on the following:
      (1)   Effects of the relocation on the historic and architectural
integrity of the structure;
      (2)   Compatibility with the designated historic resource of the
surrounding of the proposed location; and
      (3)   Other factors considered appropriate by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 302, passed 6-29-1987)
CHAPTER 153: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ZONE MAP
Section
   
153.01   Comprehensive plan; adopted by reference
   
153.02   Comprehensive plan map and zone map; adopted by reference
§ 153.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The city does hereby adopt the Sublimity Comprehensive Plan as the
long-range land use plan. This plan is attached hereto and by this reference is
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
   (B)   The Sublimity Comprehensive Plan shall be kept on file in the office
of the City Recorder and be made available for public review.
(Ord. 216, passed 4-9-1979; Ord. 316, passed 3-14-1988; Ord. 382, passed 11-13-
1995; Ord. 384, passed 4-8-1996; Ord. 387, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 713, passed
6-14-2010;Ord. 762, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 153.02 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MAP AND ZONE MAP; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The city does hereby adopt the Sublimity Comprehensive Plan Map and
Zone Map as the official comprehensive plan and zoning map of the city. This
plan is attached hereto and by this reference is incorporated herein as if set
out in full.
   (B)   The Sublimity Comprehensive Plan Map and Zone Map shall be kept on
file in the office of the City Recorder and be made available for public
review.
(Ord. 250, passed 2-8-1982; Ord. 600, passed 11-8-2004; Ord. 583, passed 4-10-
2006; Ord. 750, passed 3-8-2021; Ord. 751, passed 3-8-2021)
CHAPTER 154: DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
   
154.01   Development Code; adopted by reference
§ 154.01 DEVELOPMENT CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s Development Code, as set forth in Exhibit “A” attached to the
ordinance codified herein and incorporated fully by reference, is hereby
adopted. The Development Code may be amended from time to time by the Council.
The Development Code is available at:
https://www.cityofsublimity.org/sites/default/files/fileattachments/planning/
building/page/2565/development_code._current_2020_version.pdf
(Ord. 382, passed 11-13-1995; Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 582, passed 4-10-2006;
Ord. 737, passed 1-8-2018; Ord. 739, passed 7-9-2018; Ord. 741, passed 1-13-
2020; Ord. 743, passed 10-12-2020; Ord. 764, passed 2-13-2023)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oregon Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OREGON REVISED STATUTES
O.R.S Section Code Section
O.R.S Section           Code Section
34.010 to 34.100        150.03
87.392                  35.01
92.180 to 92.190        150.03
Chapter 153             70.02
164.245                 30.18,
                        30.99
183.450                 73.03
Chapter 197             33.01,
                        33.10
Chapter 223             37.10,
                        37.11
223.208                 37.11
223.297 to 223.314      37.15
227.010 to 227.170      31.11
227.175                 31.11
227.180                 31.11
243.105(1)              32.02
243.125 (4)             32.02
243.221                 32.02
243.275                 32.02
243.291                 32.02
243.303                 32.02
243.565                 32.02
Chapter 244             31.13
271.140                 150.03
271.150                 150.03
279.835 through 279.850 32.08
                        31.27,
                        32.01,
Chapter 279A            32.02,
                        32.06,
                        32.08
279A.025                32.02
279A.060                31.25
                        32.03,
279A.065                32.04,
                        32.06
279A.070                32.03
                        31.27,
                        32.01,
Chapter 279B            32.02,
                        32.06,
                        32.08
279B.130                32.06
                        31.27,
                        32.01,
Chapter 279C            32.02,
                        32.06,
                        32.08
279C.440                32.06
279C.600                32.11
279C.800 to 279C.870    32.02
368.366                 150.03
414.115                 32.08
414.125                 32.08
414.135                 32.08
414.145                 32.08
419B.550 to 419B.558    131.01
433.835 et seq.         92.17
446.345                 72.02
448.990                 52.99
Chapter 459             91.01
475.035                 132.21
475.752 to 475.980      132.21,
                        132.22
475A.290                132.26
475A.305                132.26
475C.770 et seq.        132.25
571.300                 132.21
Chapter 743             70.02
Chapter 801             70.02
801.110                 70.04
801.305                 70.04
801.450                 70.04
801.545                 36.04
811.600 to 811.637      72.08
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
109A     2-12-1962   131.01,
                     131.99
216      4-9-1979    153.01
250      2-8-1982    153.02
302      6-29-1987   152.01—
                     152.07
                     132.01—
306      9-14-1987   132.05,
                     132.99
                     113.01—
308      9-14-1987   113.03,
                     113.99
315      12-14-1987  151.095—
                     151.114
316      3-14-1988   153.01
314      4-11-1988   112.01—
                     112.10
318      9-12-1988   150.03
319      9-12-1988   151.075—
                     151.083
Charter  8-9-1990    Charter
328      9-10-1990   34.01—
                     34.08
                     30.15—
330      9-10-1990   30.19,
                     30.99
                     70.01—
                     70.09,
                     70.20,
                     70.99,
                     71.01—
                     71.08,
338      10-14-1991  72.01—
                     72.08,
                     72.20—
                     72.23,
                     73.01—
                     73.12,
                     74.01—
                     74.07
340      11-11-1991  31.25,
                     31.26
341      11-11-1991  150.02
                     37.01—
344      3-9-1992    37.16,
                     37.99
345      3-9-1992    31.27
346      4-13-1992   52.01—
                     52.07
                     151.055—
350      4-13-1992   151.061,
                     151.999
351      4-13-1992   151.015—
                     151.044
                     151.001—
352      6-8-1992    151.003,
                     151.999
354      6-22-1992   30.02
358      11-9-1992   30.01
                     35.15—
378      10-10-1994  35.31,
                     35.99
382      11-13-1995  153.01,
                     154.01
384      4-8-1996    153.01
385      5-13-1996   130.01
-        - -1997     154.01
387      5-12-1997   153.01
345A     5-8-2000    31.27
600      11-8-2004   153.02
601      12-13-2004  33.01—
                     33.11
610      2-28-2005   32.01—
                     32.13
582      4-10-2006   154.01
583      4-10-2006   153.02
703      9-10-2007   92.01
705      5-12-2008   150.01
706      6-9-2008    31.01—
                     31.13
                     91.01—
                     91.23,
709      3-9-2009    91.35—
                     91.44,
                     91.99
713      6-14-2010   153.01
717      9-12-2011   132.20—
                     132.25
                     90.01—
                     90.16,
718      10-8-2012   90.30—
                     90.35,
                     90.99
610A     3-9-2015    32.08
725      12-14-2015  115.01—
                     115.03
                     110.01—
726      12-14-2015  110.12,
                     110.14,
                     110.99
728      5-9-2016    35.01
737      1-8-2018    154.01
739      7-9-2018    154.01
741      1-13-2020   154.01
742      8-10-2020   50.01
743      10-12-2020  154.01
                     114.01—
744      12-14-2020  114.04,
                     114.99
745      12-14-2020  93.01—
                     93.09
                     111.01—
746      12-14-2020  111.08,
                     111.99
                     92.15—
749      12-14-2020  92.19,
                     92.99
750      3-8-2021    153.02
751      3-8-2021    153.02
758      1-10-2022   36.01—
                     36.10
759      6-13-2022   51.01
760      7-12-2022   132.26
762      11-14-2022  153.01
764      2-13-2023   154.01
765      3-13-2023   Adopting Ordinance
                     110.02,
767      10-9-2023   110.13,
                     110.14
                     37.01—
768      11-13-2023  37.16,
                     37.99
                    
 
