TILLAMOOK, OREGON
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 050525B, passed 5-19-2025
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 020623
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF TILLAMOOK, OREGON,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of
Tillamook are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form
for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety, and general
welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the City of Tillamook is authorized to revise, amend, restate,
codify, and compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not
heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one
ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the City of Tillamook has authorized a general compilation,
revision, and codification of the ordinances of the City of Tillamook of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form;
and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take
effect.
   NOW THEREFORE THE CITY OF TILLAMOOK ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City of Tillamook as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form, attached hereto, and
incorporated herein, are hereby adopted as and shall constitute the "Code of
Ordinances of the City of Tillamook."
   Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted consist of the following
Titles:
                  Title I: General Provisions
                  Title III: Administration
                  Title V: Public Works
                  Title VII: Traffic Code
                  Title IX: General Regulations
                  Title XI: Business Regulations
                  Title XIII: General Offenses
                  Title XV: Land Usage
   Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code. The provisions
of this Code that are the same in substance as code or ordinance provisions
that are in effect immediately before this Code becomes effective are construed
as restatements and continuations of the prior provisions.
   Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council of the City of Tillamook. The City
Recorder is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the City Recorder. Any reference in matters of
record to any ordinance existing prior to the adoption of this Code shall be
construed to apply to the corresponding Code provisions in effect at the time
of codification. Copies of this Code that have been duly certified by the City
Recorder shall be received without further proof as prima facie evidence of the
provisions of such Code in all courts and administrative tribunals of this
state. The City Recorder is hereby authorized to work with the City's code
publisher to index, reformat and republish this Code of Ordinances and to make
and publish future editorial amendments, technical corrections, reformats and
supplements that do not affect the substantive meaning of this Code for the
City.
   Section 5.   Pursuant to City Charter Section 28, this ordinance and the
adoption of the Code of Ordinances shall take effect on the thirtieth (30th)
day after its adoption by the council.
PASSED FIRST READING by the City Council on 3/6/2023
PASSED SECOND READING by the City Council on 3/20/2023
ADOPTED by the City Council on 3/20/2023
APPROVED by the Mayor on 3/20/2023
                                           /s/ Aaron Burris
                                          Aaron Burris, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Nathan George
Nathan George, City Manager/Recorder
CHARTER OF TILLAMOOK, OREGON
PREAMBLE
We, the people of the City of Tillamook, Oregon, in order to avail ourselves of
self-determination in municipal affairs to the fullest extent now or hereafter
possible under the constitution and laws of the United States and the State of
Oregon, through this charter confer upon the city the following powers, subject
it to the following restrictions, prescribe for it the following procedures and
governmental structure and repeal all previous charter provisions of the city.
Chapter 1
NAMES AND BOUNDARIES
Section 1. Title of Charter.
   This charter may be referred to as the 1999 City of Tillamook Charter.
Section 2. Name of the City.
   The City of Tillamook, Oregon, continues under this charter to be a
municipal corporation with the name City of Tillamook.
Section 3. Boundaries.
   The city includes all territory within its boundaries and all land currently
owned by the City of Tillamook as they now exist or hereafter are modified
pursuant to state law. The custodian of the city’s records shall keep an
accurate, current description of the boundaries and make a copy of it available
for public inspection in the city during regular city office hours.
Chapter 2
FORM OF GOVERNMENT
Section 4. Council.
   The council consists of six councilors elected from the city by wards.
Section 5. Councilors.
   The term of office of a councilor in office when this charter is adopted is
the term of office for which the councilor has been elected before adoption of
the charter or is elected at the time of the adoption. At each general election
after the adoption, three councilors shall be elected, each for a four year
term.
Section 6. Mayor.
   The term of office of the mayor in office when this charter is adopted
continues until that term expires. A mayor shall be elected for a four year
term at a general election.
Section 7. Terms of Office.
   The term of office of an elective officer who is elected at a general
election begins at the first council meeting in January of the year immediately
after the election and continues until the successor to the office assumes the
office.
Section 8. Appointive Offices.
   A majority of the council may:
      (1)   Create, abolish, and combine appointive city offices, and
      (2)   Except as the majority prescribes otherwise, fill such offices by
appointment and vacate them by removal.
Section 9. Qualifications of Elective and Appointive Officers.
      (a)   An elective city officer shall be a qualified elector under the
State of Oregon constitution and shall have resided in the city during the 12
months immediately before being elected or appointed to the office. In this
subsection “city” means area inside the city limits at the time of the election
or appointment.
      (b)   No person may be a candidate at a single election for more than one
elective city office.
      (c)   An elective officer shall not be an employee of the city. However,
an elective officer may serve in a volunteer capacity with the city subject to
council approval.
      (d)   The council is the final judge of the election and qualifications
of its members.
      (e)   The qualifications of appointive officers of the city are whatever
the council prescribes or authorizes.
Section 10. Compensation.
   The council shall prescribe the compensation of city personnel. The council
shall prescribe a plan for reimbursing city personnel, the mayor and council
members for expenses that they incur in serving the city.
Section 11. Oath.
   Before assuming city office, an officer shall take an oath or shall affirm
that he or she will faithfully perform the duties of the office and support the
constitution and laws of the United States and of the state of Oregon.
Section 12. Elections.
      a)   State Law - Except as this charter or a city ordinance prescribes to
the contrary, a city election shall conform to state law applicable to the
election.
      b)   Nominations - A person may be nominated in a manner as provided by
city ordinance to run for an elective office of the city.
      c)   In the event of a tie vote for candidates for a city office, the
successful candidate shall be determined by a public drawing of lots in a
manner prescribed by the council.
Chapter 3
POWERS
Section 13. Powers of the City.
   The city has all powers that the constitutions, statutes, and common law of
the United States and of this state now or hereafter expressly or implied grant
or allow the city, as fully as though this charter specifically enumerated each
of those powers.
Section 14. Construction of Powers.
   In this charter, no specification of a power is exclusive or restricts
authority that the city would have if the power were not specified. The charter
shall be liberally construed, so that the city may exercise fully all its
powers possible under this charter and under the United States and Oregon law.
The City Council shall be the primary interpreter of this charter. All powers
are continuing unless a specific grant of power clearly indicates the contrary.
The City Council shall enact such laws as are necessary or convenient to
fulfill the provisions and intentions of this charter.
Chapter 4
COUNCIL - POWERS AND DUTIES
Section 15. Distribution of Power.
   Except as this charter prescribes otherwise and as the Oregon Constitution
reserves municipal legislative power to the voters of the city, all powers of
the city are vested in the council. The council shall, by ordinance, prescribe
rules to govern its meetings and proceedings.
Section 16. Regular Meetings.
   The council shall meet twice a month in a manner prescribed by ordinance.
Section 17. Special Meetings.
      a)   The Mayor may, or at written request of three members of the
council, shall, by giving written notice thereof to all members of the council
then in the city, call a special meeting of the council for a time not earlier
than 24 hours after notice is given but prior to the next regular council
meeting.
      b)    An emergency meeting may be called on less than 24 hours notice by
the Mayor or at the written request of three members of the council.
      c)   No other business shall be transacted at any special or emergency
meeting other than that for which it was called. All proceedings of the special
or emergency meeting must be reviewed at the next regular council meeting.
Section 18. Quorum.
   A majority of the council, excluding the Mayor, constitutes a quorum for its
business, but at least three members of the council may meet and compel
attendance of absent councilors as prescribed by council rules.
Section 19. Mayor’s Functions at Council Meetings.
      (1)   When present at council meetings the mayor shall:
         a)   Preside over deliberations of the council,
         b)   Preserve order,
         c)   Enforce council rules, and
         d)   Determine the order of business under the rules.
      (2)   The Mayor may delegate the functions described in subsection (1) to
the Council President or, if the Council President is absent, to another
council member. This delegation shall be for not more than two meetings, unless
otherwise specified and with the council’s consent.
      (3)   The Mayor shall have a vote only in case of a tie-vote.
Section 20. Council President.
      (1)   At its first meeting of each year, the council shall elect a
president from its councilors by a majority of the votes cast.
      (2)   The President shall function as Mayor when the Mayor is:
         a)   Absent from a council meeting,
         b)   Unable to function as Mayor.
      (3)   If the council president acts as Mayor or presides over a meeting,
the council president shall retain a vote as councilor.
Section 21. Vote Required.
   Except as this charter otherwise provides, the express concurrence of a
majority of the council members present and constituting a quorum is necessary
to decide affirmatively a question before the council.
Section 22. Vacancies: Occurrence.
   The office of a member of the council becomes vacant:
      (1)   Upon the incumbent’s:
         a)   Death,
         b)   Adjudicated incompetence, or
         c)   Recall from the office, or
      (2)   Upon declaration by the council of the vacancy in case of
incumbent’s:
         a)   Failure to assume the duties of the office following election or
appointment to the office within ten days after the time for his or her term of
office to begin,
         b)   Absence from the city for 30 days without the council’s consent
or from all meetings of the council within a 90 day period, or failure to
attend two consecutive regular meetings of the council without council consent,
         c)   Failure to reside within the appropriate ward in the city,
         d)   Ceasing to be a qualified elector under state law,
         e)   Conviction of a public offense punishable by loss of liberty, or
         f)   Resignation of the office.
Section 23. Vacancies: Filling.
   A vacancy in the council shall be filled by appointment by a majority of the
council. The appointee’s term shall run until the next available state biennial
general election and at that election the office shall be filled for the
remainder of the four year term. During a council member’s disability to serve
on the council or during a member’s absence from the city, a majority of the
other council members may, by appointment, fill the vacancy temporarily until
the elected official is able to resume the duties or the end of the term of
office of the council member, whichever occurs first.
Chapter 5
POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS
Section 24. Mayor.
   The Mayor:
      (1)   Shall appoint and remove with the consent of the majority of the
council, members of committees established by council rules.
      (2)   Shall sign all approved records of proceedings of the council and
shall endorse all bonds of city officers and all bonds of licenses, contracts
and proposals.
      (3)   No ordinance passed by the council shall go into effect, as
provided for in Chapter 6, Section 30 of this Charter, until approved by the
Mayor.
      (4)   If the Mayor does not approve an ordinance passed by the council,
then the Mayor must return the ordinance within ten (10) calendar days of its
passage to the City Recorder with written reasons for not approving it. If the
mayor does not return the ordinance with written reasons for not approving it
within the time specified in this subsection, then the ordinance shall go into
effect as if the Mayor had approved it based on the provisions of Chapter 6,
Section 30 of this Charter.
      (5)   At the first regular council meeting after the return of an
ordinance not approved by the mayor, the City Recorder shall deliver the
ordinance to the council with the mayor’s written reasons for not approving it.
Those written reasons must be read at that council meeting. The ordinance may
then again be passed by the council provided that at least five (5) council
members are present to deliberate on the ordinance. If four (4) of the members
of the council vote to approve the ordinance, the ordinance shall go into
effect without the Mayor’s approval based on the provisions of Chapter 6,
Section 30 of this Charter.
Section 25.   Other city officers shall include but not be limited to: City
Manager, City Recorder and Municipal Judge.
   The offices of City Manager, City Recorder and Municipal Judge shall be
filled by appointment and such officers may be removed at any time by a
majority vote of the members of the council.
City Manager shall:
(a)   Carry out the policy decisions of the Council and serve as the
administrative head of the city government;
(b)   Manage the daily business of the city;
(c)   Appoint, discipline and remove personnel, except appointees of the Mayor
and or Council;
(d)   Attend all council meetings unless excused by the Council or Mayor;
(e)   Keep the Council advised of the affairs and needs of the city;
(f)   See that the provisions of all ordinances are administered to the
satisfaction of the Council;
(g)   See that all terms of franchises, leases, contracts, permits, and
privileges granted by the city are fulfilled;
(h)   Supervise and control the manager’s appointees in their service to the
city;
(i)   Organize and reorganize the departmental structure of city government;
(j)   Prepare and transmit to the Council an annual city budget;
(k)   Supervise city contracts;
(l)   Supervise operation of all city-owned public utilities and property;
(m)   Perform other duties as the Council prescribes consistently with this
charter.
City Recorder shall:
(a)   Work in cooperation with the City Manager and under the general direction
of the City Council;
(b)   Administer, plan and direct the accounting, payroll, and financial
management functions of the City;
(c)   Maintain official City Records and perform other duties as the council
prescribes.
Municipal Court and Judge.
Municipal Court shall be held within the City at such place and times specified
by the Court.
(1)   All area within the City and, to the extent provided by law, area outside
the City is within the territorial jurisdiction of the court.
(2)   The Municipal Court has original jurisdiction over every offense that an
Ordinance of the City makes punishable.
(3)   The Municipal Judge shall have such authority and perform such duties as
otherwise provided by local and other law.
(4)   The Council may authorize the Municipal Judge to appoint the Municipal
Judge Pro Tem for terms of office set by the judge or the Council.
(5)   Notwithstanding this section, the Council may transfer some or all of the
functions of the Municipal Court to an appropriate State Court.
Chapter 6
ORDINANCES
Section 26. Ordaining Clauses.
   The ordaining clause of an ordinance shall be “The City of Tillamook ordains
as follows:”
Section 27. Ordinance adoption by the City Council.
      (1)   An ordinance, except an emergency ordinance, shall be read by title
only at two separate regular council meetings before being adopted by the
council. However, an ordinance shall be read in whole or any part upon request
of any council member.
      (2)   An emergency ordinance necessary for the immediate preservation of
the peace, health and safety of the city and its citizens shall be read fully
and distinctly once and then by title only at a regular or special council
meeting before being adopted by the council. A separate section in the
ordinance shall state the reasons why the ordinance should become immediately
effective. Emergency ordinances shall require four (4) affirmative votes of all
members of the city council.
      (3)   The following shall apply at least one week before the reading of
any non emergency ordinance:
         (a)   A copy of the ordinance will be provided to each council member,
      One copy of the ordinance will be available for public inspection in the
office of the City Recorder, and
         (b)   Notice of its availability will be given by written notice
posted at city hall and two other public places in the city.
      (3)   An ordinance read by title only has no legal effect if it differs
substantially from its terms as it was filed prior to the reading unless each
section so differing is read fully and distinctly in open council meeting
before the council adopts the ordinance.
      (4)   After adoption of an ordinance, the City Recorder and the Mayor
shall endorse it with its date of adoption and the City Recorder and Mayor’s
name and title.
Section 28. When Ordinances Take Effect.
   A non-emergency ordinance takes effect on the thirtieth (30th) day after its
adoption by the council or on a later day the ordinance prescribes. An
ordinance adopted to meet an emergency shall take effect as soon as adopted.
Chapter 7
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
Section 29. Public Works and Improvements.
      (1)   The City Council of the City of Tillamook is now and in the future
authorized to acquire, construct, equip, operate and maintain within and
without the city limits of Tillamook such public works systems as it deems
necessary for the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City of
Tillamook. Public works shall include, but not be limited to such streets,
storm drainage, parks, water and sewerage systems necessary, useful or
convenient for urban development. Public works shall not include any utilities
the city has franchised out. The city shall be the sole and exclusive purveyor
of water and sewer service within the city limits, unless otherwise approved by
the City Council.
      (2)   The revenues derived from each specific public works system shall
be applied directly back to cover the costs associated with the maintenance,
repairs, operations, management, expansion, renovation, payment of debt service
and general betterment of that specific system from which those revenues were
derived.
Section 30. Improvements.
   The procedure for making, altering, vacating or abandoning a public
improvement shall be governed by general ordinance, or, to the extent not so
governed, by applicable state laws. A remonstrance by the owners of two-thirds
of the property to be specially assessed for a proposed public improvement
shall suspend action regarding the improvement for no more than six months. For
the purpose of this section “owner” shall mean the record holder of legal title
to the land according to a recorded land sale contract or according to a
verified writing by the record holder of legal title to the land filed with the
custodian of city records, the said purchaser shall be deemed the “owner”.
Section 31. Special Assessment.
   The procedure for levying, contracting and enforcing the payment of special
assessments for public improvements or other services to be charged against
real property shall be governed by general ordinance.
Chapter 8
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section 32. Existing Ordinances Continue.
   All ordinances of the city consistent with this charter and in force when it
takes effect shall remain in effect until amended or repealed.
Section 33. Repeal of Previously Enacted Provisions.
   All charter provisions adopted before this charter takes effect are hereby
repealed.
Section 34. Time of Effect of Charter.
   This charter shall take effect thirty days after the election date at which
it was approved by the voters of the City of Tillamook.
Section 35. Debt.
   The city’s indebtedness may not exceed debt limits imposed by state law. A
city officer or employee who creates or officially approves indebtedness in
excess of this limitation is jointly and severally liable for the excess. A
charter amendment is not required to authorize city indebtedness.
Section 36. Severability.
   The terms of this charter are severable. If a part of the charter is held
invalid, the invalidity does not affect another part of the charter, except as
the logical relation between the two parts requires.
Approved by City of Tillamook voters at a special election on May 18, 1999.
Amended January 4, 1999. This Charter took effect on June 18, 1999.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Additional procedures for the jurisdiction and enforcement of city
ordinance offenses
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Tillamook shall be
designated as the “Code of the City of Tillamook” and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Tillamook,
Oregon.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Tillamook County, Oregon.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oregon.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, that
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of that chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
         (Ord. 161, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 170, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 180,
passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 185, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
         (O.R.S. 192.410)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a statutory reference following
the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This city shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see O.R.S. 192.420
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior compilation of
ordinances of the city, the prior compilation section number shall be indicated
in the history by “(Prior Code, §       ).”
(Prior Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.19 ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES FOR THE JURISDICTION AND ENFORCEMENT OF CITY
ORDINANCE OFFENSES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this procedural provision is to:
      (1)   Provide rules and procedures necessary for the enforcement of city
ordinances;
      (2)   Supplement existing jurisdictional law and to supplement Oregon
Revised Statutes (“O.R.S.”) Chapter 153 by being “other specifically provided
law” for the issuance of a summons and complaint of any alleged city ordinance
offense whether or not prosecuted as a violation; and
      (3)   Make clear the bases for obtaining jurisdiction over persons and
property for offenses committed within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Rules. Oregon Civil Rules of Procedure (ORCP) Nos. 4 (Personal
Jurisdiction), 5 (In rem Jurisdiction), 6 (Jurisdiction without Service), 7
(Summons) and 8 (Process) are incorporated here, are adopted by reference and
are made a part of this section. Where “state” is referenced within those
rules, then “City of Tillamook” shall be included within the definition of
“state” or shall replace “state” as may be required to fulfill the purposes of
the law or laws. Each ORCP rule above shall apply to the enforcement of city
ordinances in addition to rules for the enforcement of violations within O.R.S.
Chapter 153 and any other law. Where any conflict exists, then this section
shall control. However, this section shall as far as possible be interpreted
broadly to complement, rather than conflict with, other law.
   (C)   Persons authorized to issue and serve citation, summons and
complaints. Peace officers are authorized to issue citations for ordinance
violations provided the citation is subscribed in a manner provided by law. The
City Attorney or other authorized public official may issue a summons and
complaint provided the citation is subscribed in a manner provided by law.
OTHER AUTHORIZED PUBLIC OFFICIAL shall include a land use or code enforcement
officer. A citizen may sign a citation in a manner provided by law, which
manner shall include a signature under an acknowledgment of penalty for any
false swearing or perjury. Peace officers shall cause the service of any
citation, summons and complaint, or any other process authorized by this
section in a manner consistent with the law, including division (B) above. This
service shall include, but is not limited to, service by another police
department as agent for the City Police Department.
   (D)   City Attorney. The City Attorney shall act as legal counsel for the
city in any enforcement proceeding conducted pursuant to this section. The City
Attorney may prosecute a violator of any city ordinance in the name of the
city.
   (E)   Resolution reaffirmation. The provisions of division (B) above may be
reaffirmed by resolution annually or any other time as the Council may decide.
(Prior Code, § 10.19) (Ord. 1207, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Application of state penalties. It is hereby declared to be the policy
of this city that, for acts, conduct or offenses proscribed by the city, the
fines and penalties under all existing ordinances and the fines and penalties
under all ordinances which may be enacted in the future shall be no greater
than the fines and penalties imposed under state law for any act, conduct or
offense proscribed by state law which is of a like or similar nature to the
offense proscribed by the city.
   (B)   Limitation on present penalty provisions. The maximum fine and penalty
which may be assessed against any person for the commission of any offense
proscribed by any ordinance in effect in the city shall be no greater than the
maximum fine and penalty provided by the statutes of this state which provide
for a fine and penalty for an act, conduct or offense proscribed by the state,
which act, conduct or offense is identical or similar to the act, conduct or
offense proscribed by any city ordinance.
   (C)   Limitation on future penalty provisions. The maximum fine and penalty
which may be assessed against any person for the commission of any offense
proscribed by any future ordinance enacted by the city shall be no greater than
the maximum fine and penalty provided by the statutes of the state which may be
enacted in the future and which provide for a fine and penalty for an act,
conduct or offense proscribed by the state; which act, conduct or offense is
identical or similar to the act, conduct or offense proscribed by any future
city ordinance.
   (D)   Continuation of ordinance provisions. The fines and penalties provided
in ordinances of the city for acts, conduct or offenses which are not the
subject of proscription by state law shall continue to remain in full force and
effect and shall continue to have the fines and penalties provided for in those
respective ordinances.
   (E)   Penalties set by resolution. Unless otherwise proscribed by state law
or ordinance, all penalties, fees and fines shall be set by a resolution of the
City Council.
   (F)   Penalties not set. Penalties not set by resolution shall be $250 per
violation.
(Prior Code, § 10.99) (Ord. 842, passed 11-3-1975; Ord. 1301, passed 4-20-2015;
Ord. 1315, passed 6-6-2016)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Ward boundaries
§ 11.01 WARD BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The ward boundaries ordinance, as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are available through city
offices.
   (B)   This code is hereby amended to include the revised ward boundaries, as
detailed in Exhibit A attached to the ordinance adopted herein. An updated
ward/precinct map, showing the city’s exterior jurisdictional boundary and
interior ward boundaries is attached to the ordinance, and incorporated by
reference to the code, as shown in Exhibit B.
   (C)   The boundaries of each ward, as established by this section, shall not
affect the tenure of any City Council member who is in office on the effective
date of the ordinance adopted herein by reference.
(Ord. 1340, passed 12-4-2018)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
31.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
      
32.   ELECTION PROCEDURES
      
33.   CITY POLICIES
      
34.   FINANCES; TAXES AND FEES
      
35.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
      
36.   CITY COUNCIL, GOVERNMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 30: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
30.01   Bond of Recorder-Treasurer
   
30.02   City Recorder; maintenance of ordinance book
   
30.03   Bank signature authority
§ 30.01 BOND OF RECORDER-TREASURER.
   (A)   Recorder’s bond. Before assuming the duties of his or her office, the
Recorder-Treasurer shall execute and deliver to the Mayor a bond in a penal sum
of not less than $25,000 and any additional amounts as the Council may find
necessary. The bond shall be conditioned upon the Recorder-Treasurer faithfully
performing the duties of his or her office and truthfully accounting for all
money and other valuable property coming into his or her possession by virtue
of his or her office.
   (B)   Sureties. Any bond required by this section shall be executed by two
or more sureties, who shall be freeholders and residents of the city, having
the qualifications of bail upon arrest. In lieu of these sureties, any bond
required by this section may be executed by an indemnity insurance or surety
company organized or licensed to transact business in this state.
   (C)   Approval; premiums. Each bond required by this section shall be
subject to the approval of the Mayor acting by and with the advice and consent
of the Council; and if the bonds are executed by a surety company, the premiums
thereon shall be paid by the city in the same manner as other claims against
the city are paid.
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Ord. 719, passed 8-3-1959)
§ 30.02 CITY RECORDER; MAINTENANCE OF ORDINANCE BOOK.
   (A)   Ordinance numbering and retention. The City Recorder shall number each
ordinance passed by the City Council in order of its passage and file it in his
or her office in the same order. No original ordinance shall be permitted to be
taken from the office of the City Recorder.
   (B)   Signature and seal. The City Recorder shall record in numerical order
in a permanent record book a copy of every ordinance passed by the City
Council. The copy shall contain a statement signed by the City Recorder over
the seal of the city to the effect that the same was recorded by the City
Recorder and is a full, true and correct copy of the original ordinance, and of
the whole thereof. This record shall be prima facie evidence of the passage of
the ordinance in all legal proceedings and in every other case.
   (C)   Compilation revision. In addition, it shall be the duty of the City
Recorder, as ordinances or charter provisions may hereafter be passed and
repealed, to revise the cumulative compilation of ordinances known as “A
Compilation of the Ordinances of Tillamook City” in the manner best adapted to
the maintenance of the efficiency of the cumulative compilation and in
accordance with the suggested methods for revision contained in the
introduction to the compilation.
(Prior Code, § 31.02) (Ord. 567, passed 6-2-1941)
§ 30.03 BANK SIGNATURE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Authorized signers on existing city accounts with Columbia Bank, which
is now 1st Security Bank of Washington, and TLC, a Division of Fibre Federal
Credit Union, will be those officials designated in Resolution R110623, or in
its most recent successor legislation if applicable.
   (B)   Signature authority and account information access to the LGIP (Local
Government Investment Pool) account is delegated to the City Manager and the
City Finance Director.
   (C)   To maintain internal controls, checks require two signatures – one
from the City Finance Officer (Director), and one from another authorized
signer.
(Res. R110623, passed 11-6-2023)
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
Boards and Commissions
   
31.01   City Planning Commission; bylaws
   
31.02   Contract Review Board
   
31.03   Urban Renewal Agency
Police
   
31.15   Auxiliary reserve police force
   
31.16   Authorization to check criminal information records of State Law
Enforcement Data System
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 31.01 CITY PLANNING COMMISSION; BYLAWS.
   (A)   Bylaws of the City Planning Commission shall be adopted by resolution.
   (B)   The City Council hereby adopts the bylaws of the Planning Commission,
as detailed in Exhibit A attached to Resolution 1731. The City Recorder is
authorized to correct any cross-references and any typographical errors.
(Res. 1731, passed 7-6-2017; Ord. 1329, passed 7-7-2017; Res. R081522A, passed
8-15-2022)
§ 31.02 CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   Contract Review Board designated. The City Council is hereby
designated as the local Contract Review Board relative to contract concerns of
the city and shall have all the power granted to the State Public Contract
Review Board.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The local Contract Review Board as established in division (A)
above.
      PUBLIC CONTRACT. Any purchase, lease or sale by the City Council of
personal property, public improvements or services other than agreements which
are exclusively for personal service.
      PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any construction or improvements on real property by
or for the city or the City Council.
   (C)   Bids required. All public contracts defined as any purchase, lease or
sale by the City Council, public improvements or services other than agreements
for personal service shall be based upon competitive bids except those exempted
by the laws of this state or by Board rule.
   (D)   Rules adopted. The Local Contract Review Board, as established in this
section, shall adopt by resolution the rules pertaining to all contracting at
the local level; the rules may exempt from competitive bidding certain
contracts and shall set forth procedures for competitive bidding. Resolution
R100223 is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are
available through city offices.
(Prior Code, § 32.02) (Ord. 927, passed 10-18-1978; Res. 1814, passed 5-5-2020;
Res. R100223, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 31.03 URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY.
   (A)   Declaration of blight. Pursuant to O.R.S. 457.035, the City Council,
hereinafter referred to as “city”, hereby finds and declares that blighted
areas, as defined in O.R.S. 457.010, exist within the city based upon the
findings marked in Exhibit A attached to the ordinance establishing this
section and incorporated by reference as fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Need. The city declares and recognizes that there is a need for an
Urban Renewal Agency to function within the city.
   (C)   Powers and limitations. The city further declares, pursuant to O.R.S.
457.045(2), that all of the rights, powers, duties, privileges and immunities
granted to and vested in an Urban Renewal Agency by the laws of this state
shall be exercised by and vested in the Urban Renewal Agency of the city;
provided, however, that any fact of the governing body acting as the Urban
Renewal Agency shall be, and shall be considered, the act of the Urban Renewal
Agency only and not of the City Council.
   (D)   Agency title. The corporate name of the agency created by this section
shall be and the agency shall be known as the “City Urban Renewal Agency”.
   (E)   Membership. The City Urban Renewal Agency shall be comprised of seven
members, including two members of the City Council as it lawfully exists from
time to time; and five at-large positions as prescribed in the Agency’s bylaws.
   (F)   Effective date. This section shall take effect 30 days following its
adoption by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.03) (Ord. 1211, passed 7-17-2006)
POLICE
§ 31.15 AUXILIARY RESERVE POLICE FORCE.
   (A)   Auxiliary reserve police force; residence requirement. The Chief of
Police of the city is hereby authorized to organize an auxiliary reserve police
force for the city, which reserve police force to consist of not more than 15
in number, to serve without compensation and to be residents of the city or to
live within a distance of five miles of the city limits of this city.
   (B)   Selection and tenure. The Chief of Police of the city is hereby
authorized to provide and furnish forms for signature by applicants for
membership in the auxiliary reserve police force of the city, and the selection
for membership shall be made by the Chief of Police. Any member of the
auxiliary police reserve may be removed by the Chief of Police with or without
cause.
   (C)   Supervision; duties and powers. Any applicant selected for service in
the auxiliary reserve police force of the city shall take and subscribe to the
oath of office required of police officers of the city and shall be subject to
the directions and orders of the Chief of Police of the city and shall, during
that service, have the powers and duties of a regular police officer of the
city.
   (D)   Badges. Membership and authority as a member of the auxiliary police
reserve of the city shall be indicated by arm bands and/or appropriate insignia
and badges to be designated, selected and furnished by the Police Department of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 32.15) (Ord. 755, passed 2-19-1962)
§ 31.16 AUTHORIZATION TO CHECK CRIMINAL INFORMATION RECORDS OF STATE LAW
ENFORCEMENT DATA SYSTEM.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   In order to maintain the public’s trust and confidence, and to
safeguard the city’s general health, safety and welfare responsibilities,
including, without limitation, fiscal responsibilities protecting the public
funds and property, and in protecting confidential, privileged and/or
proprietary information, the city requires:
         (a)   Its employees, public officials, volunteers and contractors
performing or assisting a function of municipal government to be trustworthy,
ethical and competent in fulfilling their respective public duties; and
         (b)   Persons applying for, and maintaining, any commercial license
subject to the City Council’s prior approval.
      (2)   In order for the city to fulfill the purpose here and to make
informed decisions toward licensing recommendations or approvals, the city
requires a criminal information record check of each person applying for and/or
holding employment with the city, and/or a commercial license subject to the
City Council’s prior approval. Further, the city may require a criminal
information record check of any city volunteer or contractor as the city, in
its sole discretion, considers necessary or desirable in connection with the
functions to be performed.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   Specifics. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         LICENSE. Permission from a competent municipal or state government
authority to do an act which, without this permission, would be illegal, a
trespass or a tort. LICENSE includes, but is not limited to, commercial resale
business license, transient merchant license, taxi license and/or State Liquor
Control Commission licenses or renewals. A LICENSE here does not include a
registration with any government entity where the person’s action is legal
whether or not the person is registered, e.g., the city’s business registration
license.
      (2)   State law definitions. Except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning, the definitions contained in the Oregon Revised Statutes
(“state statutes”, abbreviated O.R.S.) and Oregon Administrative Rules
(abbreviated O.A.R.), as now or hereafter constituted, are adopted by reference
and made a part of this section. In any conflict of laws, the city’s
definitions and interpretation shall control. The City Council expressly
retains the exclusive authority to define and interpret the meaning and
application of the city’s ordinances, orders, rules, resolutions and/or other
city law, even those laws borrowed from any other jurisdiction and incorporated
as city law, e.g., state statutes.
   (C)   Procedure for criminal information record check.
      (1)   The city shall conduct requests for criminal information records
checks according to the procedure herein; O.R.S. Chapter 181A, specifically
including O.R.S. 181A.230 and 181A.240; and applicable Oregon Administrative
Rules, specifically including O.A.R. 257-010-0025 to 257-010-0050, all of which
establish procedures for access to Oregon State Police (OSP) criminal record
information through the Law Enforcement Data System (LEDS).
      (2)   Whenever possible or required, the city shall first obtain a
person’s consent before submitting a request for criminal information record
check through the City Police Department. Where a criminal information record
check is required and consent either is refused or cannot be obtained
reasonably, the city shall provide the person subject to this subchapter with
notice the criminal information record check may be made. Notice to the person
shall be made prior to the city’s request for the criminal information record
check.
      (3)   Notice shall advise the person of:
         (a)   The manner in which the person may be informed of the procedures
adopted under O.R.S. 181A.230(3) for challenging inaccurate criminal offender
information;
         (b)   Rights, if any, under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964;
         (c)   The notice shall also advise the person that discrimination by
an employer on the basis of arrest records alone may violate federal civil
rights law; and
         (d)   The individual may obtain further information by contacting the
State Bureau of Labor and Industries.
      (4)   A city official, e.g., a member of the City Police Department,
trained and authorized to perform criminal history checks through the LEDS
system shall conduct the city’s criminal information record checks. Report
results shall be provided to the appropriate city official responsible for
making a decision which includes such a check as a part of that decision. The
results shall first indicate either “no criminal record” or “criminal record”
exists. If a criminal record exists, then the city shall request a written
criminal history report from the City Police Department. This criminal history
report shall be made available to the appropriate city official responsible for
making a decision in consideration whether or not to grant or deny the
employment, license or other approval requested.
      (5)   The appropriate city official responsible for making a decision
shall also consider factors, such as, but not limited to, the number and types
of crimes or offenses, the age of the offense, subsequent rehabilitation and
public sensitivity relative to the nature of the position or decision under
consideration. Access to criminal information records reports shall be limited
to only authorized persons who have an official need as sanctioned bylaw or
regulation.
      (6)   Any contested case hearing required by the law of this subchapter
shall be before the municipal judge sitting as the city’s administrative law
judge or hearing officer. For purposes of this subchapter, where any state law
or rule referenced by this subchapter and where the context requires, any
reference to the state or state agency shall include the city, and any
department or subdivision thereof.
   (D)   City Recorder duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   The City Recorder shall be responsible for maintaining a record of:
         (a)   Signed consents from persons authorizing the city to conduct a
criminal information record check;
         (b)   Notices required under this subchapter to persons who do not
consent to a criminal information record check where that check is otherwise
required;
         (c)   Results of a criminal information record check on persons not
hired to city employ in accordance with the city general records retention
schedule;
         (d)   Results of a criminal information record check on persons hired
to city employ as part of the person’s confidential personnel file; and
         (e)   Results of a criminal information record check of any applicant
for any commercial license, contractor and/or volunteer.
      (2)   Further, the City Recorder shall destroy criminal information
records as soon as they are no longer required for the city’s purposes here and
according to the city’s general records retention schedule.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall take effect 30 days following the
date of its passage and adoption.
(Prior Code, § 32.16) (Ord. 1233, passed 6-16-2008; Ord. 1244, passed 12-21-
2009; Ord. 1265, passed 1-3-2012)
CHAPTER 32: ELECTION PROCEDURES
Section
Tax Levy Elections
   
32.01   Resolution for special election
   
32.02   Election procedure
   
32.03   Polling place
   
32.04   Voting; results of election
   
32.05   Ballot title; explanation
   
32.06   Statement of question on ballot
   
32.07   Form of tax measure submission; limitations
Compensation under O.R.S. Chapter 197
   
32.20   Review of demands for compensation under O.R.S. Chapter 197, adopted
 
   
32.99   Penalty
TAX LEVY ELECTIONS
§ 32.01 RESOLUTION FOR SPECIAL ELECTION.
   Whenever it is necessary in the estimation of the City Council to increase
the amount of the tax levy over the amount limited by the Constitution of this
state, except on vote of the people, the City Council shall make and enter a
resolution for a special election on a date certain on the question and shall
certify to the City Recorder that the increase, in its judgment, is necessary,
stating the amount of the increase. The resolution shall be made not more than
35 days nor less than 15 days prior to the date set for the special election in
the resolution and shall require the City Recorder to perform the acts set
forth in §
32.02.
(Prior Code, § 33.25) (Ord. 836, passed 5-19-1975)
§ 32.02 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   Upon the passage of the resolution referred to in §
32.01, the City Recorder shall:
   (A)   Give notice of the election by:
      (1)   Posting written notice of the election not less than 14 days prior
to the date of the election in three public places within the city: on the
bulletin board of the City Hall of this city; on the bulletin board inside the
northwest entrance to the County Courthouse; and any other public place as may
be determined by the City Recorder; and/or
      (2)   By publishing in two consecutive issues of a newspaper designated
by the City Council, the first publication to be not less than 14 days prior to
the date of the election and the last publication not less than seven days
before the date of the election.
   (B)   Appoint an Election Board consisting of a chairperson and not less
than two clerks;
   (C)   Appoint a Counting Board consisting of a chairperson and not less than
two clerks;
   (D)   Obtain from the County Clerk current poll books containing the names
of all voters qualified to vote at the election within the city; and
   (E)   Provide the printed ballots to be used at the special election in
conformity with the provisions of this subchapter, and to make all other
provisions and arrangements for the fair and efficient conduct of the election.
(Prior Code, § 33.26) (Ord. 836, passed 5-19-1975)
§ 32.03 POLLING PLACE.
   Unless a special election, called pursuant to resolution under this
subchapter, can be held at the same time a regular election is to be held
throughout the state, or a special election is held throughout the state or
county for any other purpose, the polling place for the special election called
pursuant to this subchapter shall be at the City Hall from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00
p.m.
(Prior Code, § 33.27) (Ord. 836, passed 5-19-1975)
§ 32.04 VOTING; RESULTS OF ELECTION.
   A special election called by the City Council as herein provided for shall
be held on the date set; and the votes cast upon the election shall be
received, counted, returned and canvassed by the Election Board and the
Counting Board, with the results thereof reported to the City Recorder, who
shall have custody of the ballots and ballot boxes following election and who
shall immediately report the results of the election to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 33.28) (Ord. 836, passed 5-19-1975)
§ 32.05 BALLOT TITLE; EXPLANATION.
   In submitting a question to the voters under this subchapter, the City
Council may submit an explanation of the question in not more than 150 words.
This explanation shall be printed on the ballot and shall be in addition to the
ballot title. The explanation shall be plainly worded and factual and shall
avoid as far as practicable the use of technical terms. The explanation shall
not advocate a “yes” or “no” vote on the question.
(Prior Code, § 33.29) (Ord. 836, passed 5-19-1975)
§ 32.06 STATEMENT OF QUESTION ON BALLOT.
   The question of increasing any tax levy when submitted to the vote of the
people as provided in this subchapter shall be stated on the ballot by
including in the question the statement of the reasons for increasing the tax
levy made by the tax levying body of the city. The votes of the people shall be
given upon the answers, “yes” and “no” in the usual manner of submitting
questions to the vote of the people.
(Prior Code, § 33.30) (Ord. 836, passed 5-19-1975)
§ 32.07 FORM OF TAX MEASURE SUBMISSION; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever a proposed tax levy, whether a continuing fixed levy,
continuing levy or levy for a single year, is submitted to a vote of the people
by the city, the measure submitted shall state the total amount of money to be
raised by the proposed levy in dollars and cents.
   (B)   Except as provided in divisions (C) and (D) below, in any election
requesting authorization to levy taxes over the amount limited by the
constitution except on vote of the people, if the total taxes which would be
levied if the voters approve the request will differ from the total taxes
levied in the prior year, the measure shall state the dollar amount by which
that portion of the operating budget to be financed wholly by the levy of
property taxes for the fiscal year beginning July 1 of the current calendar
year is increased or decreased over the dollar amount for the preceding year in
substantially the following form:
 
If this measure is approved, the operating budget to be financed by local taxes for the year
20     - 20     will be $           greater (or less) than the operating budget financed by
local taxes for the preceding year.
 
   (C)   Division (B) above has no application to budgets for serial levies or
for levies for bonds, nor shall these budgets be included in the computation of
the dollar amounts under division (B) above.
   (D)   If more than one measure to levy taxes over the amount limited by the
constitution except on a vote of the people referred to in division (B) above
is submitted to the voters in a manner that the voters may accept or reject one
or more of the measures, each measure shall show the dollar amount required by
division (B) above computed on the basis of the operating budget for the same
purpose for the preceding year.
   (E)   This section has no application to elections and levies with respect
to bonds for which provision is made in O.R.S. Chapter 287A or other laws.
   (F)   The statement required by this section shall be added to and made a
part of the 150-word explanation required by §
32.05, but the number of words contained in the statement required by this
section shall not be included in the 150-word limitation.
(Prior Code, § 33.31) (Ord. 836, passed 5-19-1975)
COMPENSATION UNDER O.R.S. CHAPTER 197
§ 32.20 REVIEW OF DEMANDS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER O.R.S. CHAPTER 197, ADOPTED.
   Ordinance 1197, which establishes a process and procedures for the city for
the “Review of Demands for Compensation under O.R.S. Chapter 197 as Amended by
Ballot Measure 37 Passed November 2, 2004”, and creating a private cause of
action, is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are
available through city offices.
(Prior Code, § 33.45) (Ord. 1197, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 33.99)
   (B)   Unless otherwise indicated, any offense under this chapter is
classified as a violation punishable by a fine set by resolution. Penalties not
set by resolution shall be $250 per violation.
(Ord. 1315, passed 6-6-2016)
CHAPTER 33: CITY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Mural and public art guidelines, adopted
   
33.02   Limited English Proficiency (LEP) Plan, adopted
   
33.03   Workers’ compensation coverage to volunteers
   
33.04   Display of national motto
Employer-Employee Relations
   
33.15   Title
   
33.16   Purpose
   
33.17   Definitions
   
33.18   Rights of city employees
   
33.19   Certification and recognition
   
33.20   Unfair labor practices
   
33.21   Processing unfair labor practices
   
33.22   Representation questions
   
33.23   Representation election
   
33.24   Collective bargaining procedures
   
33.25   Impasse procedures
   
33.26   Peaceful performance of city services
   
33.27   Costs
   
33.28   Severability; time schedule
Non-Discrimination Policy
   
33.40   City does not discriminate
   
33.41   City Manager to coordinate compliance
   
33.42   Grievance procedure in place for complaints
   
33.43   Adoption of grievance procedure
Public Contracting Rules
   
33.55   Rules adopted by resolution
   
33.56   [Reserved]
   
33.57   Purchasing authority and spending limits
Public Records Request Policy
   
33.70   Purpose and general information
   
33.71   Definitions
   
33.72   Procedures
   
33.73   Fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 MURAL AND PUBLIC ART GUIDELINES, ADOPTED.
   The Art Mural Guidelines for the city, as attached to Resolution 1678, are
hereby adopted for use and implementation by the city. Copies are available
through city offices.
(Res. 1678, passed 12-15-2014)
§ 33.02 LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENCY (LEP) PLAN, ADOPTED.
   The city’s Limited English Proficiency Plan is hereby adopted by reference
as if set out in full herein. Copies are available through city offices.
(Res. 1640, passed 9-3-2013; Res. 100322, passed 10-3-2022)
§ 33.03 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION COVERAGE TO VOLUNTEERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to O.R.S. 656.031, workers’ compensation coverage will be
provided to the classes of volunteers listed in this resolution, noted on CIS
payroll schedule and verified at audit:
      (1)   Public safety volunteers: applicable          non-applicable  x
      (2)   (a)   Volunteer boards, commissions and councils for the
performance of administrative duties: applicable          non-applicable  x
         (b)   An aggregate assumed annual wage of $2,500 will be used per each
volunteer board, commission or council for the performance of administrative
duties. The covered bodies are (list each body):
            1.   City Council;
            2.   City Planning Commission; and
            3.   Urban Renewal Agency Board.
      (3)   Manual labor by elected officials: applicable          non-
applicable  x  
      (4)   (a)   Non-public safety volunteers: applicable          non-
applicable  x
         (b)   All non-public safety volunteers listed below will track their
hours and the state minimum wage will serve as assumed wage for both premium
and benefits calculations. CIS will assign the appropriate classification code
according to the type of volunteer work being performed. (List specific non-
public safety volunteers below.)
            1.   Parks and recreation;
            2.   Public works - sewer, water, roads, building maintenance; and
            3.   Administrative/clerical work.
      (5)   (a)   Public events:          non-applicable  x  applicable
         (b)   Volunteers at the following public events will be covered under
workers’ compensation coverage using verified hourly the state minimum wage as
basis for premium and/or benefit calculation: (List specific events.)
            1.   City annual Christmas tree lighting;
            2.   Outdoor movie night sponsored by the city – three - four times
annually; and
            3.   City-sponsored spring and fall clean-up days.
      (6)   Community service volunteers/inmates:          non-applicable  x
applicable
         (a)   Pursuant to O.R.S. 656.041, workers’ compensation coverage will
be provided to community service volunteers commuting their sentences by
performing work authorized by the city.
         (b)   The state minimum wage tracked hourly will be used for both
premium and benefit calculations, verifiable by providing a copy of the roster
and/or sentencing agreement from the court.
      (7)   Volunteer exposures not addressed here will have workers’
compensation coverage if, prior to the onset of the work, provided that the
city:
         (a)   Provides at least two weeks’ advance written notice to CIS
underwriting requesting the coverage;
         (b)   CIS approves the coverage and date of coverage; and
         (c)   CIS provides written confirmation of coverage.
   (B)   The city agrees to maintain verifiable rosters for all volunteers
including volunteer name, date of service and hours of service and make them
available at the time of a claim or audit to verify coverage.
   (C)   Now, therefore, be it resolved by the city to provide workers’
compensation coverage as indicated above.
(Res. 1766, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 33.04 DISPLAY OF NATIONAL MOTTO.
   The City Council does hereby determine that the historic and patriotic words
of our national motto, “In God We Trust”, shall be permanently and prominently
displayed in the Council Chambers at City Hall.
(Res. R112023, passed 11-20-2023)
EMPLOYER-EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
§ 33.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “City Employer-Employee Relations
Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 34.01) (Ord. 849, passed 5-15-1976)
§ 33.16 PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds and declares the following.
   (A)   The people of the city have a fundamental interest in the development
of harmonious and cooperative relationships between the governing body and its
employees.
   (B)   Recognition by the city of the rights of the employees to organize and
full acceptance of the principle and procedure of collective negotiation
between the city and public employee organizations can alleviate various forms
of strife and unrest. Experience in the private and public sectors of our
economy has proved that unresolved disputes in the public service are injurious
to the public, the governmental agencies and the employees.
   (C)   Experience in private and public employment has also proved that
protection bylaw of the right of employees to organize and negotiate
collectively safeguards the employees and the public from injury, impairment
and interruptions of necessary services and removes certain recognized sources
of strife and unrest by encouraging practices fundamental to the peaceful
adjustment of disputes arising out of differences as to wages, hours, terms and
other working conditions, and by establishing greater equality of bargaining
power between public employers and public employees.
   (D)   It is recognized that the State Collective Bargaining Law found in
O.R.S. 243.650 et seq. adequately lays out the general rules and guidelines
which this subchapter will attempt to generally incorporate and follow, with
the exception of those areas that are determined to be of strictly local
concern for the city. Any deviations from the State Collective Bargaining Law
are made only after a determination that the matter in question is of local
concern.
   (E)   This subchapter and any agreement pursuant hereto shall not impair any
constitutional, common law, charter, statutory or traditional right of
responsibility of the city to act unilaterally:
      (1)   To determine the overall mission of the city as a unit of
government;
      (2)   To maintain and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of city
operations;
      (3)   To determine the services to be rendered, the operations to be
performed, the technology to be utilized or the programs to be budgeted;
      (4)   To determine the overall methods, processes, means and job
classifications of personnel by which city operations are to be conducted;
      (5)   To direct, supervise or hire employees;
      (6)   To promote, suspend, discipline, discharge for cause, transfer,
assign, schedule, retain or lay off employees;
      (7)   To relieve employees from duties because of lack of work or funds
or under conditions where the city determines continued work would be
unnecessary;
      (8)   To take whatever other actions may be necessary to carry out the
wishes of the public not otherwise specified herein or limited by a collective
bargaining agreement;
      (9)   To take actions to carry out the missions of the city as the
governmental unit in situations of emergency; and
      (10)   To sign a contract with any group of employees which provides for
grievance or arbitration proceedings to protect an employee from arbitrary
discipline, transfer or discharge.
   (F)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit the discretion
of the city to voluntarily confer with city employees in the process of
developing policies to effectuate or implement any of the above enumerated
rights.
(Prior Code, § 34.02) (Ord. 849, passed 5-15-1976)
§ 33.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROPRIATE BARGAINING UNIT. The unit designated by the Board to be
appropriate for the purpose of collective bargaining.
   BOARD. The state’s Employment Relations Board.
   CERTIFICATIONS. Official recognition by the Board or the City Council that a
labor organization is the exclusive representative for all of the employees in
the appropriate bargaining unit.
   CITY. The City of Tillamook.
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. The performance of the mutual obligation of the city
and the representative of its employees to meet at reasonable times and confer
in good faith with respect to employment relations or the negotiation of any
agreement or any question arising thereunder, and the execution of a written
contract incorporating any agreement reached and requested by either party.
However, this obligation does not compel either party to agree to a proposal or
require the making of a concession.
   CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE. One who assists and acts in a confidential capacity
to a person who formulates, determines and effectuates management policies in
the area of collective bargaining.
   EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS. Includes wages, hours and other conditions of
employment.
   EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE. The labor organization which, as a result of
certification by the Board or recognition by the employer, has the right to be
the collective bargaining agent to all employees in an appropriate bargaining
unit.
   FAIR-SHARE AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and the recognized or
certified bargaining representative of public employees, whereby employees who
are not members of the employee organization are required to make in-lieu-of-
dues payment to an employee organization. This agreement shall reflect the
opinion of the majority of the employees in the bargaining unit.
   LABOR DISPUTE. Any controversy concerning employment relations or concerning
the association or representation of persons in negotiating, fixing,
maintaining, changing or seeking to arrange terms or conditions of employment
relations, regardless of whether the disputants stand in the proximate
relationship of employer and employee.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION. Any organization which has as one of its purposes
representing employees in their employment relations with the city.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council of the city.
   MEDIATION. Assistance by an impartial third-party in reconciling a labor
dispute between the city and the exclusive representative regarding employment
relations.
   PAYMENT IN-LIEU-OF-DUES. An assessment of all employees in an appropriate
bargaining unit to defray the costs for services of the exclusive
representative in negotiations and contract administration as agreed to by the
parties. This amount shall not exceed normal dues.
   PUBLIC EMPLOYEE. An employee of the city but does not include elected
officials, persons appointed to serve on boards or commissions or persons who
are confidential employees or supervisory employees.
   SUPERVISORY EMPLOYEE. Any individual having authority in the interest of the
city to hire, transfer, suspend, lay off, recall, promote, discharge, assign,
reward or discipline other employees or having responsibility to direct them or
to adjust their grievances to effectively recommend this action if, in
connection therewith, the exercise of that authority is not of merely routine
or clerical nature but requires the use of independent judgment.
   UNFAIR LABOR PRACTICE. The commission of an act designated an unfair labor
practice in §
33.20.
(Prior Code, § 34.03) (Ord. 849, passed 5-15-1976; Ord. 938, passed 1-2-1979)
§ 33.18 RIGHTS OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
   City employees have the right to form, join and participate in the
activities of labor organizations of their own choosing for the purpose of
representation and collective bargaining with the city on matters concerning
employment relations.
(Prior Code, § 34.04) (Ord. 849, passed 5-15-1976)
§ 33.19 CERTIFICATION AND RECOGNITION.
   (A)   A labor organization certified by the State Employment Relations Board
or recognized by the city is the exclusive representative of the employees of
the city for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to employment
relations. Nevertheless, any agreements entered into involving union security
or fair-share agreement must safeguard the rights of non-association for
employees based on bona fide religious tenets or teachings of a church or a
religious body of which the employee is a member. The employee shall pay an
amount of money agreed upon through negotiations to a non-religious charity or
to another charitable organization mutually agreed upon by the employee
affected and the representative of the labor organization to which the employee
would otherwise be required to pay dues. The employee shall furnish written
proof to his or her employer that this has been done.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, an individual
employee or group of employees at any time may present grievances to his or her
employer and have the grievances adjusted without the intervention of the labor
organization, if:
      (1)   The adjustment is not inconsistent with the terms of a collective
bargaining contract or agreement then in effect; and
      (2)   The labor organization has been given opportunity to be present at
the adjustment.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prevents the city from recognizing a labor
organization which represents at least a majority of employees as an exclusive
representative of the employees of the city when the Board has not designated
the appropriate bargaining unit or when the Board has not certified an
exclusive representative in accordance with O.R.S. 243.686.
(Prior Code, § 34.05) (Ord. 849, passed 5-15-1976)
§ 33.20 UNFAIR LABOR PRACTICES.
   (A)   It is an unfair labor practice for the city or its designated
representative to do any of the following:
      (1)   Interfere with, restrain or coerce employees in or because of the
exercise of the rights guaranteed in §
33.18;
      (2)   Dominate, interfere with or assist in the formation, existence or
administration of any employee organization;
      (3)   Discriminate in regard to hiring, tenure or any terms or conditions
of employment for the purpose of encouraging or discouraging the membership in
an employee organization. Nothing in this section is intended to prohibit the
entering into of a fair-share agreement between the city and the exclusive
bargaining representative of its employees. If a fair-share agreement has been
agreed to by the city and exclusive representative, nothing shall prohibit the
deduction of the payment in-lieu-of-dues from the salaries or wages of the
employees;
      (4)   Discharge or otherwise discriminate against an employee because the
employee has signed or filed an affidavit, petition or complaint or has given
information or testimony under this subchapter;
      (5)   Refuse to bargain collectively in good faith with the exclusive
representative;
      (6)   Refuse or fail to comply with any provision of this subchapter;
      (7)   Refuse to reduce an agreement reached as a result of collective
bargaining to writing and sign the contract;
      (8)   Communicate, directly or indirectly, during the period of
negotiations with other than the designated bargaining representative regarding
issues subject to the current negotiations. This shall not be construed as to
prohibit the processing of grievances, the issuance of a public statement by
the fact-finding board or the issuance of press releases by the parties;
      (9)   To refuse to recognize the rights of the employees to organize and
to refuse to recognize the principle and procedure of collective negotiations
between the city and public employee organizations; and
      (10)   Violate the provisions of any written contract with respect to
employment relations, including an agreement to arbitrate or to accept the
terms of an arbitration award, where previously the parties have agreed to
accept the award as final and binding upon them.
   (B)   It is also an unfair labor practice for a public employee or for a
labor organization or its designated representative to do any of the following:
      (1)   Interfere with, restrain or coerce any employee in or because of
the exercise of any right guaranteed under this subchapter;
      (2)   Refuse to bargain collectively and in good faith with the city if
the labor organization is an exclusive representative;
      (3)   Refuse or fail to comply with any provisions of this subchapter;
      (4)   Violate the provisions of any written contract with respect to
employment relations, including an agreement to arbitrate or to accept the
terms of an arbitration award, where previously the parties have agreed to
accept the award as final and binding upon them; or
      (5)   Refuse to reduce an agreement reached as a result of collective
bargaining to writing and sign the resultant contract.
   (C)   An injured party may file a written complaint with the Board not later
than 180 days following the occurrence of an unfair labor practice.
(Prior Code, § 34.06) (Ord. 849, passed 5-15-1976) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.21 PROCESSING UNFAIR LABOR PRACTICES.
   Whenever a written complaint is filed, alleging that any person has engaged
in or is engaging in any unfair labor practice listed in §
33.20, the Board or its agents shall follow the procedures set out in O.R.S.
243.676.
(Prior Code, § 34.07) (Ord. 849, passed 5-15-1976)
§ 33.22 REPRESENTATION QUESTIONS.
   If a question of representation exists, the Board shall follow the procedure
outlined in O.R.S. 243.682.
(Prior Code, § 34.08) (Ord. 849, passed 5-15-1976)
§ 33.23 REPRESENTATION ELECTION.
   Representation elections shall be conducted and shall be governed by the
Board’s regulations.
(Prior Code, § 34.09) (Ord. 849, passed 5-15-1976)
§ 33.24 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PROCEDURES.
   The city and the bargaining agent shall provide for and make every
reasonable effort to conclude negotiations, including provisions for an
effective date, a reopening date and an expiration date at a time to coincide
with the period during which the Budget Committee and the City Council shall
decide on the operating budget of the city. The process of negotiations shall
begin not before January 10 nor later than January 25.
(Prior Code, § 34.10) (Ord. 849, passed 5-15-1976; Ord. 938, passed 1-2-1979)
§ 33.25 IMPASSE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   If, after a period of negotiation not to exceed the date of February
28, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon, or recognition of an exclusive
representative, no agreement has been signed, either party may request that
mediation be provided by the State Employment Relations Board or its successor.
   (B)   Where either party has determined that the parties have failed to
achieve agreement through negotiation, either party may request from the
Employment Relations Board assistance in resolving the labor dispute according
to the following schedule:
      (1)   Mediation shall be provided by the State Conciliation Service, as
provided by O.R.S. 662.405 to 662.455;
      (2)   If the labor dispute has not been settled after 15 calendar days
after the mediator has first met with both parties, but in no case later than
April 15, the negotiations shall be deemed in a state of impasse. Each party
shall submit to the other his, her or their final unresolved issue(s) in
writing within five working days following either of the above time limits,
whichever occurs first. The final offer shall include all issues which have
been resolved as well as all issues which have been the subject of negotiations
but not resolved. Each issue shall be separately stated; and
      (3)   Within ten working days following the time limits in division (B)
(2) above, the final unresolved issues, with all attachments, shall be
submitted to the City Council for final determination or the city, at its
option, may submit any or all of either party’s unresolved issue(s) to the
voters in a special city election to be held within 45 days from the date of
submission of the separately stated unresolved issue or issues as the case may
be. The election ballot shall specify the last offer of the rejecting party
and, if involving wages, the dollar amount of each party’s last offer over and
above or below the current year’s operating budget amount for those specific
items, and also state the percentage of increase or decrease over the current
operating budget. The decision of the voters shall be final and binding upon
the parties.
(Prior Code, § 34.11) (Ord. 849, passed 5-15-1976; Ord. 938, passed 1-2-1979)
§ 33.26 PEACEFUL PERFORMANCE OF CITY SERVICES.
   (A)   In order that the vital performance of city services can be
maintained, no employee shall strike or recognize a picket line of a labor
organization while in the performance of his or her official duties.
   (B)   The following shall apply.
      (1)   Participation by any employee in a strike or work stoppage is
unlawful and shall subject the employee to disciplinary action, up to and
including discharge.
      (2)   No employee organization, its representatives or members shall
engage in a strike or work stoppage of any kind.
      (3)   If a certified employee organization, its representatives or
members engage in a strike or work stoppage of any kind, in addition to any
other lawful remedies or disciplinary actions, the City Council may suspend or
revoke the recognition or certification granted to the employee organizations
and prohibit the use of bulletin boards, prohibit the use of city facilities
and prohibit access to former work or duty stations by the organization.
      (4)   As used in this section, STRIKE or WORK STOPPAGE means the
concerted failure to report for duty, the willful absence from one’s position,
the stoppage of work or the abstinence in whole or in part from the full,
faithful performance of the duties of employment for the purpose of influencing
or coercing a change in the conditions of compensation, or the rights,
privileges or obligations of employment.
      (5)   The city may petition the appropriate courts for an injunction or
other appropriate relief if a strike, work stoppage or recognition of a picket
line in violation of this section is occurring or is about to occur. The city
may also hire new permanent or temporary employees or transfer other city
employees to perform the services and duties of these employees engaged in a
strike or work stoppage in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 34.12) (Ord. 849, passed 5-15-1976)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.27 COSTS.
   Costs of any procedures as outlined in this subchapter, including, but not
limited to, bargaining unit determination, shall be borne equally by the city
and bargaining unit. Any labor organization seeking certification as a
bargaining agent shall be required to demonstrate financial responsibility to
meet the requirements of this section to the satisfaction of the city. The city
shall furnish meeting space when requested for these proceedings without
charge.
(Prior Code, § 34.13) (Ord. 849, passed 5-15-1976; Ord. 938, passed 1-2-1979)
§ 33.28 SEVERABILITY; TIME SCHEDULE.
   It is the intent of the City Council that only the portion of the time
schedule set herein for consultation, negotiation and impasse procedures that
can be met in the forthcoming budget process shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 34.14) (Ord. 849, passed 5-15-1976)
NON-DISCRIMINATION POLICY
§ 33.40 CITY DOES NOT DISCRIMINATE.
   The city does not discriminate on the basis of handicapped status in the
admission or access to, or treatment or employment in, its federally assisted
programs or activities.
(Res. 1647, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 33.41 CITY MANAGER TO COORDINATE COMPLIANCE.
   The City Manager has been designated to coordinate compliance with non-
discrimination requirements contained in the Department of Housing and Urban
Development’s (HUD) regulations implementing § 504 (24 C.F.R. part 8, dated
June 2, 1988).
(Res. 1647, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 33.42 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE IN PLACE FOR COMPLAINTS.
   A grievance procedure shall be in place for complaints of alleged
discrimination based on disability (Exhibit A attached to the resolution
incorporated herein).
(Res. 1647, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 33.43 ADOPTION OF GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   Exhibit A detailing the city’s grievance procedure is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are available through city
offices.
(Res. 1647, passed 9-3-2013)
PUBLIC CONTRACTING RULES
§ 33.55 RULES ADOPTED BY RESOLUTION.
   Public contracting rules, including city staff purchasing and contracting
authority, for the city will hereafter be adopted by Council resolution.
(Ord. 1304, passed 10-19-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Local Contract Review Board, see §
31.02
§ 33.56 [RESERVED.]
§ 33.57 PURCHASING AUTHORITY AND SPENDING LIMITS.
   (A)   City Manager authority. The City Manager, or the City Manager’s
designee, is authorized to:
      (1)   Enter into city contracts not to exceed $150,000. Contracts over
$150,000 require additional authorization from the City Council.
      (2)   Recommend that the City Council approve or disapprove contract
awards or contract change orders and amendments in amounts over $150,000.
      (3)   Consistent with this Municipal Code and the city’s public
contracting rules, adopt forms, procedures, and administrative policies for all
city purchases.
      (4)   Enter into contracts or issue permits for local concessions and
street vendors pursuant to applicable city policy, where the annual amount to
be paid to or by the city is not expected to exceed $150,000 per year.
   (B)   Contracts with employees. Purchases of goods from city employees shall
require the prior written authorization of the City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee. Provision of services by city employees shall be in
accordance with the city personnel policies and other applicable law.
(Res. R100223A, passed 10-2-2023)
PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST POLICY
§ 33.70 PURPOSE AND GENERAL INFORMATION.
   Oregon Public Records Law (O.R.S. 192.311 to 192.478) gives members of the
public the right to inspect and copy public records that are not otherwise
exempt from public disclosure. It is the policy of the city to respond to
public records in an orderly, consistent and reasonable manner in accordance
with the Oregon Public Records Law. The purpose of this policy is to:
   (A)   Establish an orderly and consistent procedure for responding to public
records requests;
   (B)   Establish the basis for a fee schedule designed to reimburse the city
for the actual costs incurred in responding to public records requests; and
   (C)   Inform individual staff and officials of the procedures and guidelines
that apply to public records requests.
(Res. R121624, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 33.71 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Tillamook and all employees, appointees and elected
officials associated therewith.
   CUSTODIAN. The City Recorder or designee mandated, directly or indirectly,
to create, maintain, care for or control a public record.
   PUBLIC RECORD. The meaning established in O.R.S. 192.344(4). In general, it
refers to any writing containing information relating to the conduct of the
public’s business, including but not limited to court records, mortgages, and
deed records, prepared, owned, used or retained by a public body regardless of
physical form or characteristics. A record may be handwritten, typed,
photocopied, printed, microfilmed, or exist in an electronic form such as email
or a word processing document, or other types of electronic recordings.
(Res. R121624, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 33.72 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Public records request. 
      (1)   The city shall encourage the public to use a public records request
form substantially similar to the form attached to Resolution R121624 as
Exhibit A. The City Recorder is authorized to modify the form as necessary to
improve its effectiveness and may develop forms in other formats to aid the
public in requesting records.
      (2)   All public records requests must identify the public records
requested and be submitted in writing and directed to:
City of Tillamook
Attn: City Recorder
210 Laurel Avenue
Tillamook, OR 97141
      (3)   Note. Requests to create a new record are not public records
requests. The city is not obligated under the Oregon Public Records Law to
create new public records where none exist in order to respond to requests for
information.
   (B)   Initial response to public records request. After receiving a request
for a public record, the city will reply to the requester within five business
days with one or more of the following responses:
      (1)   A statement that the city does or does not have custody of the
requested public record(s);
      (2)   Copies of all requested public records for which the city does not
claim an exemption from disclosure under O.R.S. 192.311 to 192.478;
      (3)   A statement that the city is the custodian of some responsive
records, an estimate of time in which copies will be provided or inspection
will be available, and an estimate of the fees the requester must pay prior to
receiving the records;
      (4)   A statement that the city is uncertain whether it possesses any
requested records and that it will search for the requested records and respond
as soon as practicable; or
      (5)   A statement that state or federal law prohibits the city from
acknowledging whether the record exists and a citation to the relevant state or
federal law.
   (C)   Clarification of request. If the city receives an unusual request, or
the scope of the request is unclear, the city may request additional
clarification before responding to the request. Once the city makes a request
for additional information or clarification, its obligation to complete its
response to the request is suspended until the requester provides the
information or clarification or affirmatively declines to provide additional
information or clarification. If the requester does not respond to the city’s
request for clarification or additional information within 60 days, the city
will close the request.
   (D)   Completed response deadline. Within ten business days after the date
by which the city is required to acknowledge receipt of a public records
request, the city will either complete its response to the request, or provide
a written statement that the city is still processing the request and provide
an estimated date by which the city expects to complete its response. The time
frames established to acknowledge and respond to a request do not apply if
compliance would be impracticable due to staffing unavailability, the city’s
ability to perform other necessary services, or the volume of other public
records requests being simultaneously processed. If the city cannot comply with
the five-business-day acknowledgment or ten-business-day response deadlines,
the city must complete the public records request as soon as practicable and
without unreasonable delay.
(Res. R121624, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 33.73 FEES.
   The Oregon Public Records Law allows the city to recover its actual costs in
fulfilling a public records request.
   (A)   Fee estimate.
      (1)   If the estimated fee is greater than $25, the city will provide the
requester with written notice of the estimated amount of the fee and request
written confirmation from requester. In such instances, the city will not
fulfill the public records request until the requester makes a deposit in the
amount equal to one-half of the total estimated fee.
      (2)   If a requester fails to provide written confirmation of the
estimated fees within 60 days of the city’s estimate, the city will close the
request.
   (B)   Fee assessment.
      (1)   Fees may be calculated at an hourly rate equivalent to the salary
plus benefits (computed at an hourly rate) of each employee involved in
processing the request; fees are reasonably calculated to reimburse the city
for actual staff time in making the records available, and may include:
         (a)   Charges for the time spent by city staff to locate the requested
public records, to review the records in order to determine whether any
requested records are exempt from disclosure, to segregate exempt records, to
supervise the requester’s inspection of original records, to copy records, to
certify records as true copies and to send records by special or overnight
methods such as express mail or overnight delivery;
         (b)   The cost of having legal assistance to redact exempt material if
a record contains exempt information;
         (c)   A per-page charge for photocopies of requested records; and
         (d)   A per-item charge for providing CDs, DVDs, audiotapes, or other
electronic copies of requested records.
      (2)   A request that would significantly disrupt staff’s regular duties
will be assessed a fee regardless of whether copies are provided.
   (C)   Application of fees.
      (1)   A fee will not be charged if a requested document(s) is current and
readily available and requires less than five minutes of staff time or
resources to be made available.
      (2)   All time for public records requests will be recorded in 15-minute
increments. If the requester was required to make a deposit, fees will be
debited against that deposit. If the fees are less than the deposit, the city
will provide the records along with a refund of the deposit, less the fee. If
the deposit is insufficient to cover the entire costs of completing the public
records request, or the requester was not required to pay a deposit, the city
will generate an invoice for the unpaid costs of completing the public records
request. The requester must pay the amount owing before the city will deliver
the requested records or make them available for viewing.
   (D)   Fee waiver request.
      (1)   Pursuant to O.R.S. 192.324(5), the custodian of a public record may
reduce or waive fees if the custodian determines that doing so is in "the
public interest because making the record available primarily benefits the
general public." Application of the public interest test requires analysis of
whether disclosure of a record will benefit the interests of the community or
society, i.e., "the public." A personal benefit to be derived by the requester
alone is insufficient to permit a fee waiver. Requests for a fee waiver should
identify the reason for the request and the public interest served in waiving
or reducing fees. The decision to waive or reduce fees is within the reasonable
discretion of the city. Requests for a fee waiver or reduction must be
evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
      (2)   Requests for fee waiver or reduced fees may be made in writing to
the City Manager at the contact address listed above. The City Manager shall
determine if the waiver or reduction of fees is in the public interest because
making the record available primarily benefits the general public and outweighs
the cost of furnishing the record.
(Res. R121624, passed 12-16-2024)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCES; TAXES AND FEES
Section
Fees
   
34.001   Franchise fees on water/sewer utilities
   
34.002   Fee schedule
Transient Room Tax
   
34.015   Definitions
   
34.016   Tax imposed
   
34.017   Collection of tax by operator; rules for collection
   
34.018   Operator’s duties
   
34.019   Exemptions
   
34.020   Registration of operator; form and contents; execution; certification
of authority
   
34.021   Due date; returns and payments
   
34.022   Penalties and interest
   
34.023   Deficiency determinations; evasion; operator delay
   
34.024   Redeterminations
   
34.025   Security for collection of tax
   
34.026   Lien
   
34.027   Refunds
   
34.028   Collection fee
   
34.029   Administration
   
34.030   Appeals to City Council
   
34.031   Violations
   
34.032   Effective date
Motor Vehicle Fuel Tax
   
34.045   Title
   
34.046   Definitions
   
34.047   Tax imposed
   
34.048   Amount and payment
   
34.049   License requirements
   
34.050   License applications and issuance
   
34.051   Failure to secure license
   
34.052   Revocation of license
   
34.053   Cancellation of license
   
34.054   Remedies cumulative
   
34.055   Payment of tax and delinquency
   
34.056   Monthly statement of dealer
   
34.057   Failure to file monthly statement
   
34.058   Billing; purchases
   
34.059   Failure to provide invoice or delivery tag
   
34.060   Exemption of export fuel
   
34.061   Fuel in vehicles coming into the city not taxed
   
34.062   Refunds
   
34.063   Limitation on applications for refunds
   
34.064   Seller to give invoice for each purchase made by person entitled to
refund
   
34.065   Claim of refunds
   
34.066   Refund of tax on fuel used in operation of vehicles over certain roads
or private property
   
34.067   Refunds to purchasers of fuel for aircraft
   
34.068   Refund of tax on fuel used in transportation of rural free delivery or
special delivery mail
   
34.069   Examinations and investigations
   
34.070   Limitation on credit for or refund of overpayment and on assessment of
additional tax
   
34.071   Records to be kept by dealers
   
34.072   Records to be kept three years
   
34.073   Use of tax revenues
   
34.074   Attorney fees
   
34.075   Effective date
Public Improvements; Assessments
   
34.090   Powers of Council
   
34.091   Definitions
   
34.092   Report of estimated costs and preliminary engineering design
   
34.093   Notice and public hearing
   
34.094   Remonstrances
   
34.095   Jurisdiction
   
34.096   Method of assessment; notice of proposed assessment
   
34.097   Hearing of remonstrances; docketing of liens
   
34.098   Notice of assessment
   
34.099   Benefitted property
   
34.100   Errors not to defeat assessment; reassessment
   
34.101   Record of mailing; mistake in mailing
   
34.102   Proceedings presumed regular
   
34.103   Docketing of liens; priority of liens
   
34.104   Payment of assessments
   
34.105   Application for installment payments
   
34.106   Records of installment payments
   
34.107   Docketing of assessment liens; manner of payment
   
34.108   Docket of entries of payments due and payments made
   
34.109   Disposition of payments on assessments
   
34.110   Enforcement of liens
   
34.111   Segregation of assessments
   
34.112   Consistency with state law
   
34.113   Construction and interpretation
Improvement Procedures Generally; Requirements for Developer
   
34.130   Agreement for improvements
   
34.131   Bond
   
34.132   Improvement procedure
   
34.133   Improvement requirements
   
34.134   Appeals
Reimbursement Districts
   
34.145   Definitions
   
34.146   Application for a reimbursement district
   
34.147   Reimbursement agreement report
   
34.148   Amount to be reimbursed
   
34.149   Public hearing
   
34.150   City Council action
   
34.151   Notice of adoption of resolution
   
34.152   Recording the resolution
   
34.153   Contesting the reimbursement district
   
34.154   Obligation to pay reimbursement fee
   
34.155   Public improvements
   
34.156   Administration; collection and payment
   
34.157   Consistency with state law
   
34.158   Construction and interpretation
Marijuana and Marijuana-Infused Products Tax
   
34.170   Title
   
34.171   Purpose
   
34.172   Definitions
   
34.173   Levy of tax
   
34.174   Deductions
   
34.175   Seller responsible for payment of tax
   
34.176   Penalties and interest
   
34.177   Failure to report and remit tax-determination of tax by City Manager
   
34.178   Appeal
   
34.179   Refunds
   
34.180   Actions to collect
   
34.181   Confidentiality
   
34.182   Audit of books, records or persons
   
34.183   Forms and regulations
 
   
34.999   Penalty
FEES
§ 34.001 FRANCHISE FEES ON WATER/SEWER UTILITIES.
   This section provides the process to be used to administer and collect a
franchise fee on city-owned water and sanitary sewer utilities.
   (A)   Fee established. There is hereby established a franchise fee upon
municipally-owned and operated water and sanitary sewer utilities operating
within the public rights-of-way in and outside the city.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GROSS REVENUE. Includes any revenue earned within and without the city
(after adjustment for the write-off of uncollectable accounts) from the sale of
water and sanitary sewer disposal and/or treatment services. The term does not
include proceeds from the sale of bonds or other evidence of indebtedness,
interest earnings, system development charges and connection fees and other
related fund activities.
      MUNICIPAL UTILITY. Includes only municipally-owned and operated water and
sanitary sewer facilities operating within and without the city.
   (C)   Fees and payment.
      (1)   Basis for fee calculation. Those city departments charged with the
responsibility of operating a “municipal utility”, as defined herein, shall pay
a fee of 2% of gross revenues received by the utility to the city General Fund
for the privilege of operating within city-owned rights-of-way.
      (2)   Calculation fee. The municipal utility shall compute the fee by
multiplying the applicable percentage by the gross revenues received during the
reporting period.
      (3)   Payment of fees. Fees payable by City Water and Sanitary Sewer
Departments shall be paid monthly, at the end of each calendar month of
operations. The fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer.
   (D)   Report of gross revenues. Concurrent with payment of the fee, the
municipal utility shall file with the City Treasurer a report of the gross
revenues of the utility setting forth the revenues according to their
accounting subdivisions and any deductions claimed for the period upon which
the fee is computed.
   (E)   Effective date. This is section retroactive to July 1, 2004.
(Prior Code, § 35.001) (Ord. 1174, passed 5-6-2002; Ord. 1195, passed 9-20-
2004)
§ 34.002 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fee schedule pertaining to licensing, fines, and violation costs for
enforcement of city regulations (also known as the City Code Redi-Reference) is
hereby adopted.
   (A)   Fines.
Code Section Fine Description
Code Section Fine    Description
90.
90.02        $100.00 Fail to license
90.03        $100.00 Dog at large
90.04        $100.00 Barking dog
90.05        $100.00 Waste material
90.06        $250.00 Poisoning of animals
90.07        $100.00 Removal of carcass
90.08        $100.00 Animals at large
90.09        $100.00 Animal nuisance
90.10        $250.00 Continuous annoyance
90.11        $250.00 Animal confinement
90.13        $250.00 Dog as a public nuisance
90.15        $250.00 Vicious dog
90.16        $100.00 Fail to report dog bite
71.
71.030       $250.00 Crossing private property in vehicle
71.031       $250.00 Unlawful riding
71.032       $150.00 Roller skates, skateboards, sleds
71.033       $250.00 Damaging sidewalks
71.034       $250.00 Removing glass and debris
71.035       $250.00 Storage of motor vehicle
71.050       $150.00 Bicycle operating rules
71.051       $150.00 Impounding bicycles
71.052       $150.00 Bicycle licensing
71.053       $150.00 Bicycle renting
71.065       $150.00 Pedestrian crosswalk use
71.080       $250.00 Parades, prohibited activity
71.083       $250.00 Offenses against parade
71.085       $150.00 Funeral procession
72.
72.001       $45.00  Method of parking
72.002       $45.00  Prohibited parking
72.003       $20.00  Use of loading zone
72.005       $20.00  Improper parking, marked lines or height
72.020       $5.00   Deposit of coins
72.021       $25.00  Legal time limits
72.024       $25.00  Parking permits
72.061       $250.00 Obstructing enforcement
72.062       $250.00 Damaging parking control devices
72.063       $250.00 Unauthorized use of parking permit(s)
72.064       $250.00 Unauthorized parking control devices
72.108       $25.00  Timed parking
110.
110.003      $250.00 Fail to first obtain business registration
110.012      $250.00 Misrepresentation by applicant
110.013      $250.00 Use of city property, right of way
110.014      $250.00 Hours for solicitor, hawker, peddler (0900-2000)
Penalty
   Violation of any section of
Ch. 110 shall result in a fine not to exceed $250. Upon conviction of any
violation of this ordinance, the court shall also order the defendant to pay
any cost, disbursement or fee due as authorized by this Code or as amended.
   Each day or distinct time period of a violation as described in this
ordinance, shall be considered a separate violation, subject to a separate
penalty as described in this Code and by resolution.
   This resolution also sets a minimum fine of $35 for all adjudicated
violations, other than parking violations, where the person cited is found
guilty or enters a plea of no contest, to each violation.
 
   (B)   Fees.
 Fee Schedule
                                               Fee Schedule
Trash Container/Dumpster Fee                   $5.00 a day
Bicycle License                                $2.00
Bicycle Impound                                $10.00
Vehicle Impound/Admin Fee                      $90.00
Parking Permit, Construction                   $2.50 a day
Dog License
Dog License Regular                            $10.00
Spayed/Neutered                                $5.00
Senior Citizen Rate                            $3.00
Late Fee-After March 15                        $25.00
Late Fee-After March 30                        $25.00 plus citation to
                                               Municipal Court
Replacement Tag                                $5.00
Business Registration
A)    Base Fee (up to 11 employees)         $75.00
   12-30 employees                          $150.00
   31+ employees                            $300.00
B)   Transfer/Assignment Fee                $10.00
C)   Temporary (Up to 3 months)             One third of the annual fee
D)   Replacement License                    $10.00
Additional Fees
a)   Peddler, Solicitor and Hawker Photo ID $10.00
Process
b)   Late Registration Fee (After July 1)   $25.00
c)   Penalty for non-compliance per day     $250.00
 
(Res. 1784, passed 4-15-2019)
TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
§ 34.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCRUAL ACCOUNTING. The operator enters the rent due from a transient on his
or her records when the rent is earned, whether or not it is paid.
   BOOKING SERVICE. Any reservation and/or payment service provided by a person
or entity that facilitates a short-term rental transaction between a host and a
prospective occupant and for which the person or entity collects or receives,
directly or indirectly through an agent or intermediary, a fee in connection
with the reservation and/or payment services provided for the short-term rental
transaction. BOOKING SERVICES include, directly or indirectly, accepting or
receiving or facilitating payment, whether or not the person or entity is
ultimate recipient of the payment, including through Application Programming
Interfaces (APIs) or other computerized devices where third-party providers
receive information about a transaction and collect funds for the transient
lodging occupancy from an occupant.
   CASH ACCOUNTING. The operator does not enter the rent due from a transient
on his or her records until rent is paid.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the city.
   CONFERENCE CENTER. A facility that is owned or partially owned by a unit of
local government, a governmental agency or a nonprofit organization; and meets
current membership criteria of the International Association of Conference
Centers.
   CONVENTION CENTER. A new or improved facility that is capable of attracting
and accommodating conventions and trade shows from international, national and
regional markets requiring exhibition space, ballroom space, meeting rooms and
any other associated space, including, but not limited to, banquet facilities,
loading areas and lobby and registration areas; has a total meeting room and
ballroom space between one-third and one-half of the total size of the center’s
exhibition space; generates a majority of its business income from tourists;
has a room-block relationship with the local lodging industry; and is owned by
a unit of local government, a governmental agency or a nonprofit organization.
   HOTEL. Any structure or any portion of any structure which is occupied or
intended or designed for transient occupancy for 30 days for dwelling, lodging
or sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, motel, inn, condominium, tourist
home or house, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house,
apartment house, public or private dormitory, fraternity, sorority, public or
private club, and also means space in mobile home or trailer parks, or similar
structure or space or portions thereof so occupied; provided the occupancy is
for less than a 30-day period.
   LIEN. A charge upon real or personal property for the satisfaction of some
debt or duty ordinarily arising by operation of law.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, for
lodging or sleeping purposes, of any room or rooms in a hotel or space in a
mobile home or trailer park or portion thereof.
   OPERATOR. The person who is the proprietor of the hotel in any capacity.
Where the OPERATOR performs his or her functions through a managing agent of
any type or character other than an employee, local site manager and/or
managing agent shall also be deemed an OPERATOR for the purposes of this
subchapter and shall have the same duties and liabilities as his or her
principal. Compliance with the provisions of this subchapter by either the
principal or the managing agent shall be considered to be compliance by both.
      (1)   Any person who provides transient lodging for occupancy to the
general public for compensation. Furnishing accommodations can be done via
employees, contractors, agents or any other person allowed to process
reservations and accept payment for the transient lodging on behalf of the
transient lodging provider;
      (2)   Any person who facilitates the reservations of an accommodation and
collects the payment for the transient lodging reservation from the occupant;
or
      (3)   Any transient lodging provider, transient lodging intermediary or
transient lodging tax collector as defined in O.R.S. 320.300.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
social club, fraternal organization, fraternity, sorority, public or private
dormitory, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business trust,
receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or combination acting as a
unit.
   RENT. The consideration charged, whether or not received by the operator,
for the occupancy of space in a hotel, valued in money, goods, labor, credits,
property or other consideration valued in money, without any deduction.
   RENT PACKAGE PLAN. The consideration charged for both food and rent where a
single rate is made for the total of both. The amount applicable to rent for
determination of transient room tax under this subchapter shall be the same
charge made for rent when consideration is not a part of a package plan. The
amount applicable to rent for determination of transient room tax under this
subchapter shall be that amount allocated to space rent, taking into
consideration a reasonable value of other items in the rent package and taking
into consideration the charge for rent when the space is rented separately and
not included in a package plan.
   TAX. Either the tax payable by the transient or the aggregate amount of
taxes due from an operator during the period for which he or she is required to
report his or her collections.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The City Manager of the city.
   TOURISM. Economic activity resulting from tourists.
   TOURISM PROMOTION. Any of the following activities: advertising, publicizing
or distributing information for the purpose of attracting and welcoming
tourists; conducting strategic planning and research necessary to stimulate
future tourism development; operating tourism promotion agencies; and marketing
special events and festivals designed to attract tourists.
   TOURISM PROMOTION AGENCY. Includes an incorporated nonprofit organization or
governmental unit that is responsible for the tourism promotion of a
destination on a year-round basis. A nonprofit entity that manages tourism-
related economic development plans, programs and projects. A regional or
statewide association that represents entities that rely on tourism-related
business for more than 50% of their total income.
   TOURIST. A person who, for business, pleasure, recreation or participation
in events related to the arts, heritage or culture, travels from the community
in which that person is a resident to a different community that is separate,
distinct from and unrelated to the person’s community of residence, and that
trip requires the person to travel more than 50 miles from the community of
residence, or includes an overnight stay.
   TRANSIENT. Any individual who exercises occupancy or is entitled to
occupancy in a hotel for a period of 30 consecutive calendar days or less,
counting portions of calendar days as full days. The day a TRANSIENT checks out
of the hotel shall not be included in determining the 30-day period if the
TRANSIENT is not charged rent for that day by the operator. Any individual so
occupying space in a hotel shall be deemed to be a TRANSIENT until the period
of 30 days has expired unless there is an agreement in writing between the
operator and the occupant providing for a longer period of occupancy, or the
tenancy actually extends more than 30 consecutive days. In determining whether
a person is a TRANSIENT, uninterrupted periods of time extending both prior and
subsequent to the effective date of this subchapter may be considered. A person
who pays for lodging on a monthly basis, irrespective of the number of days in
the month, shall not be deemed a TRANSIENT.
   TRANSIENT LODGING INTERMEDIARY. A person other than a transient lodging
provider that facilitates the retail sale of transient lodging and charges for
occupancy of the transient lodging.
(O.R.S. 320.300(12))
   VISITOR INFORMATION CENTER. A building, or portion of a building, the main
purpose of which is to distribute or disseminate information to tourists.
(Prior Code, § 35.015) (Ord. 893, passed 5-23-1977; Ord. 1196, passed 10-4-
2004; Ord. 1289, passed 5-5-2014; Ord. 1314, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 1333,
passed 2-20-2018; Ord. 1351, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 34.016 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, on or after August 1,
2010, each transient shall pay a tax in the amount of 10% of the rent charged
by the operator. The tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city,
which is extinguished only by payment by the operator to the city. The
transient shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent
is paid. The operator shall collect the tax for each transient and shall enter
the tax on his or her records when rent is collected if the operator keeps his
or her records on the cash accounting basis, and when earned if the operator
keeps his or her records on the accrual accounting basis. If rent is paid in
installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid by the transient
to the operator with each installment. In all cases, the rent paid or charged
for occupancy shall exclude the sale of any goods, services and commodities,
other than the furnishings of rooms, accommodations and space occupancy in
mobile home parks or trailer parks.
   (B)   Structures and facilities which provide for transient occupancy of
less than 30 days are not subject to a land-use process solely due to that
provision. Some structures and facilities may still be subject to a land-use
process due to other aspects of their development or operation; however, length
of tenancy by itself does not trigger such a process.
(Prior Code, § 35.016) (Ord. 893, passed 5-23-1977; Ord. 1117, passed 9-3-1991;
Ord. 1196, passed 10-4-2004; Ord. 1250, passed 6-21-2010; Ord. 1351, passed 10-
7-2019)
§ 34.017 COLLECTION OF TAX BY OPERATOR; RULES FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   Every operator renting rooms or space for lodging or sleeping purposes
in the city, the occupancy of which is not exempted under the terms of this
subchapter, shall collect a tax from the occupant. The tax collected or accrued
by the operator constitutes a debt owed by the operator to the city.
   (B)   In all cases of credit or deferred payment of rent, the payment of tax
to the operator may be deferred until the rent is paid, and the operator shall
not be liable for the tax until credits are paid or deferred payments are made.
Adjustments may be made for uncollectibles.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator shall enforce provisions of this subchapter and
shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations not inconsistent with this
subchapter as may be necessary to aid in the enforcement.
   (D)   For rent collected on portions of a dollar, fractions of a penny shall
not be remitted.
(Prior Code, § 35.017) (Ord. 893, passed 5-23-1977)
§ 34.018 OPERATOR’S DUTIES.
   Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this subchapter at the same
time as the rent is collected from every transient. The amount of tax shall be
separately stated upon the operator’s records and any receipt rendered by the
operator. No operator of a hotel shall advertise that the tax or any part of
the tax will be assumed or absorbed by the operator; that it will not be added
to the rent; or that, when added, any part will be refunded, except in the
manner provided by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.018) (Ord. 893, passed 5-23-1977)
§ 34.019 EXEMPTIONS.
   No tax imposed under this subchapter shall be imposed upon:
   (A)   Any occupant for more than 30 successive calendar days (a person who
pays for lodging on a monthly basis, irrespective of the number of days in the
month, shall not be deemed a transient);
   (B)   Any occupant whose rent is of a value less than $2 per day; and
   (C)   Any occupant whose rent is paid for hospital room or to a medical
clinic, convalescent home and/or home for aged people, or to a public
institution owned and operated by a unit of government.
(Prior Code, § 35.019) (Ord. 893, passed 5-23-1977)
§ 34.020 REGISTRATION OF OPERATOR; FORM AND CONTENTS; EXECUTION; CERTIFICATION
OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Every person engaging in or about to engage in business as an operator
of a hotel in the city shall register with the Tax Administrator on a form
provided by him or her. Operators engaged in business at the time this
subchapter is adopted must register not later than 30 calendar days after
passage of this subchapter. Operators starting business after this subchapter
is adopted must register within 15 days after commencing business. The
privilege of registration after the date of imposition of the tax shall not
relieve any person from the obligation of payment or collection of tax,
regardless of registration. Registration sets forth the name under which the
operator transacts or intends to transact business, the location of his or her
place or places of business and any other information to facilitate the
collection of the tax as the Tax Administrator may require. The registration
shall be signed by the operator. The Tax Administrator shall, within ten days
after registration, issue without charge a certificate of authority to each
registrant to collect the tax from the occupant, together with a duplicate
thereof for each additional place of business or each registrant. Certificates
shall be nonassignable and nontransferable and shall be surrendered immediately
to the Tax Administrator upon the cessation of business at the location named
or upon its sale or transfer. Each certificate and duplicate shall state the
place of business to which it is applicable and shall be prominently displayed
so as to be seen and come to the notice readily of all occupants and persons
seeking occupancy.
   (B)   This certificate shall, among other things, state the following:
      (1)   The name of the operator;
      (2)   The address of the hotel;
      (3)   The date upon which the certificate was issued; and
      (4)   The following:
“This Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that the person
named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Transient
Lodgings Tax Ordinance of the city by registration with the Tax Administrator
for the purpose of collecting from transients the lodgings tax imposed by the
city and remitting the tax to the Tax Administrator. This certificate does not
authorize any person to conduct an unlawful business in an unlawful manner, or
to operate a hotel without strictly complying with all local applicable laws,
including but not limited to those requiring a permit from any board,
commission, department or office of the city. This certificate does not
constitute a permit.”
(Prior Code, § 35.020) (Ord. 893, passed 5-23-1977)
§ 34.021 DUE DATE; RETURNS AND PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be paid by the transient to
the operator at the time that rent is paid. All amounts of taxes collected by
any operator are due and payable to the Tax Administrator on a quarterly basis
on the fifteenth day of the following month for the preceding three months and
are delinquent on the last day of the month in which they are due. The Tax
Administrator has authority to classify and/or district the operators for
determination of applicable tax periods and shall notify each operator of the
due and delinquent dates for the operator’s returns. The initial return under
this subchapter may be for less than the three months preceding the due date;
thereafter, returns shall be made for the applicable quarterly period.
   (B)   On or before the fifteenth day of the month following each quarter of
collection, a return for the preceding quarter’s tax collections shall be filed
with the Tax Administrator. The return shall be filed, in a form as the Tax
Administrator may prescribe, by every operator liable for payment of tax.
   (C)   Returns shall show the amount of tax collected or otherwise due for
the related period. The Tax Administrator may require returns to show the total
rentals upon which tax was collected or otherwise due, gross receipts of
operator for that period and an explanation in detail of any discrepancy
between the amounts and the amount of rents exempt, if any.
   (D)   The person required to file the return shall deliver the return,
together with the remittance of the amount of the tax due, to the Tax
Administrator at his or her office either by personal delivery or by mail. If
the return is mailed, the postmark shall be considered the date of delivery for
determining delinquencies.
   (E)   For good cause, the Tax Administrator may extend, for not to exceed
one month, the time for making any return or payment of tax. No further
extension shall be granted except by the City Council. Any operator to whom an
extension is granted shall pay interest at the rate of 0.5% per month on the
amount of tax due without proration for a fraction of a month. If a return is
not filed, and the tax and interest due is not paid by the end of the extension
granted, then the interest shall become a part of the tax for computation of
penalties described elsewhere in this subchapter.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator, if he or she deems it necessary in order to
ensure payment or facilitate collection by the city of the amount of taxes in
any individual case, may require returns and payment of the amount of taxes for
other than quarterly periods.
(Prior Code, § 35.021) (Ord. 893, passed 5-23-1977)
§ 34.022 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Original delinquency. Any operator who has not been granted an
extension of time for remittance of tax due, and who fails to remit any tax
imposed by this subchapter prior to delinquency, shall pay 10% of the amount of
tax due in addition to the amount of the tax.
   (B)   Continued delinquency. Any operator who has not been granted an
extension of time for remittance of tax due, and who failed to pay any
delinquent remittance on or before a period of 30 days following the date on
which the remittance first became delinquent, shall pay a second delinquency
penalty of 15% of the amount of the tax due plus the amount of the tax and the
10% penalty first imposed. After the first 30 days of delinquency, in addition
to other remedies, fines and fees, the operator may be cited into municipal
court. Each day subsequent to the 31 days shall be considered a separate
violation. Penalties to be set by resolution. Failure to pay any tax, fine or
fee after 45 days may result in the revocation of business regulation in
addition to all other tax, fees, fines and penalties.
   (C)   Fraud. If the Tax Administrator determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this subchapter is due to fraud or intent to evade the
provisions thereof, a penalty of 25% of the amount of the tax shall be added
thereto in addition to the penalties stated in divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who fails
to remit any tax imposed by this subchapter shall pay interest at the rate of
1% per month or fraction thereof without proration for portions of a month on
the amount of the tax due, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent until paid.
   (E)   Penalties merged with tax. Every penalty imposed and any interest as
accrues under the provisions of this section shall be merged with and become a
part of the tax herein required to be paid.
   (F)   Petition for waiver. Any operator who fails to remit the tax herein
levied within the time herein stated shall pay the penalties herein stated;
provided, however, the operator may petition the City Council for waiver and
refund of the penalty or any portion thereof; and the City Council may, if a
good and sufficient reason is shown, waive and direct a refund of the penalty
or any portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 35.022) (Ord. 893, passed 5-23-1977; Ord. 1289, passed 5-5-2014;
Ord. 1344, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 34.023 DEFICIENCY DETERMINATIONS; EVASION; OPERATOR DELAY.
   (A)   Deficiency determinations. If the Tax Administrator determines that
the returns are incorrect, he or she may compute and determine the amount
required to be paid upon the basis of the facts contained in the return or
returns, or upon the basis of any information within his or her possession or
that may come into his or her possession. One or more deficiency determinations
may be made of the amount due for one or more than one period, and the amount
so determined shall be due and payable immediately upon service of notice as
herein provided, after which the amount determined is delinquent. Penalties on
deficiencies shall be applied as set forth in §
34.022.
      (1)   In making a determination, the Tax Administrator may offset
overpayments, if any, which may have been previously made for a period or
periods against any underpayment for a subsequent period or periods, or against
penalties and interest on the underpayments. The interest on underpayments
shall be computed in the manner set forth in §
34.022.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall give to the operator or occupant a
written notice of his or her determination. The notice may be served personally
or by mail. If by mail, the notice shall be addressed to the operator at his or
her address as it appears on the records of the Tax Administrator. In case of
service by mail of any notice required by this subchapter, it shall be served
by mailing the notice by registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested.
      (3)   Except in the case of fraud or intent to evade this subchapter or
authorized rules and regulations, every deficiency determination shall be made
and notice thereof mailed within three years after the last day of the month
following the close of the quarterly period for which the amount is proposed to
be determined or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period
expires later.
      (4)   Any determination shall become due and payable immediately upon
receipt of notice and shall become final within 20 days after the Tax
Administrator has given notice thereof; provided, however, the operator may
petition redemption and refund if the petition is filed before the
determination becomes final as herein provided.
   (B)   Fraud; refusal to collect; evasion. If any operator shall fail or
refuse to collect the tax or to make within the time provided in this
subchapter any report or remittance of the tax or any portion thereof required
by this subchapter, or makes a fraudulent return or otherwise willfully
attempts to evade this subchapter, the Tax Administrator shall proceed in a
manner as he or she may deem best to obtain the facts and information on which
to base an estimate of the tax due. As soon as the Tax Administrator has
determined the tax due that is imposed by this subchapter from any operator who
has failed or refused to collect the same and to report and remit the tax, he
or she shall proceed to determine and assess against the operator the tax,
interest and penalties provided for by this subchapter. In case this
determination is made, the Tax Administrator shall give a notice in the manner
aforesaid of the amount so assessed. The determination and notice shall be made
and mailed within three years of the discovery by the Tax Administrator of any
fraud, intent to evade or failure or refusal to collect the tax, or failure to
file the return. Any determination shall become due and payable upon receipt of
notice and shall become final within 20 days after the Tax Administrator has
given notice thereof; provided, however, the operator may petition for
redemption refund if the petition is filed before the determination becomes
final as herein provided.
   (C)   Operator delay. If the Tax Administrator believes that the collection
of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected and paid to the city
will be jeopardized by delay, or if any determination will be jeopardized by
delay, he or she shall thereupon make a determination of the tax, or amount of
tax required to be collected, noting the fact upon the determination. The
amount so determined as herein provided shall be immediately due and payable,
and the operator shall immediately pay the determination to the Tax
Administrator after service of notice thereof; provided, however, the operator
may petition, after payment has been made, for redemption and refund of the
determination, if the petition is filed within 20 days from the date of service
of notice by the Tax Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 35.023) (Ord. 893, passed 5-23-1977; Ord. 1289, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 34.024 REDETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Any person against whom a determination is made under §
34.023, or any person directly interested, may petition for a redetermination
and redemption and refund within the time required in §
34.023. If a petition for redetermination and refund is not filed within the
time required in §
34.023, the determination becomes final at the expiration of the allowable
time.
   (B)   If a petition for redetermination and refund is filed within the
allowable period, the Tax Administrator shall reconsider the determination and,
if the person has so requested in his or her petition, shall grant the person
an oral hearing and shall give him or her 20 days’ notice of the time and place
of the hearing. The Tax Administrator may continue the hearing from time to
time as may be necessary.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator may decrease or increase the amount of the
determination as a result of the hearing; if an increase is determined, the
increase shall be payable immediately after the hearing.
   (D)   The order or decision of the Tax Administrator upon a petition for
redetermination and refund becomes final 20 days after service upon the
petitioner of notice thereof, unless appeal of the order or decision is filed
with the City Council within 20 days after the service of the notice.
   (E)   No petition for redetermination of redemption and refund or appeal
therefrom shall be effective for any purpose unless the operator has first
complied with the payment provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 35.024) (Ord. 893, passed 5-23-1977)
§ 34.025 SECURITY FOR COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator, whenever he or she deems it necessary to ensure
the compliance with this subchapter, may require the operator subject thereto
to deposit with him or her that security in the form of cash, bond or other
security as the Tax Administrator may determine. The amount of the security
shall be fixed by the Tax Administrator but shall not be greater than twice the
operator’s estimated average quarterly liability for the period for which he or
she files returns, determined in a manner as the Tax Administrator deems
proper, or $5,000, whichever amount is lesser. The amount of security may be
increased or decreased by the Tax Administrator subject to limitations herein
provided. The operator has a right to appeal to the City Council any decision
of the Tax Administrator made pursuant to this section. The operator’s right to
appeal is pursuant to §
34.030.
   (B)   At any time within three years after any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected becomes due and payable, or at any time within three
years after any determination becomes final, the Tax Administrator may bring
any action in the courts of this state, any other state or of the United
States, in the name of the city, to collect the amount delinquent, together
with penalties and interest.
(Prior Code, § 35.025) (Ord. 893, passed 5-23-1977)
§ 34.026 LIEN.
    The tax imposed by this subchapter, together with the interest and
penalties herein provided and the filing fees paid to the County Clerk,
attorneys’ fees and advertising costs which may be incurred when same becomes
delinquent as set forth in this subchapter, shall be and, until paid, remain a
lien from the date of its recording with the County Clerk, and superior to all
subsequent recorded liens on all real and/or tangible personal property used in
the hotel of an operator within the city and may be foreclosed on and sold as
may be necessary to discharge the lien if the lien has been recorded with the
County Clerk. Notice of the lien may be issued by the Tax Administrator or his
or her deputy whenever the operator is in default in the payment of the tax,
interest and penalty and shall be recorded with the County Clerk and a copy
sent to the delinquent operator. The personal property subject to the lien
seized by any deputy or employee of the Tax Administrator may be sold by the
department seizing same at public auction after ten days’ notice, which means
one publication in a newspaper published in the city. Any lien for taxes shown
on the records of the proper county official shall, upon payment of all taxes,
penalties and interest thereon, be released by the Tax Administrator when the
full amount determined to be due has been paid to the city, and shall have a
receipt and interest thereof have been paid and that the lien is hereby
released, and the record of lien is satisfied.
(Prior Code, § 35.026) (Ord. 893, passed 5-23-1977; Ord. 1173A, passed 4-15-
2002)
§ 34.027 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Refunds by the city to the operator. Whenever the amount of any tax,
penalty or interest has been paid more than once or has been erroneously or
illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this subchapter,
it may be refunded; provided a verified claim in writing therefor, stating the
specific reason upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the Tax
Administrator within one year from the date of payment. The claim shall be made
on forms provided by the Tax Administrator. If the claim is approved by the Tax
Administrator, the excess amount collected or paid may be refunded or may be
credited on any amount then due and payable from the operator from whom it was
collected or by whom paid, and the balance may be refunded to the operator, his
or her administrators, executors or assignees.
   (B)   Refunds by city to transient. Whenever the tax required by this
subchapter has been collected by an operator and deposited by operator with the
Tax Administrator, and it is later determined that the tax was erroneously or
illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator, it may be refunded by
the Tax Administrator to the transient, provided a verified claim in writing
therefor, stating the specific reason on which the claim is founded, is filed
with the Tax Administrator within one year from the date of payment.
   (C)   Refunds by operator to tenant. Whenever the tax required by this
subchapter has been collected by the operator and it is later determined that
the tenant occupies the hotel for a period exceeding 30 days without
interruption, the operator shall refund to the tenant the tax previously
collected by the operator from that tenant as a transient. The operator shall
account for the collection and refund to the Tax Administrator. If the operator
has remitted the tax prior to the refund or credit to the tenant, he or she
shall be entitled to a corresponding refund under this section.
(Prior Code, § 35.027) (Ord. 893, passed 5-23-1977)
§ 34.028 COLLECTION FEE.
   Every operator liable for collection and remittance of the tax imposed by
this subchapter may withhold 5% of the net tax herein collected to cover the
operator’s expense in collection and remittance of the tax.
(Prior Code, § 35.028) (Ord. 901, passed 8-1-1977)
§ 34.029 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Special fund. The Tax Administrator shall deposit all money collected
pursuant to this subchapter within the Transient Hotel/Motel Tax Fund. One-half
of the revenue received shall be a General Fund resource. In times of emergency
or significant economic downturn, the City Council may modify, i.e., increase,
this resource amount to support General Fund activities in the current fiscal
year. Furthermore, the City Council may cause the temporary suspension of
funds, except for public police protection, allocated to the following
activities in the current fiscal year as well. Absent modification/suspension
by the City Council, the remaining one-half is to be used for the following
activities within the city:
      (1)   Operation/maintenance of public parking;
      (2)   Parking lot purchase/construction;
      (3)   City Hall rehabilitation;
      (4)   Tourism promotion advertising;
      (5)   Economic development;
      (6)   Public police protection; and
      (7)   Beautification.
   (B)   Two percent tax increase. House Bill 2267, passed by the 2003 State
Legislature, changed the law regarding transient room effective July 2, 2003,
establishing a set formula for the allocation of new or increased local lodging
taxes. As of November 4, 2004, the transient room tax shall be increased by 2%
thus increasing it from 7% to 9%. The additional 2% increase shall be utilized
in the following manner:
      (1)   Seventy percent of the increased transient room tax shall be used
for tourism promotion or tourism-related facilities. A TOURISM-RELATED FACILITY
means real property that has a useful life of ten or more years and that is
used to support tourism and to accommodate tourist activities. Tourism-related
facility includes a conference center, convention center and visitor
information center.
      (2)   Thirty percent of the increased transient room tax is unrestricted
and may be used to fund city services, and/or it may be used to fund the
maintenance and repair of tourism-related facilities.
   (C)   One percent tax increase. As of August 1, 2010, the transient room tax
shall be increased an additional 1% thus increasing it from 9% to 10%. This
additional 1% increase shall be utilized in the following manner: 100% of the
increase in transient room tax shall be used to solely support the Tillamook
Area Chamber of Commerce.
(Prior Code, § 35.029) (Ord. 893, passed 5-23-1977; Ord. 1118, passed 9-3-1991;
Ord. 1190, passed 4-19-2004; Ord. 1196, passed 10-4-2004; Ord. 1250, passed 6-
21-2010; Ord. 1324, passed 12-5-2016)
§ 34.030 APPEALS TO CITY COUNCIL.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Administrator may appeal to
the City Council by filing notice of appeal with the Tax Administrator within
20 days of the serving or the mailing of the notice of the decision given by
the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator shall transmit the notice of
appeal together with the file of the appealed matter, to the Council, who shall
fix a time and place for hearing the appeal from the decision of the Tax
Administrator. The Council shall give the appellant not less than 20 days’
written notice of the time and place of hearing of the appealed matter. Action
by the Council on appeals shall be decided by a majority of the members of the
Council present at the meeting where the appeal is considered.
(Prior Code, § 35.030) (Ord. 893, passed 5-23-1977)
§ 34.031 VIOLATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any operator or other person so required to fail or
refuse to register as required herein; to furnish any return required to be
made; fail or refuse to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by
the Tax Administrator; or to render a false or fraudulent return. No person
required to make, render, sign or verify any report shall make any false or
fraudulent report with intent to defeat or evade the determination of any
amount due required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.031) (Ord. 893, passed 5-23-1977) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.032 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective at 12:01 a.m. June 23, 1977.
(Prior Code, § 35.032) (Ord. 893, passed 5-23-1977)
MOTOR VEHICLE FUEL TAX
§ 34.045 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “City Motor Vehicle Fuel Tax
Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 35.045) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.046 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRCRAFT FUEL. Any gasoline and any other inflammable or combustible gas or
liquid by whatever name the gasoline, gas or liquid is known or sold, usable as
fuel for the operation of aircraft, except gas or liquid, the chief use of
which, as determined by the city, is for purposes other than the propulsion of
aircraft.
   CITY. Tillamook City, a political subdivision of the state.
   DEALER. Any person who:
      (1)   Imports, or causes to be imported, motor vehicle fuel for sale, use
or distribution in an after the same reaches the city. DEALER does not include
any person who imports into the city motor vehicle fuel in quantities of 200
gallons or less purchased from a supplier who is licensed as a dealer
hereunder, and who assumes liability for the payment of the applicable license
tax to the city;
      (2)   Produces, refines, manufactures or compounds motor vehicle fuels in
the city for use, distribution or sale in the city; or
      (3)   Acquires in the city for sale, use or distribution in the city,
motor vehicle fuels with respect to which there has been no license tax
previously incurred.
   DISTRIBUTION. In addition to its ordinary meaning, the delivery of motor
vehicle fuel by a dealer or subdealer to any service station or into any tank,
storage facility or series of tanks or storage facilities connected by
pipelines, from which motor vehicle fuel is withdrawn directly for sale, or for
delivery into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles whether or not the service
station, tank or storage facility is owned, operated or controlled by the
dealer or subdealer.
   HIGHWAY. Every way, thoroughfare and place of whatever nature, open for use
of the public for the purpose of vehicular travel within city limits.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. All vehicles, engines or machines, movable or immovable,
operated or propelled by the use of motor vehicle fuel.
   MOTOR VEHICLE FUEL. Includes gasoline and any other flammable or combustible
gas or liquid, by whatever name such as gasoline, gas, diesel or liquid is
sold, usable as fuel for the operation of motor vehicles, except gas or liquid,
the chief use of which, as determined by the city, is for purposes other than
the propulsion of motor vehicles upon the highways.
   PERSON. Includes every natural person, association, firm, partnership,
corporation or the United States.
   SERVICE STATION. Includes any place operated for the purpose of retailing
and delivering motor vehicle fuel into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles.
   SUBDEALER. Includes every person other than a dealer engaging in the
business of handling motor vehicle fuel for sale and distribution within the
city, when the fuel is delivered by dealers with business addresses outside
city limits.
(Prior Code, § 35.046) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.047 TAX IMPOSED.
   A business license tax is hereby imposed on every dealer and subdealer. The
tax imposed shall be paid monthly to the city. The city may delegate to any
department of the city enforcement of any portion or all of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.047) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.048 AMOUNT AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   Subject to divisions (B) and (C) below, in addition to any fees or
taxes otherwise provided for by law, every dealer and subdealer engaging in his
or her own name, or in the name of others, or in the name of his or her
representatives or agents in the city, in the sale, use or distribution of
motor vehicle fuel or withdrawal of motor vehicle fuel for sale, use or
distribution within areas in the city, in the sale of motor vehicle fuel or
gasoline as the case may be, shall:
      (1)   Not later than the twenty-fifth day of each calendar month, render
a statement to the city of all motor vehicle fuel sold, used, distributed or so
withdrawn by him or her in the city; and
      (2)   Pay a license tax computed on the basis of $0.03 per gallon of the
motor vehicle fuel so sold, used, distributed or withdrawn as shown by the
statement in the manner and within the time provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   In lieu of claiming refund of the tax paid as to motor vehicle fuel
consumed by the dealer or subdealer in non-highway uses as provided in this
chapter, or of any prior erroneous payment of license tax made to the city by
the dealer or subdealer, the dealer or subdealer may show the motor vehicle
fuel as a credit or deduction on the monthly statement and payment of tax.
   (C)   The license tax shall not be imposed wherever it is prohibited by the
constitution or laws of the United States.
(Prior Code, § 35.048) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982; Ord. 1177, passed 8-5-
2002; Ord. 1223, passed 9-17-2007; Ord. 1234, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 34.049 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   No dealer or subdealer shall sell, use or distribute any motor vehicle fuel
until he or she has secured a dealer’s license as required herein.
(Prior Code, § 35.049) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.050 LICENSE APPLICATIONS AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Every person, before becoming a dealer or subdealer in motor vehicle
fuel in the city, shall make an application to the city for a license
authorizing the person to engage in business as a dealer or subdealer.
   (B)   Applications for the license must be made on forms prescribed,
prepared and furnished by the city.
   (C)   The applications shall be accompanied by a duly acknowledged
certificate containing:
      (1)   The business name under which the dealer or subdealer is
transacting business within the city;
      (2)   The place of business and location of distributing stations in the
city; and
      (3)   The name and address of the managing agent, the names and addresses
of the several persons constituting the firm or partnership and, if a
corporation, the corporate name under which it is authorized to transact
business, and the names and addresses of its principal officers and registered
agent.
   (D)   The application for a motor vehicle fuel dealer’s or subdealer’s
license having been accepted for filing, the city shall issue to the dealer or
subdealer a license in a form as the city may prescribe to transact business in
the city. The license so issued is not assignable, and is valid only for the
dealer or subdealer in whose name issued.
   (E)   The city shall keep and file all applications with an alphabetical
index thereof, together with a record of all licensed dealers and subdealers.
(Prior Code, § 35.050) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.051 FAILURE TO SECURE LICENSE.
   (A)   If any dealer or subdealer sells, distributes or uses any motor
vehicle fuel without first filing the certificate and securing the license
required by §
34.050, the license tax shall immediately be due and payable on account of all
motor vehicle fuel so sold, distributed or used. Each day of operation without
a license shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   The city shall proceed forthwith to determine from the best available
sources the amount of the tax, and it shall assess the tax in the amount found
due, together with a penalty of 100% of the tax, and shall make its certificate
of the assessment and penalty. In any suit or proceeding to collect the tax or
penalty or both, the certificate is prima facie evidence that the dealer or
subdealer therein named is indebted to the city in the amount of the tax and
penalty therein stated.
   (C)   Any tax or penalty so assessed may be collected in the manner
prescribed in §
34.055 with reference to delinquency in payment of the tax or by action at law.
(Prior Code, § 35.051) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.052 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The city shall revoke the license of any dealer or subdealer refusing or
neglecting to comply with any provision of this subchapter. The city shall
mail, by registered mail, addressed to the dealer or subdealer at his or her
last known address appearing in the files of the city, a notice of intention to
cancel. The notice shall give the reason for the cancellation. The cancellation
shall become effective without further notice if, within ten days from the
mailing of the notice, the dealer or subdealer has not made good his, her or
its default or delinquency.
(Prior Code, § 35.052) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.053 CANCELLATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The city may, upon written request of a dealer or subdealer, cancel
any license issued to the dealer or subdealer, the cancellation to become
effective 30 days from the date of receipt of the written request.
   (B)   If the city ascertains and finds that the person to whom a license has
been issued is no longer engaged in the business of a dealer or subdealer, the
city may cancel the license of the dealer or subdealer upon investigation after
30 days’ notice has been mailed to the last known address of the dealer or
subdealer.
(Prior Code, § 35.053) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.054 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   Except as otherwise provided in §§
34.055 and
34.057, the remedies provided in §§
34.051,
34.052 and
34.053 are cumulative. No action taken pursuant to those sections shall relieve
any person from the penalty provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.054) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.055 PAYMENT OF TAX AND DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   The license tax imposed by §§
34.047 and
34.048 shall be paid on or before the twenty-fifth day of each month to the
city, which upon request, shall receipt the dealer or subdealer therefor.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) below, to any license tax not paid
as required by division (A) above, there shall be added a penalty of 1% of the
license tax.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) below, if the tax and penalty
required by division (B) above are not received on or before the close of
business on the last day of the month in which the payment is due, a further
penalty of 10% shall be paid in addition to the penalty provided for in
division (B) above.
   (D)   If the city determines that the delinquency was due to reasonable
cause and without any intent to avoid payment, the penalties provided by
divisions (B) and (C) above shall be waived. Penalties imposed by this section
shall not apply when the penalty provided in §
34.051 has been assessed.
   (E)   If any person fails to pay the license tax or any penalty provided for
by this subchapter, the amount thereof shall be collected from the person for
the use of the city. The city shall commence and prosecute to final
determination in any court of competent jurisdiction an action at law to
collect the same.
   (F)   No dealer who collects from any person the tax provided for herein
shall knowingly and willfully fail to report and pay the same to the city as
required herein.
(Prior Code, § 35.055) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.056 MONTHLY STATEMENT OF DEALER.
   Every dealer or subdealer in motor vehicle fuel shall render to the city on
or before the twenty-fifth day of each month, on a form prescribed, prepared
and furnished by the city, a signed statement of the number of gallons of motor
vehicle fuel sold, distributed or used by him, her or them during the preceding
calendar month. The statement shall be signed by one of the principal officers,
or by an authorized agent in the case of a corporation; or by the managing
agent or owner in the case of a firm or association.
(Prior Code, § 35.056) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.057 FAILURE TO FILE MONTHLY STATEMENT.
   If any dealer or subdealer, except one subject to §
34.051, fails to file the report required by §
34.056, the city shall proceed forthwith to determine from the best available
source the amount of motor vehicle fuel sold, distributed or used by the dealer
or subdealer for the period unreported, and that determination shall be prima
facie evidence of the amount of the fuel sold, distributed or used. The city
immediately shall assess the license tax in the amount so determined, adding
thereto a penalty of 10% for failure to report. The penalty shall be cumulative
to other penalties provided in this subchapter. In any suit brought to enforce
the rights of the city under this section, the certificate of the city showing
the amount of tax, penalties and costs unpaid by any dealer or subdealer, and
that the same are due and unpaid to the city is prima facie evidence of the
facts as shown.
(Prior Code, § 35.057) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.058 BILLING; PURCHASES.
   Bills shall be rendered to all purchasers of motor vehicle fuel by dealers
or subdealers in motor vehicle fuel. The bills shall separately state and
describe to the satisfaction of the city the different products shipped
thereunder, and shall be serially numbered except where other sales invoice
controls acceptable to the city are maintained. The bills required hereunder
may be the same as, or incorporated in, those required under O.R.S. 319.210.
(Prior Code, § 35.058) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.059 FAILURE TO PROVIDE INVOICE OR DELIVERY TAG.
   No person shall receive and accept any shipment of motor vehicle fuel from
any dealer or subdealer, or pay for the same, or sell or offer the shipment for
sale, unless the shipment is accompanied by an invoice or delivery tag showing
the date upon which shipment was delivered, and the name of the dealer or
subdealer in motor vehicle fuel.
(Prior Code, § 35.059) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.060 EXEMPTION OF EXPORT FUEL.
   (A)   The license tax imposed by §§
34.047 and
34.048 shall not be imposed on motor vehicle fuel:
      (1)   Exported from the city by a dealer or subdealer; or
      (2)   Any publicly-owned body that is tax exempt – PUD, state highway,
armed forces and police agencies.
   (B)   In support of any exemption from license taxes claimed under this
section other than in the case of stock transfers or deliveries in his or her
own equipment, every dealer or subdealer must execute and file with the city an
export certificate in a form as shall be prescribed, prepared and furnished by
the city, containing a statement made by some person having actual knowledge of
the fact of the exportation, that the motor vehicle fuel has been exported from
the city, and giving any details with reference to the shipment as the city may
require. The city may demand of any dealer or subdealer any additional data as
is deemed necessary in support of the certificate, and failure to supply the
data will constitute a waiver of all right to exemption claimed by virtue of
the certificate. The city may, in a case where it believes no useful purpose
would be served by filing of an export certificate, waive the certificate.
   (C)   Any motor vehicle fuel carried from the city in the fuel tank or a
motor vehicle shall not be considered as exported from the city, except that a
refund of the tax may be paid on the fuel as provided in §
34.062(A)(4).
   (D)   No person shall, through false statement, trick or device, or
otherwise, obtain motor vehicle fuel for export as to which the city tax has
not been paid and fail to export the same, or any portion thereof, or cause the
motor vehicle fuel or any portion thereof not to be exported, or divert or
cause to be diverted the motor vehicle fuel or any portion thereof to be used,
distributed or sold in the city and fail to notify the city and the dealer or
subdealer from whom the motor vehicle fuel was originally purchased of his or
her act.
   (E)   No dealer, subdealer or other person shall conspire with any person to
withhold from export, or divert from export, or to return motor vehicle fuel to
the city or use as to avoid any of the fees imposed herein.
(Prior Code, § 35.060) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.061 FUEL IN VEHICLES COMING INTO THE CITY NOT TAXED.
   Any person coming into the city in a motor vehicle may transport in the fuel
tank of the vehicle motor vehicle fuel for his or her own use only and for the
purpose of operating the motor vehicle without securing a license or paying the
tax provided in §§
34.047 and
34.048, or complying with any of the provisions imposed upon dealers herein;
but if the motor vehicle fuel so brought into the city is removed from the fuel
tank of the vehicle or used for any purpose other than the propulsion of the
vehicle, the persons so importing the fuel into the city shall be subject to
all the provisions herein applying to dealers.
(Prior Code, § 35.061) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.062 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Any person who has paid any taxes on motor vehicle fuel imposed or
directed to be paid hereunder either directly by the collection of the tax by
the vendor from the consumer or indirectly by adding the amount of the tax to
the price of the fuel and paid by the consumer, shall be reimbursed and repaid
the amount of the tax paid by him or her, except as provided in §§
34.064 to
34.067, if the person has:
      (1)   Purchased and used the fuel for the purpose of operating or
propelling stationary engines, tractors or motor boats;
      (2)   Purchased and used fuel for cleaning or dyeing or other commercial
use, except when used in motor vehicles operated upon any highway;
      (3)   Purchased and exported the fuel from the city in containers other
than fuel supply tanks of motor vehicles;
      (4)   Purchased and exported the fuel in the fuel supply tank of a motor
vehicle and has used the fuel to operate the vehicle upon the highways of
another state, if the user has paid to the other state a similar motor vehicle
fuel fee or tax on the same fuel, or has paid any other highway use tax the
rate for which is increased because the fuel was not purchased in, and the fee
or tax thereon paid, to that state; or
      (5)   All publicly-owned bodies.
   (B)   When a motor vehicle with auxiliary equipment uses fuel and there is
no auxiliary motor for the equipment or separate tank for the motor, a refund
may be claimed and allowed as provided by division (D) below, except as
otherwise provided by this division (B), without the necessity of furnishing
proof of the amount of fuel used in the operation of the auxiliary equipment.
The person claiming the refund may present to the city a statement of his or
her claim and be allowed a refund as follows:
      (1)   For fuel used in pumping aircraft fuel, motor vehicle fuel, fuel or
heating oils or other petroleum products by a power take-off unit on a delivery
truck, refund shall be allowed the claimant for the tax paid on fuel purchased
at the rate of three-fourths of one gallon for each 1,000 gallons of petroleum
products delivered; and
      (2)   For fuel used in operating a power take-off unit on a cement mixer
truck or on a garbage truck, the claimant shall be allowed a refund of 25% of
the tax paid on all fuel used in the truck.
   (C)   When a person purchases and uses motor vehicle fuel in a vehicle
equipped with a power take-off unit, a refund may be claimed for fuel used to
operate the power take-off unit, provided the vehicle is equipped with a
metering device approved by the city and designed to operate only while the
vehicle is stationary and the parking brake is engaged; the quantity of fuel
measured by the metering device shall be presumed to be the quantity of fuel
consumed by the operation of the power take-off unit.
   (D)   Before any refund may be granted, the person claiming the refund must
present to the city a statement, accompanied by copies of the original invoices
showing the purchases; provided that in lieu of the invoices, refunds submitted
under division (A)(4) above shall be accompanied by information showing source
of fuel used and evidence of payment of fee or tax to the state in which the
fuel was used. The statement shall be made over the signature of the claimant,
and shall state the total amount of the fuel for which he or she is entitled to
be reimbursed under division (A) above. The city, upon the presentation of the
statement and invoices or other required documents, shall cause to be repaid to
the claimant from the taxes collected on motor vehicle fuel the taxes so paid
by the claimant.
(Prior Code, § 35.062) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.063 LIMITATION ON APPLICATIONS FOR REFUNDS.
   Applications for refunds made under §§
34.062,
34.066,
34.067 and
34.068 must be filed with the city before the expiration of 15 months from the
date of purchase or invoice, except that unused fuel reported as an ending
inventory on any claim may be included in a subsequent claim if presented not
later than 15 months from the filing date of the claim which established the
inventory. All applications for refunds based upon exportation of motor vehicle
fuel from the city in the fuel supply tank of a motor vehicle must be filed
with the city before the expiration of 15 months from the last day of the month
in which the fuel was used, or before the expiration of 15 months from the date
of an assessment for unpaid fee or tax by the state in which the fuel was used.
(Prior Code, § 35.063) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.064 SELLER TO GIVE INVOICE FOR EACH PURCHASE MADE BY PERSON ENTITLED TO
REFUND.
   (A)   When motor vehicle fuel is sold to a person who claims to be entitled
to a refund of the tax imposed, the seller of the motor vehicle fuel shall make
and deliver at the time of the sale separate invoices for each purchase in a
form and containing any information prescribed by the city.
   (B)   The invoices shall be legibly written and shall be void if any
corrections or erasures appear on the face thereof. Any person who alters any
part of any invoice that will tend to give to the claimant an illegal gain
shall have the entire claim invalidated. The seller shall for a period of at
least 18 months retain copies of all invoices and make them available to the
city upon request.
   (C)   The invoices required hereinunder may be the same as or incorporated
in those required under O.R.S. 319.300.
(Prior Code, § 35.064) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.065 CLAIM OF REFUNDS.
   (A)   The city may require any person who makes claim for refund of tax on
motor vehicle fuel to furnish a statement, under oath, giving his or her
occupation, description of the machines or equipment in which the motor vehicle
fuel was used, the place where used and any other information as the city may
require.
   (B)   The city may investigate claims and gather and compile any information
in regard to the claims as it considers necessary to safeguard the city and
prevent fraudulent practices in connection with tax refunds and evasions. The
city may, in order to establish the validity of any claim, examine the books
and records of the claimant for those purposes. The records shall be sufficient
to substantiate the accuracy of the claim and shall be in a form and contain
any information as the city may require. Failure of the claimant to maintain
the records or to accede to the demand for the examination constitutes a waiver
of all rights to the refund claimed on account of the transaction requested.
(Prior Code, § 35.065) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.066 REFUND OF TAX ON FUEL USED IN OPERATION OF VEHICLES OVER CERTAIN ROADS
OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except where a refund is authorized by this chapter, upon compliance
with divisions (B) and (C) below, the city shall refund in the manner provided
in division (B) or (C) below the tax on motor vehicle fuel that is used in the
operation of a motor vehicle:
      (1)   By any person on any road, thoroughfare or property in private
ownership;
      (2)   By any person on any road, thoroughfare or property, other than a
state highway, county road or city street, for the removal of forest products,
as defined in O.R.S. 321.005, or the products of forest products converted to a
form other than logs at or near the harvesting site, or for the construction or
maintenance of the road, thoroughfare or property, pursuant to a written
agreement or permit authorizing the use, construction or maintenance of the
road, thoroughfare or property, with or by:
         (a)   An agency of the United States;
         (b)   The State Board of Forestry;
         (c)   The State Forester; or
         (d)   A license of any agency named in divisions (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b)
or (A)(2)(c) above.
      (3)   By an agency of the United States or of the state, or of any
county, city or port of the state on any road, thoroughfare or property, other
than a state highway, county road or city street.
   (B)   Except for a farmer subject to division (C) below, the person or
agency, as the case may be, who has paid any tax on the motor vehicle fuels
imposed or directed to be paid, as provided herein, is entitled to claim a
refund of the tax so paid on the fuels or for the proportionate part of the tax
paid on fuels used in the operation of the vehicles, when part of the
operations are over the road, thoroughfares or property. The proportionate part
shall be based upon the number of miles traveled by the vehicle over the roads,
thoroughfares or property as compared with the total number of miles traveled
by the vehicle. To be eligible to claim this refund, the person or agency, as
the case may be, shall first establish and maintain a complete record of the
operations, miles traveled, gallons of fuel used and other information, in a
form and in any detail as the city may prescribe and require, the source of
supply of all fuels purchased or used, and the particular vehicles or equipment
in which used. Whenever any claim is received and approved by the city, it
shall cause the refund or tax to be paid to the claimant in like manner as
provided for paying of other refund claims.
   (C)   A farmer who has paid any tax on motor vehicle fuels imposed or
directed to be paid, as provided herein, is entitled to claim a refund of the
tax paid on the fuels used in farming operations in the operation of any motor
vehicle on any road, thoroughfare or property in private ownership. To be
eligible to claim the refund, a farmer shall maintain, in a form and in any
detail as the city may prescribe or require, a record, supported by purchase
invoices of all motor vehicle fuel purchased (including fuel purchased to
operate any motor vehicle on the highway) and, for each and every motor vehicle
operated on the highway, a record of all fuel used and of all miles traveled on
the highway. Whenever any claim is received and approved by the city, it shall
cause the refund of tax to be paid to the claimant in like manner as provided
for paying of other refund claims.
   (D)   As used in divisions (B) and (C) above, FARMER includes any person who
manages or conducts a farm for the production of livestock or crops, but does
not include a person who manages or conducts a farm for the production of
forest products, as defined in O.R.S. 321.005, or the products of the forest
products converted to a form other than logs at or near the harvesting site, or
of forest trees, unless the production of the forest products or forest trees
is only incidental to the primary purpose of the farming operation.
(Prior Code, § 35.066) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.067 REFUNDS TO PURCHASERS OF FUEL FOR AIRCRAFT.
   Whenever any statement and invoices are presented to the city showing that
motor vehicle fuel has been purchased and used in operating aircraft engines
and upon which the tax on motor vehicle fuel has been paid, the city shall
refund the tax paid.
(Prior Code, § 35.067) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.068 REFUND OF TAX ON FUEL USED IN TRANSPORTATION OF RURAL FREE DELIVERY OR
SPECIAL DELIVERY MAIL.
   (A)   All taxes collected by the city on the sale, use or distribution of
any motor vehicle fuel used exclusively in the transportation of rural free
delivery mail or special delivery mail of the United States shall be refunded
to the person paying the tax if the person is engaged solely and exclusively in
the transportation of rural free delivery mail or special delivery mail of the
United States.
   (B)   Any person engaged solely and exclusively in the transportation of
rural free delivery or special delivery mail of the United States, who buys any
motor vehicle fuel and uses it exclusively in the transportation of rural free
delivery mail or special delivery mail of the United States and who has paid
any tax on motor vehicle fuel, either directly by the collection of the tax by
the vendor from the consumer or indirectly by adding the amount of the tax to
the price of the fuel and paid by the consumer, shall be reimbursed and repaid
the amount of the tax paid by him or her upon presenting to the city a
statement accompanied by the original invoice showing the purchase. The
statement shall be made over the signature of the claimant and shall state the
total amount of fuel so purchased and used by the consumer for the
transportation of rural free delivery mail or special delivery mail of the
United States. The city, upon the presentation of the statement and the
voucher, shall cause to be repaid to the consumer from the taxes collected on
motor vehicle fuels, the taxes so paid by the consumer on motor vehicle fuels
so used.
(Prior Code, § 35.068) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.069 EXAMINATIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   The city, or its duly authorized agents, may make any examination of the
accounts, records, stocks, facilities and equipment of dealers, subdealers,
service stations and other persons engaged in storing, selling or distributing
motor vehicle fuel or other petroleum product or products within the city, and
any other investigations as it considers necessary in carrying out the
provisions of this subchapter, if the examinations or investigation disclose
that any reports of dealers, subdealers or other person theretofore filed with
the city pursuant to the requirements herein have shown incorrectly the amount
of gallonage of motor vehicle fuel distributed or the tax accruing thereon, the
city may make changes in subsequent reports and payments to the dealers,
subdealers or other persons, or may make any refunds as may be necessary to
correct the errors disclosed by its examinations or investigations.
(Prior Code, § 35.069) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.070 LIMITATION ON CREDIT FOR OR REFUND OF OVERPAYMENT AND ON ASSESSMENT OF
ADDITIONAL TAX.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, any credit for
erroneous overpayment of tax made by a dealer or subdealer taken on a
subsequent return or any claim for refund of tax erroneously overpaid filed by
a dealer or subdealer must be so taken or filed within three years after the
date on which the overpayment was made to the city.
   (B)   Except in the case of fraudulent report or neglect to make a report,
every notice of additional tax proposed to be assessed under this subchapter
shall be served on dealers and subdealers within three years from the date upon
which the additional taxes become due.
(Prior Code, § 35.070) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.071 RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY DEALERS.
   Every dealer or subdealer in motor vehicle fuel shall keep a record in a
form as may be prescribed by the city of all purchases, receipts, sales and
distribution of motor fuel. The records shall include copies of all invoices or
bills of all these sales, and shall at all times during the business hours of
the day be subject to inspection by the city or its deputies or other officers
duly authorized by the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.071) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.072 RECORDS TO BE KEPT THREE YEARS.
   (A)   Every dealer and subdealer shall maintain and keep, for the period of
three years, all records of motor vehicle fuel used, sold and distributed
within the city by the dealer or subdealer, together with stock records,
invoices, bills of lading and other pertinent papers as may be required by the
city.
   (B)   In the event the records are not kept within the state, the dealer or
subdealer shall reimburse the city for all travel, lodging and related expenses
incurred by the city in examining the records. The amount of these expenses
shall be additional tax imposed hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 35.072) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.073 USE OF TAX REVENUES.
   Revenues from the tax imposed by this subchapter remaining after providing
for the cost of refunds and credits authorized herein shall be used for the
construction, reconstruction, improvement, repair, maintenance and lighting of
city streets proportionally as shown in the table below:
 
$0.0099 for street lighting and miscellaneous road repair 33% total revenues
$0.0201 for major road improvements                       67% total revenues
 
(Prior Code, § 35.073) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982; Ord. 1177, passed 8-5-
2002; Ord. 1223, passed 9-17-2007; Ord. 1234, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 34.074 ATTORNEY FEES.
   In the event the city is the prevailing party in any action brought to
enforce any provision of this subchapter, the city shall be entitled to recover
in addition to all other relief granted a reasonable attorney fee from the
opposing party.
(Prior Code, § 35.074) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.075 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective on the thirtieth day following its
adoption.
(Prior Code, § 35.075) (Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982)
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS; ASSESSMENTS
§ 34.090 POWERS OF COUNCIL.
   Whenever the City Council shall decide it is in the general health, safety
and/or welfare of its citizens, upon its own motion or upon the signed petition
of the owners of more than one-half of the property to benefit from the public
improvement, the Council may construct any public improvement and repair or
otherwise maintain or relay the same whenever it may deem that the public
health, safety and/or welfare interest may require. The Council may then assess
all or part of the cost thereof on the property benefitted directly by the
improvement or repair, ordering the improvement or repair of the same in the
manner herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 35.090) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.091 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BENEFITTED PROPERTY. The real property within the boundaries of the survey.
   CITY. The City of Tillamook, its City Council, employees, agents and/or
assigns.
   CONSTRUCT. Construct, lay, maintain, reconstruct and/or otherwise repair a
public improvement.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the city composed of its elected or appointed
Councilors.
   DAY. Calendar day, unless otherwise specified.
   IMPROVEMENT or PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any street, sidewalk, sanitary sewer,
storm sewer, water system, street lights, curbs, gutters or other
infrastructure system of any kind constructed by or on behalf of city,
including, but not limited to, the acquisition of machinery and/or structures
of any kind with an expected useful life of one year or more.
   OWNER. Owner, owner’s agent and/or assign, including any contract purchaser
or tenant, and in that priority order.
   RECORDER or CITY RECORDER. City Recorder, as defined in the City Charter.
   REMONSTRANCE. A written petition of any kind by an individual or group,
timely presented by the date and time of public hearing, to the Council urging
the contemplated action not be adopted or passed.
   STRUCTURE. As defined by O.R.S. 310.140.
(Prior Code, § 35.091) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.092 REPORT OF ESTIMATED COSTS AND PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING DESIGN.
   (A)   Whenever the Council decides to construct a public improvement where
the cost of which is to be assessed to the benefitted property, a written
report and survey shall be prepared by an engineer, surveyor and/or other
similarly skilled person describing the improvement and benefitted property.
   (B)   The report shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A detailed map or plat showing the location, size, shape,
topography and other relevant physical characteristics of the proposed
improvement and benefitted property;
      (2)   The estimated cost of the improvement, including any legal,
administrative and preliminary engineering design costs attributable thereto;
however, where the proposed project is to be carried out in cooperation with
any other governmental agency, the City Council may adopt the plans,
specifications and estimates of that agency;
      (3)   An estimate of the unit cost of the improvement to the specially
benefitted properties;
      (4)   A recommended method of assessment to arrive at a fair
apportionment of the whole, or any portion thereof, cost of the improvement to
the property specially benefitted;
      (5)   The common and legal descriptions and assessed value of each lot,
parcel of land or portion thereof, to be specially benefitted by the
improvement, with the names of the record owners thereof, and, when readily
available, the names of the contract purchasers thereof (addition, lot, block
and tax lot); and
      (6)   A statement of outstanding assessments against property to be
assessed. The survey and report shall be filed and kept on file in the office
of the City Recorder. The Council may approve the survey and report or resubmit
the same to the person and/or engineer for modification or change. If the
Council shall find the report and estimates to be satisfactory either as
originally submitted or as modified, it may approve the same, or it may abandon
the public improvement. The City Council, thereupon, by resolution, shall
declare its purpose or intention to construct, lay, maintain, reconstruct or
repair the public improvement according to the survey and report.
(Prior Code, § 35.092) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.093 NOTICE AND PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   The City Recorder shall cause advanced actual and/or constructive
notice of the proposed improvement to occur upon benefitted property owners by
posting, mailing, personal service and/or publication.
   (B)   Notice shall occur not less than ten days prior to the first public
hearing on the improvement. The notice shall:
      (1)   Specify the date, time and place of the public hearing;
      (2)   Specify the public purpose, location and estimated cost of the
improvement;
      (3)   Refer to the improvement’s survey and report; and
      (4)   Specify the deadline by which written objections and/or
remonstrances, if any, must be filed with the city. This deadline shall not be
less than ten days following notice nor longer than the date of the last public
hearing, unless Council directs otherwise at the hearing.
   (C)   OWNER for purposes of notice by mail are those persons identified on
county and/or city assessment rolls on the date of mailing the notice.
(Prior Code, § 35.093) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.094 REMONSTRANCES.
   At any time after notice and before the deadline in §
34.093(B)(4), the owner of any benefitted property may file a remonstrance. The
Council, upon considering all remonstrances, may, in its discretion,
discontinue the proceedings on the improvement. There shall only be one
remonstrance per individual, benefitted property parcel for purposes of any
numeric calculation under this subchapter. However, if owners of two-thirds of
the benefitted property remonstrate, then the city shall discontinue current
proceedings on the improvement and the city shall not raise the same
proceedings within six months following the decision to discontinue. If owners
of less than two-thirds of benefitted property remonstrate, the city may then
decide whether to construct the improvement.
(Prior Code, § 35.094) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.095 JURISDICTION.
   Upon the city’s decision to construct the improvement, all benefitted
property shall be liable for a proportionate share of improvement costs as
prescribed by this subchapter and the Council, unless otherwise exempted by the
Council or law.
(Prior Code, § 35.095) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.096 METHOD OF ASSESSMENT; NOTICE OF PROPOSED ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   When the City Council shall have determined the whole cost of the
construction of the public improvement, the City Recorder shall apportion the
cost thereof upon the lots, parts of the lots and parcels of land in the areas
where the improvements have been constructed in accordance with the benefit
derived by each lot, part of lot or parcel of land. The City Recorder shall
apportion the cost in direct proportion to the front footage of the property
and/or the area of the lot or parcel affected, or combination of both, in
relation to the total cost of the improvement, including engineering,
superintending, construction of the improvement, the cost of advertising and
all other costs connected therewith. The City Recorder shall give notice of the
same by publishing at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city for a period of not less than seven days, and by mailing a copy of the
notice to the owner, agent of the owner or person in possession of the property
proposed to be assessed, addressed to the mailing address of the owner, all as
disclosed by the tax assessment rolls of the county, at the time of the mailing
of the notice.
   (B)   Notice shall specify the whole cost of the improvement; the share so
apportioned to each lot, parts of lots or parcels of land; the date the final
assessment decision will come before the City Council for a public hearing; and
the date, not less than 20 days from the date of mailing of the notice, within
which written objections to any proposed apportionment and assessment may be
made to the City Council and filed with the City Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 35.096) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.097 HEARING OF REMONSTRANCES; DOCKETING OF LIENS.
   At the time specified in the notice, or at any other subsequent time as the
City Council may fix, the Council shall hear any and all objections and
remonstrances to the proposed assessment, and thereafter may modify the
proposed assessment as the Council may deem necessary to secure a just
apportionment of benefit to the lots, parts of lots and parcels of benefitted
property. Thereafter, the City Council shall then declare the assessments by
resolution, order or ordinance directing the City Recorder to enter the
assessments in a docket called “docket of city public works liens”.
(Prior Code, § 35.097) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.098 NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT.
   Thereupon, the City Recorder shall mail notices of assessment in the same
manner as provided herein for notices of proposed assessments.
(Prior Code, § 35.098) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.099 BENEFITTED PROPERTY.
   Each lot, part of lot or parcel of land shall be deemed to be benefitted by
the public improvement to the full amount of the assessment levied thereon.
(Prior Code, § 35.099) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.100 ERRORS NOT TO DEFEAT ASSESSMENT; REASSESSMENT.
   No assessment shall be deemed invalid by reason of failure to enter the
names of the owner of any lot, part of lot or parcel of land so assessed, or by
a mistake in the name of the owner or the entry of a name other than the name
of the owner in the assessment, or in any acts or proceedings connected
therewith. No delays, mistakes, errors or irregularities in any act or
proceedings in the construction of a public improvement shall prejudice or
invalidate any final assessment; but the same may be remedied by subsequent and
amended acts or proceedings or, if found by decree of any court to be invalid,
the Council may proceed by ordinances to reassess the property benefitted by
reason of the construction of the public improvement in a manner provided by
O.R.S. 223.405 to 223.485, inclusive.
(Prior Code, § 35.100) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.101 RECORD OF MAILING; MISTAKE IN MAILING.
   A record may be kept of the mailing of any notice prescribed to be mailed in
connection with any of the proceedings in relation to the proceedings assessing
the costs of construction of the public improvement. Failure to mail, any
mistake in mailing of or a mistake in the notice shall not be fatal when notice
is posted as herein required.
(Prior Code, § 35.101) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.102 PROCEEDINGS PRESUMED REGULAR.
   In any action, suit or proceeding in any court concerning any assessment of
property or for the collection of the assessment, all proceedings connected
therewith shall be presumed to be regular and to have been done in accordance
with the methods and provisions herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 35.102) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.103 DOCKETING OF LIENS; PRIORITY OF LIENS.
   The docket of the city public improvements liens shall contain the date of
entry, the number or letter of each lot assessed and the number or letter of
the block, the name of the addition or additions of which it is a part, and a
description of each unplatted tract or parcel of land, and the name of the
owner, or the entry of a name other than that of the true owner in the lien
docket, shall not render void any assessment, nor in any way affect the lien of
the city on the property described in the docket. The docket of city public
improvements liens is a public writing, and the original or certified copies of
any matter authorized to be entered therein are entitled to the force and
effect thereof, and from the date of entry therein of any assessment upon a lot
or part thereof, the sum so entered is to be deemed a lien thereon, which lien
shall have priority over all other liens or encumbrances thereon whatsoever to
the extent allowed by law.
(Prior Code, § 35.103) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.104 PAYMENT OF ASSESSMENTS.
   All assessments shall be due and payable on and after 20 days from the date
of the mailing of notice of assessment. Any owner of any property so assessed,
at any time within 20 days after notice of the assessment is given, may file
with the City Recorder a written application to pay the assessment in
installments. Interest on installments shall commence 20 days from the date of
mailing of the notice of assessment.
(Prior Code, § 35.104) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.105 APPLICATION FOR INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS.
   The written application shall state that the applicant and property owner
does thereby waive all irregularities or defects, jurisdictional or otherwise,
in the proceedings to make the public improvement for which the assessment is
levied and in the apportionment of the costs thereof. The application shall
provide that the applicant and property owner agrees to pay the assessment in
20 semiannual installments (or any other number of installment payments as the
Council by resolution may prescribe), with interest at the current rate of
interest for commercial loans or the rate of a bond sale, whichever the City
Council deems appropriate on all of the assessment which has not been paid,
plus 0.5% as an installment application fee. The application shall also contain
a statement by lot or block, or other convenient description of the property of
the applicant assessed for the improvement. No assessment shall be deemed
invalid, nor shall any application be refused, for installment payment of
assessment in the event the assessment shall be greater than the amount of
assessed valuation as disclosed on the tax records of the county, at the time
of assessment. Also, an application under §
34.111(C) shall be considered a separate application here for each lot or
parcel such that a separate installment fee described here shall be charged.
(Prior Code, § 35.105) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.106 RECORDS OF INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS.
   The City Recorder shall prepare records for installment payment of the
public improvement assessments, and the applications received for each
assessment shall be kept separate. The City Recorder shall further enter under
separate heads for each public improvement the date of filing of each
application, the name of the applicant, the description of the property and the
amount of assessment shown in the application.
(Prior Code, § 35.106) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.107 DOCKETING OF ASSESSMENT LIENS; MANNER OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   After expiration of the time for filing the application for
installment payment of assessment, the City Recorder shall enter in a docket
kept for that purpose a description of each lot or part of lot or parcel of
land, or other property against which the assessment is made, bears or is
chargeable, for the cost of the improvement, with the name of the owner and the
amount of the unpaid assessment. This docket shall stand thereafter as a lien
docket for costs assessed and levied in favor of the city on the unpaid
assessments at the current rate of interest for commercial loans or the rate of
bond sale, whichever is deemed appropriate by the City Council against each lot
or parcel of land or other property, until the assessment and interest are
paid.
   (B)   All unpaid assessments and interest are a lien on each lot or parcel
of land or other property, respectively, in favor of the city and shall have
priority over all other liens, to the extent allowed by law, and encumbrances
whatsoever, and shall be payable semiannually for ten successive years, unless
otherwise prescribed by the Council, to the city by the owner of each lot, part
of lot or parcel of land assessed for the public improvement whose application
to pay the assessments of the improvement has been filed as herein provided.
The first payment shall be due and payable at the expiration of six months from
the date of the assessment in the public works lien docket, and subsequent
payments and like amounts at the expiration of each semi-annual period
thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 35.107) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.108 DOCKET OF ENTRIES OF PAYMENTS DUE AND PAYMENTS MADE.
   The City Recorder shall, when installments and interest thereon are due,
make the proper entry of the installment and interest, and notify the property
owner that the installment and interest are due. However, failure of any owner
to receive the notification shall not prevent collection of the installments.
The City Recorder or other authorized city officer shall issue a receipt to the
person paying the installment and interest and shall file duplicates of the
receipts with the City Recorder or other city officer designated by the City
Council; and proper entries shall be made on the city public improvement lien
docket showing all payments made thereon. It is further provided that any time
after application for installment payments shall have been made, any owner of
any property against which the assessment is made and lien docketed may pay to
the City Recorder the whole amount of the assessment for which the lien is
docketed, together with the full amount of interest and costs accrued thereon
to date of payment, and, upon payment thereof, the City Recorder shall enter
upon the public improvement lien docket the fact and date of the payment and
that the lien is discharged.
(Prior Code, § 35.108) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.109 DISPOSITION OF PAYMENTS ON ASSESSMENTS.
   The City Recorder, upon receiving any funds for the public improvement
assessments, shall deposit the funds per the public improvement resolution.
(Prior Code, § 35.109) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.110 ENFORCEMENT OF LIENS.
   In addition to any other remedy available and all methods in this subchapter
for the enforcement and collection of assessments made, payment shall be
enforced in the manner in O.R.S. 223.505 to 223.650, inclusive.
(Prior Code, § 35.110) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.111 SEGREGATION OF ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever property which has been assessed as an entire tract or parcel
is subsequently divided into two or more lots or parcels, any person having an
ownership interest in any portion of the property divided may make application
to the City Council for a segregation of the assessment lien. In cases where
the City Council deems a segregation to be appropriate, fair and equitable to
the city and all other property owners, it shall make the final determination
as to the amounts of the assessment lien to be segregated and placed upon each
parcel involved in each segregation procedure.
   (B)   Applications for the segregation of assessment liens shall be on forms
provided by the city. The form shall contain, among other items, the following:
      (1)   A legal description of the original tract, either by lot and block
or metes and bounds, as the case may be;
      (2)   Legal descriptions of each parcel or tract after the original tract
is divided;
      (3)   The square foot area of each parcel or tract;
      (4)   Registered surveyor’s map which shows the location of each tract
with legal descriptions and square footage of each tract;
      (5)   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of all persons, firms and
corporations having an interest, legal or equitable, as owners, lessee,
mortgagee, beneficiary under trust deed or otherwise, as to each parcel or
tract;
      (6)   Copies of contracts, deeds and other documents and instruments
executed to effect a division of the original parcel;
      (7)   Competent appraisals or other evidence satisfactory to the City
Council disclosing the fair cash market value of each tract;
      (8)   Every person, firm and corporation having an interest, legal or
equitable in all tracts which comprise the original tract shall join in the
application for segregation;
      (9)   A waiver of any irregularity in any part of the proceedings
resulting in the assessment lien, including the manner, form, procedure and
amount of lien, and the amount of the lien is acknowledged as a valid and
subsisting lien against the property;
      (10)   Acknowledgment that even though the full amount of the prorated
portion of an assessment lien is paid with respect to the parcel or tract
divided and segregated from the original tract, the property which is the
subject of the application for segregation is still subject to the obligations
of the bond issue in existence for the financing of the project which gave rise
to the assessment lien, including, but not limited to, the city’s obligation to
cause to be levied taxes on all property, including the applicants’ segregated
property, to pay the principal and interest on the existing bond indebtedness;
and
      (11)   Agreement that the entire amount of the portion of the assessment
lien found under division (A) above to be segregated and placed upon the parcel
divided from the original tract, will be paid by applicants upon the final
determinations being made by the City Council.
   (C)   (1)   An application under this section shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable fee of $250. The amount of the fee may be subsequently or later
revised by resolution of the City Council.
      (2)   An application under this section shall be also considered a
separate application under §
34.105 for each lot or parcel. A separate installment payment application fee
of 0.5% of the original assessment shall be charged for each additional parcel
or lot created.
   (D)   No application for segregation of an assessment lien shall be
considered or approved by the City Council if any of the following exist:
      (1)   The assessment lien on the original parcel or tract is in default
in payment of principal or interest, or the property or the owners or
possessors thereof are in violation of any zoning, land use or building laws,
ordinances or regulations;
      (2)   The existence of, or threatened raising of, a question of the
validity of an assessment lien by anyone having an interest in the tract or
parcel on which the lien is sought to be segregated;
      (3)   The existence of litigation pertaining either directly or
indirectly to the validity of the assessment lien;
      (4)   Failure of the applicant to waive any irregularity in any part of
the proceedings which resulted in the assessment lien, including the manner,
form, procedure and amount of lien, and/or failure to acknowledge as valid and
subsisting the assessment lien against the original parcel or tract;
      (5)   Failure of the applicant to acknowledge and agree that, even though
the full amount of the prorated portion of the assessment lien is paid with
respect to the tract divided from the original parcel, the property which is
the subject of the application for segregation of an assessment lien is still
subject to the obligations of the bond issue in existence for the financing of
the project which gave rise to the assessment lien, including, but not limited
to, the city’s obligation to cause to be levied taxes on all property,
including the applicants’ property, to pay the principal and interest on the
bond issue;
      (6)   Any division or partition of the original parcel of property which
would be contrary to or in violation of any zoning, land use or building laws,
ordinances, rules or regulations;
      (7)   Any division which would leave a splinter or unbuildable lot, or
which may prejudice the city’s security for payment of principal or interest on
the bond issue;
      (8)   Failure of applicants to furnish the required information or to
execute the application in the form required; or
      (9)   Any fact or condition which the City Council finds may prejudice
the interest of the city.
   (E)   Upon consideration of an application, the City Council, upon finding
that divisions (E)(1) through (E)(3) below apply, shall by resolution order the
City Recorder to discharge the portion of the assessment lien apportioned to
the subject property upon receipt of payment to the city of the amount
determined and set forth in the resolution by the City Council:
      (1)   The application meets the requirements of this section;
      (2)   The application may be granted as requested, or as may be amended,
without prejudice to the rights and security of the city; and
      (3)   The segregation portion of the assessment lien apportioned to the
property which is the subject of the application is determined to be in a
specified amount.
   (F)   In the event the City Council determines that an application for
segregation should be denied because the interests of the city may be
prejudiced, appropriate notation thereof shall be made in the minutes.
(Prior Code, § 35.111) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.112 CONSISTENCY WITH STATE LAW.
   Insofar as possible, this subchapter shall be construed to be consistent
with O.R.S. 310.140 et seq. and State Constitution, Article XI, § 11b.
(Prior Code, § 35.112) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 34.113 CONSTRUCTION AND INTERPRETATION.
   The headings of the sections or divisions of this subchapter are intended
for information only and shall not be used to interpret section or division
contents. The city shall be the sole interpreter of this subchapter. The city
expressly does not adopt any prior interpretation of any definitions, phrases
or words used in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.113) (Ord. 1157, passed 9-7-1999)
IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURES GENERALLY; REQUIREMENTS FOR DEVELOPER
§ 34.130 AGREEMENT FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Before a land divider or other developer can receive approval for the
improvement of land, he or she shall execute and file with the City Recorder an
agreement between himself or herself and the city specifying the period –
following approval – within which he or she or his or her agent or contractor
shall complete all improvement work required by or pursuant to the applicable
city plans, policies and laws, and providing that, if he or she shall fail to
complete the work within the period, the city may complete the work and recover
the full cost and expense thereof from the developer. The agreement shall also
provide for reimbursement of the city by the developer for the cost of
inspection by the City Engineer. The agreement may also provide for an
extension of time under conditions therein specified.
(Prior Code, § 35.130) (Ord. 911, passed 12-5-1977)
§ 34.131 BOND.
   (A)   The land divider or other developer shall file with the agreement, to
assure his or her full and faithful performance thereof, one of the following:
      (1)   A surety bond executed by a surety company authorized to transact
business in the state;
      (2)   A person bond cosigned by at least one additional person who shall
not be related to the developer by blood or affinity. The developer and
cosigner shall submit evidence of financial responsibility, and the financial
resources of those signing the bond shall provide reasonable assurances of the
ability of the developer to proceed in accordance with the agreement; or
      (3)   Cash.
   (B)   The assurance of full and faithful performance shall be in a form
approved by the City Attorney and for a sum approved by the City Manager as
sufficient to cover the cost of the improvements, engineering, inspection and
incidental expenses, and to cover replacement and repair of existing streets
and other public improvements damaged in the development of the land. This
shall not be construed to include normal wear and tear on existing public
facilities which occurs from any lawful use of vehicles and equipment.
Notification to the developer of the city of the damage shall be within 210
days from the completion of the project. Completion of improvement work will
not be assumed until inspected and accepted by the city. A bond agreement for a
development may terminate after one year from the inspection or acceptance of
the project. Acceptance of a particular portion of the project for a declining
bond agreement may be authorized by the city.
   (C)   If the developer fails to complete the improvement work in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter and other requirements of the city and
the city has completed the work, or if the developer shall fail to reimburse
the city for the cost of inspection, engineering and incidental expenses and to
cover cost of replacement and repair of existing streets or other improvements
damaged in the development of the land, the city shall call on the surety for
reimbursement, or shall appropriate from any cash deposits funds for
reimbursement. In any case, if the amount of surety bond or cash deposit
exceeds the cost and expense incurred by the city, it shall release the
remainder; and if the amount of the surety bond or cash deposit is less than
the cost and expense incurred by the city, the developer shall be liable to the
city for the difference.
(Prior Code, § 35.131) (Ord. 911, passed 12-5-1977)
§ 34.132 IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In addition to other requirements, improvements installed in the city
by a developer either as a requirement of the city or at his or her own option
shall conform to the requirements of this subchapter, the Superintendent of
Streets and applicable city plans, policies and laws. In the event of a
conflict between this subchapter and the APWA Standard Specifications for
Public Works Construction, this subchapter shall take precedence.
   (B)   The improvements shall be installed in accordance with the following
procedure:
      (1)   Work shall not begin until plans have been checked for adequacy and
approved by the City Manager and Street Superintendent. To the extent necessary
for evaluation of the land development proposal, the plans may be required
before approval of the plan of development, such as the tentative plan of a
subdivision;
      (2)   Work shall not begin until the city has been notified at least 24
hours in advance; and if work is discontinued for two weeks or more without
reasonable cause and/or explanation by the developer, it shall not be resumed
until the city has been notified;
      (3)   Improvements shall be constructed under the inspection and to the
satisfaction of the city. The city may require changes in typical sections and
details in the public interest if unusual conditions arise during construction
to warrant the change;
      (4)   Underground utilities, sanitary sewers and storm drains installed
in streets shall be constructed prior to the surfacing of the streets or as
specifically set forth in the plans. Stubs for service connections for
underground utilities and sanitary sewers shall be placed to a length obviating
the necessity for disturbing the street improvements when service connections
are made; and
      (5)   A map showing public improvements as built shall be filed with the
City Manager upon completion of the improvements.
(Prior Code, § 35.132) (Ord. 911, passed 12-5-1977)
§ 34.133 IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Improvements to be installed as part of a land development at the expense of
a land developer are as follows.
   (A)   Streets. Streets shall conform to the specifications of applicable
plans, policies and laws of the city. These specifications include location,
grading, width, paving, curbs, gutters and drainage. The subdivider or other
land developer shall improve the extension of all streets within his or her
development to the centerline of existing streets. This includes any necessary
arterial extension to the development.
   (B)   Drainage. Drainage of surface water shall be provided as required by
applicable plans, policies and laws.
   (C)   Structures. Structures specified as necessary by the city for
drainage, access and public safety shall be installed.
   (D)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be constructed as required by the City
Planning Commission.
   (E)   Sewers. Sanitary sewer facilities connecting with the existing city
sewer system shall be installed to each building site. When the existing sewage
collection lines are inadequate to serve the proposed development, the expense
of improving the lines shall be shared by the developer. The developer’
   (F)   Water. Water mains and fire hydrants of design, layout and locations
approved by the Water Superintendent as conforming to the City Water Commission
standards shall be installed and connected with the existing city water system.
When the existing water distribution lines are inadequate to serve the proposed
development, the expense of improving the lines shall be shared by the
developer. The developer’s share in the improvements shall be determined by the
Water Commission. If the Planning Commission is advised by the Water Commission
that providing hookups to the city water system is not feasible due to extreme
distance or soil conditions, approval may be given for a substitute system.
   (G)   Street trees. Street trees may be required by the Planning Commission
independently or upon recommendation of the Tree Committee upon its adoption.
   (H)   Monuments. Monuments shall be placed at all lot and block corners,
angle points of curves in streets, at intermediate points and shall be of
material, size and length as required by state law for subdivisions. Monuments
that are disturbed before improvements are completed by the developer shall be
replaced to conform to the requirements of state law for subdivisions.
   (I)   Underground utility and service facilities. The placement of all
utility lines, including, but not limited to, those required for electric,
communication, lighting and cable television services and related facilities,
shall be the responsibility of the developer and may be placed underground if
he or she so wishes.
   (J)   Street light standards. Street lights shall be installed in locations
recommended by the Planning Commission in accordance with applicable city
plans, policies and laws.
   (K)   Street signs. Street name signs shall be installed at street
intersections. Other signs may be required upon the recommendation of the city
staff or Planning Commission. Streets shall be dedicated and named in
accordance with appropriate state laws.
(Prior Code, § 35.133) (Ord. 911, passed 12-5-1977)
§ 34.134 APPEALS.
   A developer or any interested person may appeal a determination made in the
enforcement of this subchapter by the following procedure: a determination made
by a member of the staff of the city or an agent or designee of the city may be
appealed to the City Manager, who then will rule on the matter. If the
appellant does not concur with the ruling of the City Manager or if the City
Manager fails to rule within 30 days after the matter is brought to his or her
attention, the appellant may make written appeal to the City Council of the
city. The written appeal must be made within ten days following the ruling by
the City Manager or following expiration of the 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 35.134) (Ord. 911, passed 12-5-1977)
REIMBURSEMENT DISTRICTS
§ 34.145 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person, as defined in this section, who is required or chooses
to finance some or all of the cost of street, water or sewer improvement that
is available to provide service to property, other than property owned by the
person, and who applies to the city for reimbursement for the expense of the
improvement. The APPLICANT may be the city.
   CITY. The City of Tillamook, its City Council, employees, agents and/or
assigns.
   CITY ENGINEER. The person holding the position of City Engineer or any
individual designated or providing the necessary engineering services by the
Council or City Manager to perform the duties set out within this subchapter.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the city, composed of its elected or appointed
Councilors.
   PERSON. A natural person, the person’s heirs, executors, administrators or
assigns; a firm, partnership, corporation, association or legal entity, its or
their successors or assigns; and any agent, employee or any representative
thereof.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT and PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS. Any construction, reconstruction
or upgrading of water, sanitary sewer or stormwater line; public street
(including bicycle lane) or sidewalk or under-grounding of public utilities.
   REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT. The agreement between an applicant and the city
that is authorized by the Council and executed by the City Manager, providing
for the installation of and payment for reimbursement district public
improvements.
   REIMBURSEMENT DISTRICT. The area that is determined by the Council to derive
a benefit from the construction of public improvements, financed in whole or in
part by the applicant, and includes property that has the opportunity to
utilize the improvements.
   REIMBURSEMENT FEE. The fee required to be paid by a resolution of the
Council and the reimbursement agreement. The Council resolution and
reimbursement agreement shall determine the boundaries of the reimbursement
district and shall determine the methodology for imposing a fee that considers
the cost of reimbursing the applicant for financing the construction of public
improvements within the reimbursement district. The term REIMBURSEMENT FEE does
not include any local improvement district assessment or any system development
charge established by state law or established by the city.
   SEWER IMPROVEMENT. A sewer, a sewer pump station or sewer line improvement
conforming with city standards and including, but not limited to, extending
sewer line to property, other than property owned by the applicant, so that
sewer service can be provided for the other property without further extension
of the line.
   STORMWATER IMPROVEMENT. A stormwater or stormwater line improvement
conforming with city standards and including, but not limited to, extending a
stormwater line to property, other than property owned by the applicant, so
that stormwater disposal for the property can be provided without further
extension of the line.
   STREET IMPROVEMENT. A street or street improvement conforming with city
standards and including, but not limited to, street, storm drain, curb, gutter,
sidewalk, bike path, traffic control device, street tree, light and sign and
public right-of-way.
   UTILIZE. To use or benefit from a public improvement, to apply for a
building or other permit that will allow for the use or increase in the use of
a public improvement or to connect to a public improvement.
   WATER IMPROVEMENT. A water or water line improvement conforming with city
standards and including, but not limited to, extending water line to property,
other than properly owned by the applicant, so that water service can be
provided for the other property without further extension of the line.
(Prior Code, § 35.150) (Ord. 1241, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 1254, passed 1-3-
2011)
§ 34.146 APPLICATION FOR A REIMBURSEMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any applicant who finances some or all of the cost of a public
improvement available to provide service or benefit to property other than
property owned by that person may, by written application filed with the City
Manager, request the city establish a reimbursement district. The improvement
must be in a size greater than that which would otherwise ordinarily be
required or must be available to provide service to property other than that
owned by the applicant. Examples include, but shall not be limited to:
      (1)   Full-street improvements instead of half-street improvements;
      (2)   Off-site sidewalks;
      (3)   Connection of street sections for continuity;
      (4)   Extension of water lines;
      (5)   Extension of sewer lines;
      (6)   Sewer pump station;
      (7)   Parks; and
      (8)   Undergrounding of public utilities.
   (B)   The application may be submitted to the city prior to the installation
of the public improvement.
   (C)   The application shall include the following:
      (1)   A description of the location, type, size and cost of the public
improvements to be eligible for reimbursement;
      (2)   A map showing the properties to be included in the proposed
reimbursement district; the zoning district for the properties; the front
footage and/or square footage of the properties, or similar data necessary for
calculating the apportionment of the cost; and a listing of the property or
properties owned by the applicant;
      (3)   The actual or estimated cost of the improvements as evidenced by
bid, projection of the cost of labor and materials or other evidence
satisfactory to the City Engineer;
      (4)   The estimated date of completion of the public improvements;
      (5)   The applicant may request a discretionary annual fee adjustment,
which, if granted, will be administered pursuant to §
34.155(E);
      (6)   An acknowledgment by the applicant that the applicant agrees to
indemnify, defend and hold harmless the city, its elected officials, appointed
officials, employees and agents from any and all claims that may arise from the
creation or administration of the district. This acknowledgment shall release
the city, its elected officials, appointed officials, employees and agents from
any and all claims that reimbursement fees were improperly collected, collected
in the wrong amount or not collected at all, for any reason, including
negligence on the part of the city, its elected officials, appointed officials,
employees and agents. The applicant shall acknowledge that the applicant
accepts all risk that reimbursement will not occur, or will not occur in the
amount or within the time expected by the applicant; and
      (7)   The applicant shall provide proof of ownership in the form of a
description of the type of company (corporation, LLC, partnership and the like)
as well as the designation of the authorized signatories.
   (D)   All applications must be accompanied by a fee in an amount sufficient
to cover the cost of administrative review and notice required by this
subchapter as set by City Council resolution.
   (E)   If an application is submitted after the construction of the public
improvements, the application must also include the date the city accepted the
public improvements and evidence of the actual cost of the improvements shown
by receipt, invoice or other documents. An application will not be complete
until all the information is submitted to the city. Following the construction,
the applicant shall provide the following information for review and approval
by the city: letter of donated capital showing the cost of the installation, a
warranty deed releasing all interest in the improvements, a lien release from
the contractor and applicant stating that all contractors, subcontractors and
suppliers have been paid, an acceptance letter from the Engineer or city
stating the improvements are in accordance with city standards. The applicant
shall provide lien releases from all contractors, subcontractors and suppliers
as a strict condition precedent to city acceptance of a reimbursement district.
   (F)   If an application is submitted prior to the construction of the
improvements, the application must be accompanied by an estimate of the cost of
the improvements as evidenced by bid, projection or other data. The application
must also include the estimated date of completion of the public improvements.
An application will not be complete until all the information is submitted to
the city. The applicant shall provide a bond for 200% of the cost for any
improvement located within an easement or on private property.
(Prior Code, § 35.151) (Ord. 1241, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 1254, passed 1-3-
2011)
§ 34.147 REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT REPORT.
   (A)   The City Engineer or designee shall review the application for the
establishment of a reimbursement district and evaluate whether a district
should be established. The City Engineer or designee may require the submittal
of other relevant information from the applicant in order to assist in the
evaluation.
   (B)   The City Engineer or designee shall prepare a written report for the
Council, considering and making recommendations concerning the following
factors:
      (1)   Whether the applicant will finance some or all of the cost of a
public improvement, thereby making service available to property, other than
property owned by the applicant;
      (2)   The boundary, size and area proposed to be included in the
reimbursement district;
      (3)   The actual or estimated cost of the public improvements within the
area of the proposed reimbursement district and the portion of the cost for
which the applicant should be reimbursed;
      (4)   A methodology for spreading the cost among the properties within
the reimbursement district and, where appropriate, defining a unit for applying
the reimbursement fee to property that may, with city approval, be partitioned,
altered, modified or subdivided at some future date. The methodology should
include consideration of the cost of the improvements, prior contributions by
property owners, the value of the unused capacity, rate-making principles
employed to finance public improvements and other factors deemed relevant by
the City Engineer or designee. Prior contributions by property owners will only
be considered if the contribution was for the same type of improvement and at
the same location (example: a sewer-related contribution in the same location
as a sewer improvement would be considered; a water-related contribution in the
same location as a sewer improvement would not be considered);
      (5)   The amount to be charged by the city for administration of the
district by the city. The administration fee shall be fixed by the Council and
will be included in the resolution approving and forming the reimbursement
district. If the applicant is other than the city, the administration fee is
due and payable to the city at the time the reimbursement agreement in §
34.150(B) is signed. If the city is the applicant, the administration fee shall
be included in the reimbursement fee and is due and payable at the time there
is an obligation to pay the reimbursement fee as required by §
34.154;
      (6)   The period of time for the right to reimbursement of not greater
than ten years. At the end of the ten-year reimbursement period, the
reimbursement agreement will terminate;
      (7)   Whether the public improvements will or have met city standards;
and
      (8)   Whether it is fair and in the public interest to create a
reimbursement district.
(Prior Code, § 35.152) (Ord. 1241, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 1254, passed 1-3-
2011)
§ 34.148 AMOUNT TO BE REIMBURSED.
   (A)   A reimbursement fee shall be computed by the city for all properties
within the reimbursement district, excluding property owned by or dedicated to
the city or the state, that have the opportunity to utilize the public
improvements, including the property of the applicant for formation of a
reimbursement district. The fee shall be calculated separately for each public
improvement. The applicant for formation of the reimbursement district shall
not be reimbursed for the portion of the reimbursement fee computed for the
property owned by the applicant.
   (B)   The cost to be reimbursed to the applicant, if other than the city,
shall be limited to the cost of construction, engineering and off-site easement
and right-of-way acquisition as previously approved by the city. If the
applicant is the city, the costs to be reimbursed shall also include an
administration cost and all costs associated with the acquisition of easements
and rights-of-way. Engineering shall include surveying and inspection and shall
not exceed 15% of eligible construction costs. If the applicant is other than
the city, the costs to be reimbursed for right-of-way acquisition shall be
limited to a value approved by the city and in reasonable conformance with the
value calculated by an appraisal for an easement but no greater than one-third
of the land value/square foot as determined by the taxing district.
   (C)   No reimbursement shall be allowed for financing costs, permits or fees
required for construction permits, land or easements dedicated by the
applicant, costs that are eligible for systems development charge credits,
project management fees or any costs that cannot be clearly documented.
   (D)   Reimbursement for legal expenses shall be allowed only to the extent
that the expenses relate to the acquisition of off-site right-of-way or to the
preparation and filing of an application for reimbursement, and to working with
the city through the Engineer’s report and formation public hearing stages of
an application.
(Prior Code, § 35.153) (Ord. 1241, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 1254, passed 1-3-
2011)
§ 34.149 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after the City Engineer has completed the
report required in §
34.147, the Council shall hold an informational public hearing in which any
person shall be given the opportunity to comment on the proposed reimbursement
district. Because formation of the reimbursement district does not result in an
assessment against property or lien against property, the public hearing is for
informational purposes only and is not subject to mandatory termination because
of remonstrances. The Council has the sole discretion after the public hearing
to decide whether a resolution approving and forming the reimbursement district
shall be adopted.
   (B)   Not less than ten or more than 30 days prior to any public hearing
held pursuant to this subchapter, the applicant and all owners of property
within the proposed district shall be notified of the hearing and the purpose
thereof. This notification shall be accomplished by either regular mail or
personal service. If notification is accomplished by mail, notice shall be
mailed not less than 13 days prior to the hearing. Notice shall be deemed
effective on the date that the letter of notification is mailed. Failure of the
applicant or any affected property owner to be so notified shall not invalidate
or otherwise affect any reimbursement district resolution or the Council’s
action to approve the same.
   (C)   If a reimbursement district is formed prior to construction of the
improvements, a second public hearing, subject to the same notification
requirements, shall be held after the improvements have been accepted by the
city. At that time, the Council, at its discretion, may modify the resolution
to reflect the actual cost of the improvements.
(Prior Code, § 35.154) (Ord. 1241, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 1254, passed 1-3-
2011)
§ 34.150 CITY COUNCIL ACTION.
   (A)   After the first public hearing held pursuant to §
34.149, the Council shall approve, reject or modify the recommendations
contained in the City Engineer’s report. The Council’s decision shall be
embodied in a resolution. If a reimbursement district is established, the
resolution shall include the City Engineer’s report as approved or modified,
and specify that payment of the reimbursement fee, as determined for each
property, is a precondition to receipt of any city permit applicable to
development of that property.
   (B)   (1)   When the applicant is other than the city, the resolution shall
instruct the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the applicant
pertaining to the reimbursement district improvements. The agreement shall be
contingent upon the improvements being accepted by the city.
      (2)   The agreement, at a minimum, shall contain the following
provisions:
         (a)   The public improvements shall meet all applicable city
standards;
         (b)   The amount of the potential reimbursement the applicant may
receive along with an acknowledgment that the total amount of any reimbursement
will not exceed the actual cost of the public improvements;
         (c)   The annual fee adjustment;
         (d)   The applicant shall guarantee, with a surety bond, the public
improvements for a period of 12 months after the date of city acceptance;
         (e)   The applicant shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the city
from any and all losses, claims, damage, judgments or other costs or expense
arising as a result of or related to the city’s establishment of the district.
The applicant shall acknowledge that the city is not obligated to collect the
reimbursement fee from affected property owners, and that the applicant assumes
all risk of every kind that the amount reimbursed may not be as much as
anticipated, or that any particular reimbursement fee may not be collected by
the city. The applicant has a private cause of action for collection of a
reimbursement fee against any person obligated to pay a reimbursement fee, and
the applicant shall bear the entire cost of an action to collect the
reimbursement fee, without any right to contribution by the city; and
         (f)   Other provisions as the City Council determines necessary and
proper to carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   If a reimbursement district is established by the City Council, the
date of the formation of the district shall be the date that the City Council
adopts the resolution forming the district.
   (D)   The City Council resolution and reimbursement agreement shall
determine the boundaries of the reimbursement district and shall determine the
methodology for imposing a fee that considers the cost of reimbursing the
applicant for financing the construction of a public improvement within the
reimbursement district.
   (E)   Where the city is the applicant, City Council by resolution shall
address and decide the elements in this section.
(Prior Code, § 35.155) (Ord. 1241, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 1254, passed 1-3-
2011)
§ 34.151 NOTICE OF ADOPTION OF RESOLUTION.
   The city shall notify all property owners within the district and the
applicant of the adoption of a reimbursement district resolution. The notice
shall include a copy of the resolution, the date it was adopted and a short
explanation of when the property owner is obligated to pay the reimbursement
fee and the amount of the fee, and if there will be any annual adjustments to
that fee.
(Prior Code, § 35.156) (Ord. 1241, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 1254, passed 1-3-
2011)
§ 34.152 RECORDING THE RESOLUTION.
   The City Recorder shall cause notice of the formation and nature of the
reimbursement district to be filed in the office of the County Clerk so as to
provide notice to potential purchasers of property within the district. The
city shall also record the obligation of each benefitted property to pay a
reimbursement fee in the city’s lien docket. The recording shall not create a
lien. Failure to make this recording shall not affect the legality of the
resolution or the obligation to pay the reimbursement fee.
(Prior Code, § 35.157) (Ord. 1241, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 1254, passed 1-3-
2011)
§ 34.153 CONTESTING THE REIMBURSEMENT DISTRICT.
   Any legal action intended to contest the formation of a reimbursement
district or the reimbursement fee shall be filed within 60 days of the Council
adoption of a resolution relating to the application. Legal challenge shall
only be by writ of review, pursuant to O.R.S. 34.010 through 34.100. A decision
by the city to create a reimbursement district is a quasi-judicial decision.
(Prior Code, § 35.158) (Ord. 1241, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 1254, passed 1-3-
2011)
§ 34.154 OBLIGATION TO PAY REIMBURSEMENT FEE.
   (A)   The applicant for a permit related to property within any
reimbursement district shall pay the city, in addition to any other applicable
fees and charges, the reimbursement fee established by the City Council if,
within the time specified in the resolution establishing the district, the
person applies for and receives approval from the city for any of the following
activities:
      (1)   A building permit for a new building;
      (2)   Building permit, for any addition, modification, repair or
alteration of a building, which exceeds 25% of the value of the building within
any 12-month period. The value of the building shall be the amount shown on the
most current records of the County Department of Assessment and Taxation for
the building’s real market value. This division (A)(2) shall not apply to
repairs made necessary due to damage or destruction by fire or other natural
disaster;
      (3)   Any alteration, modification or change in the use of real property
that increases the number of parking spaces required under city standards in
effect at the time of permit application;
      (4)   Connection to or use of water, sanitary sewer, stormwater or street
improvements, if the reimbursement district is based on that improvement; and
      (5)   Approval of a land partition or final subdivision plat.
   (B)   The city’s determination of who shall pay the reimbursement fee is
final. Neither the city nor any elected official, appointed official, agent or
employee of the city shall be liable for payment of any reimbursement fee or
portion thereof as a result of this determination, or as a result of failure,
for any reason, of the city to collect a reimbursement fee.
   (C)   A permit applicant whose property is subject to payment of a
reimbursement fee receives a benefit from the construction of street
improvements, regardless of whether access is taken or provided directly onto
the street at any time. Nothing in this subchapter is intended to modify or
limit the authority of the city to provide or require access management.
   (D)   No person shall be required to pay the reimbursement fee on an
application or upon property for which the reimbursement fee has been
previously paid, unless the payment was for a different type of improvement.
The reimbursement fee must be paid in full when a permit or land division
approval, including a final subdivision plat, is issued or approved. Where
approval is given as specified in division (A) above, but no permit is
requested or issued, then the requirement to pay the reimbursement fee lapses
if the underlying approval lapses.
   (E)   Neither the city, the county, the state nor the United States shall be
required to pay a reimbursement fee without the consent of the governmental
agency.
   (F)   The right of reimbursement shall not extend beyond ten years from the
district formation date. The applicant solely and exclusively bears the risk
that the city may not collect from benefitted property owners their respective
share of the cost of the improvements, and that the total amount collected may
be less than anticipated. Further, the applicant acknowledges that by utilizing
the procedures of this subchapter that the city shall be under no obligation to
institute legal proceedings to collect unpaid amounts that may be due to the
applicant. The applicant must institute and pay for the legal proceedings, and
the city will not be obligated to share or pay the litigation costs associated
with the proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 35.159) (Ord. 1241, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 1254, passed 1-3-
2011)
§ 34.155 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   Public improvements installed pursuant to reimbursement district agreements
shall become and remain the sole property of the city. More than one public
improvement may be the subject of a reimbursement district. A property may be
subject to more than one reimbursement district for distinct public
improvements.
(Prior Code, § 35.160) (Ord. 1241, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 1254, passed 1-3-
2011)
§ 34.156 ADMINISTRATION; COLLECTION AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   The applicant shall receive all reimbursement collected by the city
for reimbursement district public improvements. The reimbursement shall be
delivered to the applicant for as long as the reimbursement district agreement
is in effect.
   (B)   The right of reimbursement is assignable and transferable after
written notice is delivered to the city, advising the city to whom future
payments are to be made, and after approval of assignment by the city.
   (C)   The city shall charge an administrative fee to cover the cost of
managing the reimbursement district. This fee shall be updated periodically by
the City Council but shall be established at $75.
   (D)   The city shall establish separate accounts for each reimbursement
district. Upon receipt of a reimbursement fee, the city shall cause a record to
be made of that property’s payment and remit the fee to the person who
requested establishment of the reimbursement district or their assignee within
60 days of receipt of the reimbursements minus a $75 administration fee.
   (E)   The reimbursement fee is in lieu of a local improvement district
charge for the improvements installed pursuant to the reimbursement district
agreement. The reimbursement fee is not intended to replace or limit any other
fee or charge collected by the city.
   (F)   The applicant shall provide and update applicant’s current address to
which reimbursement payments are to be sent.
(Prior Code, § 35.161) (Ord. 1241, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 1254, passed 1-3-
2011)
§ 34.157 CONSISTENCY WITH STATE LAW.
    Insofar as possible, this subchapter shall be construed to be consistent
with O.R.S. 310.140 et seq. and State Constitution, Article XI, § 11b.
(Prior Code, § 35.162) (Ord. 1241, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 1254, passed 1-3-
2011)
§ 34.158 CONSTRUCTION AND INTERPRETATION.
   The headings of the section or divisions of this subchapter are intended for
information only and shall not be used to interpret paragraph contents. The
city shall be the sole interpreter of this subchapter. The city expressly does
not adopt any prior interpretation of any definitions, phrases or words used in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.163) (Ord. 1241, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 1254, passed 1-3-
2011)
MARIJUANA AND MARIJUANA-INFUSED PRODUCTS TAX
§ 34.170 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the marijuana and marijuana infused
product tax and shall apply to all areas within the incorporated city limits.
(Ord. 1310, passed 8-1-2006)
§ 34.171 PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, every person who sells marijuana or
marijuana-infused products in the city is exercising a taxable privilege. The
purpose of the subchapter is to impose a tax upon the retail sale of marijuana
and marijuana-infused products.
(Ord. 1310, passed 8-1-2006; Ord. 1325A, passed 2-6-2017)
§ 34.172 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS TAXABLE SALES. The total amount received in money, credits, property
or other consideration from sales of marijuana and marijuana-infused products
that is subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter.
   MANAGER. The City Manager or his or her designee.
   MARIJUANA. All parts of the plant of the Cannabis family Moracceae, whether
growing or not; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant or
its resin, as may be defined by the Oregon Revised Statutes as they currently
exist or may from time to time be amended. It does not include the mature
stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture
or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted there from),
fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of
germination.
   MARIJUANA ITEM. Has the meaning given to that term in Oregon Laws 2015,
chapter 614, § 1.
   MARIJUANA RETAILER. A person who sells marijuana items to a consumer in this
state.
   PERSON. Natural person, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
association, club, company, corporation, business, trust, organization or any
group or combination acting as a unit including the United States, the state
and any political subdivision thereof, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant,
officer or employee of any of them.
   PURCHASE or SALE. The retail acquisition or furnishing for consideration by
any person of marijuana within the city. This definition does not include the
acquisition or furnishing of marijuana by a grower or processor to a seller.
   PURCHASER. Any person who acquires marijuana from a retail seller for any
valuable consideration.
   RETAIL SALE. The transfer of goods or services for any valuable
consideration. This definition does not include the transfer or exchange of
goods or services between a grower or processor and a seller.
   RETAIL SALE PRICE. The price paid for a marijuana item, excluding tax, to a
marijuana retailer by or on behalf of a consumer of the marijuana item.
   SELLER. Any person who is required to be licensed or has been licensed by
the state to provide marijuana or marijuana-infused products to purchasers for
money, credit, property or other consideration.
   TAX. Either the tax payable by the seller or the aggregate amount of taxes
due from a seller during the period for which the seller is required to report
collections under this subchapter.
   TAXPAYER. Any person obligated to account to the City Manager for taxes
collected or to be collected, or from whom a tax is due, under the terms of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 1310, passed 8-1-2006; Ord. 1325A, passed 2-6-2017)
§ 34.173 LEVY OF TAX.
   (A)   As described in § 34a of House Bill 3400 (2015), the city hereby
imposes a tax of 3% on the retail sale price of marijuana items by a marijuana
retailer in the area subject to the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   The purchaser shall pay the tax to the seller at the time of the
purchase or sale of marijuana.
(Ord. 1310, passed 8-1-2006)
§ 34.174 DEDUCTIONS.
   The following deductions shall be allowed against sales received by the
seller providing marijuana:
   (A)   Refunds of sales actually returned to any purchaser; and
   (B)   Any adjustments in sales which amount to a refund to a purchaser,
provided such adjustment pertains to the actual sale of marijuana or marijuana-
infused products and does not include any adjustments for other services
furnished by a seller.
(Ord. 1310, passed 8-1-2006)
§ 34.175 SELLER RESPONSIBLE FOR PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   Every seller shall, on or before the fifteenth day of the month
following the end of each calendar quarter (in the months of April, July,
October and January) make a return to the City Manager on forms provided by the
city, specifying the total sales subject to this subchapter and the amount of
tax collected under this subchapter. The seller may request or the City Manager
may establish shorter reporting periods for any seller if the seller or the
City Manager deems it necessary in order to ensure collection of the tax and
the City Manager may require further information in the return relevant to
payment of the tax. A return shall not be considered filed until it is actually
received by the City Manager.
      (2)   The quarters are:
         (a)   First quarter: January, February, March;
         (b)   Second quarter: April, May, June;
         (c)   Third quarter: July, August, September; and
         (d)   Fourth quarter: October, November, December.
   (B)   At the time the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected
shall be remitted to the City Manager. Payments received by the City Manager
for application against existing liabilities will be credited toward the period
designated by the taxpayer under conditions that are not prejudicial to the
interest of the city. A condition considered prejudicial is the imminent
expiration of the statute of limitations for a period or periods.
   (C)   Non-designated payments shall be applied in the order of the oldest
liability first, with the payment credited first toward any accrued penalty,
then to interest, then to the underlying tax until the payment is exhausted.
Crediting of a payment toward a specific reporting period will be first applied
against any accrued penalty, then to interest, then to the underlying tax. If
the City Manager, in her or his sole discretion, determines that an alternative
order of payment application would be in the best interest of the city in a
particular tax or factual situation, the City Manager may order such a change.
The City Manager may establish shorter reporting periods for any seller if the
City Manager deems it necessary in order to ensure collection of the tax. The
City Manager also may require additional information in the return relevant to
payment of the liability. When a shorter return period is required, penalties
and interest shall be computed according to the shorter return period. Returns
and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. All
taxes collected by sellers pursuant to this subchapter shall be held in trust
for the account of the city until payment is made to the City Manager. A
separate trust bank account is not required in order to comply with this
provision.
   (D)   For good cause, the City Manager may extend the time for filing a
return or paying the tax for not more than one month. Further extension may be
granted only by the City Council. A seller to whom an extension is granted
shall pay interest at the rate of 1% per month on the amount of tax due,
without proration for a fraction of a month. If a return is not filed and if
the tax and interest due are not paid by the end of the extension granted, the
interest shall become a part of the tax for computation of penalties prescribed
in §
34.176.
   (E)   Every seller required to remit the tax imposed in this subchapter
shall be entitled to retain 5% of all taxes due to defray the costs of
bookkeeping and remittance.
   (F)   Every seller must keep and preserve in an accounting format
established by the City Manager records of all sales made by the dispensary and
such other books or accounts as may be required by the City Manager. Every
seller must keep and preserve for a period of three years all such books,
invoices and other records. The City Manager shall have the right to inspect
all such records at all reasonable times.
(Ord. 1310, passed 8-1-2006)
§ 34.176 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Any seller who fails to remit any portion of any tax imposed by this
subchapter within the time required shall pay a penalty of 10% of the amount of
the tax.
   (B)   Any seller who fails to remit any delinquent remittance on or before a
period of 60 days following the date, on which the remittance first became
delinquent, shall pay a second delinquency penalty of 15% of the amount of the
tax in addition to the amount of the tax and the penalty first imposed.
   (C)   If the City Manager determines that the nonpayment of any remittance
due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of 25% of the amount of the
tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in divisions (A)
and (B) above.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties imposed, any seller who fails to remit
any tax imposed by this subchapter shall pay interest at the rate of 1% per
month or fraction thereof on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties,
from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent until paid.
   (E)   Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the
provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax required to be paid.
   (F)   A seller who fails to remit the tax within the required time may
petition the City Council for waiver and refund of the penalty or a portion of
it. The Council may, if good cause is shown, direct a refund of the penalty or
a portion of it. Any such hearing will be conducted under the procedures
described in §
34.178.
(Ord. 1310, passed 8-1-2006)
§ 34.177 FAILURE TO REPORT AND REMIT TAX-DETERMINATION OF TAX BY CITY MANAGER.
   If any seller should fail to make, within the time provided in this
subchapter, any report of the tax required by this subchapter, the City Manager
shall proceed in such manner as deemed best to obtain facts and information on
which to base the estimate of tax due. As soon as the City Manager shall
procure such facts and information as is able to be obtained, upon which to
base the assessment of any tax imposed by this subchapter and payable by any
seller, the City Manager shall proceed to determine and assess against such
seller the tax, interest and penalties provided for by this subchapter, in case
such determination is made, the City Manager shall give a notice of the amount
so assessed by having it served personally or by depositing it in the United
States Mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the seller so assessed at the last
known place of address. Such seller may appeal such determination as provided
in §
34.178. If no appeal is filed, the City Manager’s determination is final and
the amount thereby is immediately due and payable.
(Ord. 1310, passed 8-1-2006)
§ 34.178 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any seller aggrieved by any decision of the City Manager with respect
to the amount of such tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the
City Council by filing a notice of appeal with the City Manager within 15 days
of mailing of the notice of a decision. The City Manager shall fix a time and
place for hearing the appeal, as prescribed by the City Council, and shall give
the appellant 15 days written notice of the time and place of the hearing
before the City Council.
   (B)   The appellant shall pay a nonrefundable appeal fee to facilitate the
appeal. Appeal fees shall be set at $150 for each decision appealed, and may be
adjusted by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   The parties shall be entitled to appear personally and by counsel and
to present such facts, evidence and arguments as may tend to support the
respective positions on appeal.
   (D)   The City Council shall afford the parties an opportunity to be heard
at an appeal hearing after reasonable notice. The City Council shall take such
action upon the appeal it sees fit. The City Council shall at a minimum:
      (1)   At the commencement of the hearing, explain the relevant issues
involved in the hearing, applicable procedures and the burden of proof;
      (2)   At the commencement of the hearing, place on the record the
substance of any written or oral ex parte communications concerning any
relevant and material fact in issue at the hearing which was made outside the
official proceedings during the pendency of the proceeding. The parties shall
be notified of the substance of the communication and the right to rebut the
communication. Notwithstanding the above, the parties are prohibited from
engaging in ex parte communications with the members of the City Council;
      (3)   Testimony shall be taken upon oath or affirmation of the witnesses;
      (4)   The City Council shall ensure that the record developed at the
hearing shows a full and fair inquiry into the relevant and material facts for
consideration for the issues properly before the City Manager;
      (5)   Written testimony may be submitted under penalty of false swearing
for entry into the record. All written evidence shall be filed with the
Assistant City Recorder no less than five working days before the date of the
hearing;
      (6)   The City Council shall hear and consider any records and evidence
presented bearing upon the City Manager’s determination of amount due, and
makes findings affirming, reversing or modifying the determination; and
      (7)   Informal disposition may be made of any case by stipulation, agreed
settlement, consent order or default.
   (E)   The action of the City Manager shall be stayed pending the outcome of
an appeal properly filed pursuant to this section.
   (F)   Failure to strictly comply with the applicable appeal requirements,
including, but not limited to, the required elements for the written notice of
appeal, time for filing of the notice of appeal and payment of the applicable
appeal fee, shall constitute jurisdictional defects resulting in the summary
dismissal of the appeal.
   (G)   The finding of the City Council shall be final and conclusive, and
shall be served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed above for service
of notice of hearing. Any amount found to be due shall be immediately due and
payable upon the service of notice.
(Ord. 1310, passed 8-1-2006)
§ 34.179 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid
or paid more than once, or has been erroneously collected or received by the
city under this subchapter, it may be refunded as provided in division (B)(1)
below.
   (B)   If this section, provided a claim in writing, stating under penalty of
perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the
City Manager within one year of the date of the payment. The claim shall be on
forms furnished by the City Manager.
      (1)   The City Manager shall have 20 calendar days from the date of
receipt of a claim to review the claim and make a determination in writing as
to the validity of the claim. The City Manager shall notify the claimant in
writing of the City Manager’s determination. Such notice shall be mailed to the
address provided by the claimant on the claim form. In the event a claim is
determined by the City Manager to be a valid claim, in a manner prescribed by
the City Manager, a seller may claim a refund, or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted, the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously
collected or received. The seller shall notify the City Manager of claimant’s
choice no later than 15 days following the date City Manager mailed the
determination. In the event claimant has not notified the City Manager of
claimant’s choice within the 15-day period and the seller is still in business,
a credit will be granted against the tax liability for the next reporting
period. If the seller is no longer in business, a refund check will be mailed
to claimant at the address provided in the claim form.
      (2)   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless
the claimant established the right by written records showing entitlement to
such refund and the City Manager acknowledged the validity of the claim.
(Ord. 1310, passed 8-1-2006)
§ 34.180 ACTIONS TO COLLECT.
   Any tax required to be paid by any seller under the provisions of the
subchapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the seller to the city. Any such tax
collected by a seller which has not been paid to the city shall be deemed a
debt owed by the seller to the city. Within three years after the tax becomes
payable or within three years after a determination becomes final, the city may
bring an action in the name of the city in the courts of this state, another
state or the United States to collect the amount delinquent and penalties and
interest. In lieu of filing an action for the recovery, the city, when taxes
due are more than 30 days delinquent, can submit any outstanding tax to a
collection agency. So long as the city has complied with the provisions set
forth in O.R.S. 697.105 (as hereafter amended), in the event the city turns
over a delinquent tax account to a collection agency, it may add to the amount
owing an amount equal to the collection agency fees, not to exceed the greater
of $50 or 50% of the outstanding tax, penalties and interest owing.
(Ord. 1310, passed 8-1-2006)
§ 34.181 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise required by law, it shall be unlawful for the
city, any officer, employee or agent to divulge, release or make known in any
manner any financial information submitted or disclosed to the city under the
terms of this subchapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit:
      (1)   The disclosure of the names and addresses of any person who is
operating a licensed establishment from which marijuana is sold or provided;
      (2)   The disclosure of general statistics in a form which would not
reveal an individual seller’s financial information;
      (3)   Presentation of evidence to the court, or other tribunal having
jurisdiction in the prosecution of any criminal or civil claim by the City
Manager or an appeal from the City Manager for amount due the city under this
subchapter;
      (4)   The disclosure of information when such disclosure of conditionally
exempt information is order under public records law procedures; or
      (5)   The disclosures of records related to a business’ failure to report
and remit the tax when the report or tax is in arrears for over six months or
the tax exceeds $5,000. The City Council expressly finds and determines that
the public interest in disclosure of such records clearly outweighs the
interest in confidentiality under O.R.S. 192.345(5).
(Ord. 1310, passed 8-1-2006)
§ 34.182 AUDIT OF BOOKS, RECORDS OR PERSONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every seller liable for the collection and
payment to the city of any tax imposed by this subchapter to keep and preserve,
for a period of three years and six months, all records, books, reports, income
tax reports and other matters required by this subchapter as may be necessary
to determine the amount of such tax as the seller may have been liable for the
collection of and payment to the city, which records the City Manager shall
have the right to inspect at all reasonable times as set forth below. Every
operator shall maintain records of marijuana purchase and sales, accounting
books and records of income. Sellers must, at a minimum, include a cash receipt
and deposit journal and a cash disbursements journal/check register for all
authorized deductions. These records and books shall reconcile to the tax
reports and be auditable. They shall also reconcile to the seller’s income tax
reports. If the City Manager finds the books and records of the seller are
deficient in that they do not provide adequate support for tax reports filed,
or the seller’s accounting system is not auditable, it shall be the
responsibility of the seller to improve its accounting system to the
satisfaction of the City Manager.
   (B)   The city, for the purpose of determining the correctness of any tax
return, or for the purpose of an estimate of taxes due, may examine or may
cause to be examined by an agent or representative designated by the city for
that purpose, any books, papers, records or memoranda, including copies of
seller’s state and federal income fax return, bearing upon the matter of the
seller’s tax return. All books, invoices, accounts and other records shall be
made available within the city limits and be open at any time during regular
business hours for examination by the City Manager or authorized agent of the
City Manager. If any taxpayer refuses to voluntarily furnish any of the
foregoing information when requested, the City Manager may immediately seek a
subpoena from the county municipal court to require that the taxpayer or a
representative of the taxpayer attend a hearing or produce any such books,
accounts and records for examination.
(Ord. 1310, passed 8-1-2006)
§ 34.183 FORMS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to prescribe forms and
promulgate rules and regulations to aid in the making of returns, the
ascertainment, assessment and collection of said marijuana and marijuana-
infused product tax and in particular and without limiting the general language
of this chapter, to provide for:
      (1)   A form or report on sales and purchases to be supplied to all
vendors; and
      (2)   The records which sellers providing marijuana and marijuana-infused
products are to keep concerning the tax imposed by this subchapter.
   (B)   All revenue from the marijuana and marijuana-infused product tax shall
be allocated for the support and assurance of public police protection within
the incorporated city limits.
(Ord. 1310, passed 8-1-2006; Ord. 1325, passed 12-5-2016; Ord. 1325A, passed 2-
6-2017)
§ 34.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person willfully violating any of the provisions of §§
34.015 through
34.032 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be punishable therefor by a
fine of not more than $500, or by imprisonment in jail for a period of not more
than six months, or by both the fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   Any person who operates or conducts himself or herself contrary to the
terms of §§
34.045 through
34.075 shall be guilty of an offense and, in addition to the other penalties
herein provided, may, upon conviction in municipal court, be assessed a fine
not to exceed $300 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 35.999)
   (D)   (1)   It is unlawful for any seller or any other person so required to
fail or refuse to furnish any return required to be made, or fail or refuse to
furnish the supplementary return or other data required by the City Manager or
to enter a false or fraudulent report, with intent to defeat or evade the
determination of any amount due required by this ordinance.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of §§
34.170 through
34.183 shall be punishable by the general penalty. Every day in which the
violation is caused or permitted to exist constitutes a separate infraction,
and the punishment therefor shall be in addition to any other penalty,
interest, sum or charge imposed by §§
34.170 through
34.183. Delinquent taxes and fees, penalty and interest imposed by §§
34.170 through
34.183 may be collected in a civil action.
      (3)   In addition to the remedies provided by this section, the City
Manager may, when deemed appropriate, revoke the seller’s business license
until taxes, penalties and fines are paid.
      (4)   The remedies provided by this section are not exclusive and shall
not prevent the city from exercising any other remedy available under the law,
nor shall the provisions of §§
34.170 through
34.183 prohibit or restrict the city or other appropriate prosecutor from
pursuing criminal charges under state law or city ordinance.
   (E)   Unless otherwise indicated, any offense under this chapter is
classified as a violation punishable by a fine set by resolution. Penalties not
set by resolution shall be $250 per violation.
(Ord. 893, passed 5-23-1977; Ord. 1014, passed 7-19-1982; Ord. 1310, passed 8-
1-2006; Ord. 1315, passed 6-6-2016; Ord. 1325A, passed 2-6-2017)
CHAPTER 35: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Section
Procedures for the Creation of an Economic Improvement District
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Petition
   
35.03   Public hearing
   
35.04   Establishing a district; assessment of fee; hearing
   
35.05   Assessment ordinance
   
35.06   Levying assessments
   
35.07   Advisory Committee
   
35.08   Uses for assessment monies
Districts Established
   
35.20   Economic improvement district established in downtown area
   
35.21   Mid-county park and recreation district
Cross-reference:
   Local improvements districts, see
TSO IV
   Special assessments, see
Ch. 34 and
TSO IV
PROCEDURES FOR THE CREATION OF AN
ECONOMIC IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ECONOMIC IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   The planning or management of development or improvement
activities;
      (2)   Landscaping, maintenance and provision of security for public
areas;
      (3)   The promotion of commercial activity or public events;
      (4)   The conduct of activities in support of business recruitment and
development;
      (5)   The provision of improvements in parking systems or parking
enforcement; and
      (6)   Any other economic improvement activity that specially benefits
property.
   ECONOMIC IMPROVEMENT PLAN. A plan prepared by the property owners or tenants
within the proposed district or their designees setting out:
      (1)   A description of economic improvements proposed to be carried out;
      (2)   The number of years, to a maximum of five, in which assessments are
proposed to be levied;
      (3)   A preliminary estimate of annual cost of the proposed economic
improvements;
      (4)   The proposed boundaries designated by map or perimeter description
of an economic improvement district within which subject properties would be
assessed to finance the cost of the economic improvement;
      (5)   The proposed formula for assessing the cost of economic
improvements against subject properties, which formula may be:
         (a)   A fee paid by property owners;
         (b)   An assessment based on the assessed value of the property
involved;
         (c)   A fee based on the amount of square footage of the parcel;
         (d)   A business license fee on any business, trade, occupation or
profession carried on or practiced in the economic improvement district; or
         (e)   A combination of the fees and assessments.
      (6)   A statement whether the property assessment will be a voluntary
assessment or mandatory assessment, and:
         (a)   If voluntary, that the scope and level of improvements could be
reduced depending on the amount of money collected; or
         (b)   If mandatory, that the assessment will be considered a tax under
the State Constitution, Article XI, § 11(b) and may be reduced to fit within
the property tax limitation, thereby affecting the level and scope of services
described.
   EXEMPT PROPERTY. Residential real property and any portion of a structure
used for residential purposes and, in addition, those properties exempt from
general property taxation under state law.
   OWNER. The owner of the title to real property or the contract purchaser of
record as shown on the last available complete assessment roll in the office of
the County Assessor.
   SUBJECT PROPERTY. The real property within the economic improvement district
except for exempt property.
(Prior Code, § 36.01) (Ord. 1161, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 35.02 PETITION.
   The City Council shall consider creation of an economic improvement district
whenever owners of the properties file with the City Recorder a petition for
the establishment of a district containing the signatures of the owners of 33%
or more of the area of the assessed value of subject properties within the
proposed district, or when the City Council, on its own motion, decides to
undertake the consideration of the district. Any petition filed by the owners
as set forth above shall contain a proposed economic improvement plan. If the
Council, on its own motion, decides to consider such a district, it shall
instruct the city staff to prepare the economic improvement plan.
(Prior Code, § 36.02) (Ord. 1161, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 35.03 PUBLIC HEARING.
   After filing of the aforementioned petition or motion of the City Council to
consider an economic improvement district, the City Council shall schedule a
public hearing to be held on the question of establishment of a district.
Notices of the proposed hearing shall be mailed or delivered personally to
affected property owners and business owners, and shall announce the intention
of the City Council to construct or undertake the economic improvement project
and to assess benefitted properties or impose a business license fee for a part
or all of the cost. The notice shall state the time and the place of the public
hearing. This hearing shall be set not sooner than 30 days after the mailing or
delivery of the notices to the affected property owners.
(Prior Code, § 36.03) (Ord. 1161, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 35.04 ESTABLISHING A DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT OF FEE; HEARING.
   If, after the hearing held pursuant to §
35.03, the City Council determines that the economic improvements would afford
special and peculiar benefit to subject parcels within the economic improvement
district different in kind or degree from that afforded to the general public,
and that the economic improvement district should be established, then the City
Council may adopt an ordinance stating those findings and establishing the
district. The Council shall then determine whether the property benefitted
shall bear all or a portion of the cost, and shall require notice of the
proposed assessment or business license fee to be mailed or personally
delivered to the owner of each lot to be assessed or business to be charged,
which notice shall state the amount of the assessment proposed on the property
of the owner receiving the notice, or the charge to the owner of the business
receiving the notice. The notice shall state the time and place of a second
public hearing at which affected property owners or business owners may appear
to support or object to the proposed charge. The second hearing shall not be
held sooner than 30 days after the mailing or personal delivery of the notices.
At the hearing, the City Council may consider objections and may adopt,
correct, modify or revise the proposed assessments or charges. The ordinance
will also provide that the assessments will not be made and the economic
improvement project will be terminated when written objections are received at
the second public hearing from owners of property upon which more than 33% of
the total amount of assessments is levied, or if a business license fee is
charged, from more than 33% of persons conducting business within the economic
improvement district who will be subject to the proposed license fee.
(Prior Code, § 36.04) (Ord. 1161, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 35.05 ASSESSMENT ORDINANCE.
   Pursuant to the requirement as set forth above, an assessment ordinance may,
at the discretion of the Council, provide that:
   (A)   When the City Council receives written objections at the second public
hearing only from owners of property upon which less than 33% of the total
amount of assessments is levied, the economic improvement project may be
undertaken or constructed, but that assessment shall not be levied on any lot
or parcel of property if the owner of that property submitted written objection
at the public hearing. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an owner of
property who fails to submit written objections at the public hearing as
provided for in this subchapter shall be deemed to have made a specific request
for the economic improvement services to be provided during the period of time
specified in the assessment ordinance; and
   (B)   The Council, after excluding from assessment property belonging to the
owners, shall determine the amount of the assessment on each of the remaining
lots or parcels in the district.
(Prior Code, § 36.05) (Ord. 1161, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 35.06 LEVYING ASSESSMENTS.
   If written objections in the requisite 33% are not received as provided
above, the City Council may adopt a final ordinance levying the appropriate
assessments or business license charge. Upon adoption of the final ordinance,
the City Recorder shall enter each assessment in the docket of city liens. All
assessments shall be collected in the same manner as local improvement
assessments. Failure to pay may result in foreclosure in the same manner as
provided for other assessments.
(Prior Code, § 36.06) (Ord. 1161, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 35.07 ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   Any assessment ordinance adopted as herein provided may require creation,
for each economic improvement district, of an advisory committee to allocate
expenditure of monies for economic improvement activities within the scope of
this subchapter. If an advisory committee is created, the City Council shall
strongly consider appointment of owners of property within the economic
improvement district to the advisory committee. An existing association of
property owners or tenants may enter into agreement with the city to provide
the proposed economic improvement.
(Prior Code, § 36.07) (Ord. 1161, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 35.08 USES FOR ASSESSMENT MONIES.
   Money derived from assessments of fees levied under the procedures set forth
in this subchapter shall be spent only for the economic improvements set forth
in the economic improvement plan and for the cost of city administration of the
economic improvement district.
(Prior Code, § 36.08) (Ord. 1161, passed 3-20-2000)
DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED
§ 35.20 ECONOMIC IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT ESTABLISHED IN DOWNTOWN AREA.
   The Downtown Economic Improvement District should be established. The City
Council hereby declares the area shown on Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 1167,
which is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein, to be the
boundaries of the Downtown Economic Improvement District.
(Prior Code, § 36.20) (Ord. 1167, passed 5-21-2001; Ord. 1168, passed 8-20-
2001; Ord. 1194, passed 9-20-2004)
§ 35.21 MID-COUNTY PARK AND RECREATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   The city approves and consent to be included within the boundaries of
the mid-county park and recreation district, contingent upon the district’s
subsequent lawful formation.
   (B)   A certified copy of this resolution shall be delivered to the County
Board to accompany the petition for formation pursuant to O.R.S. 198.835(3).
   (C)   The City Council does hereby approve the form of the BOCC order,
attached to the resolution incorporated herein.
(Res. 1744, passed 12-18-2017; Res. 1745, passed 12-18-2017)
CHAPTER 36: CITY COUNCIL, GOVERNMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
Meetings Generally
   
36.01   Regular meeting times
   
36.02   Special meetings
   
36.03   Emergency meetings
   
36.04   Executive sessions
   
36.05   Conference calls
   
36.06   Study sessions
   
36.07   Compensation
Business of Council
   
36.20   Meeting conduct
   
36.21   Quorum
   
36.22   Agenda
   
36.23   Suggested order of business
   
36.24   Voting
   
36.25   Reconsideration of actions taken
   
36.26   Public hearings
   
36.27   Sergeant-at-arms
   
36.28   Designation of hearings officer
   
36.29   Speaking by Council members generally
   
36.30   Public members addressing the Council
   
36.31   Order and decorum
   
36.32   Picture taking or filming
   
36.33   Flags, signs and posters
   
36.34   News media
Administration
   
36.45   Council committees
   
36.46   Chain of command
   
36.47   Annual position review
   
36.48   Use of legal and professional services
   
36.49   Representing the city
   
36.50   Rules in general
   
Appendix A: Delegation of Authority to the City Manager and City Recorder
Policy
   
Appendix B: Executive Accountability Policies
   
Appendix C: Strategic Plan for the Current Year
MEETINGS GENERALLY
§ 36.01 REGULAR MEETING TIMES.
   The City Council shall meet on the first and third Monday of each month at
the City Hall. In the event of a holiday, the meeting shall take place the day
following or on a day agreed upon by the Council at the meeting prior to the
holiday.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.02 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The Mayor, or in his or her absence, the President of the Council, may, or
at the request of three members of the Council shall, by giving notice thereof
to all members of the Council then in the city, call a special meeting of the
Council by giving 24 hours’ advance notice to members of the Council, the media
and other interested persons, and the public. No other business shall be
transacted other than that for which the meeting was called. All proceedings of
the meeting must be reviewed at the next regular Council meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.02) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.03 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   An emergency meeting is a special meeting called on less than 24 hours’
notice. There must be an actual emergency, and the minutes must describe the
emergency justifying less than 24 hours’ notice. The governing body must
attempt to notify the media and other interested persons, generally by
telephone. No other business shall be transacted other than that for which the
meeting was called. All proceedings of the meeting must be reviewed at the next
regular Council meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.03) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.04 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   Executive sessions may be held during any meeting of the Council providing
all applicable statutory limitations are met. Any member of the Council may
call for an executive session at a regular, special or emergency meeting for
which notice has already been given in accordance with public meetings law
requirements.
(Prior Code, § 30.04) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.05 CONFERENCE CALLS.
   Notice and opportunity for the media and public to be present must be
provided when meetings are conducted by conference calls. For non-executive
sessions, meetings held by telephone or other electronic means of
communication, the public must be provided at least one place where its members
may listen to the meeting by speakers or other devices. The media must be
provided access to these facilities even for executive sessions, except where
those sessions are exempt from the media.
(Prior Code, § 30.05) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.06 STUDY SESSIONS.
   A meeting held solely for the purpose of receiving information, except an
on-site inspection, is subject to the public meetings law and must be
advertised the same as regular meetings.
(Prior Code, § 30.06) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.07 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The monthly per person stipend of the City Council will continue at
$125 a month.
   (B)   The monthly per person stipend of the Mayor wil continue at $200 a
month.
   (C)   The monthly stipend will apply whether or not the Mayor or Councilor
attends the meetings as governed by the City Charter.
   (D)   Should a temporary appointment be made to fill a vacant position, that
person will not receive a stipend; however, a vacancy appointment shall receive
a stipend along with the other members.
(Res. R100223B, passed 10-16-2023)
BUSINESS OF COUNCIL
§ 36.20 MEETING CONDUCT.
   (A)   Robert’s Rules of Order Revised (the most current version) shall be
used as a guide in the conduct of Council meetings. These rules of order may be
relaxed at the discretion of the presiding officer to simplify and clarify
matters before the Council.
   (B)   Each session is limited to three hours in length unless there is a
unanimous vote of the Council to continue beyond that duration.
(Prior Code, § 30.20) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.21 QUORUM.
   The Mayor, or in his or her absence the President of the Council, shall call
the meeting to order at the hour designated for the meeting. If a quorum is not
present, the Recorder or designee shall immediately notify the absent member
(s), except those known to be unavoidably detained or absent, that their
presence is required. If there are three Council members present, they may
order an officer of the city to direct any available absent member to attend
the meeting. If a quorum cannot be obtained, the members present shall adjourn
until another specified time or until the next regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.21) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.22 AGENDA.
   (A)   The Mayor and the City Manager shall prepare together the agenda for
each meeting. In the absence of the Mayor or City Manager, or his or her
official designees, the other may set the agenda individually.
   (B)   Any person desiring inclusion of agenda items (including Councilors,
committees, the City Attorney and City Recorder) shall direct these to the
Mayor and City Manager. This agenda shall be closed for further items at 5:00
p.m. on the Tuesday preceding the meeting except in the case of special
meetings. All background materials shall be submitted by the following day,
unless otherwise authorized by the Mayor or Manager.
   (C)   No vote shall be allowed on items not on the published agenda with the
exception of an emergency. Any member of the Council may introduce an item not
on the agenda if it constitutes an emergency. Emergency placement of an item
onto the agenda requires a unanimous vote of the Council members present.
   (D)   A majority of the Council may approve the placement of a non-emergency
item on the agenda; however, in order to provide adequate public notice, all
non-emergency items shall be placed on the next regular agenda.
(Prior Code, § 30.22) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.23 SUGGESTED ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The suggested order of business is as follows:
   (A)   Call to order;
   (B)   Approval of minutes of the previous meeting;
   (C)   Proclamations and presentations;
   (D)   Audience comments;
   (E)   Noticed public hearings;
   (F)   Old business;
   (G)   New business;
   (H)   Committee, Council and staff reports;
   (I)   Bills against the city; and
   (J)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 30.23) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.24 VOTING.
   (A)   A vote on every motion or question relating to the expenditure of
funds shall be by roll call vote conducted by the City Recorder or designee.
   (B)   Written ballots are not prohibited, but each ballot must identify the
member voting and the vote must be announced by the City Recorder or designee.
Secret ballots are prohibited. In the event of a unanimous vote, it may be
entered into the record as “unanimously approved/disapproved.”
   (C)   A Council member may not indicate his or her vote during the course of
discussion.
   (D)   A Council member may change his or her vote before the next item of
business is taken.
   (E)   A member may not vote on any issue or matter in which he or she may
have a potential conflict of interest, as defined by O.R.S. 244.020.
   (F)   A member may request to be excused from voting for special reason when
approved by a majority of the Council. A member who abstains from voting must
state the reason for his or her abstention.
(Prior Code, § 30.24) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.25 RECONSIDERATION OF ACTIONS TAKEN.
   Any member who voted with the majority may move for a reconsideration of the
action during the meeting at which the vote was taken. If the action is
reconsidered, no further reconsideration may take place without the majority
consent of Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.25) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.26 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   When a public hearing or a bid opening is scheduled, any agenda items in
progress shall be recessed to comply with the advertised time. In the case of a
public hearing, the presiding officer (hearing officer), upon completion of
required announced information, shall call upon the members of the audience to
come forth to be heard. If appropriate, the presiding officer may first ask
those persons in favor of the stated matter to come forward, with those
speaking in opposition to come after. The presiding officer may limit the time
and number of speakers at the public hearing. In that event, the presiding
officer shall announce these restrictions prior to commencement of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 30.26) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.27 SERGEANT-AT-ARMS.
   The sergeant-at-arms shall be the Chief of Police, if present, or an
appropriate designate.
(Prior Code, § 30.27) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.28 DESIGNATION OF HEARINGS OFFICER.
   A hearings officer may be appointed by the presiding officer to conduct
special public hearings, when appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 30.28) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.29 SPEAKING BY COUNCIL MEMBERS GENERALLY.
   Every Council member desiring to speak shall address the Chair. Upon
recognition, he or she shall confine remarks to the issue under debate.
(Prior Code, § 30.29) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.30 PUBLIC MEMBERS ADDRESSING THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any person who may wish to address the Council may be asked to stand
and wait to be recognized by the presiding officer. After recognition, the
person’s name and address shall be stated for the record and the remarks shall
be limited to the question under discussion. (All remarks and questions shall
be addressed to the presiding officer and not to an individual Councilor, staff
person or other individual.) No person may enter into any discussion without
first being recognized by the Chair.
   (B)   Persons addressing the Council shall be limited to five minutes or
less, unless a longer or shorter time has been granted by the presiding officer
and announced before the proceeding takes place. No public member may speak
twice on any one subject until every other public member wishing to speak has
been heard. The second address shall be limited to three minutes unless
permission is otherwise granted by the presiding officer.
(Prior Code, § 30.30) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.31 ORDER AND DECORUM.
   (A)   The Council commits itself and its members to ethical, businesslike
and lawful conduct, including proper use of authority and appropriate decorum
when acting as Council members. Accordingly:
      (1)   Council members will represent the interests of the citizens of the
entire city. This accountability to the whole city supersedes:
         (a)   Any conflicting loyalty a member may have to other advocacy or
interest groups;
         (b)   Loyalty based upon membership on other councils or staffs;
         (c)   Conflicts based upon the personal interest of any Council
member;
         (d)   Conflicts based upon being a relative of an employee of the
city; and
         (e)   Any other conflicts of interest as outlined by the State
Standards and Practices Commission.
      (2)   Council members will not attempt to exercise individual authority
over the organization.
      (3)   Council members may not attempt to exercise individual authority
over the organization. As such:
         (a)   Council member interaction with the City Manager, City Recorder
or with staff must recognize the lack of authority vested in individuals except
when explicitly authorized by the Council; and
         (b)   Council member interaction with the public, press or other
entities must recognize the same limitation and the inability of any Council
member to speak for the Council except to repeat explicitly stated Council
decisions.
      (4)   Council members shall maintain confidentiality appropriate to
sensitive issues and information that otherwise may tend to compromise the
integrity or legal standing of the Council and/or city, especially those
matters discussed in closed session.
   (B)   The job of the Council is to represent the citizens and taxpayers and
to lead the city by determining and requiring appropriate and excellent
organizational performance.
      (1)   To distinguish the Council’s own unique job from the jobs of the
City Manager and staff, the Council will concentrate its efforts on the
following:
         (a)   Determining and using proactive strategies to ensure
constructive two-way dialogue for input from staff and citizens as a means to
link the entire city around goal achievement;
         (b)   Developing written policies which, at the broadest levels,
address:
            1.   Council process policies: how the Council will conceive, carry
out and monitor its own work;
            2.   Council/executive relationship policies: how authority is
delegated and its proper use monitored; the City Manager role, the City
Recorder role and their authority and accountability (see Appendix A, which may
be amended by resolution);
            3.   Executive accountability policies: constraints on executive
authority which establish the practical, ethical and legal boundaries within
which all staff activity and decision-making will take place and be monitored
(see Appendix B, which may be amended by resolution); and
            4.   Strategic direction policies: what the Council intends for the
city to achieve (see Appendix C, which may be amended by resolution).
         (c)   Ensuring City Manager performance by monitoring of the annual
performance plan;
         (d)   Ensuring City Recorder performance by monitoring of the City
Recorder’s annual performance plan objectives; and
         (e)   Ensuring that the annual performance plan is the focus of
organizational performance.
      (2)   Unless expressly stated otherwise, nothing in this or any other
City Council rule or policy shall change any collective bargaining agreement,
employment contract or “at-will” employment of any city employee.
   (C)   (1)   Actions which cause the Council or general public to be unable
to comfortably hear, see or breathe; to experience unwelcomed physical contact;
or pose any threat to the health, welfare or safety of attendees, shall be
sufficient cause for the sergeant-at-arms, at the direction of the Chair, to
remove a person from the Council chambers or meeting hall for the duration of
the meeting. These actions may include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The use of unreasonably loud or disruptive language;
         (b)   Making loud or disruptive noises, flashes or light;
         (c)   Engaging in violent or distractive actions;
         (d)   The willful injury to city property of any kind;
         (e)   Refusal to obey any rules of conduct provided within this
chapter, including limitation on occupancy or seating capacity;
         (f)   Refusal to obey an order of the presiding officer; or
         (g)   Refusal to obey an order by a Council member, which has been
approved by a majority of the Council members present.
      (2)   In division (A)(1) of this section, UNREASONABLY LOUD OR DISRUPTIVE
means any noise, light, odor or conduct that intentionally or negligently
disrupts or obstructs the ability of one or more Councilors to receive any
communication from another during work or conduct of the business of the
Council.
   (D)   Before the sergeant-at-arms is directed to remove a person(s) from the
Council chambers or meeting place for conduct described in division (B) of this
section, that person shall be given warning by the presiding officer to cease
his or her disruptive conduct, unless the conduct poses an immediate threat to
the health, welfare or safety of any person or city property.
   (E)   If a meeting is disrupted by members of the audience, a majority of
the Council members present may order that the Council chamber or meeting hall
be cleared. (State public meeting law will still apply. This will not allow the
Council to deliberate toward a decision or to hold a closed or executive
session except as provided in that law. A recess of the meeting should be
considered to allow matters to calm down.)
   (F)   Signs or other devices which obstruct the ability of the Council and
the general public to see each other are not allowed, nor shall signs or
devices be adhered to the Chamber walls, with the exception of those needed as
part of agenda presentations.
(Prior Code, § 30.31) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.32 PICTURE TAKING OR FILMING.
   The taking of photographs or filming in the Council chambers or meeting hall
shall be allowed except when it is done in violation of §
36.31.
(Prior Code, § 30.32) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.33 FLAGS, SIGNS AND POSTERS.
   No flags, signs, posters or placards, unless authorized by the presiding
officer, may be carried, displayed or placed within the Council chambers or
meeting hall in which the Council is officially meeting. This restriction shall
not apply to arm bands, emblems, badges or other articles worn on personal
clothing of individuals, providing that the devices are of a size and nature as
not to interfere with the vision of other persons attending the meeting, and
provided that the devices do not extend from the wearer in such a manner as to
present a possible cause of injury to another.
(Prior Code, § 30.33) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.34 NEWS MEDIA.
   The provisions of these rules shall not be construed to prevent news media
representatives from performing their duties as long as the manner of
performance is not unreasonably disruptive to the conduct of the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.34) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 36.45 COUNCIL COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Mayor, at his or her discretion, may also convene special ad hoc
committees of limited duration with the consent of a majority of the Council.
These committees shall be charged with making recommendations regarding to the
Council.
   (B)   Members of all standing committees shall be appointed by the Mayor,
with the consent of a majority of the Council, at the second Council meeting in
January of each year or as soon thereafter as convenient. Members of standing
committees must reside or own a business within the city limits.
      (1)   The Mayor shall also designate Council members to serve as chair,
vice-chair and liaison between the standing committees and the City Council.
Each Council member should expect to serve on not less than two standing
committees.
      (2)   Each member of a committee shall hold office for two years and
until a successor is appointed.
      (3)   If a vacancy occurs in a committee, the Mayor, at the next
succeeding regular meeting of the Council, with the consent of a majority of
the Council, shall appoint a member of the Council to fill the vacancy. Any
member so appointed shall hold office until January of the year following the
appointment or as soon thereafter as convenient and until a successor is duly
appointed.
      (4)   The committees are limited to a maximum of seven members (excluding
staff). The member limitation does not apply to the Associations Committee,
whose purpose is to be inclusive. The chair shall set the agenda in conference
with staff.
      (5)   A majority of a quorum of a committee is sufficient to conduct
committee business. Business shall be conducted in a manner similar to that
proscribed in §§
36.20 and
36.29 through
36.34 above.
      (6)   The city staff will provide staff support and input and may make
recommendations to committees but shall not have a vote on the committee.
      (7)   At the regular meeting of the Council following a committee
meeting, the committees shall make a report, written or oral, of their
activities or as soon thereafter as convenient.
   (C)   The City Council may establish or abolish standing committees by
resolution in order to report and make appropriate recommendations to the
Council, and recommend adoption of ordinances and/or resolutions that it
considers necessary for the welfare of the city. At the time of the
ratification of these rules, the following standing committees shall be
considered in place:
      (1)   Committee on Personnel. The Committee on Personnel shall:
         (a)   Coordinate City Manager, City Recorder and Municipal Judge
annual evaluations;
         (b)   Coordinate and make recommendations for changes to the Employee
Handbook; and
         (c)   Periodically evaluate all personal service contracts.
      (2)   Committee on Beautification, Parks and Open Space.  The Committee
on City Beautification, Parks and Open Space shall consider all matters
relating to parks, open space, seasonal street decoration, and uses of city
beautification funds, city beautification needs and holiday celebrations and
matters that are referred to it by the Mayor.
      (3)   Committee on Finance. The Committee on Finance shall consider all
matters relating to city budget, city fiscal affairs, loans, grants, assessment
impacts and government grants and matters that are referred to it by the Mayor.
      (4)   Committee on Public Safety. The Committee on Public Safety shall
consider all matters relating to public health and safety, city police,
intergovernmental relations with the Fire District, 911, County Sheriff, state
police and outreach, schools, youth and elderly.
      (5)   Committee on Public Works. The Committee on Public Works shall:
         (a)   Consider all matters relating to streets, on-street parking,
parking district, sewers, alleys, sidewalks, public ways, water facilities and
public buildings and matters that are referred to it by the Mayor;
         (b)   Recommend rates to be charged for city water and sewer services;
and
         (c)   Propose improvements to streets, on-street parking, parking
district, sewer facilities, alleys, sidewalks, public ways, water facilities
and public buildings.
      (6)   Committee on Associations. The Committee on Associations shall
consider all matters relating to city visioning, downtown development and city
partnerships.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the above divisions (A) through (C), the following
commissions and committees shall require Council consent for membership and
shall be guided by the requirements of state law and any supplemental bylaws
that they may adopt:
      (1)   Planning Commission; and
      (2)   Budget Committee.
   (E)   City Councilors appointed to any committee or commission, which may
from time to time request and/or require municipal funds, shall work with the
committee in the formation of its budget and be prepared to support and explain
the budget items presented to the City Council.
   (F)   All committees shall keep action minutes or shall electronically
record the proceedings of their meetings. The committee chair or his or her
designate shall be responsible for turning the record in to City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 30.45) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.46 CHAIN OF COMMAND.
   (A)   (1)   No elected or appointed official shall issue directives
individually to department heads or city employees. Complaints about an
employee’s job performance are to be directed to the City Manager. Complaints
about the City Recorder or City Manager’s job performance are to be directed to
the Personnel Committee.
      (2)   The City Manager and City Recorder are the Council’s only links to
operational achievement and conduct; all authority and accountability of
employees, as far as the Council is concerned, is considered the authority and
accountability of the City Manager. Accordingly:
         (a)   The Council will not give instructions to persons who report
directly or indirectly to the City Manager;
         (b)   The Council will not evaluate the performance of any employee
other than the City Manager and the City Recorder; and
         (c)   The Council will review City Manager and City Recorder
performance annually and will consider City Manager performance as identical to
city performance. This includes achievement of the strategic direction
policies, and financial performance as identified in the approved budget.
   (B)   No department head or employee, with the exception of the City
Recorder and Municipal Judge, shall present requests to elected or appointed
officials except in an emergency. All nonemergency requests are to be submitted
first to the appropriate department head before submission to the City Manager.
The City Manager shall determine which requests are forwarded to the City
Council. This division (B) shall not pertain to grievance or “whistleblowing”
concerns, which shall be subject to the processes described in the Employee
Handbook and any relevant union contract.
(Prior Code, § 30.46) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.47 ANNUAL POSITION REVIEW.
   While the Council is encouraged to communicate with staff, the Council’s
connection to the city’s daily operations, its achievements and conduct will be
through the City Manager (except for those areas of responsibility that are the
City Recorder’s, where it will be through the City Recorder).
   (A)   Systematic and rigorous monitoring of City Manager and City Recorder
job performance will be against the expected progress and eventual results of
the annual performance plan and in compliance with the boundaries specified in
executive accountability policies. The Council will acquire monitoring data by
one or more of three methods:
      (1)   By internal report, in which the City Manager or City Recorder
discloses compliance information to the Council;
      (2)   By external report, in which an external, disinterested third party
selected by the Council assesses compliance with city policy; and/or
      (3)   By direct Council member inspection, in which the member assesses
compliance with the appropriate policy criteria.
   (B)   All policies that set boundaries for the City Manager and City
Recorder will be monitored at a frequency and by a method recommended and
approved by the Council. The Council can monitor any policy at any time by any
method.
(Prior Code, § 30.47) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.48 USE OF LEGAL AND PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
   (A)   All requests for formal opinion and information to and from the City
Attorney or other personal service contractors shall be channeled through the
Mayor, Council President or City Manager. If three or more Councilors request
certain professional services, the Council President shall authorize the use.
This does not preclude an individual Councilor from contacting the City
Attorney for a brief informal legal opinion that must then be promptly
communicated to the entire Council.
   (B)   All requests for legal or other professional opinion shall be
submitted in writing.
   (C)   The City Attorney shall not deal directly with developer’s legal
agents or other individuals desiring to initiate actions requiring Council and/
or Planning Commission approval, unless directed to do so by the City Council.
   (D)   Attorneys representing developers and/or other parties shall direct
all matters regarding the city to the attention of city staff for routing
through established procedural protocols. Should there be any question of
proceeding outside of established protocols, the City Council of the city will
determine the appropriate disposition of the referenced matter and whether the
matter is capable of being resolved by City Council action or requiring legal
services.
   (E)   All records of billing submitted to the city for professional services
shall reflect the subject and topic of each and every topic area (for example,
phone call re: (topic) and to whom; conference/meeting re: (topic and
purpose)).
(Prior Code, § 30.48) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.49 REPRESENTING THE CITY.
   (A)   City stationery and an official’s title shall be used when stating
previously expressed (verbal or written) city policy or when requesting
information or assistance, except as so directed at a public meeting by a
majority of Council members present.
   (B)   The Mayor, as a chief elected official, and thus spokesperson for the
city along with the City Manager, shall be allowed to use city stationery to
extend invitations to city-related functions and to send letters of
appreciation or condolence. The Mayor or City Council may delegate this
authority to another.
   (C)   No elected or appointed official shall use city stationery to express
personal viewpoints or for private correspondence.
(Prior Code, § 30.49) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 36.50 RULES IN GENERAL.
   (A)   In the event any rule established by Council is found to be contrary
to the Municipal Charter, state or federal law, the appropriate Charter
provisions or laws shall take precedence.
   (B)   If any rule within these rules is found to be in conflict with
previous Council rules, the previous Council rules shall be amended to resolve
the conflict.
   (C)   As needed or required by law or administrative order, the Council
rules shall be revised, deleted or new rules introduced by amendment or
revision. Modification or changing of one or more rules shall have no effect
upon the other rules of Council.
   (D)   The appendices to these rules (see Appendices A, B and C following)
may be modified by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 30.50) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
APPENDIX A: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO THE CITY MANAGER AND CITY RECORDER
POLICY
Delegation of Authority to the City Manager and City Recorder Policy
   The Council will instruct the City Manager and City Recorder through written
policies that prescribe the city goals to be achieved and describe
organizational situations and actions to be avoided. The Council will support
any reasonable interpretation of those policies by the City Manager or City
Recorder respective to their assigned responsibilities. Accordingly:
   (A)   Council will develop policies instructing the City Manager or City
Recorder to achieve defined goal results. These policies will be developed
systematically from the broadest, most general level to more defined levels,
and may be called strategic direction policies;
   (B)   Council will develop policies that limit the latitude the City Manager
or City Recorder may exercise in choosing the organizational means. These
policies will be developed systematically from the broadest, most general level
to more defined levels, and they may be called executive accountability
policies;
   (C)   As long as the City Manager or City Recorder uses any reasonable
interpretation of the Council’s strategic direction policies and executive
accountability policies, the City Manager or City Recorder is authorized to
establish all further policies, make all decisions, establish all practices and
develop all activities they deems appropriate to achieve the Council’s goals;
and
   (D)   The Council may change its strategic direction policies and/or
executive accountability policies at any time, thereby shifting the boundary
between Council and City Manager/City Recorder domains. By doing so, the
Council changes the latitude of choice given to the City Manager or City
Recorder. However, as long as any Council-specified delegation of authority is
in place, the Council will respect and support any reasonable interpretation of
its policies.
(Prior Code, Ch. 30, App. A) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
APPENDIX B: EXECUTIVE ACCOUNTABILITY POLICIES
Policy I: City Manager Executive Accountability Policy:
   (A)   City Manager responsibility. The City Manager shall ensure that all
city practices, activities, decisions and organizational circumstances are
lawful, prudent and in conformance with commonly accepted business and
professional ethics, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   The City Manager shall ensure the city’s assets are protected,
adequately maintained and risked only as necessary. Accordingly the City
Manager shall:
         (a)   Allow only authorized personnel access to material amounts of
funds;
         (b)   Monitor facilities or equipment for improper wear and tear or
insufficient routine maintenance;
         (c)   Protect the city, Council or staff from unnecessary claims of
liability;
         (d)   Assure that any non-inventory purchase:
            1.   Of over $5,000 has obtained at least three comparative prices
and qualities where brand consistency is not a consideration (i.e., Dell/
Gateway/Apple computers); and
            2.   Of over $150,000 has utilized a stringent method of assuring
the balance of long-term quality and cost through a formal bidding process.
         (e)   Be limited in authority to only purchases under $5,000 without
Council approval, with the exception of budgeted maintenance items;
         (f)   Protect intellectual property, information and files from loss
or significant damage, or access by unauthorized persons;
         (g)   Receive, distribute and/or account for funds under controls that
are sufficient to meet standard accounting practices and/or to protect the
city;
         (h)   Invest or hold operating capital in secure instruments,
including insured checking accounts or in interest-bearing accounts except
where necessary to facilitate ease in operational transactions or where it
benefits the city;
         (i)   Enhance the city’s image or credibility, particularly in ways
that would facilitate its accomplishment of its mission; and
         (j)   Timely provide Council, City Recorder, staff, contract vendors
and the public with the information necessary to carry on the city’s business.
      (2)   With respect to the treatment of employees, the City Manager shall
cause or allow conditions that are fair or dignified. Accordingly, the City
Manager shall:
         (a)   Operate by following written personnel policies that clarify
personnel rules for employees, provide for effective handling of complaints and
protect against wrongful or illegal conditions;
         (b)   Protect all employees from discrimination at any time for any
reason;
         (c)   Facilitate employees in taking a complaint to the Council when
internal complaint procedures have been exhausted; and
         (d)   Acquaint staff with this policy.
      (3)   Financial planning in any fiscal year mandates that actual
expenditures remain within the budget parameters, except for approved budget
adjustments. Accordingly, the City Manager shall provide a budget that:
         (a)   Contains sufficient information to enable credible projection of
revenues and expenses, separation of capital and operational items, cash flows
and disclosure of planning assumptions; and
         (b)   Acquires, encumbers or disposes of real property with the
Council’s approval.
      (4)   Regarding employment, compensation and benefits to employees,
consultants and contract workers, the City Manager shall protect the city’s
fiscal integrity and image. Accordingly, the City Manager may not:
         (a)   Change his or her own compensation and/or benefits;
         (b)   Promise or imply benefits that are outside approved benefit
policies;
         (c)   Promise or imply permanent or guaranteed employment; or
         (d)   Establish compensation that deviates materially from the
geographic or professional market for the skills employed and/or that is
outside of the approved budget.
      (5)   The City Manager shall keep the Council informed and supported in
its work. Accordingly, the City Manager shall:
         (a)   Submit monitoring data, status reports, financial information or
other pertinent information required by the Council in a timely, accurate and
understandable manner;
         (b)   Let the Council be aware of relevant trends or significant
changes of any kind that could or have negatively impacted the city; and
         (c)   Report in a timely manner an actual or anticipated noncompliance
with any Council-approved policy.
      (6)   Regarding city insurance, employee benefit providers and employee
wages, the City Manager shall:
         (a)   Review annually all benefits providers for cost and comparative
services; and
         (b)   Do bi-annual wage research and analysis.
   (B)   Staff treatment. With respect to treatment of paid and volunteer
staff, the City Manager shall cause or allow conditions, procedures, actions or
decisions which are lawful, ethical, safe, respectful, dignified, moral,
reputable and in accordance with Council policy. Accordingly, the City Manager
shall:
      (1)   Develop procedures for reasonable background inquiries and checks
prior to hiring any paid personnel or utilizing the services of any volunteers;
      (2)   Operate within the parameters of written personnel and
administrative policies which:   
         (a)   Clarify personnel rules and procedures for staff;
         (b)   Provide for effective handling of grievances;
         (c)   Include adequate job descriptions for all staff positions;
         (d)   Include salary and compensation plans that comply with state
law;
         (e)   Include an effective personnel performance evaluation system;
         (f)   Establish procedures for reductions in force;
         (g)   Protect against sexual harassment;
         (h)   Protect against racial, religious, gender, age, disability and
ethnic bias or discrimination; and
         (i)   Provide for a drug-, smoke- and alcohol-free workplace.
      (3)   Facilitate employees in grieving to the Council when internal
grievance procedures have been exhausted and the employee alleges that Council
policy has been violated;
      (4)   Protect confidential information;
      (5)   Provide for open communication and the sharing of ideas; and
      (6)   Provide staff with an opportunity to become familiar with the
provisions of this policy.
Policy II: City Recorder Executive Accountability Policy:
   The City Recorder shall help to ensure that all city practices, activities,
decisions or organizational circumstances are lawful, prudent and in
conformance with commonly accepted business and professional ethics, including
but not limited to the following:
   (A)   The City Recorder shall assure that the city’s assets are protected,
adequately maintained and risked only as necessary. Accordingly, the City
Recorder shall:
      (1)   Insure against theft and casualty losses to at least 100% of
replacement value and against liability losses to the city, employees and the
organization itself in an amount greater than the average for comparable
organizations;
      (2)   Allow only authorized personnel access to material amounts of
funds;
      (3)   Protect the city, Council or staff from unnecessary claims of
liability;
      (4)   Assure that any non-inventory purchase of over $5,000 has obtained
at least three comparative prices and qualities where brand consistency is not
a consideration (i.e., Dell/Gateway/Apple computers);
      (5)   Be limited in authority to only purchases under $5,000 without
Council approval with the exception of budgeted maintenance items;
      (6)   Protect intellectual property, information and files from loss or
significant damage, or access by unauthorized persons;
      (7)   Receive, distribute and/or account for funds under controls that
are sufficient to meet standard accounting practices and/or to protect the
city;
      (8)   Invest or hold operating capital in secure instruments, including
insured checking accounts or in interest-bearing accounts, except where
necessary to facilitate ease in operational transactions or where it benefits
the city;
      (9)   Protect the city’s image or credibility, particularly in ways that
would enhance its accomplishment of its mission; and
      (10)   Timely provide Council, City Manager, staff, contract vendors and
the public with the information necessary to carry on the city’s business.
   (B)   With respect to the treatment of employees, the City Recorder shall
ensure conditions that are fair or dignified. Accordingly, the City Recorder
shall:
      (1)   Operate within the written personnel policies that clarify
personnel rules for employees, provide for effective handling of complaints,
and protect against wrongful or illegal conditions;
      (2)   Protect against discrimination toward any employee at any time for
any reason;
      (3)   Facilitate employees in taking a complaint to the Council when
internal complaint procedures have been exhausted; and
      (4)   Acquaint staff with this policy.
   (C)   Financial planning in any fiscal year mandates that actual
expenditures remain within the budget parameters, except for approved budget
adjustments. Accordingly, the City Recorder shall assist in budgeting that:
      (1)   Settles payroll and debts in a timely manner;
      (2)   Assures that tax payments or other government-ordered payments or
filings will not become overdue or inaccurately filed; and
      (3)   Aggressively pursues receivables after a reasonable grace period.
   (D)   Regarding employment, compensation and benefits to employees,
consultants and contract workers, the City Recorder shall protect the city’s
fiscal integrity or image. Accordingly, the City Recorder may not:
      (1)   Change her or his own compensation and/or benefits; or
      (2)   Promise or imply benefits that are outside approved benefit
policies.
   (E)   The City Recorder shall keep the Council informed or supported in its
work. Accordingly, the City Recorder shall:
      (1)   Submit monitoring data, status reports, financial information or
other pertinent information required by the Council in a timely, accurate and
understandable manner;
      (2)   Make the Council aware of relevant trends or significant changes of
any kind that could or have negatively impacted the city; and
      (3)   Report in a timely manner any actual or anticipated noncompliance
with any Council-approved policy.
   (F)   Regarding city insurance, employee benefit providers and employee
wages, the City Recorder shall get bi-annual bids from insurance broker.
(Prior Code, Ch. 30, App. B) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
APPENDIX C: STRATEGIC PLAN FOR THE CURRENT YEAR
   The strategic plan for the current year is hereby adopted by reference as if
set out in full herein. Copies are available in city offices.
(Prior Code, Ch. 30, App. C) (Ord. 1256a, passed 8-1-2011)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
Solid Waste Management and Franchises
   
50.01   Short title and authority
   
50.02   Purpose, policy and scope
   
50.03   Definitions
   
50.04   Franchises
   
50.05   Franchisee responsibility/duties
   
50.06   Termination of service by franchisee
   
50.07   Rates and fees
   
50.08   Agreement required
   
50.09   Exclusive franchise
   
50.10   Termination, modification, suspension, revocation or refusal to renew a
franchise
   
50.11   Annexation
   
50.12   Remedies
   
50.13   General provisions
Medical Waste
   
50.25   Medical waste rate for commercial services
Garbage Collection
   
50.40   Definitions
   
50.41   Garbage containers
   
50.42   Bundles; weight limit
   
50.43   Construction waste; permit
   
50.44   Service schedule; container sanitation
   
50.45   Collection vehicles; leaking loads
   
50.46   Hours of collection
 
   
50.99   Penalty
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT AND FRANCHISES
§ 50.01 SHORT TITLE AND AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Solid Waste Management and Franchise
Ordinance” (hereafter “this subchapter”). Authority pursuant to this subchapter
is adopted. The subchapter is adopted under O.R.S. 459A.085 and the municipal
authority of the city. This action carries out O.R.S. 459.015 and the state
solid waste management plan.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 1155, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 50.02 PURPOSE, POLICY AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose and policy. In order to protect the health, safety, welfare
and environment and to conserve energy and natural resources within the city;
to provide for the opportunity to recycle; and to otherwise provide for solid
waste management, it is declared to be the public policy of the city to
regulate solid waste management to:
      (1)   Carry out policies in O.R.S. 459.015 and to provide for the
opportunity to recycle taking advantage of a coordinated area-wide recycling
collection service and promotion, education and marketing program;
      (2)   Ensure safety accumulations, storage, collection, transportation
and disposal of or resource recovery of solid wastes;
      (3)   Ensure maintenance of economical solid waste collection service;
      (4)   Ensure rates that are just, fair, reasonable and adequate to
provide necessary service to the public; and
      (5)   Prohibit rate preferences and other discrimination practices which
benefit one of a few users at the expense to other users of the service or the
public.
   (B)   Scope. No persons shall accumulate, store, collect, transport or
dispose of, or resource-recover solid wastes or provide service, except in
compliance with this subchapter with O.R.S. Chapter 459 or 459A dealing with
solid wastes, and with regulations of the Environmental Quality Commission
promulgated thereunder. Unless as otherwise provided, no person shall provide
or offer to provide solid waste collection service for profit within the city
franchise area.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 1155, passed 6-1-1998) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Tillamook.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Tillamook, Oregon.
   COLLECTION FRANCHISE. A franchise granting exclusive rights to provide solid
waste collection and transport services for compensation within a defined
service area in accordance with this subchapter.
   FRANCHISEE. The holder under contract of any collection franchise under this
subchapter.
   GROSS REVENUE. The amount of money actually collected, less waste container
rental, tipping fees and revenues from recyclable materials, by the franchisee
from his or her city customers by franchisee during the quarter of time in
question.
   PERSON. Individuals, corporations, associations, firms, partnerships, joint
stock companies, estates, trusts or any other legal entity.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIAL. Any material or group of materials that can be
collected and sold for recycling at a net cost equal to or less than the cost
of collection and disposal of the same material.
   RECYCLABLE RECOVERY. The process of obtaining useful material or energy
resources from solid waste and includes energy recovery, material recovery,
recycling and reuse.
   RECYCLING. Any process by which solid waste materials are transformed into
new products and may lose their identity.
   REUSE. The return of a commodity into the economic stream for use in the
same kind of application as before without change in its identity.
   SERVICE. “Collection service”, as defined by O.R.S. 459.005, which SERVICE
includes the collection, transportation, recycling or other resource recovery
of or from solid waste or recyclable material, or both.
   SOLID WASTE. All putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, including, but not
limited to, garbage, rubbish, refuse, ashes, waste paper, cardboard, sewage
sludge, septic tank and cesspool pumpings or other sludge; commercial,
industrial, demolition and construction wastes; partially burned materials,
discarded materials, discarded or abandoned vehicles or parts thereof;
discarded home and industrial appliances; manure, vegetable or animal solid and
semisolid wastes, dead animals, infectious waste, as defined in O.R.S. 459.386,
and other wastes. SOLID WASTE does not include:
      (1)   “Hazardous wastes”, as defined in O.R.S. 466.005; and
      (2)   Materials used for fertilizer or for other productive purposes or
which are salvageable as these materials are used on land in agricultural
operations and the growing or harvesting of crops and the raising of animals.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT. The prevention or reduction of solid waste;
management of the storage, transfer, collection, transportation, treatment,
utilization processing and final disposal of solid waste; or the resource
recovery from solid waste, and facilities used for those activities.
   SOURCE SEPARATE. Recyclable materials that have been separated from the
solid waste stream by the person who last used the recyclable materials.
   WASTE. Material that is no longer wanted or useable by the source generator
or producer of the material, and the material is to be disposed of or resource-
recovered by another person, and includes both source separated material and
non-source separated materials.
(Prior Code, § 50.03) (Ord. 1155, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 50.04 FRANCHISES.
   (A)   Establishment.
      (1)   Application for franchise. Application for a franchise shall be in
a format approved by City Council resolution and shall contain relevant
information required by state law and this subchapter.
      (2)   Award of franchise. Award of a franchise shall be by City Council
resolution. AWARD OF FRANCHISE is an offer to contract, subject to conditions
subsequent of the franchisee’s acceptance and execution of an agreement. If the
franchisee does not accept the city’s offer within 14 days of that offer, then
the city may withdraw its offer at any time. A franchise is not perfect and
binding on the city until an agreement detailing the terms and conditions of
the franchise is executed by the city and the franchisee.
   (B)   Franchise area defined. The FRANCHISE AREA shall be the area within
the city limits as they now exist or hereafter exist through annexations to the
city, subject to O.R.S. 459.085.
   (C)   Route selection. The City Council may designate the streets and roads
to be used by the franchisee in providing service and may reroute where traffic
conditions, the public convenience or public welfare so require.
   (D)   Franchise fee. The franchisee shall pay quarterly to the city 4% of
the franchisee’s gross quarterly revenue received on an annual basis during the
period beginning July 1, 2008 and ending June 30, 2010. Beginning July 1, 2010,
the percentage will be 5% of the franchisee’s gross quarterly revenue received
on an annual basis and this percentage will be in effect until June 30, 2018.
Payment of franchise fees shall be made to the city on or before the fifteenth
day of the month following the preceding quarter. Quarter-year periods shall be
July 1 through September 30, October 1 through December 31, January 1 through
March 31 and April 1 through June 30; all dates are inclusive. This fee is
subject to an annual review by the City Council. In addition, the franchisee
shall supply and service without additional charge to City Hall one commercial
collection receptacle not exceeding customary size or weight limits unless
otherwise agreed in any franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 50.04) (Ord. 1155, passed 6-1-1998; Ord. 1165, passed 4-2-2001;
Ord. 1232, passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 FRANCHISEE RESPONSIBILITY/DUTIES.
   (A)   Duties. The franchisee shall:
      (1)   Dispose of wastes collected at a site approved by the local
government unit having jurisdiction or resource-recover the wastes, both in
compliance with O.R.S. Chapters 459 and 459A and regulations promulgated
thereunder;
      (2)   Keep accurate books of account, and the city shall have the right
to inspect the same at all times during business hours and from time to time
audit the same for the purpose of determining the gross revenues and solid
waste ordinance compliance;
      (3)   Provide and keep in force public liability insurance in the amount
of not less than $200,000 for injury to a single person, $500,000 to a group of
persons and $50,000 property damage, which shall be evidenced by a certificate
of insurance filed with the City Recorder;
      (4)   Within 30 days after the effective date of any offers to franchise
under this subchapter, file with Recorder of the city a written acceptance of
the collection franchise and the terms of this subchapter which shall be
evidenced by endorsement in the form prescribed by the City Council;
      (5)   Provide sufficient collection vehicles, containers, facilities,
personnel and finances to provide all types of necessary service, or
subcontract with others to provide that service pursuant to this subchapter;
      (6)   Respond promptly to any written complaint on service and send a
copy to the city of the complaint and the response; and
      (7)   Provide for the operation of the recycling depot at the
franchisee’s business office which is in the city to be open to the general
public to drop off recycling materials on Monday through Friday from 9:00 a.m.
to 5:00 p.m. and on Saturdays from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
   (B)   Prohibitions. The franchisee shall not:
      (1)   Give any rate preferences to any person, locality or service. This
division (B) shall not prevent uniform classes of rates based upon length of
haul, type or quantity of waste handled and location of customers so long as
the rates are reasonably based upon costs of the particular service and are
approved by the Council on the same manner as other rates, nor shall it prevent
any person from volunteering service at no charge for a charitable, community,
civic or benevolent purpose; or
      (2)   Transfer this franchise or any portion thereof to other persons
without the prior written consent of the City Council, which consent shall not
be unreasonably withheld. In addition, the City Council shall approve the
transfer if the transferee meets all applicable requirements met by the
original franchise holder. In addition, the City Council acting upon
application to transfer the franchise may attach whatever conditions it deems
appropriate to guarantee maintenance of service and compliance with this
subchapter.
   (C)   Public responsibility. In addition to compliance with O.R.S. Chapters
459 and 459A and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto:
      (1)   Each person in the city shall dispose of his or her putrescible
wastes in an approved manner at least every 14 days or at more frequent
intervals where necessary, to prevent the creation of health hazards, rodent
harborage or sustenance, vector production or sustenance or public nuisances;
      (2)   No person shall use any of the following garbage cans for
collection by the franchisee:
         (a)   Cans exceeding 50 pounds per 32-gallon size and gross loaded
weight;
         (b)   Cans exceeding 32 gallons in size, unless rented or purchased
from the franchisee; nor
         (c)   Any sunken can.
      (3)   Garbage cans and containers must be located where access and egress
is possible without hazard or risk to the person providing service or other
persons, or risk to property, and shall be located outside of any locked or
latched gate or outside of any garage or other building;
      (4)   No stationary compactor or other container for commercial or
industrial uses shall exceed the safe loading design for collection vehicles
providing the service. Stationary compacting devices for handling solid wastes
or recyclable materials shall comply with applicable federal and state safety
regulations;
      (5)   Any person who receives service shall be responsible for the
payment for that service. The landlord of the premises impliedly consents to
the provision of service to the tenant thereof and shall be responsible for
payment for the service if the tenant does not pay; and
      (6)   Containers within an enclosure will be subject to an additional
charge unless the customer moves them outside of the enclosure.
   (D)   Exemptions. Nothing in this subchapter shall:
      (1)   Prevent the officers of the city from employing persons and using
vehicles for the purpose of collection and removal of solid wastes for an
annual cleanup or cleaning the public right-of-way;
      (2)   Prevent any person from transporting wastes produced by himself or
herself at home or work, if the loading and operation of the vehicle containing
the wastes prevents the contents from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise
escaping onto the public right-of-way or property adjacent thereto, and if the
wastes will be disposed of, or resource-recovered, pursuant to all applicable
laws, ordinances and regulations of federal, state or local government units
having jurisdiction;
      (3)   Prevent another person from transporting hazardous wastes, excluded
wastes or, with permission of the franchisee, materials which by their size or
weight cannot be handled in open trucks, front-end loaders or roll-off box
trucks supplied by the franchisee directly or through subcontract. Upon notice
by a customer within the city of unusual size or weight materials, if the
franchisee cannot provide the service, he or she shall waive the exclusive
franchise with respect to these hazardous wastes and/or materials only. This
waiver requested by the customer shall be oral or written to the city and
franchisee, but a written notice shall be filed with the city and a copy going
to the franchisee. The person in whose favor the waiver is granted shall obtain
a permit from the city for the hauling and shall pay the same franchise fee to
the city as would have been required of the franchisee under §
50.04(D);
      (4)   Prevent civic, benevolent or charitable organizations from
providing recycling or reuse services as a fund-raising drive or benefit; or
      (5)   Prevent the City Council from withdrawing other collection
activities or practices upon findings there is no need for regulation and no
substantial impact on the purposes of this subchapter, service to customers,
consumer rates or service of, and financial stability of, the franchisee.
(Prior Code, § 50.05) (Ord. 1155, passed 6-1-1998; Ord. 1232, passed 5-5-2008;
Ord. 1236, passed 7-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 TERMINATION OF SERVICE BY FRANCHISEE.
   The franchisee shall not terminate services to all or a portion of the
franchisee’s customers unless:
   (A)   The street or road access is blocked and there is no alternate route
and provided that the city shall not be liable for any blocking of access;
   (B)   Excessive weather conditions render providing service unduly hazardous
to persons provided service, or the termination is caused by accidents or
casualties caused by an act of nature or a public enemy; or
   (C)   A customer has not paid for service provided after a regular billing
and after a service of seven days’ written notice to pay by mail or personal
notice.
(Prior Code, § 50.06) (Ord. 1155, passed 6-1-1998) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 RATES AND FEES.
   (A)   Generally. Only rates and rate adjustments for service shall be
established by the City Council after not less than one public hearing by City
Council. Rates and rate adjustments shall be by resolution. No ordinance
amendment is required. A copy of the current Resolution R060324 is incorporated
herein by reference as if set out in full herein.
   (B)   Considerations. In determining the appropriate rate or rate adjustment
to be charged by the franchisee, the Council may consider any or all of the
following:
      (1)   The cost of performing the service provided by the franchisee;
      (2)   The anticipated increase in the cost of providing this service;
      (3)   The need for equipment replacement and the need for additional
equipment to meet service needs; compliance with federal, state, local law,
ordinances and regulations or technical change;
      (4)   The investment of the franchisee and the value of the business and
the necessity that the franchisee have a reasonable rate of return;
      (5)   The rates charged in other cities of similar size for similar
service;
      (6)   The public interest in assuring reasonable rates to enable the
franchisee to provide efficient and beneficial service to the residents and
other users of the service;
      (7)   The local wage scales, cost of management facilities and disposal
fee or charges;
      (8)   Any revenues and/or expenses resulting from recycling; and
      (9)   Other factors which may, in the opinion of the City Council,
necessarily affect the rates to be charged.
   (C)   Periodic rate adjustment. The City Council may, from time to time,
after a public hearing, adjust the rates charged by the franchisee by City
Council resolution. Upon its adoption, that resolution supersedes and rescinds
those provisions of any prior Exhibit A (as adopted) in conflict therewith.
   (D)   Billing; overdue accounts; collection and late fees. Franchisee may
charge a collection charge of a minimum of $1 on billings 30 days overdue,
$1.50 on 60 days overdue and $2.50 on 90 days overdue. Where the overdue
billing exceeds $100, a collection charge of up to 1.5% of the overdue amount
may be charged in lieu of and not in addition to charges otherwise specified in
the section. These charges shall be in lieu of any interest to be charged for
overdue accounts. Billing may be 60 days in advance. However, any unearned
balance shall be refunded to any customer for the days prepaid following the
date of any customer’s service termination notice to the franchisee.
   (E)   Investment. The investment of the franchisee and the value of the
business and the necessity that the franchisee have a reasonable rate of return
between 12% and 17%.
(Prior Code, § 50.07) (Ord. 1155, passed 6-1-1998; Ord. 1232, passed 5-5-2008;
Res. 1786, passed 5-20-2019; Res. R060721, passed 6-7-2021; Res. R041723,
passed 4-17-2023; Res. R060324, passed 6-3- 2024)
§ 50.08 AGREEMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Written agreement. The franchisee shall execute a written agreement
with the city within 30 days of the franchisee’s acceptance of the city’s offer
to franchise. If no agreement is executed within that time, then the city’s
offer shall expire without further notice required. The city shall proceed to
extend an offer to franchise with any other proposer or shall announce the
availability of the franchise, whichever, in the city’s sole discretion, the
city decides.
   (B)   Subcontracts. The franchisee may subcontract with others to provide a
portion of the service where franchisee does not have the necessary equipment
for service. A subcontract shall not relieve the franchisee of total
responsibility for providing maintaining service and for compliance with this
subchapter. Except where emergency service is provided by a subcontractor,
subcontracts shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Be filed with the City Recorder for any service extending more than
90 days;
      (3)   Provide that the subcontractor shall have no claim or right of
action whatsoever against the city; and
      (4)   Be available upon request to the city and the public.
(Prior Code, § 50.08) (Ord. 1155, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 50.09 EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE.
   Upon compliance with all conditions precedent with this subchapter and state
law, franchise(s) granted under this subchapter shall be exclusive, unless
otherwise expressed.
   (A)   City findings. The city shall comply with O.R.S. 459A.085 when
awarding franchises under this subchapter. Compliance with the statutes shall
be determined relative to the permissive and mandatory language therein.
   (B)   Terms and conditions.
      (1)   Franchise term. Nothing in this section shall interfere with the
rights of the city and City Council under this subchapter in the event the
franchisee breaches, defaults or otherwise fails to perform any obligations of
the franchise or franchise agreement.
      (2)   Opportunity to recycle required. O.R.S. 459A.085(6)(a) applies to
any franchise under this subchapter.
      (3)   Franchise term and renewals. The term for any franchise agreement
may be up to ten consecutive years. Unless grounds exist for refusal to renew a
franchise under this subchapter, any franchise may be renewable.
      (4)   Third-party responsibility. The city is not a party to the contract
between franchisee and any person receiving collection services. The city, by
this subchapter, expressly disclaims any suretyship or any other type of
payment guarantee for persons receiving collection services under this
subchapter. The franchisee solely determines rates and fees for services
provided by the franchisee that are not regulated by this subchapter. Services
not regulated by this subchapter are not subject to the franchise fee.
(Prior Code, § 50.09) (Ord. 1155, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 50.10 TERMINATION, MODIFICATION, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR REFUSAL TO RENEW A
FRANCHISE.
   (A)   One-year notice. City and/or franchisee shall notify the other in
writing not less than one year in advance of the date the respective party
intends to terminate, refuse to renew or suspend collection service under any
contract under this subchapter. This provision is intended to allow city and
franchisee time to plan and adapt to the change in their contractual
relationship.
   (B)   Opportunity to comply. Failure of the franchisee to comply with a
written notice to provide necessary service or otherwise comply with the
provisions of this subchapter after a reasonable opportunity to comply shall be
grounds for modification, revocation, suspension or refusal to renew the
collection franchise without further notice required.
   (C)   Thirty days to comply or request hearing. After written notice from
the City Council that those grounds exist, the franchisee shall have 30 days
from the date of mailing of the notice in which to comply or to request a
public hearing before the City Council.
   (D)   Failure to comply. If the franchisee fails to comply within the
specified time or fails to comply with the order of the City Council entered
upon the basis of findings at the public hearing, the City Council may suspend,
modify or revoke the franchise or refuse to renew it, or make the action
contingent upon continued noncompliance.
   (E)   Public hearing. At a public hearing, the franchisee and other
interested persons shall have an opportunity to present oral, written or
documentary evidence to the City Council.
   (F)   Emergency action. In the event that the City Council finds an
immediate and serious danger to the public, it may take action regarding any
existing franchise under this subchapter without notice and/or hearing.
However, notice and/or public hearing shall be provided by the city as soon as
practicable following the emergency action.
(Prior Code, § 50.10) (Ord. 1155, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 50.11 ANNEXATION.
   Subject to O.R.S. 459.085, the city reserves all rights to serve any and all
annexations to the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.11) (Ord. 1155, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 50.12 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Remedies. The remedies available to the city under this subchapter, if
any, are in addition to and not in lieu of any other legal and/or equitable
remedies otherwise available.
   (B)   Appeal. Any person having a legal issue concerning the application of
this subchapter or any contract executed hereunder shall first present the
issue to City Council or its designee for resolution. The aggrieved person
shall, at his or her own expense, cause notice to be given to all other
necessary parties, if any, including, without limitation, the city and any
relevant franchisee. Notice shall be actual notice or notice by first-class
United States Mail, mailed at least 14 days in advance of the date the city is
scheduled to hear the issue.
   (C)   Decision. The City Council or its designee shall decide the issue
within 14 days of the date the city heard the dispute. If the city fails to
issue a decision within 14 days, and unless otherwise agreed among the parties,
then the city shall be presumed to have denied the applicant’s request. The
applicant may then proceed accordingly.
   (D)   Supervision and enforcement. Service provided under the collection
franchise designated by the City Council shall be under the supervision of the
Council. The Council may make inspections of equipment and service practices,
investigate written complaints and take any further action as required.
(Prior Code, § 50.12) (Ord. 1155, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 50.13 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation. The city expressly reserves the right to interpret the
terms of its own ordinances. The city’s adoption of law from other
jurisdictions shall not imply the city’s adoption of any prior, present or
subsequent interpretation of that other jurisdiction’s law. These
interpretations may be instructive, but not binding on the city.
   (B)   Amendment. The city expressly reserves the right to amend this
subchapter at any time. Nothing in this section shall be construed to excuse
the city or franchisee from complying with changes in state law. An ordinance
amendment shall not be effective upon any existing franchise agreement unless
the franchisee consents in writing; this consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld.
   (C)   Controls over franchise agreements. The City Council or its designee
is the sole interpreter of this subchapter. This subchapter shall control over
any conflict with any franchise granted hereunder.
   (D)   Non-waiver; modification. Failure by city to enforce any provision of
this subchapter does not constitute city’s continuing waiver of that provision,
any other provision or the entire subchapter. The rights and duties under this
subchapter shall not be modified, delegated, transferred or assigned, except
upon written signed consent of city. The city’s waiver of any ordinance or
contract provision shall occur, if at all, only upon a written resolution or
other appropriate City Council action. Any waiver shall be recorded in the
minutes of the next available City Council meeting or subsequent meeting before
that waiver shall be effective.
(Prior Code, § 50.13) (Ord. 1155, passed 6-1-1998)
MEDICAL WASTE
§ 50.25 MEDICAL WASTE RATE FOR COMMERCIAL SERVICES.
   The City Council hereby adopts the rate schedule for medical waste, as
detailed in the attached Exhibit A (proposed rates) to the resolution
incorporated herein. The adopted solid waste rate schedule for medical waste
took effect on October 15, 2018.
(Res. 1771, passed 10-15-2018)
GARBAGE COLLECTION
§ 50.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Includes all animal and vegetable matter, refuse and household
waste, or materials or matter prepared or intended in whole or in part to be
used for food; also, all animal and vegetable refuse from places where
foodstuffs intended for human consumption are handled commercially.
   RUBBISH. All solid waste, other than garbage.
(Prior Code, § 50.30) (Ord. 603, passed 5-21-1945; Ord. 895, passed 5-23-1977)
§ 50.41 GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   An occupant or person in charge of premises where garbage accumulates
shall keep or cause to be kept on the premises one or more portable containers
of a standard type suitable for deposit of garbage and shall deposit or cause
to be deposited in the containers all garbage that accumulates on the premises.
   (B)   Garbage containers shall be sturdy, watertight, not easily corrodible,
rodent- and insect-proof and have handles at the sides and tightly fitting
lids. When not being emptied or filled, the containers shall be kept tightly
closed. They shall be conveniently accessible to garbage haulers.
   (C)   Garbage containers shall conform in capacity and weight to limitations
prescribed by the state.
   (D)   A portable garbage compactor-container designed for being loaded and
unloaded with a front- or rear-mount forklift, unless so constructed and
wheeled that it can be towed to a solid waste disposal site for emptying, may
not, together with its contents, exceed 4,000 pounds in weight.
(Prior Code, § 50.31) (Ord. 603, passed 5-21-1945; Ord. 895, passed 5-23-1977)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.42 BUNDLES; WEIGHT LIMIT.
   Unless special service or special equipment is provided by the collector for
handling unconfined waste, materials such as rubbish and refuse, brush, leaves,
tree cuttings and other debris for manual pickup and collection shall be in
securely tied bundles or in boxes, sacks or other receptacles; and solid waste
so bundled shall not exceed 60 pounds in weight. The above-described unconfined
waste shall not be mixed with garbage.
(Prior Code, § 50.32) (Ord. 603, passed 5-21-1945; Ord. 895, passed 5-23-1977)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.43 CONSTRUCTION WASTE; PERMIT.
   In addition to a demolition building permit, a permit is required for the
hauling of demolition and construction wastes. The permit shall be issued in
the City Recorder’s office, and the fee for the permit shall be $25.
(Prior Code, § 50.33) (Ord. 603, passed 5-21-1945; Ord. 895, passed 5-23-1977)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.44 SERVICE SCHEDULE; CONTAINER SANITATION.
   Garbage containers shall be removed from the premises where located and
emptied at intervals of not more than one week and shall not be permitted to
leak or distribute garbage and shall be kept clean and free of odor by the
owner or person in charge of the garbage containers.
(Prior Code, § 50.34) (Ord. 603, passed 5-21-1945; Ord. 895, passed 5-23-1977)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.45 COLLECTION VEHICLES; LEAKING LOADS.
   Any person who engages in the hauling of garbage and rubbish within the
corporate limits of the city shall provide trucks or other vehicles with steel
bodies and leakproof bottoms. No garbage or rubbish may be hauled upon or over
the streets of the city unless it is put in steel containers which are
leakproof and hauled in trucks or other vehicles with steel bodies with a
leakproof bottom. No garbage or rubbish may be permitted to leak from
containers or vehicles or be strewn upon or scattered over the streets,
sidewalks or other public ways of the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.35) (Ord. 723, passed 8-3-1959; Ord. 895, passed 5-23-1977)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.46 HOURS OF COLLECTION.
   Licensees who engage in garbage and rubbish collection shall collect the
garbage and rubbish only between the hours of 4:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. on
collection days.
(Prior Code, § 50.36) (Ord. 723, passed 8-3-1959; Ord. 895, passed 5-23-1977)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation by any person of the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.13 shall be deemed to be a violation and be punishable upon conviction a
fine up to $250 per offense or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more
than six months, or by both.
   (C)   Violation of any provision of §§
50.40 through
50.46 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $100, or by imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days, or by both the fine and imprisonment.
   (D)   Unless otherwise indicated, any offense under this chapter is
classified as a violation punishable by a fine set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 50.99) (Ord. 603, passed 5-21-1945; Ord. 895, passed 5-23-1977;
Ord. 1155, passed 6-1-1998; Ord. 1315, passed 6-6-2016; Ord. 1334, passed 3-5-
2018)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Water Master Plan, adopted
   
51.02   Water Management and Conservation Plan, adopted
   
51.03   Backflow device fee
City Water Commission Rules and Rates
   
51.15   Rules and regulations
   
51.16   Rate schedules
City Water Supply Protection
   
51.30   Definitions
   
51.31   Offenses against the purity of the water supply
   
51.32   Pollution prohibited
   
51.33   Placing substances on watershed prohibited
   
51.34   Defacing of signs prohibited
   
51.35   Special police officers
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 WATER MASTER PLAN, ADOPTED.
   The 2014 Water Master Plan, as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as if
set out in full herein. Copies are available through city offices.
(Res. 1693, passed 10-19-2015)
§ 51.02 WATER MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PLAN, ADOPTED.
   The Water Management and Conservation Plan, as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are available through city
offices.
(Res. 1795, passed 7-1-2019)
§ 51.03 BACKFLOW DEVICE FEE.
   The city shall establish backflow device fees from time to time, which are
adopted by reference and shall be made available for public inspection. Copies
are available through city offices.
(Res. R020121A, passed 2-1-2021)
CITY WATER COMMISSION RULES AND RATES
§ 51.15 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   There is hereby adopted and incorporated in this subchapter by reference the
terms and provisions of the rules and regulations for the conduct and operation
of the City Water Commission and its services, as may be amended by Council
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 877, passed 4-11-1977; Res. 1813, passed 4-20-2020)
§ 51.16 RATE SCHEDULES.
   The city shall establish water rate service schedules from time to time,
which are adopted by reference and shall be made available for public
inspection. Copies are available through city offices.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 877, passed 4-11-1977; Res. 1754, passed 4-16-2018)
CITY WATER SUPPLY PROTECTION
§ 51.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city of Tillamook, Oregon.
   PERSON. An individual, firm or corporation.
   WATERSHED. All property owned, acquired or occupied by the city’s
waterworks, reservoirs systems, springs, branches, pipes; and all lakes,
rivers, springs, streams, creeks or tributaries acquired by the city, or the
right of use of water therefrom acquired by the city constituting sources of
city water supply and by means of which the city supplies water, or stores or
conducts the water supply; and all property acquired for the preservation and
protection of the purity of the city water supply; and all property owned or
possessed by the city within the areas draining into lakes, rivers, springs,
streams, creeks or tributaries constituting those sources of water supply.
(Prior Code, § 51.15) (Ord. 780, passed 3-20-1967)
§ 51.31 OFFENSES AGAINST THE PURITY OF THE WATER SUPPLY.
   No person shall corrupt, pollute, impair or endanger the purity of the city
water supply by:
   (A)   Going or trespassing upon the area within the watershed;
   (B)   Permitting any animal owned, controlled or possessed by him or her to
run at large or go upon the area within the watershed;
   (C)   Leaving, keeping, placing or depositing any garbage, refuse, offensive
material or personal property of any kind within the watershed;
   (D)   Carrying or discharging a firearm or killing any animal or fowl within
the watershed;
   (E)   Picnicking, hunting, smoking, lighting a fire or maintaining a fire
within the watershed;
   (F)   Driving a motor vehicle in the watershed; or
   (G)   Bathing or swimming or placing any article or substance in or so near
the water supply so as to be apt to cause pollution or danger to the purity of
the lakes, springs, streams, dams, creeks or tributaries in the watershed.
(Prior Code, § 51.16) (Ord. 780, passed 3-20-1967) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.32 POLLUTION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall establish or maintain a slaughter pen, stock feeding yard or
hogpens, or deposit or maintain any unclean or unwholesome substance, conduct
any business or occupation, or allow any condition upon or sufficiently near
the sources from which the city water supply is obtained, or where water is
stored, on the property or means through which it may be conveyed or conducted,
so that the water should be polluted or its purity destroyed or endangered.
(Prior Code, § 51.17) (Ord. 780, passed 3-20-1967) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.33 PLACING SUBSTANCES ON WATERSHED PROHIBITED.
   No person shall place, or cause to be placed, within the watershed any
substance which either by itself or in connection with other matter will
corrupt, pollute or impair the quality of the city water supply. No owner of
any dead animal shall knowingly leave or cause to be left the carcass or any
portion thereof within the watershed in a condition as to in any way corrupt or
pollute the city water supply.
(Prior Code, § 51.18) (Ord. 780, passed 3-20-1967) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.34 DEFACING OF SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall alter, change, deface, destroy or remove any sign, warning
or notice posted by the city, or caused to be posted by the city or its duly
authorized agents in the watershed.
(Prior Code, § 51.19) (Ord. 780, passed 3-20-1967) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.35 SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   The City Water Commission is hereby authorized to appoint a special police
officer or officers as may be necessary to carry out and enforce the provisions
of this subchapter. The compensation and terms of employment of the officer or
officers shall be determined by the City Water Commission. Any officer
appointed under this section shall have the powers and duties as prescribed by
O.R.S. 448.315.
(Prior Code, § 51.20) (Ord. 780, passed 3-20-1967; Ord. 886, passed 4-25-1977)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found violating any of the provisions of §§
51.30 through
51.35 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine up to $250 per offense, or
by imprisonment in jail for not more than 50 days, or by both the fine and
imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 51.99)
   (C)   Unless otherwise indicated, any offense under this chapter is
classified as a violation punishable by a fine set by resolution. Penalties not
set by resolution shall be $250 per violation.
(Ord. 780, passed 3-20-1967; Ord. 1315, passed 6-6-2016; Ord. 1334, passed 3-5-
2018)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Wastewater facilities plan
   
52.002   STEP system maintenance fee
Sewer Regulations
   
52.015   Necessary connections
   
52.016   Connection permit
   
52.017   Prohibited openings
   
52.018   Connections to the main sewer
   
52.019   Waste products
   
52.020   Grease traps
Testing
   
52.030   Testing of sewer laterals
Regulations for Pressure Sewer Collection Systems
   
52.035   Definitions
   
52.036   Necessary conditions
   
52.037   Maintenance of system
   
52.038   Fees and related charges
   
52.039   Applicable ordinances
Sewer Charges
   
52.050   Establishing rates and charges
   
52.051   Collection of charges
   
52.052   Definition
   
52.053   Connection fee
   
52.054   Schedule of user rates
   
52.055   Enforcement of payment
   
52.056   Certification penalty
   
52.057   Sewer Fund revenue
   
52.058   Effective date
   
52.059   Review of rates
   
52.060   Appeals
   
52.061   Customer class changes
   
52.062   New account fees
   
52.063   Rate for extra strength sewer charges
   
52.064   Pretreatment permit fee
System Development Charge
   
52.075   Purpose
   
52.076   Scope
   
52.077   Definitions
   
52.078   System development charges established
   
52.079   Methodology
   
52.080   Authorized expenditures
   
52.081   Expenditure restrictions
   
52.082   Improvement plan
   
52.083   Collection of charge
   
52.084   Exemptions
   
52.085   Credits
   
52.086   Segregation and use of revenue
   
52.087   Appeal procedure
   
52.088   System development charge financing option
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 WASTEWATER FACILITIES PLAN.
   The Wastewater Facility Plan document prepared for the city by Kennedy/Jenks
Consultants and dated August 2005, along with any subsequent amendments, is
hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 52.001) (Ord. 1202, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 52.002 STEP SYSTEM MAINTENANCE FEE.
   The city shall establish a fee for STEP system maintenance from time to
time, which is adopted by reference and shall be made available for public
inspection. Copies are available through city offices.
(Res. 1673, passed 9-2-2014)
SEWER REGULATIONS
§ 52.015 NECESSARY CONNECTIONS.
   Within 30 days after notice from the city, the person in charge of any
building or premises within the city sewer district shall connect the building
or premises with the city sanitary sewer. The connection shall provide outlets
for all water closets, wash stands, slop stands, sinks and any other equipment
and devices for the disposal of sewage and drainage from the building or
premises. In certain instances, if the buildings and premises are within the
sewer district of the city, the owner, agent, occupant or other person in
charge of any building or premises shall, within 30 days after notice from the
city so to do, construct and place in operation a cesspool, septic tank or
other device as shall be approved by the Plumbing Inspector for the purpose of
disposing of all sewage and drainage from the buildings and premises.
(Prior Code, § 52.015) (Ord. 926, passed 8-7-1978)
§ 52.016 CONNECTION PERMIT.
   All persons desiring to connect to the city sewer system shall make
application to the city for a connection permit. The “hook-up” or connection
fee provided for in §
52.053 shall accompany the application.
(Prior Code, § 52.016) (Ord. 926, passed 8-7-1978)
§ 52.017 PROHIBITED OPENINGS.
   No person except the Director of Public Works or a duly authorized assistant
shall open or uncover any manhole, air cooler, flush tank or private connection
with the public sewers without the permission of the city. Nor shall any person
leave openings in sewers without ample protection against admission of dirt,
rubbish or other matter tending to block the flow of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 52.017) (Ord. 926, passed 8-7-1978) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.018 CONNECTIONS TO THE MAIN SEWER.
   (A)   Connection to the main sewers or laterals must be made into a “Y”
branch. Where no branch is available within a reasonable distance, a “Y” branch
shall be inserted in the sewer line. In no case shall connection to any sewer
of 12-inch diameter or less be made except into a “Y” branch fitting. Where a
sewer is tapped, a commercial saddle type clamp shall be used. Sewers shall not
be tapped below the centerline of the pipe, and all tapes shall be inspected
and meet with the approval of the City Engineer. No connection of downspouts,
roofs and foundation drains or other clean water sources shall be allowed to
any city sewer collection lines. Any such connections that are found to exist
shall be immediately disconnected from the sewer system at the owner’s expense.
   (B)   Service laterals from a structure to the main sewer line shall be
maintained by the owner of the structure in such a manner as to prevent
infiltration of groundwater into the collection system and leakage from the
system into the surrounding ground.
   (C)   Infiltration and inflow:
      (1)   All property owners identified by the city as contributors to
excessive or improper infiltration or inflow into the treatment works shall be
advised of their infiltration and inflow problems.
      (2)   All such situation properties shall have 180 days for cleaning and
testing and an additional 180 days for repairs as provided in §
52.030 Testing of Sewer Laterals. Additionally, a hardship may be applied for
in accordance with §
52.030 Testing of Sewer Laterals, which may provide additional days.
      (3)   All such situation properties requiring cleaning and testing shall
have 180 days to complete the work. Each property owner shall notify the city
that the cleaning and testing has been completed, and the results of the
testing in accordance with §
52.030 Testing of Sewer Laterals.
      (4)   All such situation properties requiring repair or corrective action
shall have 180 days to complete the work. Each property owner shall notify the
city that corrective actions have been taken, and the action taken shall be
specified in the notification to the city.
      (5)   A property owner failing to notify the city of corrective actions
by the end of the 180 days for repairs shall be subject to termination of
service, without further notice, and water service, if provided by the city,
shall be immediately discontinued and shut off until the violation shall have
been corrected in accordance with federal, state and city regulations.
      (6)   In the event any instance of excessive or improper infiltration or
inflow into the treatment works of the city shall continue beyond the 360-day
period (the sum of 180 days to clean and test plus 180 days to take corrective
action) unless an extension of hardship has been issued, it is hereby declared
that such continuing infiltration or inflow is a public nuisance that the city
shall have the right to abate such public nuisance, and to enter upon any
private property within the city for such purpose and shall assess the cost of
such abatement as a lien against the property upon which such continuing
infiltration and inflow occurs and shall assess the cost of such abatement to
the property upon or from which infiltration and inflow occurs. Such assessment
shall be levied by the filing of a statement of such costs together with the
description of the property or properties to be assessed, together with the
names of the owner(s) thereof with the City Recorder, whereupon the City
Recorder shall forthwith enter names of the owner(s) thereof with the City
Recorder, whereupon the City Recorder shall forthwith enter such assessment as
a lien against such property in the city lien docket. An administration fee or
a percentage of the cost, whichever is greater, shall be charged and collected
by the city in addition to all costs of abatement. (Note: If liens fall under
ballot measure five, assess penalty in some other form.)
(Prior Code, § 52.018) (Ord. 926, passed 8-7-1978; Ord. 959, passed 7-16-1979;
Ord. 1047, passed 4-2-1984; Ord. 1334, passed 3-5-2018; Ord. 1353, passed 12-
21-2020; Ord. 101623, passed 11-6-2023; Ord. 120423, passed 12-18-2023)
§ 52.019 WASTE PRODUCTS.
   It shall be unlawful to dump or allow to enter into the sewage system of the
city the following waste products:
   (A)   Petroleum, coal, tar, oils and their derivatives and wastes;
   (B)   Fats, oils, grease and sludge from any property, business or service;
   (C)   Explosives or inflammable liquids and gases;
   (D)   Acids, alkalies or other corrosive liquids, gases or substances of
sufficient strength to damage sewers, manholes, pumping stations or treatment
plant units; pH must be no less than 5.0 and no more than 10.0, measured at the
next measurable access point downstream from effected property lateral;
   (E)   Paints or waste products from paint manufacturers;
   (F)   Substances which will form deposits or obstructions in sewers or
which, when mixed with sewage, will precipitate materials and thus form
deposits in sewers;
   (G)   Ashes, cinders, sand, earth, coal, rubbish or metals of any kind;
   (H)   Live steam, exhaust steam or water having a temperature above 120ºF;
   (I)   Ground or unground fruit peelings and cores, meat or bones from
canneries, packing plants or meat plants;
   (J)   Cull fruits and vegetables;
   (K)   Paunch, stable and barn manure;
   (L)   Offal from slaughter houses;
   (M)   Dead animals or parts thereof;
   (N)   Nothing shall be introduced into the sewer that can cause pass
through;
   (O)   Nothing shall be introduced into the sewer that can cause interference
of process at the sewer plant;
   (P)   Fertilizers or fertilizer products;
   (Q)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the city in accordance with §
52.018; and
   (R)   Storm water, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Superintendent. (Note: Certain of these waters may require an
NPDES permit from DEO if discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet.)
(Prior Code, § 52.019) (Ord. 926, passed 8-7-1978; Ord. 1334, passed 3-5-2018)
Penalty, see §  
52.999
§ 52.020 GREASE TRAPS.
   (A)   Grease removal maintenance requirements. Grease traps/interceptors
shall be maintained in efficient operating condition by periodic, and complete,
removal of all contents of the device, including wastewater, accumulated
F.O.G., floating materials, sludge, and solids. Grease traps/interceptors shall
be cleaned at a minimum semi-annually.
   (B)   All owners of properties, or any person affiliated with the property
or business, that obtain sewer services from the city shall annually provide
their service documentation of their grease trap/interceptor for each calendar
year. All service documents will be provided to the city within 60 days after
the last day of each calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 52.020) (Ord. 1334, passed 3-5-2018; Ord. 1346, passed 5-20-
2019; Ord. 1353, passed 12-21-2020)
TESTING
§ 52.030 TESTING OF SEWER LATERALS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for operation and
maintenance of the city sewer system in a reliable and serviceable condition,
to eliminate or minimize sewage overflows by eliminating or minimizing
stoppages and reducing sources of infiltration and inflow into the city sewer
system, and to comply with applicable legal requirements pertaining to the city
sewer system. The purpose is additionally for the safety of public health and
the protection of the environment.
   (B)   Testing of new building sewers or sewer laterals. All new sewer
laterals shall be tested by air, smoke and/or video inspection method. The
method or methods used shall be at the discretion of the City of Tillamook. The
test section shall be throughout the full length of the sewer lateral. The air,
smoke, or video inspection tests of a new sewer lateral shall conform to all
testing requirements established or utilized by the city in its discretion.
   (C)   Testing of existing sewer laterals.
      (1)   General. It shall be unlawful for any owner of a house, building,
property, or other structure connected to the city sewer system to maintain a
sewer lateral in a defective condition. As used in this section, DEFECTIVE
CONDITION includes, but is not limited to (A) displaced joints, (B) root
intrusion, (C) substantial deterioration, (D) damaged or missing cleanout, (E)
damaged or missing backwater overflow prevention device, (F) in a condition
that will allow infiltration and inflow of extraneous water or exfiltration of
sewage, (G) in a condition that materially increase the possibility of a
blockage or overflow, (H) constructed without a proper permit or with materials
not approved by the city, (I) lack of a manufactured connection to the city
sewer system, (J) otherwise in violation of city requirements, or (K) in such a
condition that the tests required by this section cannot be accomplished to the
satisfaction of the city.
      (2)   Conditions requiring cleaning and testing of a sewer lateral. All
sewer laterals connected to the city’s sewer system shall be cleaned and tested
within 180 days, at the property owner’s expense, when any of the following
events occur:
         (a)   The installation of additional plumbing facilities that produce
a major increase in sewage flow from the house, building, property, or other
structure served. A MAJOR INCREASE is defined as a 20% increase of water use
averaged over the last 180 days.
         (b)   A change of use of the house, building, property, or other
structure served from residential to business, commercial, or other non-
residential, or from non-residential/non-restaurant/non-industrial to
restaurant or industrial uses such as carwashes, cleaners, and laundries.
         (c)   Upon repair or replacement of a portion of the sewer lateral.
         (d)   Upon a determination of city that the cleaning, testing, repair,
or replacement is required for the safety of public health and the protection
of the environment.
         (e)   Upon a sale or other transfer of the house, building, property,
or other structure served. If a current cleaning and inspection report is not
on file with the city, the responsibility to provide a cleaning and inspection
report for any property within 180 days of a sold or transferred property will
fall to the current (new) owner of the property.
         (f)   When a sanitary sewer overflow occurs or other malfunction that
threatens public health or property.
      (3)   Testing criteria for existing sewer laterals. The owner or an agent
of the owner of the house, building, property, or other structure connected to
the city’s sewer system shall notify the city at least three business days
prior to testing so the city has the opportunity to witness the testing. All
sewer laterals shall be tested by air, smoke, and/or video inspection method in
accordance with all requirements imposed by the city. When cleaning and testing
of an existing sewer lateral is required, the sewer lateral shall first be
cleaned, and then tested via an internal video inspection for the full length
of the sewer lateral. The internal video inspection shall be completed by a
person and/or firm competent by experience to perform the work. Video
recordings of the inspection shall be submitted to the city for verification of
the condition of the sewer lateral.
         (a)   A sewer lateral will comply with the provisions of this chapter
if video inspection verifies all of the following conditions as approved by the
city:
            1.   The sewer lateral is free of roots, grease deposits, and other
solids which may impede or obstruct the transmission of sewage.
            2.   There are no illicit or illegal connections to the sewer
lateral such as roof or yard drainage facilities.
            3.   All joints in the sewer lateral are tight and sound to prevent
the exfiltration of sewage and the infiltration of groundwater.
            4.   The sewer lateral is free of structural defects, cracks,
breaks, or missing portions and the grade is reasonably uniform without major
sags or offsets.
            5.   The sewer lateral is equipped with a backflow protection
device if required, and with a cleanout within five feet of right of way.
            6.   None of the other defective conditions exist.
         (b)   A video inspection shall be valid for a period of six months
from the date of the video.
      (4)   Testing failure mitigation. When an existing sewer lateral fails to
meet the criteria in division (C)(3) above, the property owner shall cause all
repairs necessary to bring the sewer lateral into compliance to the
satisfaction of the city or replace the sewer lateral in accordance with all
city requirements. All sewer laterals that require repair will install a sewer
cleanout at the curb or other point in the right-of-way outside of the travel
areas or walkways. All costs of repair or replacement of the sewer lateral
shall be borne by the property owner.
      (5)   Repair or replacement of sewer laterals upon sale or transfer of
property. The repair or replacement of a sewer lateral that results from the
testing required as a result of the sale or transfer of property in a non-
probate transaction shall be completed within 180 days of the close of escrow
of the sale or, if there is no escrow, within 180 days of recording the deed or
other document transferring title. For properties sold or transferred in a
probate or other testamentary proceeding, pursuant to the terms of a revocable
living trust or similar instrument, or pursuant to the termination of a joint
tenancy or similar proceeding, any repair or replacement of a sewer lateral
shall be completed within 180 days after the probate sale or other transfer.
Sewer repair or replacement in the city right-of-way shall only be performed by
a city-approved licensed and bonded contractor.
      (6)   Hardship deferrals for sewer lateral repair or replacement. In the
event that the property owner establishes to the satisfaction of the city that
repair or replacement of a sewer lateral in a non-probate sale will result in
undue hardship inconsistent with the purpose or intent of this chapter, a
request for hardship status may be submitted to the City Manager. The City
Manager shall make a hardship finding only if the requesting property owner
presents facts that clearly demonstrate, in the City Manager’s sole discretion,
that the property owner’s payment for and completion of a sewer lateral repair
or replacement at the required time would result in an undue hardship. If
hardship status is granted, the property owner shall have up to 180 additional
days from the original 180 days to repair or replace the sewer lateral.
         (a)   For purposes of this section, UNDUE HARDSHIP shall be defined as
(1) the severe illness or incapacitation of the property owner; (2) the
immediate transfer or removal of the property owner from the state, thereby
making the hiring of a contractor to repair or replace the sewer lateral
impractical or overly burdensome; or (3) any physical or financial situation
that would render compliance with the time limits for the repair or replacement
of the sewer lateral extraordinarily difficult or impractical. The property
owner shall bear the burden of submitting documentation and proving the
existence of such a bona fide hardship to the satisfaction of the City Manager.
         (b)   Any property owner to whom a hardship finding is granted shall
be given written notice of the finding. Said notice shall inform the property
owner that the sewer lateral repair or replacement requirement is only deferred
up to 180 additional days from the original 180 days. The requirement shall not
be waived entirely. A copy of the notice shall be sent to the property owner.
         (c)   In the event of a failure to comply within the allotted time,
the city may bring an enforcement action and exercise any other remedy provided
by the city applicable law against the property owner and any other responsible
party. In addition thereto, any property owner who fails to fully comply shall
be responsible for all damages that arise from or relate to such failure. For
purposes of this section, DAMAGES include all compensatory damages, fines,
penalties, assessments, and other monetary exactions that may be awarded to,
levied or assessed by any person, firm, corporation, company or public entity.
      (7)   Extension of time for sewer lateral repairs and replacements. A
property owner may request that an extension of time be granted for repairs or
replacements that are required as a result of testing associated with the sale
or transfer of property in a non-probate transaction. Extension requests shall
be in writing and must include at the time of the extension request the name
and contact information of the party responsible for accomplishing the repair
or replacement of the sewer lateral. The city will review the request and may
grant a time extension of up to, but not more than, 180 days on the subject
property.
      (8)   Common interest developments. The owners of a common interest
development shall provide video inspection verification of all privately owned
sewer laterals within the common interest areas at least once every ten years
for duties and obligation imposed by this Municipal Code in relation to any
sewer lateral located within a common area of the development. The individual
unit owners shall be liable for the duties and obligations with respect to
sewer laterals established by the city.
   (D)   Sewer lateral compliance. The city shall review the final submitted
video for compliance. When all conditions are met to the satisfaction of the
city, as verified by the video inspection, the sewer lateral shall be deemed in
compliance with the provisions of the code.
   (E)   Appeal of sewer lateral notification of failure. A person aggrieved by
a decision or requirement to replace or repair a sewer lateral may appeal to
the City Manager. To submit an appeal, the person must first have an air
pressure test (the best industry standard test available) performed on the
sewer lateral and the results submitted with the appeal to the City Manager.
(Ord. 1353, passed 12-21-2020; Ord. 101623, passed 11-6-2023) Penalty, see §
52.999
REGULATIONS FOR PRESSURE SEWER COLLECTION SYSTEMS
§ 52.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLANNED ANNUAL ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Includes the following:
      (1)   Cleaning the tank by pumping out the solids from inside the tank
and hosing down the tank screen and pump end area of the tank;
      (2)   Check tank for visible ground water leaking into the tank;
      (3)   Hosing down the pump and checking the pump for a plugged suction
and debris in the impeller but not disassembly of any parts;
      (4)   Check float switches for operation and clean by hosing down as
needed;
      (5)   Observe the check valve is operating and the area around the tank
and lateral line to the main line for wet sports or visible leaks; and
      (6)   Check tank, pump and control panel for visible damage, corrosion or
conditions which could lead to operational problems.
      PROPERTIES. Any lot on which is situated an industrial, commercial or
residential structure.
      PRESSURE SEWER SYSTEM. A privately-owned, operated and maintained sewer
system that feeds to a pressure main line owned and operated by the city. A
PRESSURE SEWER SYSTEM includes pumps, tanks, valves, fittings, mainline
connectors, lateral lines, pump stations, control panels and any associated
sewer components located on public or private property. A PRESSURE SEWER SYSTEM
does not include pressure main lines that the city owns and operates.
      STEP SYSTEM (SEPTIC TANK EFFLUENT PUMPING). Sewage that is conveyed by
gravity to a septic tank through a building service lateral. Liquid waste is
pumped under pressure to the public sewer system. Solid waste will remain in
the tank.
(Prior Code, § 52.035) (Ord. 969, passed 3-17-1980; Ord. 1291, passed 9-2-2014;
Ord. 1334, passed 3-5-2018; Ord. 1346, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 52.036 NECESSARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All owners of properties, or any persons associated with the property
or business, that obtain sewer service using a pressure sewer system or STEP
sewer system must connect their sewer systems to a public main line within 60
days of service availability. For future developments that require sewer
service, a service easement shall be obtained from the property owner prior to
issuance of a building permit. In order to continue use of a pressure sewer/
STEP sewer system, an easement for city personnel and vehicle access shall be
provided upon request.
   (B)   All owners of properties, or any persons associated with the property
or business, that obtain sewer services using a pressure sewer system or STEP
sewer system shall post, at a minimum, the contact information for themselves
and the city on the pump station control panel in the event of an overflow or
emergency situation.
   (C)   All owners of properties, or any person affiliated with the property
or business, that obtain pressure/STEP sewer services from the city shall
annually provide their service documentation that their annual service
maintenance has been performed for each calendar year. All service documents
will be provided to the city within 60 days after the last day of each calendar
year.
(Prior Code, § 52.036) (Ord. 969, passed 3-17-1980; Ord. 1291, passed 9-2-2014;
Ord. 1334, passed 3-5-2018; Ord. 1346, passed 5-20-2019; Ord. 1353, passed 12-
21-2020)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.037 MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
   Property owners, or any persons associated with the property that obtains
sewer service using a pressure sewer or STEP sewer, shall have the sole
responsibility of maintenance, repair and replacement of the following sewer
system components.
   (A)   Connections to pressure main lines, but not the main line itself;
   (B)   Lateral lines;
   (C)   Valves and fittings;
   (D)   Pumps and pump stations;
   (E)   Pump station control panels;
   (F)   Tanks and tank screens; and
   (G)   All other associated components of the pressure sewer system located
between the tank and the main line connection.
(Prior Code, § 52.037) (Ord. 969, passed 3-17-1980; Ord. 1291, passed 9-2-2014;
Ord. 1346, passed 5-20-2019) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.038 FEES AND RELATED CHARGES.
   (A)   User fees shall be charged as provided by §
52.050 through
52.060. On a monthly basis, each account shall be charged an additional
maintenance fee to cover ongoing supervision of the pressure sewer/STEP sewer
system. The amount of the charge shall be determined by the City Council and
may be revised by resolution as deemed appropriate by that body.
   (B)   The city shall be responsible for the pressure main line. However, if
a private pressure sewer system causes damage to the public pressure main line,
the property owner, or any persons associated with the property or business
that the system serves, shall be responsible for all maintenance, repair and
clean-up charges incurred to fix the damage.
   (C)   All owners of properties, or any persons associated with the property
or business that obtain sewer service using a pressure sewer/STEP sewer system,
shall keep all components of their sewer system in compliance with all city,
state and federal regulations at all times.
(Prior Code, § 52.038) (Ord. 969, passed 3-17-1980; Ord. 1291, passed 9-2-2014;
Ord. 1346, passed 5-20-2019) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.039 APPLICABLE ORDINANCES.
   Sections
52.015 through
52.020,
52.050 through
52.060 and
52.999 not in conflict with this subchapter shall apply equally to a pressure
sewer/STEP sewer system. The city reserves the right to shut off water service
to any pressure sewer or STEP sewer system if the city reasonably believes that
doing so is necessary to prevent, control or stop an overflow of the sanitary
sewer for the safety of public health and the protection of the environment.
(Prior Code, § 52.039) (Ord. 969, passed 3-17-1980; Ord. 1346, passed 5-20-
2019)
SEWER CHARGES
§ 52.050 ESTABLISHING RATES AND CHARGES.
   The city hereby establishes the monthly rates and charges for the use of the
sewage facilities of the city in accordance with the schedule listed in §
52.054.
(Prior Code, § 52.050) (Ord. 926, passed 8-7-1978)
§ 52.051 COLLECTION OF CHARGES.
   All charges shall be shown on the regular monthly water bill under the
heading “sewer”.
(Prior Code, § 52.051) (Ord. 926, passed 8-7-1978; Ord. 1291, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 52.052 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   USER. The property owner and/or occupant or tenant of the premises. The
property owner is liable for all charges should any tenant or occupant not pay
the charges when due. In any action which may be instituted by the city to
recover for any water or sewage service fees or charges, both the occupant of
the premises served and the owner of the premises shall be liable for all fees
and charges.
(Prior Code, § 52.052) (Ord. 926, passed 8-7-1978)
§ 52.053 CONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   All persons desiring to connect to the city sewer system shall make
application to the city for a connection permit. The connection fees provided
for in §
52.078(A) and in subsequent resolutions for system development charges and for
other connection fees shall accompany such application.
   (B)   The city shall establish sewer connection fees for sanitary sewer
service from time to time, which are adopted by reference and shall be made
available for public inspection. Copies are available through city offices.
(Prior Code, § 52.053) (Ord. 926, passed 8-7-1978; Ord. 1115, passed 6-3-1991;
Ord. 1305, passed 11-2-2015; Res. 1694, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 52.054 SCHEDULE OF USER RATES.
   User rates shall be established by resolution.
(Ord. 1291, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 52.055 ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT.
   The city may enforce the collection of rates and charges for the use of
sewage facilities by turning off the water of any delinquent sewer user until
the charges are paid or by any other means that may be provided by the laws of
the state or permitted by the charter and ordinances of the city; and any
delinquencies may be certified to the Tax Assessor of the county, for
collection in the manner and as provided by O.R.S. 454.225. In the event the
city elects to institute an action to recover any charges, the city shall be
entitled to recover as part of its costs a reasonable attorney’s fee to be set
by the court.
(Prior Code, § 52.054) (Ord. 926, passed 8-7-1978; Ord. 1291, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 52.056 CERTIFICATION PENALTY.
   In the event it becomes necessary to certify the service charges hereby
established because of the nonpayment thereof, there shall be added to the
charges a penalty in the amount of 10% thereof and the same shall bear, when
certified, interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the date of the
certification.
(Prior Code, § 52.055) (Ord. 926, passed 8-7-1978; Ord. 1291, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 52.057 SEWER FUND REVENUE.
   The Recorder-Treasurer shall set aside and pay into the Sewer Fund all of
the gross revenue received from charges and rates collected for use of the
sewer facilities.
(Prior Code, § 52.056) (Ord. 926, passed 8-7-1978; Ord. 1291, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 52.058 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter and §§
52.015 through
52.020 and
52.035 through
52.039 shall become effective October 1, 1978.
(Prior Code, § 52.057) (Ord. 926, passed 8-7-1978; Ord. 1291, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 52.059 REVIEW OF RATES.
   A semi-annual review of the rate structures herein provided for this
subchapter shall be conducted by the city to ensure adequate revenue for the
coming year and continued equitableness of all fees. The City Council may
hereafter amend, repeal or modify any of the rates and charges as set forth in
this subchapter by resolution, and that resolution shall operate as an
amendment to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 52.059) (Ord. 959, passed 7-16-1979; Ord. 977, passed 7-21-1980;
Ord. 1291, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 52.060 APPEALS.
   Any person, business or agency that feels that the above rates are
unnecessarily restrictive and inequitable and would cause an undue hardship may
appeal to the City Council for an adjustment of the appropriate rate schedule.
The appeal must be in writing and contain justification for the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 52.060) (Ord. 926, passed 8-7-1978)
§ 52.061 CUSTOMER CLASS CHANGES.
   (A)   New customer class definitions shall be applied to all existing
accounts. Any customers affected the change will be notified in writing not
less than 30 days before the change is implemented.
   (B)   Definitions for water and sewer customer class rates shall be as
follows:
      HIGH COMMERCIAL. Any commercial use of property for grocery stores with
deli-grinders, restaurants, butcher shops, meat processing, bakeries, cheese
manufacture, car washes, motel/hotel with restaurant/deli and fuel stations
with deli marts.
      INDUSTRIAL. Any use of land, structure or natural resources involving the
manufacturing, processing or assembly of semi-finished or finished products.
      LOW COMMERCIAL. Any commercial use of property for retail offices, public
offices, private offices, grocery without deli-grinders, florists and taverns.
      RESIDENTIAL. Any use of land or structure of or relating to a place where
people dwell.
(Res. 1716, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 52.062 NEW ACCOUNT FEES.
   Fees shall be imposed for new accounts as follows.
   (A)   Deposit.
      (1)   Opening a new customer account will require a $125 deposit.
(Deposit may be waived for new customers who can show proof of an established
utility account with one year’s timely payment history with no more than two
late payment notices. New and current customers opening new accounts will be
subject to a deposit if payment history shows more than two late notices have
been received in the past.)
      (2)   After 12 months of consistent payments, the deposit will be applied
to the customer’s account. Deposits will be used to cover the final billing
when the customer terminates service voluntarily. Any termination of service
for non-payment will be subject to the repayment rules and collection process
currently in place.
   (B)   New account fee. All new accounts will be charged a $25 fee to cover
the administrative cost of new account setup. The new account fee shall be paid
upon request for service by the customer at the time of application.
(Res. 1716, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 52.063 RATE FOR EXTRA STRENGTH SEWER CHARGES.
   The city shall establish sewer rates for extra strength sewer charges from
time to time, which are adopted by reference and shall be made available for
public inspection. Copies are available through city offices.
(Res. 1748, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 52.064 PRETREATMENT PERMIT FEE.
   The city shall establish pretreatment permit fees from time to time, which
are adopted by reference and shall be made available for public inspection.
Copies are available through city offices.
(Res. 1808, passed 3-2-2020)
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE
§ 52.075 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the system development charge is to impose an equitable share
of the public cost of capital improvements for water supply, treatment and
distribution; sanitary sewer collection, transmission, treatment and disposal;
drainage and flood control; transportation; and parks and recreation, upon
those developments that create the need for or increase the demand on capital
improvements to be constructed, already constructed or under construction.
(Prior Code, § 52.075) (Ord. 1272, passed 12-19-2012; Res. 1791, passed 6-17-
2019)
§ 52.076 SCOPE.
   The system development charge imposed by this subchapter is separate from
and in addition to any applicable tax, assessment, charge, fee in lieu of
assessment or fee otherwise provided by law or imposed as a condition of
development. A system development charge is to be considered in the nature of a
charge for service rendered, a service hookup charge or a charge for services
to be rendered.
(Prior Code, § 52.076) (Ord. 1272, passed 12-19-2012)
§ 52.077 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS. Facilities or assets used for:
      (1)   Water supply, treatment and distribution;
      (2)   Sanitary sewer collection, transmission, treatment and disposal;
      (3)   Drainage and flood control;
      (4)   Transportation, including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks,
bike paths, street lights, street trees, mass public transportation, vehicle
parking and bridges; or
      (5)   Parks and recreation, including, but not limited to, mini-
neighborhood parks, neighborhood parks, community parks and other recreational
facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT. Constructing a building or a structure, conducting a mining
operation, making a physical change in the use or appearance of a structure or
land, dividing land into two or more parcels (including partitions and
subdivisions) and creating or terminating a right of access.
   IMPROVEMENT FEE. A fee for costs associated with capital improvements to be
constructed after the date the fee is adopted pursuant to §
52.078.
   LAND AREA. The area of a parcel of land as measured by projection of the
parcel boundaries upon a horizontal plane with the exception of a portion of
the parcel within a recorded right-of-way or easement subject to a servitude
for a public street or scenic or preservation purpose.
   PARCEL OF LAND. A lot, parcel, block or other tract of land that is occupied
or may be occupied by a structure or structures or other use, and that includes
the yards and other open spaces required under the zoning, subdivision or other
development ordinances.
   QUALIFIED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS. A capital improvement that is required as a
condition of development approval, identified in the plan adopted pursuant to §
52.082, and either:
      (1)   Not located on or contiguous to property that is the subject of
development approval; or
      (2)   Located in whole or in part on or contiguous to property that is
the subject of development approval and required to be built larger or with
greater capacity than is necessary for the particular development project to
which the improvement fee is related.
   REIMBURSEMENT FEE. A fee for costs associated with capital improvements
constructed or under construction on the date the fee is adopted pursuant to §
52.078 and for which the City Council determines capacity to exist.
   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE. A reimbursement fee, an improvement fee or a
combination thereof along with a “compliance fee” that takes into account
direct costs of complying with the provisions of this subchapter, including the
costs of developing system development charge methodologies and providing an
annual accounting of system development charge expenditures; which are assessed
or collected at any of the times specified in §
52.083. It shall also include that portion of a water or sanitary sewer system
connection charge that is greater than the amount necessary to reimburse the
city facilities. SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE does not include fees assessed or
collected as part of a local improvement district or a charge in lieu of a
local improvement district assessment, or the cost of complying with
requirements or conditions imposed by a land use decision.
(Prior Code, § 52.077) (Ord. 1272, passed 12-19-2012)
§ 52.078 SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   System development charges for each type of capital improvements may
be proposed by the City Manager and shall be established and may be revised by
resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Unless otherwise exempted by the provisions of this subchapter or
other local or state laws, a system development charge is hereby imposed upon
all development within the city, and upon all development outside the boundary
of the city that connects to or otherwise uses the water, sanitary sewer,
drainage and flood control, transportation or parks and recreation facilities
of the city.
   (C)   The system development charges (SDC) for approval for approval for a
new ancillary dwelling unit (ADU) will be as follows.
      (1)   There shall be no additional water SDC unless the meter size is
increased.
      (2)   The sewer SDC shall be two-thirds of that required of a new single-
family residence.
      (3)   There shall be no stormwater SDC, if there is no increase in the
impervious surface.
      (4)   If there is an increase in the impervious surface, the stormwater
SDC on an ADU of 1,500 square feet or less shall be two-thirds of that required
of a single-family residence.
   (D)   The city shall establish sewer system development charges from time to
time, which are adopted by reference and shall be made available for public
inspection. Copies are available through city offices.
(Prior Code, § 52.078) (Ord. 1272, passed 12-19-2012; Res. 1802, passed 12-16-
2019; Res. 1821, passed 7-20-2020)
§ 52.079 METHODOLOGY.
   (A)   The methodology used to establish the reimbursement fee shall, where
applicable, be based on ratemaking principles employed to finance publicly-
owned capital improvements, prior contributions by then-existing users, gifts
or grants from federal or state government or private persons, the value of
unused capacity available to future system users or the cost of the existing
facilities and other relevant factors identified by the City Council. The
methodology shall promote the objective that future systems users shall
contribute no more than an equitable share of the cost of then-existing
facilities and shall be available for public inspection.
   (B)   The methodology used to establish the improvement fee shall, where
applicable, demonstrate consideration of the projected cost of capital
improvements identified in the plan and list adopted pursuant to §
52.082 that are needed to increase the capacity of the systems to which the fee
is related and for which the need for increased system capacity will be
required to serve the demands placed on the system by future users. Improvement
fees shall be calculated to obtain the cost of capital improvements for the
projected need for available system capacity for future users.
   (C)   The methodology shall also provide for a credit as authorized in §
52.085.
   (D)   The methodology shall also provide for periodic indexing of system
development charges for inflation, as long as the index used is:
      (1)   A relevant measurement of the average change in prices or costs
over an identified time period for materials, labor, real property or a
combination of the three;
      (2)   Published by a recognized organization or agency that produces the
index or data source for reasons that are independent of the system development
charge methodology; and
      (3)   Incorporated as part of the established methodology or identified
and adopted in a separate ordinance, resolution or order.
   (E)   Except when authorized in methodology adopted under division (C)
above, the fees required by this code which are assessed or collected as part
of a local improvement district or a charge in lieu of a local improvement
district assessment, or the cost of complying with requirements or conditions
imposed by a land use decision are separate from and in addition to the system
development charge and shall not be used as a credit against such charge.
   (F)   The methodology used to establish the improvement fee or the
reimbursement fee, or both, shall be contained in a resolution adopted by the
City Council.
   (G)   After the effective date of this subchapter, the city shall maintain a
list of persons who have made a written request for notification prior to
adoption or amendment of a methodology for any system development charge.
Written notice shall be mailed to persons on the list at least 90 days prior to
the first hearing to establish or modify a system development charge, and the
methodology supporting the adoption or amendment shall be available at least 60
days prior to the first hearing to adopt or amend. The failure of a person on
the list to receive a notice that was mailed shall not invalidate the city’s
subsequent action. The city may periodically delete names from the list, but at
least 30 days prior to removing a name from the list, the city must notify the
person whose name is to be deleted that a new written request for notification
is required if the person wishes to remain on the notification list.
(Prior Code, § 52.079) (Ord. 1272, passed 12-19-2012)
§ 52.080 AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   Reimbursement fees shall be applied only to capital improvements (and
not operating expenses) associated with the systems for which the fees are
assessed, including expenditures relating to repayment of indebtedness.
   (B)   Improvement fees shall be spent only on capacity increasing capital
improvements, including expenditures relating to repayment of debt for the
improvements. An increase in system capacity may be established if a capital
improvement increases the level of performance or service provided by existing
facilities or provides new facilities. The portion of the improvements funded
by improvement fees must be related to the need for increased capacity to
provide service for future users. A capital improvement being funded wholly or
in part from revenues derived from the improvement fee shall be included in the
plan adopted by the city pursuant to §
52.082.
   (C)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B) above, system development charge
revenues may be expended on the direct costs of complying with the provisions
of this subchapter, including the costs of developing system development charge
methodologies and providing an annual accounting of system development charge
expenditures.
(Prior Code, § 52.080) (Ord. 1272, passed 12-19-2012)
§ 52.081 EXPENDITURE RESTRICTIONS.
   System development charges shall not be expended for:
   (A)   Costs associated with the construction of administrative office
facilities that are more than an incidental part of other capital improvements;
or
   (B)   Costs of the operation or routine maintenance of capital improvements.
(Prior Code, § 52.081) (Ord. 1272, passed 12-19-2012)
§ 52.082 IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   Prior to the establishment of a system development charge, the City Council
shall adopt a plan that:
   (A)   Lists the capital improvements that the City Council intends to fund
in whole or in part with improvement fee revenues;
   (B)   Lists the estimated cost and percentage of costs eligible to be funded
with revenues from the improvement fee for each improvement; and
   (C)   Describes the process for modifying the plan. If a system development
charge will be increased by a proposed modification of the list to include a
capacity increasing capital improvement, the city shall provide, at least 30
days prior to the adoption of the modification, notice of the proposed
modification to the persons who have requested written notice under §
52.079. The city shall hold a public hearing if a written request for a hearing
on the proposed modification is received within seven days of the date the
proposed modification is scheduled for adoption. A change in the amount of a
reimbursement fee or an improvement fee is not a modification of the system
development charge methodology if the change in amount is based on a change in
cost of materials, labor or real property applied to projects or project
capacity as set forth on the list adopted pursuant to this section or the
periodic application of the Construction Cost Index published by the
Engineering News Record and is incorporated as part of the established
methodology or identified and adopted in a separate ordinance, resolution or
order.
(Prior Code, § 52.082) (Ord. 1272, passed 12-19-2012)
§ 52.083 COLLECTION OF CHARGE.
   (A)   The system development charge is payable upon issuance of:
      (1)   A building or construction permit of any kind, including any permit
or permits issued in connection with the set-up or installation of any trailer,
mobile or manufactured home;
      (2)   A development permit;
      (3)   A development permit for development not requiring the issuance of
a building permit;
      (4)   A permit to connect to the water system;
      (5)   A permit to connect to the sanitary sewer system;
      (6)   A permit to connect to the drainage and flood control system; or
      (7)   A permit to connect to the transportation system.
   (B)   If development is commenced or connection is made to the water,
sanitary sewer, drainage and flood control or transportation systems without an
appropriate permit, the system development charge is immediately payable upon
the earliest date that a permit was required.
   (C)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall collect the applicable
system development charge from the person responsible for or receiving the
benefit of the development in accordance with division (A) above. The City
Manager or his or her designee shall not issue such permit or allow such
connection until the charge has been paid in full, or unless an exemption is
granted pursuant to §
52.084, or unless arrangements for payment of the charge, under such terms as
the City Manager deems reasonable, have been made, pursuant to division (D)
below.
   (D)   The obligation to pay the unpaid system development charge and
interest thereon shall be secured by property, bond, deposits, letter of credit
or other security acceptable to the City Manager. The net value of security
accepted, excluding liens and encumbrances thereon, must be at least double the
amount of the system development charge secured thereby.
   (E)   If the system development charge is not paid upon issuance of the
applicable permit, and the applicant chooses to pay the charge in installments
and secure the obligation with security acceptable under division (D) above,
then there shall be added to the amount owing the following:
      (1)   Interest on the obligation at the rate established by the City
Council for all unpaid assessments;
      (2)   All costs associated with processing the particular form of
security, such as title insurance, escrow fees, recording costs, collection
escrow costs and/or any other expense associated with the city accepting such
security;
      (3)   Any and all costs, as determined by the City Manager or his or her
designee, incurred in establishing payment schedules and administering the
collections process;
      (4)   When the charge is secured by bond pursuant to O.R.S. 223.205
through 223.295, any and all costs associated with administering the bond
assessment program and issuing the bonds, as determined by the City Manager or
his or her designee; and
      (5)   The intent of this division (E) is to recognize that the payment of
a system development charge by installments increases the administrative
expense to the city. It is the intent of this division to shift that added
expense to the applicant, so that the city will not lose system development
charge revenue by accepting installment payments on such charges. Subject to
the provisions of this division (E), all costs added to the system development
charge will be determined by the City Manager.
   (F)   No person may connect to the water or sewer systems of the city unless
the appropriate system development charge has been paid or the installment
payment method has been applied for and approved.
(Prior Code, § 52.083) (Ord. 1272, passed 12-19-2012)
§ 52.084 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following are exempt from system development charges:
      (1)   Structures and uses established and legally existing on or before
the effective date of this subchapter are exempt from a system development
charge, except water and sewer charges, to the extent of the structure or use
then existing and to the extent of the parcel of land as it is constituted on
that date. Structures and uses affected by this division (A) shall pay the
water or sewer charges pursuant to the terms of this subchapter upon the
receipt of a permit to connect to the water or sewer system;
      (2)   Additions to single-family dwellings that do not constitute the
addition of a dwelling unit. DWELLING UNIT means any building or portion
thereof which contains living facilities, including provisions for sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation;
      (3)   An alteration, addition, replacement or change in use that does not
increase the parcel’s or structure’s use of the system to which the system
development charge applies;
      (4)   A project financed by city revenues is exempt from all portions of
the system development charge; and
      (5)   A project financed by Habitat for Humanity is exempt, provided that
such projects provide housing to families at or below the city’s 80% median
income level, as defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
   (B)   Any enlargement or change and any new connection or utilization of the
system to which a system development charge applies shall not be exempt.
(Prior Code, § 52.084) (Ord. 1272, passed 12-19-2012; Ord. 1336, passed 7-2-
2018)
§ 52.085 CREDITS.
   (A)   A system development charge shall be imposed when a change of use of a
parcel or structure occurs, but credit shall be given in an amount equal to the
existing system development charge as applied to the pre-existing use. The
credit so computed shall not exceed the calculated system development charge.
No refund shall be made on account of such credit.
   (B)   An improvement fee credit shall be given for the cost of a qualified
public improvement associated with a development, subject to the following.
      (1)   Such credit shall be only for the improvement fee charged for the
type of improvement being constructed, and credit for qualified public
improvements under §
52.082 may be granted only for the cost of that portion of such improvement
that exceeds the city’s minimum standard facility size or capacity needed to
serve the particular development property or project. The applicant shall have
the burden of demonstrating that a particular improvement qualifies as
qualified public improvement.
      (2)   When the construction of a qualified public improvement gives rise
to a credit amount greater than the improvement fee that would otherwise be
levied against the project receiving development approval, the excess credit
may be applied against improvement fees that accrue in subsequent phases of the
original development project, if any.
      (3)   Credits shall be used within ten years from the date the credit is
given.
      (4)   Credit shall not be transferable from one development to another or
from one type of capital improvement to another.
(Prior Code, § 52.085) (Ord. 1272, passed 12-19-2012)
§ 52.086 SEGREGATION AND USE OF REVENUE.
   (A)   All funds derived from a particular type of system development charge
are to be segregated by accounting practices from all other funds of the city.
The portion of the system development charge calculated and collected on
account of a specific facility system shall be used for no purpose other than
those set forth in §
52.080.
   (B)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall provide the City Council
with an annual accounting, based on the city’s fiscal year, for system
development charges showing the total amount of system development charge
revenues collected for each type of facility and the projects funded, either in
whole or in part, from each account.
(Prior Code, § 52.086) (Ord. 1272, passed 12-19-2012)
§ 52.087 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A person aggrieved by a decision required or permitted to be made by
the City Manager or his or her designee under this subchapter or a person
challenging the propriety of an expenditure of system development charge
revenues may appeal the decision or the expenditure to the City Council by
filing a written request with the City Manager describing with particularity
the decision of the City Manager or his or her designee or the expenditure from
which the person appeals.
   (B)   An appeal of an expenditure must be filed within two years of the date
of the alleged improper expenditure. Appeals of any other decision required or
permitted to be made by the City Manager must be filed within ten days of the
date of the decision.
   (C)   The City Council shall determine whether the City Manager’s decision
or the expenditure is in accordance with this chapter and the provisions of
O.R.S. 223.297 to 223.314 and may affirm, modify or overrule the decision. If
the City Council determines that there has been an improper expenditure of
system development charge revenues, the City Council shall direct that a sum
equal to the misspent amount shall be deposited within one year to the credit
of the account or fund from which it was spent.
   (D)   A legal action challenging the methodology adopted by the City Council
pursuant to §
52.079 shall not be filed later than 60 days after adoption, and shall be
contested according to the procedure set forth in O.R.S. 34.010 to 34.100, and
not otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 52.087) (Ord. 1272, passed 12-19-2012)
§ 52.088 SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE FINANCING OPTION.
   (A)   Financing provided. SDC financing is provided through installment
loans secured by a lien on the benefitted property. Loan requirements are
consistent with the city’s fiscal policies.
   (B)   Terms and interest.
      (1)   The terms and interest rates available for financing are based on
the amount financed. The total amount may be accumulative of all SDCs for a
single project. The interest base rate will be based on the Local Government
Investment Pool (LGIP) rate at the time of application.
      (2)   An additional percentage will be applied to the base rate depending
upon the amount and term of financing:
         (a)   $25,000 - $49,999.99: three years at LGIP rate plus 1%;
         (b)   $50,000 - $149,999.99: five years at LGIP rate plus 2%; and
         (c)   $150,000 and up: seven years at LGIP rate plus 3%.
   (C)   Application and requirements for approval.
      (1)   An application for financing must be submitted to the City Finance
Officer for consideration and final approval by the City Treasurer. The
application form shall be approved by the City Manager prior.
      (2)   The following are requirements for SDC financing to be approved.
         (a)   Applications require a one-time nonrefundable application
processing fee of $50.
         (b)   Financing approval is subject to a credit check through a third-
party vendor contracted by the city, the cost of which shall be paid by the
applicant.
         (c)   All successful applicants must sign an installment contract.
         (d)   The SDC financing installment contract creates a lien on the
property and additional security in compliance with §
52.083(D) may be required.
         (e)   For installment loans, applicants shall make semi-annual
payments over the term of the contract.
         (f)   There is no prepayment penalty.
         (g)   Installment billings begin 30 to 60 days after the loan contract
is received by the city.
         (h)   Interest is charged through the bill due date. Late payments are
subject to penalties and collection charges as provided by City Code.
      (3)   SDCs must be paid or financed before a building permit is issued.
Additionally, applicants must pay all other utility service costs which may be
needed to receive a building permit.
   (D)   Effective date. The SDC finance option shall be available for
application beginning July 1, 2019.
(Res. 1792, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions
of any section of
Chapter 52: Sewers, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine up to
$250 per offense. Each person, firm or corporation shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which any
violation of these sections is committed or continued by the person, firm or
corporation, and shall be punished accordingly.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation shown to be in violation of any
section of
Chapter 52: Sewers, by smoke testing, TV, or pressure tests of any service
lateral, shall be notified by the city by personal service or by certified
mail, return receipt requested, and given 180 days to correct the defects in
the service lateral. If, after 180 days of the notification, a correction of
the defects has not been made, then the sewer rates for the property served by
the lateral shall be doubled. For each subsequent 30-day period within which
correction of defects is not made, the sewer service rates for the property
served by the defective lateral shall again be doubled to offset the person’s,
firm’s or corporation’s excessive use of the city’s collection system and
disposal plant capacities. Penalties may be waived at the sole discretion of
the City Manager.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
52.015 through
52.020,
52.035 through
52.039 or
52.050 through
52.060 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine up to $250 per
offense. Each person, firm or corporation shall be deemed guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day during any portion of which any violation of
these sections is committed or continued by the person, firm or corporation,
and shall be punished accordingly.
   (D)   Unless otherwise indicated, any offense under this chapter is
classified as a violation punishable by a fine set by resolution. Penalties not
set by resolution shall be $250 per violation.
(Prior Code, § 52.999) (Ord. 926, passed 8-7-1978; Ord. 959, passed 7-16-1979;
Ord. 969, passed 3-17-1980; Ord. 1030, passed 4-18-1983; Ord. 1047, passed 4-2-
1984; Ord. 1315, passed 6-6-2016; Ord. 1334, passed 3-5-2018; Ord. 1353, passed
12-21-2020; Ord. 101623, passed 11-6-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC CONTROL
      
72.   PARKING
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Truck, Vehicle Weight Restrictions
   
70.01   General provisions
   
70.02   Restricting trucks and certain other vehicles; weight restrictions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
TRUCK, VEHICLE WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
§ 70.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Under the Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act of 1994,
as amended, 49 U.S.C. § 1450 (C)(1) generally prohibits states and cities from
regulating prices, routes or services of any motor carrier with respect to the
transportation of property, except for public safety reasons.
   (B)   There are certain locations within the city with narrow streets, blind
curves or other unusual conditions where large trucks and certain other
vehicles, particularly those longer than a three-axle, single unit truck, as
defined in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, larger than eight
feet wide and 30 feet long and any vehicle with an extended trailer or a weight
of over 10,000 pounds, can cause dangerous situations for themselves, the road
surface, other automobiles and pedestrians who are traveling in those areas.
   (C)   The city identifies in the City Transportation System Plan (TSP) the
city’s suggested freight routes, providing a connection between state
facilities (such as highways) and major freight destinations and industrial
businesses in the city.
(Ord. 1343, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 70.02 RESTRICTING TRUCKS AND CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES; WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council has determined that motor vehicles or trucks longer
than a three-axle, single unit truck, larger than eight feet wide and 30 feet
long and any vehicle with an extended trailer or a weight of over 10,000
pounds, jeopardize the public’s safety when those vehicles travel on particular
streets, roads or intersections, and the City Council, desires by ordinance, to
prohibit such vehicles on those streets or roads.
   (B)   The City Council has based its findings on evidence submitted by a
qualified Engineer, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The turning radius and other geometries of an intersection;
      (2)   The width of a street or roadway;
      (3)   The base of a street or roadway;
      (4)   The maximum length and/or weight of a truck or other motor vehicle
(s) that can safely maneuver the intersection or area of the right-of-way
without leaving the paved driving area;
      (5)   Proximity to schools and other high pedestrian use, especially with
children;
      (6)   The speed limit in the area; and
      (7)   Any other deficiency that causes the public safety to be
jeopardized.
   (C)   (1)   It is necessary for public safety to limit trucks and certain
other vehicles larger than three-axle, single unit, larger than eight feet wide
and 30 feet long or a weight of over 10,000 pounds, to driving on the streets
set forth as follows: Truck (and certain other vehicle) restricted street(s).
      (2)   Pursuant to §
70.01, truck (and certain other vehicle) restricted streets may be designated
by resolution.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the following from traveling on
a restricted street:
      (1)   School and mass transit buses;
      (2)   Trucks collecting solid wastes or recyclables within the city;
      (3)   Emergency vehicles;
      (4)   Motor vehicles that are picking up from, delivering to or servicing
a location on the restricted street and travels on the restricted street or
road for the shortest distance possible;
      (5)   Driving to and from the home of the vehicle’s owner/operator, if
located on the restricted street; and
      (6)   Motor vehicles that are originating from or returning to their home
business located on the restricted street and travel on the restricted street
or road for the shortest distance possible.
(Ord. 1269, passed 10-15-2012; Ord. 1269A, passed 10-15-2012; Ord. 1343, passed
3-4-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99. Unless otherwise indicated, any offense under this chapter is classified
as a violation punishable by a fine set by resolution. Penalties not set by
resolution shall be $250 per violation.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation, trust, partnership or other legal
entity that violates or refuses to comply with §
70.01 shall have committed a civil infraction and shall be subject to a fine of
up to $250. Each incident shall constitute a new violation.
(Ord. 1269A, passed 10-15-2012; Ord. 1315, passed 6-6-2016; Ord. 1343, passed
3-4-2019)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
71.001   Short title
   
71.002   Definitions, interpretation and conflict of laws
   
71.003   Penalties, fees set by resolution
Administration
   
71.015   Powers of the Council
   
71.016   Duties of the City Manager
   
71.017   Authority of police
General Regulations
   
71.030   Crossing private property
   
71.031   Unlawful riding
   
71.032   Roller skates, roller blades, skateboards, scooters, bicycles, sleds
   
71.033   Damaging sidewalks and curbs
   
71.034   Removing glass and debris
   
71.035   Storage of motor vehicles, personal property on streets, city parking
lots or city property
Bicycles, Skateboards, Rollerskates, Scooters
   
71.050   Operating rules
   
71.051   Impounding of bicycles
   
71.052   Bicycle licensing
   
71.053   Renting of bicycles
Pedestrians
   
71.065   Pedestrians must use crosswalks
Parades and Processions
   
71.080   Prohibited activity
   
71.081   Parade permit
   
71.082   Appeal to Council
   
71.083   Offenses against parade
   
71.084   Permit revocable
   
71.085   Funeral procession
 
   
71.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as “Tillamook City Uniform Traffic Ordinance” or
“this chapter”.
(Prior Code, § 71.001) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 71.002 DEFINITIONS, INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   Except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning, the
definitions contained in the Oregon Revised Statutes, as now or hereafter
constituted, are adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter. In any
conflict of laws, the city’s definitions and interpretation shall control. The
City Council expressly retains the exclusive authority to define and interpret
the meaning and application of the city’s ordinances, orders, rules,
resolutions and/or other city law, even those laws borrowed from any other
jurisdiction and incorporated as city law, such as the Oregon Revised Statutes.
The City Council reaffirms and adopts current O.R.S. and O.A.R. in effect and
referenced in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.002) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010; Ord. 1263, passed 1-3-
2012) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 PENALTIES, FEES SET BY RESOLUTION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified, violations of this chapter are punishable
by fine, to be set by resolution.
   (B)   Each day or distinct time period of a violation, as described in this
chapter, shall be considered a separate violation, subject to a separate
penalty as described in this chapter and by resolution.
   (C)   Fees identified in this chapter shall be set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 71.003) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
ADMINISTRATION
§ 71.015 POWERS OF THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Subject to state laws, the City Council, on all highways, streets,
roadways, alleys, city property, parks and city parking lots, shall exercise
all road traffic and parking authority for the city except those powers
expressly delegated by this chapter or another ordinance.
   (B)   The powers of the Council include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Designation of city-controlled through streets and directions of
travel;
      (2)   Designation of truck routes;
      (3)   Designation of parking meter zones, spaces, rates and space leases;
      (4)   Designation of the type of vehicle traffic allowed;
      (5)   Authorization of greater maximum weights, heights or lengths for
vehicles using city streets than specified by state law;
      (6)   Revision of speed zones;
      (7)   Revision of speed limits in parks, city property and city parking
lots;
      (8)   Temporary or permanent closure of any public roadway, street or
other public way in the city, not subject to state or federal control; and
      (9)   The regulation of all other vehicle and pedestrian uses of city
property as reasonably necessary for the public’s general health, safety and
welfare, whether temporary or permanent.
   (C)   Establishment, removal or alteration of the following traffic
controls:
      (1)   Crosswalks, safety zones and traffic lanes, intersection
channelization and areas where drivers of vehicles shall not make right, left
or U-turns, and the time when the prohibition applies; and
      (2)   Parking areas, parking restrictions and time limitations, including
the form of permissible parking.
   (D)   All vehicle and pedestrian regulations apply 24 hours a day, seven
days a week, uninterrupted, unless otherwise specified.
   (E)   All vehicle and pedestrian traffic control shall be posted by signs
reasonably calculated to inform the public of the regulation and of the time
and place to which it applies. Signs conforming to federal and state highway
standards meet this standard.
(Prior Code, § 71.015) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 71.016 DUTIES OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager or his or her designee shall exercise the following duties:
implement ordinances, resolutions and motions of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 71.016) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 71.017 AUTHORITY OF POLICE.
   The Police Chief or his or her designee shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.017) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 71.030 CROSSING PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a vehicle shall proceed from one street to another street by
crossing private property without the permission of the private property owner.
This provision shall not apply to the operator of a vehicle who stops on the
property for the purpose of procuring or providing goods or services. Violation
of this section shall be punishable by a fine set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 71.030) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.031 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a vehicle shall not permit a passenger to, and
no passenger shall, ride on a vehicle on a street, premises open to the public
or other city-owned property except within a part of the vehicle designed or
intended for the use of passengers.
      (2)   No person shall board or alight from a vehicle while the vehicle is
in motion upon any premises open to the public, street or other city-owned
property.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine set by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 71.031) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.032 ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER BLADES, SKATEBOARDS, SCOOTERS, BICYCLES, SLEDS.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Use roller blades, roller skates, skateboards, scooters or sleds on
sidewalks in public-owned parking lots in a designated parking district; or
      (2)   Use streets for traveling on sleds or similar devices except to
cross a sidewalk. When crossing at a crosswalk, such person shall have all
rights, and shall be subject to all duties applicable to pedestrians.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine set by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 71.032) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010; Ord. 1279, passed 8-19-
2013) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.033 DAMAGING SIDEWALKS AND CURBS.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not drive upon a sidewalk or
roadside planting strip except to cross at a permanent or temporary driveway.
   (B)   No person shall place dirt, wood or other material in the gutter or
space next to the curb of a street with the intention of creating a driveway.
   (C)   No person shall remove a portion of a curb, or move a motor vehicle or
any device moved by a motor vehicle upon a curb or sidewalk, without first
obtaining city authorization and posting bond if required. Violation of this
section shall be punishable by a fine to be set by resolution. A person who
causes damage to a curb shall be responsible for the cost of repair, in
addition to any fine.
(Prior Code, § 71.033) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.034 REMOVING GLASS AND DEBRIS.
   A party to a vehicle accident or a person causing broken glass or other
debris to be upon a street shall remove the glass and other debris from the
street at his or her own expense. Violation of this section shall be punishable
by a fine to be set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 71.034) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.035 STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLES, PERSONAL PROPERTY ON STREETS, CITY PARKING
LOTS OR CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall store or permit to be stored on a street, city
right-of-way, city parking lot or city property, without permission of the City
Manager, a vehicle or trailer, approved personal property, trash containers,
construction equipment or construction supplies for a period in excess of 24
hours. Failure to move on a street (a minimum distance of 250 feet) a motor
vehicle, trailer, trash container, construction equipment or construction
supplies for a period of 24 hours shall constitute prima facie evidence of
violation of this section.
      (2)   Vehicles directly in front of the owner’s residence shall be
considered parked and not stored, for the purposes of this section, if the
motor vehicle is currently registered to a resident at that address and the
vehicle is operational and currently insured; except that no vehicle, even in
front of one’s residence or business, shall be allowed to be parked for over 30
cumulative days in any six-month period. Any vehicle(s) parked for over 30
cumulative days in a six-month period shall be in violation.
   (B)   When parked or stored on any city property, city right-of-way or
street, any personal property, trash containers, construction equipment or
construction materials shall have safety, sight or warning devices as to
protect pedestrians or vehicles approaching. Trash containers, in addition to
any warning devices required by Public Works or the City Manager, shall have
reflective devices or material placed on them.
   (C)   The minimum requirements for reflectors shall be as follows.
      (1)   All trash containers shall be equipped with two front and two rear
reflectors, as well as forward and rearward side reflectors.
      (2)   Rear and rearward side reflectors shall be red.
      (3)   Front and forward side reflectors shall be amber.
      (4)   Rear reflectors shall be placed one on each side of the rear
portion of the container, at the corners.
      (5)   Front reflectors shall be placed one on each side of the front
portion of the container, at the corners.
      (6)   Forward side reflectors shall be mounted on each side, near the
front of the container.
      (7)   Rearward side reflectors shall be mounted on each side, near the
rear of the container.
      (8)   Reflectors shall be mounted on the container at a height not less
than 15 inches and not more than 60 inches above the ground on which the
container sits.
      (9)   Reflectors shall be of a size or characteristic and so mounted and
maintained as to be readily visible at night.
      (10)   Reflectors required to be mounted on the sides of the container
shall reflect the required color of light to the sides and those mounted to the
front and rear shall reflect the required color light to the front or rear.
      (11)   No trash container shall be placed on any street, city property or
city right-of-way without first obtaining a permit from the City Hall. A fee
shall also be paid. The fee shall be set by resolution.
   (D)   A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine set by
resolution. In addition, any cost incurred by the city for removal of any
vehicle, trailer, property, trash container, construction equipment,
construction material or any other property, vehicle or material shall also be
recovered from the responsible person(s).
(Prior Code, § 71.035) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, ROLLERSKATES, SCOOTERS
§ 71.050 OPERATING RULES.
   In addition to observing all other applicable provisions of this chapter and
state law pertaining to bicycles, a person shall:
   (A)   Not leave a bicycle, except in a bicycle rack. If no rack is provided,
the person shall leave the bicycle so as not to obstruct any roadway, sidewalk,
driveway or building entrance. A person shall not leave a bicycle in violation
of the provisions relating to the parking of motor vehicles; and
   (B)   Not ride a bicycle, skateboard, roller skates or scooter upon a
sidewalk within the Downtown Parking District. Violation of this section shall
be punishable by a fine to be set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 71.050) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.051 IMPOUNDING OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall leave a bicycle on public or private property without
the consent of the person in charge or the owner thereof.
   (B)   A bicycle left unattended on city property for a period in excess of
24 hours may be impounded by the Police Department.
   (C)   If a bicycle impounded under this chapter is licensed, or other means
of determining its ownership exist, the police shall make reasonable efforts to
notify the owner. No impounding fee shall be charged to the owner of a stolen
bicycle which has been impounded.
   (D)   A bicycle impounded under this chapter which remains unclaimed shall
be disposed of in accordance with the city’s procedures for disposal of
abandoned or lost personal property. (See
Chapter 33.)
   (E)   Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine set by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 71.051) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.052 BICYCLE LICENSING.
   (A)   No person who lives or works within the city limits shall operate a
bicycle upon the streets within the city limits, which has not been licensed as
provided by this chapter.
      (1)   A number shall be assigned to each bicycle by the Police Chief or
other official as directed by him or her, and a record of the license issued
shall be maintained as part of the police records. The name of the city and
license number assigned shall be affixed to the frame of the bicycle. The
Police Chief shall issue licenses and obtain the name and address of each
person purchasing a license and record the make, model and serial number (if
any) of the bicycle.
      (2)   A person buying or otherwise obtaining a bicycle shall obtain a
license from the Police Chief.
      (3)   Bicycle licenses shall become invalid upon change of ownership.
      (4)   The fee for a bicycle license shall be set by resolution.
      (5)   A bicycle, whether or not licensed under the regulations of any
other governmental unit, if brought into the city, shall be licensed in
accordance with this chapter within 30 days.
      (6)   No bicycle shall be licensed which is not equipped in accordance
with this chapter.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine to be set by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 71.052) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.053 RENTING OF BICYCLES.
   No person shall rent to another a bicycle not licensed and equipped as
required by this chapter. Violation of this section shall be punishable by a
fine to be set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 71.053) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
PEDESTRIANS
§ 71.065 PEDESTRIANS MUST USE CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall cross a street other than within a crosswalk in
blocks with marked crosswalks or if within 150 feet of a marked crosswalk.
However, this section shall not excuse a motorist from exercising reasonable
care, in addition to any other duty required under local, state and/or federal
law.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine to be set by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 71.065) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
PARADES AND PROCESSIONS
§ 71.080 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   No person shall organize or participate in a parade which may disrupt or
interfere with traffic, without first obtaining a city permit. A permit shall
always be required of a procession of people utilizing the public right-of-way
and consisting of ten or more persons or five or more vehicles. Violation of
this section shall be punishable by a fine to be set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 71.080) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.081 PARADE PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for parade permits shall be made to the City Manager at
least 30 calendar days prior to the intended date of the parade, unless for
good cause the time is waived by the City Manager.
   (B)   Applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the person responsible for the proposed
parade;
      (2)   The date of the proposed parade;
      (3)   The desired route, including assembling points;
      (4)   The number of persons, vehicles and animals which will be
participating in the parade;
      (5)   The proposed starting and ending time; and
      (6)   The application shall be signed by the person designated as
chairperson.
   (C)   If the City Manager, upon receipt of the application, determines that
the parade can be conducted without endangering public safety and without
seriously inconveniencing the general public, he or she shall approve the route
and issue the permit.
   (D)   If the City Manager determines that the parade cannot be conducted
without endangering public safety or seriously inconveniencing the general
public, the City Manager may:
      (1)   Propose an alternate route;
      (2)    Propose an alternate date; or
      (3)   Refuse to issue a parade permit.
   (E)   The City Manager shall notify the applicant of his or her decision
within five calendar days of receipt of the application.
   (F)   If the City Manager proposes alternatives or refuses to issue a
permit, the applicant shall have the right to appeal his or her decision to the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 71.081) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 71.082 APPEAL TO COUNCIL.
   (A)   An applicant may appeal the decision of the City Manager by filing a
written request of appeal with the City Recorder within five business days
after the City Manager has proposed alternatives or refused to issue a permit.
   (B)   The Council shall schedule a hearing date, which shall not be later
than the second regular session following the filing of the written appeal with
the City Recorder, and shall notify the applicant of the date and time that he
or she may appear either in person or by a representative.
(Prior Code, § 71.082) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 71.083 OFFENSES AGAINST PARADE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall interfere with a parade or parade participant.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle that is not part of a parade
between the vehicles or persons comprising a parade while the parade is en
route.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine to be set by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 71.083) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.084 PERMIT REVOCABLE.
   The City Manager may revoke a parade permit if circumstances show that the
parade can no longer be conducted consistent with public safely.
(Prior Code, § 71.084) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 71.085 FUNERAL PROCESSION.
   (A)   (1)   A permit shall not be required to conduct a funeral procession.
      (2)   A funeral procession shall proceed to the place of interment by the
most direct route, which is both legal and practicable.
      (3)   The procession shall be accompanied by adequate escort vehicles for
traffic control purposes.
      (4)   All motor vehicles in the procession shall be operated with their
lights turned on.
      (5)   No person shall interfere with a funeral procession.
      (6)   No person shall operate a vehicle that is not a part of the
procession between the vehicles of a funeral procession, when practical.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine to be set by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 71.085) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of this chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall be
punishable by a fine to be set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 71.999)
   (C)   Unless otherwise indicated, any offense under this chapter is
classified as a violation punishable by a fine set by resolution. Penalties not
set by resolution shall be $250 per violation.
(Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010; Ord. 1301, passed 4-20-2015; Ord. 1315, passed 6-
6-2016)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING
Section
Parking Regulations, Generally
   
72.001   Parking management plan, adopted
   
72.002   Method of parking
   
72.003   Prohibited parking
   
72.004   Use of loading zone
   
72.005   Exemption
   
72.006   Improper parking and penalties
Parking Meters
   
72.020   Deposit of coins
   
72.021   Legal time limits
   
72.022   Mechanical defect
   
72.023   Collections
   
72.024   Parking permits for construction purposes
   
72.025   Usage of revenues
Parking Citations and Owner Responsibility
   
72.040   Citations on illegally parked vehicles
   
72.041   Failure to comply with parking violation attached to parked vehicle
   
72.042   Notice of, and an opportunity to, contest proposed impound
   
72.043   Court order
   
72.044   Response by defendant
   
72.045   No response by defendant
Impoundment and Penalties
   
72.060   Impoundment of vehicles
   
72.061   Obstructing enforcement
   
72.062   Damaging parking control devices
   
72.063   Unauthorized use of parking permits
   
72.064   Unauthorized parking control devices
   
72.065   Owner responsibility
   
72.066   Presumption pertaining to registered owner
   
72.067   Violation classified
   
72.068   Costs, disbursements, fees and penalties
   
72.069   City impound fee
   
72.070   Fines and remedies
   
72.071   Interest
   
72.072   Hearing available to contest validity of tow and impoundment
Downtown Parking District
    
72.085   Definitions
   
72.086   Parking control
   
72.087   Parking restrictions
   
72.088   Overtime parking
   
72.089   Citations by officer on illegally parked vehicles
   
72.090   Citizen complaints, their service and citizen witness required
   
72.091   Limited exception from applicability
 
   
72.999   Penalty
PARKING REGULATIONS, GENERALLY
§ 72.001 PARKING MANAGEMENT PLAN, ADOPTED.
   The Parking Management Plan, as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in full herein. Exhibit A of this resolution is approved and adopted
by the City Council as the parking strategy for the city. Copies are available
through city offices.
(Res. 1669, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 72.002 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   On a street, highway, alley, city parking lot or city property, the
following applies:
      (1)   Where parking spaces are designated, no person shall park or stand
a vehicle other than in the direction of the traffic flow and in such a manner
that the front vehicle tire closest to the curb is located within 12 inches of
the curb and within a single marked space, unless the size or the shape of the
vehicle makes compliance impossible;
      (2)   Unless authorized by law, no person shall diagonal-park in any
diagonal parking space by backing into and parking backward in that space; and
      (3)   Where indicated by a yellow curb, no vehicle shall stand or park
unless authorized by specific sign and activity, to include, but not be limited
to, bus, taxi or loading zone(s).
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine to be set by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 72.001) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.003 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   On a street, highway, alley, city parking lot, loading zone or city
property, no person shall park or allow a vehicle to remain:
      (1)   In violation of the State Vehicle Code or city ordinance, in
violation of a parking limitation or restriction device or sign; or
      (2)   In an alley, for a stop of more than 30 consecutive minutes for
loading and unloading persons or materials.
   (B)   No operator shall park, and no owner shall allow a vehicle to be
parked, upon a street, city parking lot or city property for the purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying the vehicle for sale, except a vehicle parked in front
of a person’s residence or place of work, while at work;
      (2)   Repairing or servicing the vehicle, except repairs necessitated by
an emergency; or
      (3)   Selling merchandise from the vehicle, except when proper permits
have been obtained from the city.
   (C)   Violation of this section is punishable by a fine to be set by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 71.002) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.004 USE OF LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall park a vehicle in a loading zone for more than 30 minutes,
to load or unload persons or materials. Violation of this section shall be
punishable by a fine to be set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 72.003) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.005 EXEMPTION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to persons operating a
city, county, state, or public utility vehicle actively being used for public
works maintenance, construction, repair work, temporary law enforcement
emergency procedures necessary for the safety or protection of property, or a
vehicle being used for collection, transportation, or delivery of mail for the
United States Postal Service.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to restrict a person with a state
disability parking permit from operating in compliance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 72.004) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010; Ord. 031824, passed 4-1-
2024)
§ 72.006 IMPROPER PARKING AND PENALTIES.
   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on any street or public parking lot
within the city with any part of the vehicle extending over the marked lines. A
vehicle which is longer or wider than the spaces provided will not be in
violation of this section. It shall also be a violation of this section to park
in violation of any height limitations indicated by sign or markings. Violation
of this section shall be punishable by a fine set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 72.005) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
72.999
PARKING METERS
§ 72.020 DEPOSIT OF COINS.
   A person parking a vehicle in a metered parking space shall immediately pay
a parking space usage fee by depositing a United States coin in the appropriate
parking meter sufficient for the time the vehicle is parked there. However, a
person may use remaining meter time sufficient for the person’s parking use.
Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine to be set by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 72.020) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.021 LEGAL TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall permit his or her vehicle to remain parked at a
metered space after the time on that parking space’s meter has expired.
      (2)   Parking meter fees are required for use of the metered parking
spaces every day between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., except on Sundays and
holidays.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine to be set by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 72.021) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.022 MECHANICAL DEFECT.
   An unintentional violation of §§
72.020 and
72.021 due to a mechanical failure of a parking meter is a defense to a
violation under either section.
(Prior Code, § 72.022) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 72.023 COLLECTIONS.
   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall be responsible for the
collection of all coins deposited in parking meters.
(Prior Code, § 72.023) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 72.024 PARKING PERMITS FOR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES.
   The city may issue a parking permit to a person engaged in the construction,
reconstruction or repair of a building or installation of equipment in a
building adjacent to a street within the Parking District. A permit shall be
issued only in non-metered areas, including alleys, which might be used or
blocked off without interference with commerce, or found reasonably close to
the place where the person is engaged and shall be issued for use for each
particular construction job. A person with a properly issued permit shall
display it upon the permittee’s vehicle, easily visible from outside the
vehicle. This will reserve the parking space for the use of the permittee’s
vehicle during the period when he or she is actually engaged in the task for
which the permit was issued. Violation of this section shall be punishable by a
fine to be set by resolution. Violation of this section may also result in the
parking permit being revoked.
(Prior Code, § 72.024) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 72.025 USAGE OF REVENUES.
   Not less than 10% of all annual parking meter receipts may be budgeted
yearly for parking improvements.
(Prior Code, § 72.025) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
PARKING CITATIONS AND OWNER RESPONSIBILITY
§ 72.040 CITATIONS ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   Whenever a vehicle without an operator is found parked in violation of a
restriction imposed by this chapter, the officer finding the vehicle shall take
its license number, and other information displayed on the vehicle, which may
identify its owner, and shall conspicuously affix to the vehicle a parking
citation for the operator to answer to the charge or pay the penalty. A
subsequent violation occurs if the vehicle remains in the same space after the
issuance of a citation for a period which exceeds the time designated as the
parking time limitation for the space.
(Prior Code, § 72.040) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.041 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PARKING VIOLATION ATTACHED TO PARKED VEHICLE.
   Upon order of the Municipal Court, vehicles used in the commission of a
parking violation may be impounded according to the provisions of this chapter
and following due process. A person’s or owner’s vehicle is subject to impound
if the person or owner has two unpaid city parking convictions issued to the
same vehicle license plate or registration. A PARKING CONVICTION is a parking
citation that has been adjudicated by either a no contest or guilty plea or
finding, or a finding of guilty by failure to appear. An UNPAID, CITY PARKING
CONVICTION does not include any unpaid conviction for which an existing, court-
authorized installment repayment plan for fines and other assessments is not
otherwise delinquent or in default.
(Prior Code, § 72.041) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.042 NOTICE OF, AND AN OPPORTUNITY TO, CONTEST PROPOSED IMPOUND.
   Notice of a proposed vehicle impound shall be served upon the vehicle’s
registered owner, the citation’s defendant (if different from owner), if known,
and any person known to have a perfected or recorded security interest in the
vehicle as based on information on the registration from DMV. Notice shall be
served not less than 14 days in advance of any impound order. Service of notice
shall be by any means under state law reasonably calculated to convey actual
notice to those person(s) entitled to notice, including, but not limited to,
personal service or first-class, certified, return receipt requested United
States Mail. The defendant shall respond, if at all, in writing within 14 days
from the date of mailing and shall specify any affirmative defenses and
explanations against the proposed impound.
(Prior Code, § 72.042) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 72.043 COURT ORDER.
   The court may order the vehicle impounded and assess any cost, disbursement
or fee when defendant has:
   (A)   Two unpaid city parking convictions, on the same vehicle license plate
or registration;
   (B)   Been properly served notice of the pending vehicle impound proceeding;
and
   (C)   Failed to respond, has waived his or her rights to contest the
proposed impound and/or when the court finds the defendant failed to carry his
or her burden of proof of any affirmative defense, excuse or other explanation.
(Prior Code, § 72.043) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 72.044 RESPONSE BY DEFENDANT.
   If defendant responds as required, the court shall notify the defendant of
the hearing date, time and location on whether or not to order the proposed
impound of the vehicle. The court shall decide whether or not to order
impoundment of the vehicle in due course.
(Prior Code, § 72.044) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 72.045 NO RESPONSE BY DEFENDANT.
   If the defendant does not timely respond, then the defendant shall be
conclusively presumed to have waived the defendant’s right to contest the
proposed impound. The court or its designee shall then issue the order of
impound.
(Prior Code, § 72.045) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
IMPOUNDMENT AND PENALTIES
§ 72.060 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Impoundment. A vehicle is subject to impoundment whenever the vehicle
is:
      (1)   Operated by a person who is driving while suspended or revoked,
driving uninsured, driving under the influence of intoxicants (DUII) or
operating a vehicle without driving privileges or in violation of driving
restrictions;
      (2)   There is a court order for impoundment for unpaid parking
violations; or
      (3)   In violation of §
71.035 or §
72.002 while on properly posted city property, streets or city parking lot. A
police officer may, without prior notice, order the vehicle to be impounded
until a person with right to possession of the vehicle complies with the
conditions for release or the vehicle is ordered released by a hearings officer
or judge.
   (B)   Notice of towing/impoundment. In the event a police officer impounds a
vehicle pursuant to the provisions of division (A) above, notice consistent
with the provisions of O.R.S. 819.180(2) shall be sent within 48 hours of the
impoundment (excluding weekends and holidays) to any owner(s), lessors or
security interest holder(s) as shown by the records of the appropriate
Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (C)   Release of vehicle. Any person seeking the release of a vehicle
impounded pursuant to the provisions of division (A) above shall provide the
city with proof of liability insurance, proof of ownership and a valid
operator’s license. In addition, any person lawfully entitled to the release of
the vehicle shall first pay, prior to the release of the vehicle, an
administrative fee to the city. The administrative fee shall be established by
city resolution and the fee shall cover the administrative costs of the
impoundment. The person shall then be responsible to the towing company for all
charges incurred due to the impoundment of the vehicle.
   (D)   Inventory of contents. A vehicle that has been impounded, seized as
evidence in a criminal investigation or seized for forfeiture by the City
Police Department shall be inventoried for condition and property contents to
identify damage and to list all valuables in the vehicle to avoid civil
liability. The search and inventory shall be conducted pursuant to current City
Police Department policies and procedures.
   (E)   Release. A vehicle impounded for unpaid parking violations shall not
be released until all outstanding fines, towing and impoundment fees have been
paid.
(Prior Code, § 72.060) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 72.061 OBSTRUCTING ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Cover, erase or otherwise render indistinguishable any mark placed on
the tires of a vehicle by any officer having enforcement responsibility as
provided by this chapter;
   (B)   Resist, interfere with or in any way hinder an officer who is actively
in the discharge or apparent discharge of the officer’s duties under this
chapter;
   (C)   Give any false, untrue or misleading information to an officer; or
   (D)   Hinder, delay, mislead or impede an officer in the performance of his
or her lawful duty.
(Prior Code, § 72.061) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.062 DAMAGING PARKING CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall destroy, damage, deface, alter, tamper with or in any way
impair the usefulness, either temporarily or permanently, of any parking device
or sign.
(Prior Code, § 72.062) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.063 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall copy, reproduce or alter any parking decal, form,
sticker or other device issued by the city pursuant to the provision of this
chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any altered, forged or
expired permit on any vehicle for the purpose of representing that the vehicle
is in compliance with any section of this chapter, which motor vehicle requires
a sticker, form, decal or other device, when that vehicle and the owner or
operator thereof are not so entitled to use the same.
(Prior Code, § 72.063) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.064 UNAUTHORIZED PARKING CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, erect, paint, inscribe
or otherwise establish any parking control device which purpose is to restrict
or control parking, except any parking control devices as may be authorized by
the city and/or the state.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine to be set by
resolution. In addition, the city may impound any device and hold until
disposition is decided by the Municipal Court or other court of venue.
(Prior Code, § 72.064) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.065 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner, including the registered owner of a vehicle, who is parking in
violation of a parking restriction contained in this chapter, is responsible
for any violation and fine, which may be assessed for any violation of this
chapter, except where the owner and/or registered owner proves that the
possession or use of the vehicle was secured by another without the consent of
the owner and/or registered owner of the motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.065) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.066 PRESUMPTION PERTAINING TO REGISTERED OWNER.
   In a prosecution involving a parking violation under this chapter, proof
that the vehicle that was parked in violation of this chapter was registered to
the defendant upon the records of the Department of Motor Vehicles of this
state shall constitute a presumption that the registered owner was the owner of
the vehicle at the time of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 72.066) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 72.067 VIOLATION CLASSIFIED.
   Any offense described in this chapter is a violation punishable by fine.
However, other legal and/or equitable remedies, costs, disbursements and/or
fees may be assessed by the court.
(Prior Code, § 72.067) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.068 COSTS, DISBURSEMENTS, FEES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Upon a conviction of a violation of this chapter, the court shall
order that defendant pays any cost, disbursement, fee or penalty authorized by
this chapter.
   (B)   In addition, upon conviction by the court, all costs of removal and
disposition of personal property, trash containers, construction equipment,
construction supplies, trash, vehicles or other property may also be levied as
part of the fine.
(Prior Code, § 72.068) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.069 CITY IMPOUND FEE.
   Defendant shall pay an administration fee, as set by resolution, for city
staff arranging the tow and impound of the vehicle. This fee expressly shall
not include any private vendor charges for tow or impound services.
(Prior Code, § 72.069) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 72.070 FINES AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Defendant shall pay all fines assessed by the court. Maximum fines
shall be those currently existing for the various infractions or offenses in
this chapter or state law, unless otherwise modified by this chapter or as set
by Council resolution or subsequent amendment.
   (B)   The court may award city restitution, damages and/or injunction.
(Prior Code, § 72.070) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.071 INTEREST.
   Defendant shall pay interest at not less than the legal rate of interest on
all amounts owed to city which are 30 days or more past due originating from
court judgments or convictions.
(Prior Code, § 72.071) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 72.072 HEARING AVAILABLE TO CONTEST VALIDITY OF TOW AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   In the event a person wishes to contest the validity of the
impoundment of a vehicle seized pursuant to this chapter, the person(s) must
file a request to the city for a hearing within five calendar days of the
impoundment.
   (B)   When a timely request for a hearing is made, a hearing shall be held
before a hearings officer designated by the city. The hearing shall be set for
four calendar days after the request is received, excluding Saturdays, Sundays
and holidays, but may be postponed at the request of the person requesting the
hearing. The city shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence that there were reasonable grounds to believe that the vehicle was
being operated in violation of O.R.S. 806.010, 807.010, 811.175, 811.182 or
813.010 or any provision of this chapter for which towing and impoundment are
city remedies.
   (C)   The police officer or parking enforcement officer who ordered the
vehicle impounded may submit an affidavit to the hearings officer in lieu of
making a personal appearance at the hearing.
   (D)   If the hearings officer finds that the impoundment of the vehicle was
proper, the hearings officer shall enter an order affirming the removal and
shall find that the owner or person entitled to possession of the vehicle is
liable for the administrative fee and for usual and customary towing and
storage charges. The hearings officer may also find the owner or person
entitled to possession of the vehicle liable for costs of the hearing. If the
hearings officer finds that reasonable grounds for the impoundment of the
vehicle was not supported by a preponderance of the evidence, then the hearings
officer shall order the vehicle released to the person entitled to possession
and shall enter a finding that the owner or person entitled to possession of
the vehicle is not liable for the administrative fee and any towing or storage
costs resulting from the impoundment. If there is a lien on the vehicle for
towing and storage charges, the hearings officer shall order it paid by the
city.
(Prior Code, § 72.072) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
DOWNTOWN PARKING DISTRICT
§ 72.085 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. The area on both sides of a street between nearest cross-streets or
intersection.
   BUSINESS. Any and all businesses that provide a service, merchandise or
goods and collect fees for that service, merchandise or goods; clubs and
organizations with restricted memberships that receive payment for food and
drink served to members and non-members; providers of professional services,
and collecting fees for services provided.
   DAYS AND HOURS OF ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT. Monday through Saturday, 9:00 a.m.
to 5:00 p.m., excluding Sundays and holidays.
   DOWNTOWN PARKING DISTRICT. The downtown area of the city, defined by the
boundaries in the definition of DOWNTOWN PARKING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES below,
where there is the desire to control or restrict parking of employees,
employers, residents, students, volunteers and resident visitors, where
indicated by approved sign(s), to provide customer parking and better access to
businesses in the District.
   DOWNTOWN PARKING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES. The following streets, both sides of
each street, are within the district, unless specifically indicated otherwise
in this section. Parking lots specifically indicated, on identified boundaries
are also now within the district.
The outer boundaries of the district will be described as Stillwell Avenue from
Front Street to Fifth Street, to also include a westward Fourth Street right-
of-way extension to mid-block approaching Grove; Front Street from Stillwell
Avenue to Pacific Avenue, to also include the Hoquarton Landing and the city
parking lot on Front at Ivy, as part of the Sue H. Elmore Park; Pacific Avenue
from Front to First Street; First Street from Pacific Avenue to Madrona Avenue;
Madrona Avenue from First Street to Fourth Street, to also include an eastward
Third Street right-of-way extension to Nestucca Avenue; Fourth Street from
Madrona Avenue to Laurel Avenue; Laurel Avenue from Fourth Street to Fifth
Street; Fifth Street from Laurel Avenue to Main Avenue; Fifth Street from Main
Avenue to Stillwell Avenue on the north half of the right-of-way only, back to
the point of beginning. All streets, right-of-ways and parking lots within the
above described boundaries are included in the district and subject to any
restrictions assigned through resolution.
   EMPLOYEE/EMPLOYER. Any owner, operator, salesperson, agent or worker,
whether paid by salary, bonus, commission, piecework or hourly wage and
associated with or working for any commercial, professional, fraternal or
public establishment within the City Parking District, unless excluded through
franchise agreement or federal or state laws.
   EMPLOYEE/EMPLOYER VOLUNTEER. Any person, who not for compensation, acting or
serving willingly and with no constraint or guarantee of reward, performs any
function(s) normally done by an employee/employer in any commercial,
professional, fraternal or public establishment within the City Parking
District, unless excluded through franchise agreement or federal or state laws.
   OFFICER. Any city police officer, reserve police officer or other city
employee, full-time, part-time or temporary, approved by the Chief of Police to
enforce city ordinances or state statutes in regards to any parking or
ordinance violations within the city limits.
   PARKING DISTRICT. Includes all public streets and all off-street public
parking facilities in the boundaries of the Downtown Parking District.
   PERMIT. A permit or pass, provided by the city, either for or not for a fee,
set by resolution, allowing parking in a parking space or area otherwise not
allowed by this subchapter.
   PERMIT(S). Include a daily construction permit as well as a delivery permit.
      (1)   DELIVERY PERMIT(S). Allow the permit holder(s) to park in any
parking space in the Downtown Parking District for up to 15 minutes at a time
for the purpose of loading, unloading, delivering or picking up items from his
or her place of business or employment, providing a temporary exemption from
zone restriction(s) indicated for that space.
      (2)   DELIVERY AND CONSTRUCTION PERMITS. Shall be requested and provided
through the Police Department.
   RESIDENT. Regularly staying at an apartment or dwelling; a place where a
person regularly stays or lives; one’s legal domicile.
   STUDENT. A student of any college, training center or school that receives
payments from students as tuition and accepts members of the public as
customers who receive services for which payments are made for those services
shall be classified as an employee/employer while attending the college,
training center or school.
   VISITOR. Visiting, for any period of time, a resident or resident’s other
visitor. This may include other family member(s) who do not normally reside at
the same residence as the resident.
   WORK. All its common meanings, including activities as a volunteer or
student.
   ZONE(S). A specific number of connected parking space(s), either on a public
street, or in a public-owned parking lot, signed the same, to control duration
of parking allowed and/or types of person(s) allowed to park in those
identified spaces.
      (1)   The goal of this section is to easily identify a specific area or
number of spaces to have consistent parking control for easier use and for
easier enforcement. A specific number of parking spaces could include, but not
be limited to, a block, one side of a block, a row of parking spaces in a lot
or even an entire lot. Signs would all be consistent in the District and also
be consistent with signs of similar control, throughout the city.
      (2)   ZONE designation(s) for specific parking space(s) in city parking
lot(s), on city street(s) and other city-controlled parking area(s) or space(s)
within the Downtown Parking District shall be approved by the City Council by
resolution.
         (a)   ZONE (A). Fifteen-minute parking, a maximum of 15 minutes at any
one time in spaces in this zone.
         (b)   ZONE (B). Thirty-minute parking, a maximum of 30 minutes at any
one time in spaces in this zone.
         (c)   ZONE (C). One-hour parking, a maximum of one hour at any one
time in spaces in this zone.
         (d)   ZONE (D). Two-hour parking, a maximum of two hours at any one
time in spaces in this zone.
         (e)   ZONE (E). Three-hour parking, a maximum of three hours at any
one time in spaces in this zone.
         (f)   ZONE (F). Four-hour parking, a maximum of four hours at any one
time in spaces in this zone.
         (g)   ZONE (G). Eight-hour parking, a maximum of eight hours at any
one time in spaces in this zone.
         (h)   ZONE (H). Permit parking only, permits provided by the city, by
process, with or without fee.
         (i)   ZONE (I). No employee or employer parking in this zone without
permit.
         (j)   ZONE (J). No resident parking in this zone without permit.
         (k)   ZONE (K). No volunteer or student parking in this zone without
permit.
         (l)   ZONE (L). No visitor parking in this zone without permit.
(Prior Code, § 72.085) (Ord. 1216, passed 12-4-2006; Ord. 1264, passed 1-3-
2012; Ord. 1337, passed 10-15-2018)
§ 72.086 PARKING CONTROL.
   A person parking within the Parking District shall comply with this
subchapter and with the posted times on signs marking individual spaces or
areas.
(Prior Code, § 72.086) (Ord. 1216, passed 12-4-2006) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.087 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall cause any motor vehicle operated by that person to be parked
upon a public street or public-owned parking facility within the Downtown
Parking District, in violation of any Zone (I), (J), (K) or (L) restriction
defined in this subchapter, identified by sign, between the hours of 9:00 a.m.
and 5:00 p.m. daily, excepting holidays and Sundays.
(Prior Code, § 72.087) (Ord. 1216, passed 12-4-2006) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.088 OVERTIME PARKING.
   No person shall park a vehicle on the same block for longer than the time
designated for the parking space or area. Where a sign designates maximum
parking time limits, movement of a vehicle within that block or parking lot
shall not extend the time limits for parking. A subsequent violation occurs if
the vehicle remains after issuance of a citation for an additional time period
which exceeds the time designated for the space.
(Prior Code, § 72.088) (Ord. 1216, passed 12-4-2006) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.089 CITATIONS BY OFFICER ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon violation of this subchapter, an officer shall record on the
citation the information necessary to identify the vehicle, its owner or
operator, and to prove the violation for O.R.S. parking violations. For parking
violation citations where only City Code is violated, and the citation only
lists the City Code parking violation, there is no requirement for owner or
operator identification per O.R.S. 153.030(2). The citation shall include a
summons notifying the owner or operator of the date, time and place to appear
and answer the citation in court. The officer shall next serve the citation on
the owner or operator personally or by affixing the citation to the vehicle if
the operator cannot be readily located. If contested, a citation alleging a
beginning and ending date and time shall be construed as alleging the maximum
number of separate offenses possible for person or subject vehicle for the
parking space or are identified.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine to be set by
resolution. Language for this distinction shall be reflected in the appropriate
penalty code §
72.999.
(Prior Code, § 72.089) (Ord. 1216, passed 12-4-2006; Ord. 1345, passed 4-15-
2019)
§ 72.090 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS, THEIR SERVICE AND CITIZEN WITNESS REQUIRED.
   A parking violation citation may also be served by an officer upon a person
alleged to be in violation of this subchapter following receipt of a sworn
parking complaint from a citizen. A citizen swearing out a parking complaint
agrees to appear as a witness for the prosecution in Municipal Court. If a
citizen is unwilling to appear as a witness, then the citation shall not be
served.
(Prior Code, § 72.090) (Ord. 1216, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 72.091 LIMITED EXCEPTION FROM APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Any person, group or business may apply to the city for a limited
exemption from certain restrictions imposed by this chapter within the Downtown
Parking District. All other laws and or ordinances shall remain in full force
and effect. Exemption may be requested in writing to the City Manager, who,
upon review of the requested, approve the request in full or part, or present
the request to the appropriate committee, to then be presented to the Council
for approval.
   (B)   Vehicles with appropriately displayed current handicap placards or
license shall be exempt from timed parking as indicated in Oregon Revised
Statutes. In addition, employees, employers and residents in the Downtown
Parking District are also exempt from employee, employer, resident parking
restrictions when appropriately displaying current handicap placards or
license.
(Prior Code, § 72.091) (Ord. 1216, passed 12-4-2006; Ord. 1264, passed 1-3-
2012; Ord. 1280, passed 8-19-2013; Ord. 1342, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 72.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99. Unless otherwise indicated, any offense under this chapter is classified
as a violation punishable by a fine set by resolution. Penalties not set by
resolution shall be $250 per violation.
   (B)   Violation of §§
72.001 through
72.005,
72.020 through
72.025,
72.040 through
72.045 and
72.060 through
72.072 shall be punishable by a fine to be set by resolution.
   (C)   Violation of §
72.061 shall be punishable by a fine to be set by resolution.
   (D)   Violation of §
72.063 shall be punishable by a fine to be set by resolution.
   (E)   Violations of §
72.085 through
72.091:
      (1)   A person found in violation of §
72.087 shall, for the first violation, be issued a written warning. For all
subsequent violations, the violation is punishable by a fine not less than $50
and not to exceed $100.
      (2)   Each violation of §
72.088 shall be punishable by a fine of $5.
      (3)   Each day or distinct time period of an offense described by §§
72.085 through
72.091 shall be considered a separate violation subject to a separate penalty
as described by that subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 72.999) (Ord. 1216, passed 12-4-2006; Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-
2010; Ord. 1315, passed 6-6-2016)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets
      
II.   Two-way streets
      
III.   Through streets
      
IV.   Truck routes
      
V.   Parking restrictions
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
 
Street(s)                                Direction       Ord. No. Date Passed
                  Third Street and Ocean
Connecting street Place intersection to  Northeast bound 710      11-18-1957
                  First Street
First Street      Miller Avenue to Main  Westbound       710      11-18-1957
                  Avenue
Main Avenue       First Street to south  Southbound      879      4-11-1977
                  city limits
Pacific Avenue    South city limits to   Northbound      879      4-11-1977
                  First Street
Third Street      Main Avenue to Ocean   Eastbound       710      11-18-1957
                  Place
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sch. I) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
SCHEDULE II. TWO-WAY STREETS.
 
Street(s)      Ord. No. Date Passed
   Ocean Pla710      11-18-1957
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sch. II) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
SCHEDULE III. THROUGH STREETS.
Street(s) Ord. No. Date Passed
Street(s)                                                  Ord. No. Date Passed
Fifth Street and Cedar Avenue, northbound on Cedar Avenue  879      4-11-1977
Fifth Street and Elm Avenue, northbound on Elm Avenue      879      4-11-1977
Fifth Street and Madrona Avenue, eastbound and westbound   879      4-11-1977
First Street, east city limits to Pacific Avenue           701      9-17-1956
Main Avenue                                                879      4-11-1977
Miller Avenue and Fifth Street (intersection), eastbound   879      4-11-1977
or westbound
Pacific Avenue                                             879      4-11-1977
Stillwell Avenue, south of Fifth Street                    879      4-11-1977
Third Street, except when entering Main Avenue and Pacific 879      4-11-1977
Avenue
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sch. III) (Ord. 1249a, passed 6-7-2010)
SCHEDULE IV. TRUCK ROUTES.
   The following streets are hereby designated as city truck route streets:
Birch Avenue (between First Street and Third Street)
Cedar Avenue (between Front Street and First Street)
Del Monte Avenue (between First Street and Third Street)
First Street
Front Street
Main Avenue (US 101)
Pacific Avenue (US 101)
Stillwell Avenue
Tenth Street (between Main Avenue and Miller Avenue)
Third Street
Trask River Road
Twelfth Street (between Stillwell Avenue and Pacific Avenue)
Wilson River Loop Road
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sch. V) (Ord. 1269, passed 10-15-2012) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Downtown parking district. The City Council, by ordinance, has
identified the Downtown Parking District, its boundaries, and parking
restrictions, to best utilize public on- and off-street parking in that
identified District to best serve the businesses and the public for parking and
business access and use.
   (B)   Identification of specific parking restriction(s).
      (1)   Specific parking limits or restrictions shall be consistent and
properly identified by signs throughout the Downtown Parking District, for both
on- and off-street public parking areas, so as to be easily understood. Other
restrictions, not identified by this schedule, are identified and governed by
the omnibus parking and traffic ordinance. The days and hours covered under
this schedule are Mondays through Saturdays (9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.) excluding
holidays and Sundays and the specific limitations on overnight parking.
      (2)   The new Hoquarton Landing city street, upon transference to city,
will be designated with:
         (a)   Eight spaces (including one ADA), four-hour time limit, with “no
employer/employee” flagging;
         (b)   One Transit District loading space for local city transit buses;
and
         (c)   One large parking space, at least 70 feet long, for “bus/rv
parking only” designated by one solid line.
   (C)   On street parking restriction designations. The following description
(s) indicate restrictions and or limits for on street public parking in the
Downtown Parking District:
Location Time Restrictions
Location                       Time              Restrictions
Fifth Street - Alley access to                   No employee, employer,
Safeway to Main Avenue - North 2-hour parking    resident parking
Side
Fifth Street - Main Avenue to  2-hour parking    No employee, employer,
Pacific Avenue                                   resident parking
Fifth Street - Pacific Avenue  2-hour parking     
to Laurel Avenue
Fifth Street - Stillwell
Avenue to Alley access to      4-hour parking     
Safeway - North Side
First Street - Ivy Avenue to   2-hour parking    No employee, employer,
Laurel Avenue                                    resident parking
First Street - Laurel Avenue                    No parking
to Madrona Avenue
First Street - Stillwell       2-hour parking    No employee, employer,
Avenue to Ivy Avenue                             resident parking
Fourth Street - Laurel Avenue  2-hour parking    No employee, employer,
to Madrona Avenue - North Side                   resident parking
Fourth Street - Laurel Avenue  8-hour parking    No resident parking
to Madrona Avenue - South Side
Fourth Street, mid-block -                       No employee, employer,
Grove Avenue to Stillwell      3-hour parking    resident parking. Permit
Avenue                                           parking only 8:00 a.m. to 1:00
                                                 p.m.
Fourth Street - Pacific to     2-hour parking    No resident parking
Laurel Avenue
Fourth Street - Stillwell      2-hour parking    No employee, employer,
Avenue to Pacific Avenue                         resident parking
Ivy Avenue - First Street to   2-hour parking    No employee, employer,
Third Street                                     resident parking
Laurel Avenue - First Street   3-hour parking    No EER parking, 3 County
to Third Street                                  Commissioner spaces
Laurel Avenue - Third Street   2-hour parking    No employee, employer,
to Fifth Street                                  resident parking
Madrona Avenue - First Street
South to mid-block Alley                        No restrictions
before Third Street - East
side
Madrona Avenue - First Street                   County employee parking only
to Third Street - West Side
Madrona Avenue - mid-block     30-minute parking  
Alley South to Third Street
Madrona Avenue - Third Street  8-hour parking    No resident parking
to Fourth Street
Main Avenue - First Street to  2-hour parking    No employee, employer,
Fifth Street                                     resident parking
Pacific Avenue - First Street  2-hour parking    No employee, employer,
to Fifth Street                                  resident (EER) parking
Second Street - Pacific Avenue 3-hour parking    No employee, employer,
to Laurel Avenue                                 resident parking
Second Street - Stillwell      2-hour parking    No employee, employer,
Avenue to Pacific Avenue                         resident parking
Stillwell Avenue - Fourth      2-hour parking    No employee, employer,
Street to Fifth Street                           resident parking
Stillwell Avenue - First       2-hour parking    No employee, employer,
Street to Second Street                          resident parking
Stillwell Avenue - Second      2-hour parking    No employee, employer,
Street to Third Street                           resident parking
Stillwell Avenue - Third       2-hour parking    No employee, employer,
Street to Fourth Street                          resident parking
Third Street - Laurel Avenue                    County employee parking
to Madrona Avenue - North Side
Third street - Laurel Avenue   2-hour parking    No employee, employer,
to Madrona Avenue - South Side                   resident parking
Third Street - Madrona Avenue  2-hour parking    No employee, employer,
to Nestucca Avenue                               resident parking
Third Street, North Side -
mid-block, (west driveway to                    No parking
City Hall) to Laurel Avenue
Third Street, North Side -
Pacific Avenue to mid-block,   15-minute parking  
(west driveway to City Hall)
to Laurel Avenue
Third Street, South Side -
Pacific Avenue to Laurel       30-minute parking  
Avenue
Third Street - Stillwell       2-hour parking    No employee, employer,
Avenue to Pacific Avenue                         resident parking
 
   (D)   Attachments. A parking district map, marked as Exhibit A to Resolution
1767 of this schedule, is hereby incorporated by reference. Exhibit B contains
the following referenced appendices:
      (1)   Introductory memo;
      (2)   Parking inventory;
      (3)   Parking lot designations with parking inventory map;
      (4)   Hoquarton park signs and spaces map with sign locations/
designation;
      (5)   Loading zone list; and
      (6)   Parking space standards diagram.
   (E)   Off-street parking regulations.
      (1)   All city parking lots will have a four-hour time restriction except
for the old library lot, which will be unrestricted (except those spaces
subject to lease rights), other than “no parking between midnight and 4:00
a.m.”.
      (2)   (a)   For the Sue H. Elmore Park parking lot, allow for up to nine
employer/employee permits, and for the City Urban Renewal Agency parking lot,
15 permits are allowed. The permit prices to be set by resolution, and reviewed
for efficacy after six months.
         (b)   1.   The above referenced parking spaces shall be reserved for
employer/employee permit parking using an administrative system to be
established by the City Manager at a cost of $30 per month. Permit(s) do not
guarantee a specific parking space in any lot and do not guarantee availability
each day, depending on usage by customers.
            2.   Attached Exhibit A - Permit Procedures are hereby adopted and
may be amended by the City Manager as future change may facilitate or require.
         (c)   1.   Permit parking at Sue H. Elmore shall revert to four-hour
timed parking, consistent with the off-street parking regulations set forth in
Resolution 1767.
            2.   The number of permit parking spaces at the TURA lot shall
increase to 17. These TURA parking spaces shall be reserved for employer/
employee permit parking using an administrative system to be established by the
City Manager at a cost of $30 per month. Permit(s) do not guarantee a specific
parking space in any lot and do not guarantee availability each day, depending
on usage by customers.
            3.   The six-month review period reference in Resolution 1767 is
extended an additional six months for continued observation of use during
tourist season.
      (3)   Revisit certain lots after six months to check for utilization for
parking of vehicles, including RVs and identify better access and signage.
      (4)   Continue to allow for seasonal, or other changes to restriction, if
identified and requested, for certain parking lot(s) to help enhance employee
parking, subject approval by the City Manager.
      (5)   Work with the Chamber on an educational component once plan is
approved by Council.
(Res. 1677, passed 8-1-2016; Res. 1767, passed 10-1-2018; Res. 1769, passed 10-
15-2018; Res. 1788, passed 5-20-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   TREES
      
94.   EXCLUSION FROM CITY PROPERTY
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Licensing
   
90.03   Dogs at large prohibited
   
90.04   Barking dogs prohibited
   
90.05   Waste matter
   
90.06   Poisoning of animals
   
90.07   Removal of carcasses
   
90.08   Animals at large
   
90.09   Animals declared a nuisance
   
90.10   Continuous annoyance
   
90.11   Animal confinement
   
90.12   Parent responsibility
   
90.13   Dog as public nuisance
   
90.14   Exception to dog as public nuisance
   
90.15   Vicious dog
   
90.16   Reporting of biting dogs or other animals
   
90.17   Biting and rabid dogs and other animals; quarantine
   
90.18   Impoundment of dogs
   
90.19   Impounding regulations and disposition of impounded dogs
   
90.20   Cost paid by responsible person
   
90.21   Interference with officer
   
90.22   Entry onto private land
   
90.23   Fee and fine schedule
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLOW. To neglect to restrain, or permit.
   ATTEMPTS TO BITE. The overt actions of a dog which constitute a substantial
step towards the actual biting of one or more persons.
   CONTINUOUS ANNOYANCE. Permit any animal to cause annoyance, alarm or
disturbance for more than 15 continuous minutes at any time of the day or
night, be it repeated barking, whining, screeching, howling, braying or other
like sounds which can be heard beyond the boundary of the owner’s property or
create offensive odors which can be noticed beyond the boundary of the owner’s
property.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal which has the propensity to bite or attack any
person or animal without provocation and the capacity to inflict serious harm
on such person or animal. Additionally, any animal that has injured a human
being or animal without provocation is a DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   KEEPER. Any person, firm, association, entity or corporation who is the
licensed keeper of, or who keeps, or who harbors, or who possesses, or who
maintains, or who has custody of, or who exercised control over any animal
(including, but not limited to, any barking dog, dangerous animal, dog, exotic
animal, farm animal, fowl, livestock, vicious dog, watchdog or wildlife) or who
knowingly permits any such animal to remain on any premises occupied by him or
her. KEEPER does not include licensed veterinarians or commercial kennel
operators temporarily maintaining on their premises, for a period of not more
than 30 days, dogs kept by other persons. Any person, except a licensed
veterinarian or commercial kennel operator who resides where any animal is
kept, harbored, or cared for, shall be presumed to be the KEEPER. This
presumption may be rebutted by proof that the person has no right in the
animal, is not the licensed keeper, and is neither harboring nor caring for the
animal.
   LEASH. Any humane device constructed of rope, leather strap, chain or other
sturdy material not exceeding six feet in length, being held in the hand of a
person capable of controlling the animal to which it is attached.
   MUZZLE. A device constructed of strong, soft material or metal. The MUZZLE
must be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere
with its vision or respiration, but must prevent it from biting any person or
animal.
   OWN or OWNING. Having a right of property in a dog, caring for or acting as
the custodian for a dog, or knowingly permitting a dog to remain on or about
premises occupied by that person.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in a dog or who harbors a dog
or who has it in his or her care, or acts as its custodian, or who knowingly
permits a dog to remain on or about the OWNER’S property.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Off or outside the premises belonging to the person having
the care, custody or possession of the dog while the dog is not under the
complete control of such person by means of an adequate leash, or is within a
vehicle of such person.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE. A structure in which an animal is confined such that the
animal does not have access to humans or other animals. The structure will not
be less than eight feet long, four feet wide and five feet tall. If the floor
is not concrete, the outside walls must extend into the ground not less than
one foot to prohibit the digging out of the animal. The top of the structure
must be covered.
   VICIOUS DOG. Any dog that has the propensity to bite, attack, lunge at,
chase or knock down a person or animal without provocation and the capacity to
inflict serious harm upon, or cause serious harm to, the person or animal shall
be regarded as vicious. Additionally, if any dog that has bitten a person or
animal without provocation is a vicious dog.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 90.02 LICENSING.
   (A)   Every owner of a dog which has grown a set of permanent canine teeth
or has attained the age of six months, whichever event occurs first, shall
immediately obtain a license for the dog.
   (B)   Licenses shall be valid for one 365 day year, the period being March 1
to February 28 and are renewable on March 1 of each year, with renewal notice
sent out February 1. A penalty set by resolution shall be collected for each
dog not licensed by March 15 with further penalty set after March 30.
   (C)   No license shall be issued until a certificate of vaccination for
rabies, valid for the license year, is presented to the Licensing Department.
   (D)   For record purposes, a new owner of a licensed dog is required to
notify within 30 days the City Police Department at no additional cost to the
new owner.
   (E)   A license tag issued to a dog owner shall be attached securely to a
collar or harness on the dog that license was issued to, at all times. If a
license tag is lost, the owner may obtain a duplicate license tag upon
satisfactory proof of loss and payment of the required fee.
   (F)   Licenses shall be issued through the City Police Department during
regular business hours. All accounting and records shall be the responsibility
of that department.
   (G)   The dog license fee which is due and payable upon the issuance of a
license, and the other fees required to be paid under the provisions of this
chapter, shall be set by resolution.
   (H)   No license fee shall be required for any service dog. A license shall
be issued for such dog upon proper proof of rabies vaccination.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 DOGS AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having the care or custody or
possession of any male or female dog of any age to suffer or permit the same to
run at large.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 BARKING DOGS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of a dog shall allow the dog to bark loudly
or with such frequency as to unreasonably deprive a person of peace and quiet.
   (B)   Once a complaint has been received by the Police Department, a
citation may be issued under the following condition: a complaint is signed by
the person complaining on the barking dog and that person complaining agrees to
appear in court and testify.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 WASTE MATTER.
   It shall be unlawful for an animal owner to allow the animal to be an
annoyance by depositing solid waste matter on any improved property other than
that of the animal owner. It shall be a defense to this section if the animal
owner immediately removes the solid waste.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 POISONING OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall put out or place, or allow to be placed, any poison or other
harmful chemical or product which is likely to harm any dog, farm animal or
other animal.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 REMOVAL OF CARCASSES.
   No person shall permit an animal carcass owned or controlled by him or her
to remain upon public property, or to be exposed on private property, for a
period of time longer than is reasonably necessary to remove or dispose of the
carcass.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   No owner or person in charge of an animal shall permit the animal to be at
large. Animals at large may be taken into custody by the city and disposed of
in accordance with the procedures provided by chapter for the impoundment of
dogs.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 ANIMALS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   When any livestock, poultry or domestic animals bellow, neigh, bark, bray,
bleat, crow or make any other noise and thereby annoy, molest or disturb any
person, the keeping and maintaining of the poultry, livestock and domestic
animals is declared to be a nuisance. For the purposes of this section, the
owner, the person in charge of or in whose custody said poultry, livestock or
domestic animals, or either of them are kept, shall be deemed and conclusively
presumed to be maintaining a nuisance.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 CONTINUOUS ANNOYANCE.
   No animal owner shall permit any animal to cause continuous annoyance.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 ANIMAL CONFINEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit any animal to be
confined within or on a motor vehicle, or at any location, under such
conditions as may endanger the health or well being of the animal, including,
but not limited to, dangerous temperature; lack of food, water or attention; or
confinement with a dangerous animal. No enforcement officer shall be held
criminally or civilly liable for action pursuant to this section, provided the
officer acts in good faith, or probable cause and without malice.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 PARENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be no defense of any violation of this chapter when the true or
registered owner of a dog is of such minor age as to prohibit appearing to
answer such charge(s) in court, and, upon such occurrence, the parent or
guardian of such minor owner shall be required to appear instead and assume the
full responsibility of the actions of their minor owner.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 90.13 DOG AS PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   A dog is a public nuisance if it:
   (A)   Bites a person;
   (B)   Chases vehicles or persons;
   (C)   Damages or destroys property of persons other than the owner of the
dog;
   (D)   Scatters garbage;
   (E)   Trespasses on private property of persons other than the owner of the
dog;
   (F)   Disturbs any person by frequent or prolonged noises; and
   (G)   Makes unprovoked attacks on other animals.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 90.14 EXCEPTION TO DOG AS PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   A dog shall not be considered a public nuisance if the dog bites:
   (A)   A person assaulting the dog’s owner or the owner’s spouse or children
or persons legally residing with the owner;
   (B)   A person wrongfully assaulting the dog;
   (C)   A person trespassing upon premises owned, leased or rented by the
dog’s owner or the owner’s spouse or children; or
   (D)   A person entering a fully fenced area, regardless of where located, if
that area is conspicuously posted with signs warning of the presence of the dog
within the fenced area.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 90.15 VICIOUS DOG.
   (A)   No person shall own a vicious dog that is located within the city
limits.
   (B)   A vicious dog may be impounded by any peace officer or animal control
officer and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this code for the
impoundment and disposition of dogs.
   (C)   A vicious dog running at large that, because of its disposition or
diseased condition, is too hazardous to apprehend, may be destroyed by a peace
officer, animal control officer or by a person acting in defense of the person,
the person’s family, another person or another dog or animal.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 REPORTING OF BITING DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS.
   (A)   The keeper of a dog or other animal that bites a human being shall
immediately notify law enforcement of such bite, the time and circumstances of
the bite and name and address of the person bitten, if known.
   (B)   Any person who is bitten by a dog or other animal shall immediately
notify the law enforcement of such bite giving the description of the dog or
other animal, the time and circumstances of the bite and the name and address
of the keeper, if known.
   (C)   When a doctor, veterinarian, hospital employee or other person has
information that a person has been bitten by a dog or other animal, such person
shall immediately notify law enforcement.
   (D)   It is sufficient to report, as required in this section, to any law
enforcement agency having jurisdiction for the location the bite occurred.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 BITING AND RABID DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS; QUARANTINE.
   (A)   When either the animal control authority or the appropriate county or
state public health agency has grounds to suspect that a dog or other animal is
infected with the disease of rabies, there shall be delivered to the keeper of
the dog or other animal a written notice. The biting of any person by a dog or
other animal shall constitute adequate grounds for suspecting the dog or other
animal to be so infected. The keeper shall thereupon be required to quarantine
the dog or other animal for ten days. The delivery of the notice to a member of
the keeper’s family 14 years of age or older at the premises where the dog or
other animal is kept or at the keeper’s usual place of residence shall be
considered a delivery of the notice to the keeper.
   (B)   Any dog or other animal required to be quarantined shall be confined
as follows:
      (1)   Inside the keeper’s home or garage. The pet can be exercised within
a fenced yard under adult supervision or walked on a leash within keeper’s yard
under the control of a responsible adult.
         (a)   The pet is to be kept away from other animals and people. This
does not include other pets within the home or family members.
         (b)   The pet must not be removed from the residence for any reason
during the quarantine period. This includes rides in the car or walks off
keeper’s property.
         (c)   If the keeper’s pet has been vaccinated for rabies, the keeper
will need to provide proof of the vaccine or the name and telephone number of
the keeper’s veterinarian.
         (d)   If the keeper’s pet has not been vaccinated for rabies, the
keeper will have to wait until the pet is released from quarantine before the
keeper’s veterinarian can give the vaccination.
      (2)   At the owner’s expense, in a veterinary clinic;
      (3)   Any animal that has been bitten by a dog or other animal proved to
be rabid shall be destroyed; and
      (4)   If a dog or other animal exhibits symptoms of rabies while it is
under quarantine, the Director of Public Health may order in writing that it be
destroyed and that its head be submitted to the State Public Health Laboratory.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 90.18 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS.
   (A)   Any peace officer or animal control officer may impound a dog that is
in violation of this code.
   (B)   Any person whose property has been trespassed upon by any dog or other
animal in violation of this code may apprehend that dog and contact the Police
Department.
   (C)   If an animal control officer or a peace officer has probable cause to
believe that any animal that is in an unoccupied motor vehicle may be in
danger, the officer may enter the motor vehicle and impound the animal and
leave a notice in the vehicle where the animal may be reclaimed.
   (D)   Any peace officer or animal control officer may impound a dog for
safekeeping if the owner is being transported to jail or the hospital until a
family member or friend can claim the dog and pay all associated fees.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 90.19 IMPOUNDING REGULATIONS AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS.
   (A)   The animal control authority shall keep any dog impounded for the
period of time hereinafter specified.
   (B)   The animal control authority shall dispose of such dogs in accordance
with the following provisions.
      (1)   An unlicensed dog or a dog that the keeper is unknown which has not
been redeemed within three days after impoundment may be adopted out or
destroyed.
      (2)   A licensed dog for which the keeper is known which has not been
redeemed within five days of notification of the owner by telephone or leaving
a notice of impoundment on the keeper’s property in plain view may be adopted
out or destroyed.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 90.20 COST PAID BY RESPONSIBLE PERSON.
   Any reasonable costs incurred by the Police Department in seizing,
impounding or confining any dangerous or vicious animal shall be charged
against the owner, keeper or harborer of such animal. Such charge shall be in
addition to any fine or penalty provided for violating this chapter.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 90.21 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere in any way with any police
officer or dog control officer of the city engaged in seizing or impounding any
dog under authority of this chapter.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 ENTRY ONTO PRIVATE LAND.
   Any dog control officer or any peace officer shall have the privilege of
entering onto private land in the course of the officer’s duties in enforcing
the provisions of this chapter, but such officer shall not enter into any
building or dwelling without legal authorization or permission of the owner or
occupant of the premises.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 90.23 FEE AND FINE SCHEDULE.
   The following fee and fine schedule is adopted for use with animal control
and enforcement.
   (A)   Fee schedule for animal control.
 
Type                    Fee
Regular License         $10.00
Spayed/Neutered         $5.00
Senior Citizen Rate     $3.75
Late Fee-After March 15 $25.00
Late Fee-After March 20 $25.00 (plus citation to Justice Court)
Replacement Tag         $5.00
 
   (B)   Fine schedule.
Fine Schedule (Not to Exceed)
Fine Schedule (Not to Exceed)
§                                 $100.00
90.02—Fail To License
§                                 $100.00
90.03—Dog At Large
§                                 $100.00
90.04—Barking Dog
§                                 $100.00
90.05—Depositing of Waste Matter
§                                 $250.00
90.06—Poisoning of Animals
§                                 $100.00
90.07—Failure to Remove Carcasses
§                                 $100.00
90.08—Animals at Large
§                                 $100.00
90.09—Nuisance Animals
§                                 $250.00
90.10—Continuous Annoyance
§                                 $250.00
90.11—Animal Confinement
§                                 $250.00
90.13—Dogs as a Public Nuisance
§                                 $250.00
90.15—Vicious Dog
§                                 $100.00
90.16—Failure to Report Bite
 
   (C)   Minimum fine for adjudicated violations. See §
90.99.
(Res. 1650, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A violation of any section of this chapter is to be set by
resolution.
      (2)   (a)   Each day’s violation of a provision of this chapter
constitutes a separate violation.
         (b)   The abatement of a nuisance is not a penalty for violating this
chapter, but is an additional remedy. The imposition of a penalty does not
relieve a person of the duty to abate the nuisance.
         (c)   A citation or other charging instrument filed in court shall
include all violations from the date of any written warning, (also known as
abatement) notice as cited in the charging instrument.
         (d)   There is no requirement, for any violation of this chapter, that
a written notice must first be delivered to abate or cite the violation. For
determining the number of days the violation has occurred or has continued, it
shall be from the day the violation is first identified by the city, not the
date a warning, written or verbal, is provided or received.
   (B)   This chapter also sets a minimum fine of $50 for all adjudicated
violations, where the person cited is found guilty or enters a plea of no
contest to each violation.
   (C)   Unless otherwise indicated, any offense under this chapter is
classified as a violation punishable by a fine set by resolution. Penalties not
set by resolution shall be $250 per violation.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-15-2013; Res. 1650, passed 10-7-2013; Ord. 1315, passed 6-
6-2016)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Adopting design standards and standard details
   
91.002   Defining city rights-of-way
   
91.003   Service driveways
   
91.004   Disturbance of pavement
Construction, Alteration, Repair and Cleaning of Sidewalks and Curbs
   
91.020   Definitions
   
91.021   Individual landowner duties; enforcement
   
91.022   Local improvement district; landowner duties; enforcement
   
91.023   Notice
   
91.024   Remedies
Public Right-of-Way Generally
   
91.035   Short title
   
91.036   Jurisdiction and management of the public rights-of-way
   
91.037   Regulatory fees and compensation not a tax
   
91.038   Definitions
   
91.039   Governing law
   
91.040   Written agreement
   
91.041   Nonexclusive grant
   
91.042   Other remedies
   
91.043   Immunity from certain personal injury or property damage claims
Registration of Providers
   
91.055   Purpose
   
91.056   Registration required
   
91.057   Registration fee
   
91.058   Exception to registration
Public Right-of-Way Construction Standards
   
91.070   General
   
91.071   Construction codes
   
91.072   Construction permits requests
   
91.073   Construction permits
   
91.074   Verification
   
91.075   Construction permit fee
   
91.076   Issuance of permit
   
91.077   Notice of construction
   
91.078   Compliance with permit
   
91.079   Noncomplying work
   
91.080   Completion of construction
   
91.081   As-built drawings
   
91.082   Restoration of public rights-of-way and city property
Location of Facilities
   
91.095   Location of facilities
   
91.096   Interference with the public rights-of-way
   
91.097   Relocation or removal of facilities
   
91.098   Removal of unauthorized facilities
   
91.099   Coordination of construction activities
Franchise Agreements Required
   
91.110   Registration, franchise application and franchise agreement required
   
91.111   Franchise application
   
91.112   Determination by the city
   
91.113   Scope of franchise agreement; effect of ordinance on franchise
agreement
   
91.114   Term of grant
   
91.115   Franchise territory
   
91.116   Franchise fee and right-of-way use fee
   
91.117   New facilities or services
   
91.118   Franchise term renewals
   
91.119   Renewal determinations
   
91.120   Obligation to cure as a condition of renewal
   
91.121   Assignments or transfers of franchise
   
91.122   Termination of franchise agreement
   
91.123   Notice and duty to cure
   
91.124   Public hearing
   
91.125   Standards for termination or lesser sanctions
   
91.126   Other city costs
   
91.127   Damage to provider’s facilities
   
91.128   Duty to provide information
   
91.129   Compensation for city property
   
91.130   Cable franchise
   
91.131   Leased capacity
   
91.132   Insurance
   
91.133   General indemnification
   
91.134   Performance surety
Right-of-Way Use License and Permits
   
91.145   Requirements for permits and licenses
   
91.146   Application and authorization forms required
   
91.147   Renewals and expirations
   
91.148   Permit and license fee
   
91.149   Fee waived
   
91.150   Off-premises directional or off-frontage signs
   
91.151   Other devices prohibited
   
91.152   Travel lane, parking spaces and shoulder use prohibited
   
91.153   Proposals for use of parking spaces or shoulders
   
91.154   “No parking” regulations
   
91.155   Non-compliance
   
91.156   Long-term encroachments and planting of street trees
   
91.157   Flower/accent planters
Encroachment License
   
91.170   Adoption and incorporation of exhibits
   
91.171   Form and fee required
   
91.172   Preparation
   
91.173   Licenses are revocable
   
91.174   Liability insurance
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 ADOPTING DESIGN STANDARDS AND STANDARD DETAILS.
   (A)   The document entitled City of Tillamook Public Works Design Standards
shall be adopted to provide clear and concise information to contractors,
developers and engineers providing services within the city.
   (B)   This section will provide acceptable construction standards and
specifications for all improvements and repairs within the city.
   (C)   The document attached to the ordinance incorporated by reference
herein may be amended by resolution as future need and circumstances change.
   (D)   The Public Works Design Standards will be amended to replace the
existing curb ramp design with ODOT’s American with Disabilities Act curb ramp
standards attached to Resolution 1809 as Exhibit A.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 1160, passed 3-20-2000; Ord. 1298, passed 1-5-2015;
Res. 1809, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 91.002 DEFINING CITY RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Tillamook, Oregon.
      PERSON. Individual, corporation, association, firm, partnership, joint
stock company and similar entities.
      PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Include, but are not limited to, streets, roads,
highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, trails, paths, public easements and all
other public ways or areas, including subsurface and air space over these
areas.
      WITHIN THE CITY. Territory over which the city now has or acquires
jurisdiction for the exercise of its powers.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory
control over each public right-of-way within the city and state law.
   (C)   Scope of regulatory control. The city has jurisdiction and exercises
regulatory control over each public right-of-way within the city whether the
city has a fee, easement or other legal interest in the right-of-way. The city
has jurisdiction and regulatory control over each right-of-way within the city
whether the legal interest in the right-of-way was obtained by grant,
dedication, prescription, reservation, condemnation, annexation, foreclosure or
other means.
   (D)   City permission requirement. No person may occupy or encroach on a
public right-of-way within the city without the permission of the city. The
city grants permission to use rights-of-way by franchises, licenses and
permits.
   (E)   Obligations of the city. The exercise of jurisdiction and regulatory
control over any public right-of-way by the city is not official acceptance of
the right-of-way and does not obligate the city to maintain or repair any part
of the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 1152, passed 3-3-1997) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.003 SERVICE DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Definition. The term SERVICE DRIVEWAY as used herein shall mean any
driveway entering any street from private property and intended for use and
used by the public or for private purposes.
   (B)   Permit. It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any service
driveway across any sidewalk or curbing without first obtaining a permit for
the construction from the City Manager.
   (C)   Specifications. All driveways shall be constructed of 1:2:3 mix
concrete, six inches thick and one and one-half inch curb face shall be
retained across the driveway. The slope from the gutter to the sidewalk or
property line shall be as directed by the City Manager. No curbing shall be
disturbed within four feet of the regular street crosswalk, nor shall any
driveway be permitted to interfere with any fire hydrant, power line or traffic
sign.
   (D)   Curb length.
      (1)   The City Manager shall limit the curb length of all driveways as
follows:
 
Frontage             Maximum Length
25 to 52.5 feet      22 feet
Over 52.5 to 75 feet 30 feet
Over 75 feet         35 feet
 
      (2)   If more than one service driveway is desired for frontage up to 105
feet, the maximum length of driveway shall be 25 feet, and not more than two
driveways will be permitted. If service driveways less than 20 feet in length
are desired, three 15-foot service driveways may be permitted; provided,
however, that not less than 12 feet of straight curb must separate service
driveways under one ownership. For any frontage in excess of 105 feet, each
additional 105 feet or fraction thereof shall be considered as separate
frontage. Any service driveway in excess of the above maximum lengths must
receive the approval of the City Council. No driveway apron shall extend out
into the street farther than the face of the curb, and under no circumstances
shall the driveway apron extend into the gutter area.
   (E)   Permit fees. The permit fees for each service driveway shall be as
follows: for any service driveway authorized under permit from the City
Manager, $2 for each ten feet of length, or fraction thereof; for any service
driveway requiring the approval of the City Council, $4 for each ten feet of
length, or fraction thereof.
   (F)   Driveway aprons. All existing driveway aprons which extend out into
the street farther than the face of the curb and into the gutter area hereby
are deemed a nuisance.
   (G)   Abandoned driveways. Any existing driveway or apron which has been or
shall hereafter be abandoned by the property owner, his or her heirs or
assigns, is hereby deemed a nuisance and the curb and sidewalk shall be
restored to its original condition, as directed, at the expense of the property
owner in the manner and at the times hereinafter provided.
   (H)   Conformance of existing driveways. Any existing driveway or apron
violating any of the above requirements shall be altered to conform to these
requirements on or before September 1, 1950, upon written notice to the owner,
agent of the owner and/or occupant of the property from the City Manager;
provided, nevertheless, that in any case where the City Manager shall find that
a driveway or apron constructed in violation of this subchapter was so
constructed at the express direction of and to the exact specifications of the
city, then the driveway or apron shall be altered at city expense. The City
Manager shall cause to be served on the owner, agent of owner and/or occupant a
notice describing the property with convenient certainty by its legal
description or by the street number of the building situate thereon, requiring
the owner, agent of the owner and/or occupant to conform to the above
requirements by September 1, 1950, or that the city will require the same to be
done and the cost thereof charged as a lien against the property.
   (I)   Notice to owner; liens. The notice shall be served upon the owner,
agent of the owner and/or occupant in person if he or she shall be found upon
the premises within the city, and in case the owner, agent of owner and/or
occupant cannot be found in person within the city after reasonable diligence
and inquiry, the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the
premises and a copy thereof mailed to the last known post office address of the
owner, agent of owner and/or occupant if any address is known and return of
service shall be filed with the City Recorder. If, by September 1, 1950, the
owner, agent of owner and/or occupant shall have failed and neglected to
conform to the requirements, the City Manager shall cause the same to be done
and shall file with the Council a verified, itemized statement of the
expenditure occasioned thereby, and the Recorder shall cause notice to be
served upon the owner, agent of owner and/or occupant in the manner
hereinbefore described that the statement will be considered and determined by
the Council and a lien declared upon the property involved, the time of which
meeting shall be specified in the notice not less than ten days nor more than
20 days from giving the same. The Council shall at the meeting hear any
objection to the statement and by ordinance determine the correctness of the
same and declare the corrected amount a lien upon the property benefitted and
instruct the Recorder to enter the same upon the city docket of liens in the
same manner and with the same effect that the street improvement liens and
sewer liens are entered; and the liens shall have the same force and effect as
the street and sewer liens and shall be foreclosed in the same manner.
   (J)   Penalty. Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be subject to the provisions of §
91.999.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 651, passed 11-7-1949) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.004 DISTURBANCE OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   Disturbance of pavement; supervision. It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to cut any holes in paved streets, dig up any
street or in any way break the surface of the pavements or streets in the city
for water or sewer purposes, or any other purpose, without first securing the
consent of the City Manager. All work done pursuant to the above consent and
for the above purposes shall be done under the supervision of the
Superintendent of Public Works who shall have authority to control the work.
All repairs of the streets or pavements thereof shall be done as the
Superintendent directs with a view to preserving the same and without any cost
to the city.
   (B)   Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the terms
of this section, upon conviction thereof before the City Recorder, shall be
punished by a fine as set forth in §
91.999.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) (Ord. 448, passed 7-21-1924; Ord. 861, passed 2-14-1977)
Penalty, see §
91.999
CONSTRUCTION, ALTERATION, REPAIR AND CLEANING
OF SIDEWALKS AND CURBS
§ 91.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABNORMALLY DANGEROUS OR HAZARDOUS CONDITION. A two-inch or greater
displacement from grade or misalignment between or within sidewalk panels or
any other condition threatening the immediate health, safety or welfare
interests of the public, such as any condition which risks personal injury or
property damage to any disabled person, whether or not wheelchair-bound.
   CITY. The City of Tillamook, a municipal corporation of the State of Oregon,
where the provision involves a duty owed the city in either its governmental or
its corporate capacity; otherwise it shall mean the officer, department or
agency of the city indicated by the context or where the context does not
clearly indicate a specific officer, department or agency, then the City
Manager.
   COMMERCIAL PREMISES. Includes all premises which are not private premises.
   CONSTRUCTION. Construction of sidewalks and curbs upon official grades,
fixing dimensions of curbs and establishing curb lines on certain width streets
and sidewalk widths.
   COUNCIL. The City Council.
   DANGEROUS/HAZARDOUS SIDEWALK. A sidewalk:
      (1)   With a surface that is not constructed to City Public Works
Construction Standards - Street Design Standards (“City Standards”);
      (2)   Which contains a vertical or horizontal misalignment between or
within sidewalk panels, or between a sidewalk and curb, equal to three-fourths
to two inches;
      (3)   Which contains structural defects negatively affecting pedestrian
use; or
      (4)   Which has vegetation, whether growing on or overhanging the
sidewalk, that negatively affects pedestrian use.
   DAYS. Twenty-four hour, calendar days.
   ENGINEER. The City Public Works Director or the duly appointed City Engineer
or any consulting engineering firm who contracts with the city to provide
engineering services.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation,
social or fraternal organization, trust, estate, receiver, syndicate, branch of
government or any group or combination acting as a unit.
   SIDEWALK. A pedestrian walkway with permanent surfacing, which shall include
curbs and road approaches crossing, adjacent to or between the walkways.
(Prior Code, § 91.20) (Ord. 1205, passed 12-5-2005)
§ 91.021 INDIVIDUAL LANDOWNER DUTIES; ENFORCEMENT.
      (A)   Standards and specifications. Sidewalks and curbs shall be
constructed, altered, repaired and maintained according to City Public Works
Construction Standards - Street Design Standards (“City Standards”) as adopted
and/or amended by the Council by resolution or otherwise.
      (1)   A sidewalk and/or curb not conforming to city standards shall be,
and is, a public nuisance.
      (2)   No landowner shall allow a dangerous or hazardous sidewalk or
abnormally dangerous or hazardous sidewalk to exist on his or her property.
This provision shall apply to existing exterior commercial premises open to the
public, to private premises adjacent to a public way, street, alley, highway or
road of any kind.
   (B)   Permit requirements, applications, fees and issuance.
      (1)   No person shall construct, reconstruct or repair any sidewalk or
curb in or upon any public street or right-of-way without first obtaining a
permit from the city and complying with the provisions of the City Street
Design Standards and the city’s tree ordinance (see
Chapter 93).
      (2)   An application for a permit shall be filed with the city, on a form
provided by the city, together with any other information and data, as required
by the Engineer. An applicant for a permit shall pay a permit fee to the city,
which fee shall be set by City Council by resolution to recover city’s actual
costs of review and monitoring.
      (3)   Upon application and fee payment for an improvement to which this
subchapter applies, city shall issue a permit. The permit shall be
automatically void six months from the issue date if the improvement is not
complete. If the improvement is complete and receives City Engineer final
approval, then the permit shall become permanent.
   (C)   Owner responsibility and liability.
      (1)   The owner of real property abutting a sidewalk is liable for any
personal injury or property damage which occurs because of the owner’s failure
to maintain the sidewalk in good repair or safe condition. The city shall not
be liable under these circumstances unless the city is the owner and the city’s
act or failure to act is the direct and proximate cause of the injury or
damage.
      (2)   If the city is required to pay damages for personal injury or
property damage caused by the failure of an owner to maintain a sidewalk in
good repair or safe condition, the owner shall reimburse the city for the full
amount of the damages thus paid and for the attorney fees and cost of defending
against the claim for damages. The city may maintain an action in a court of
competent jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 91.21) (Ord. 1205, passed 12-5-2005) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.022 LOCAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; LANDOWNER DUTIES; ENFORCEMENT.
   The Council may proceed in the manner set forth in O.R.S. 223.387 et seq.
for the creation of a local improvement district, as long as it is consistent
with any existing city sidewalk plan, if any of the following conditions are
found to exist:
   (A)   (1)   A dangerous or hazardous condition to pedestrians or vehicular
traffic exists on a sidewalk or in a street right-of-way;
      (2)   There is a general public health, safety and/or welfare need that a
street be improved by the construction of a sidewalk thereon not to exceed one
block in length if platted as a block, or 300 feet if not platted, which
sidewalk would connect with the sidewalk or sidewalks already constructed on
the street or cross-streets intersecting therewith; or
      (3)   The landowners within an area in the city specifically described
request it.
   (B)   Public funds sufficient to support the city’s portion of the project
are available and appropriated for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 91.22) (Ord. 1205, passed 12-5-2005; Ord. 1227, passed 11-19-
2007)
Cross-reference:
   Local improvement districts, see
TSO IV
§ 91.023 NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice.
      (1)   Notice of public nuisances. Upon determination by the City Manager,
City Engineer or their designee that a public nuisance, dangerous/hazardous
sidewalk or abnormally dangerous/hazardous sidewalk exists, a written notice of
the nuisance or hazard shall be provided to the landowner and/or occupant,
ordering the landowner and/or occupant to abate the nuisance, hazard or danger
within 14 days of receipt of the notice.
      (2)   Stay of enforcement; stay not a bar to fine. A notice shall stay
the city’s enforcement until the expiration of the notice period. This means a
city notice under this division (A) shall cause the city’s enforcement action
under this subchapter only to be stopped or “on hold” until the notice period
ends. However, a stay of enforcement to gain compliance shall not be a bar to
any fine or penalty available under any law in any later prosecution to gain
compliance. This means that, even though city’s enforcement action is on hold,
the fines and/or penalties under any law are not on hold, but continue to
accrue or increase as long as the condition constituting a violation continues
to exist. A notice under this division (A) may be superseded by a subsequent
notice, which subsequent notice shall control in any conflict between notices.
This means the last notice issued to a landowner pursuant to this division (A)
is the notice to follow as compared to any conflicting parts of (or whole) an
earlier notice issued to that landowner on the same violation.
      (3)   Response to abnormally dangerous condition. Immediately upon
receipt of notice of abnormally dangerous sidewalk or curb, the landowner and/
or occupant shall erect legally approved and permitted safety devices to
protect person(s) from the identified hazard. The safety devices shall remain
in place until the hazard is repaired as directed by this section.
   (B)   Notice service. Notices shall be served in the following manner:
      (1)   By personally serving a written notice;
      (2)   By posting on the main entrance to the property or structure;
      (3)   By mailing first-class mail, certified, return receipt requested to
the landowner of record as shown on records of the County Tax Collector/
Assessor; or
      (4)   By any combination of the above or any other method reasonably
calculated to provide actual notice to the landowner.
   (C)   Notice contents.
      (1)   The notice to abate shall contain:
         (a)   A common description of the real property by street address or
otherwise on which the nuisance exists;
         (b)   A direction to abate the nuisance within 14 days from the date
of receiving the notice;
         (c)   A general description of the nuisance;
         (d)   A statement that, unless the nuisance is abated, the city may
abate the nuisance; and the cost of abatement will be charged to the person
responsible;
         (e)   A statement that failure to abate a nuisance may cause the
person responsible to be cited into municipal court with possible imposition of
a fine, as well as abatement costs;
         (f)   A statement that the person responsible may protest the order to
abate by giving notice to the City Manager within 14 days from the date of
receipt of the notice; and
         (g)   A statement that the person responsible may request, to the City
Manager, an extension of time to abate the nuisance, not to exceed 30 days,
from date of receipt of original notice.
      (2)   The City Manager, City Engineer or Police Department shall, upon
sending out notice, also cause a report to be filed in the Police Department,
documenting all action occurring with this nuisance.
      (3)   An error in the name or address of the person responsible shall not
make the notice void.
(Prior Code, § 91.23) (Ord. 1205, passed 12-5-2005; Ord. 1214, passed 11-20-
2006; Ord. 1225, passed 11-5-2007) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.024 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Inspections authorized.
      (1)   The City Engineer shall inspect city sidewalks and curbs as time
and public funds permit:
         (a)   Upon City Council request;
         (b)   Upon any written complaint describing the nature and location of
the violation;
         (c)   As outlined in any existing city sidewalk improvement plan; or
         (d)   As otherwise required to monitor the sidewalk/curb construction
or repair within any city permit.
      (2)   Following inspection, the City Engineer shall report the Engineer’s
analysis and recommended action to the Council, City Manager and/or enforcement
officer.
   (B)   City construction. If a sidewalk is not constructed or repaired within
the time required by the notice required by §
91.023(A), (B) and/or (C), then the city may, subject to the availability and
appropriation of public funds, proceed with enforcement, abatement and/or
construction for all or part of the sidewalk frontage of the property. The city
may assess and collect the costs for the abatement or construction, as provided
by this subchapter, plus an administration fee of 25% of those costs.
Additionally, the sidewalk may be considered a public nuisance and subject to
prosecution as a violation punishable by a fine, as provided for in this
subchapter. Each day a public nuisance exists shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (C)   Sidewalk construction requested by the property owner. If a property
owner petitions the Council for an order to build a sidewalk on the part of the
street abutting his or her property, agrees to pay cash or to make an
application to pay the cost in installments as provided by the Bancroft Bonding
Act (as amended), being O.R.S. 223.205 et seq., waives the right of service and
publication of notice of construction and consents to the assessment of the
property upon which the sidewalk abuts, the Council may order the construction
of the sidewalk if, in its judgment, the sidewalk should be built and
sufficient public funds for the project are available.
   (D)   Abatement by the person responsible.
      (1)   Within the time specified in a notice, the person responsible shall
remove the nuisance or show that no nuisance exists.
      (2)   A person responsible may protest that no nuisance exists by filing
with the City Manager a written statement which specifies in detail the
protest’s bases. This statement shall be received by City within 14 days from
the date of receipt of the notice.
      (3)   The City Manager shall have 14 days to respond from the date the
City Manager receives the notice. The response shall indicate either that the
nuisance no longer exists and no further action is required, or that the
nuisance still exists and set a further timeline of 14 days to abate the
identified nuisance.
      (4)   The person responsible may request an extension from the City
Manager. The request must be received by the City Manager within 14 days of the
person responsible receiving the notice. The City Manager may allow an
extension to abate, not to exceed 30 days.
      (5)   Once the final date allowed to abate has passed, and the city
determines the nuisance has not been abated, the Police Department shall then
cite the person responsible into Municipal Court.
      (6)   The time here shall be extended by three days where notice or reply
was served by mail.
   (E)   City repair and liens. Upon the city’s completion of work placing a
sidewalk or curb in good condition, a lien shall attach. Filing notice of
city’s claim of lien shall be consistent with O.R.S. 87.366 for claiming a lien
on real property. Recording of the notice shall be with the City Recorder in
the city’s lien record and/or with the County Recording Officer in a book kept
for the recording of liens. The city’s lien shall be valid for six years,
unless extended by written agreement with the landowner for two additional
years. The landowners shall either pay the full amount or the city shall
commence lien foreclosure within that time. Foreclosure shall be in the manner
provided in O.R.S. Chapter 88. Except for tax liens, the city’s lien shall be
superior to all subsequently perfected liens, mortgages and/or other
encumbrances, including state and federal liens, unless otherwise required by
law. In suits to foreclose on a lien created here, the court, upon entering
judgment for the lien claimant, shall allow as part of the lien, all monies
paid for the filing and/or recording of the lien. In suits to foreclose a lien
created here, the court shall allow reasonable attorney fees, costs and
disbursements, at trial and on appeal, to the prevailing party. This division
(E) is effective on the thirtieth day after its adoption on November 19, 2007.
(Prior Code, § 91.24) (Ord. 1205, passed 12-5-2005; Ord. 1227, passed 11-19-
2007) Penalty, see §
91.999
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY GENERALLY
§ 91.035 SHORT TITLE.
   The ordinance incorporated herein shall be referred to as the “Right-of-Way
Management Ordinance”.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.036 JURISDICTION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory management
authority over all city public rights-of-way pursuant to the City Charter, the
code of the city and state law. The city’s purpose for exerting its management
authority over the public rights-of-way is to protect and efficiently manage
the public’s resources and to ensure fair and nondiscriminatory access to the
public right-of-way.
   (B)   The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory management over
each public right-of-way whether the city has a fee, easement or other legal
interest in the right-of-way. The city has jurisdiction and regulatory
management of each right-of-way whether the legal interest in the right-of-way
was obtained by grant, dedication, prescription, reservation, condemnation,
annexation, foreclosure or other means.
   (C)   No person may occupy or encroach on a public right-of-way without the
permission of the city. The city grants permission to use rights-of-way through
franchise agreements, revocable encroachment licenses, right-of-way use permits
and construction permits.
   (D)   The exercise of jurisdiction and regulatory management of a public
right-of-way by the city is not official acceptance of the right-of-way, and
does not obligate the city to maintain or repair any part of the right-of-way.
   (E)   The city retains the right and privilege to cut or move any facilities
located within the public rights-of-way as the city may determine to be
necessary, appropriate or useful in response to a public health or safety
emergency.
   (F)   The city desires to champion the ready-availability of communication,
cable or utility services for all its residential and commercial citizens by
providing infrastructure and amenities that make the city a better place to do
business. The city is committed to authorizing the private access and use of
the public rights-of-way for such services so long as such use is consistent
with and does not unduly burden or interfere with the principal purpose of the
public rights-of-way, which is to facilitate the free transit of persons and
goods in commerce.
   (G)   The city holds the public health, safety and welfare, as well as such
physical assets such as the public right-of-way, in trust for all of its
citizens. The city has a fiduciary responsibility to assure that any use of
city resources, especially its public ways, benefits all of the citizens and,
where it is deemed appropriate, allows for the recovery of a fair and
reasonable compensation from private entities using public resources.
   (H)   If communications, cable or utility providers make “percentage of
gross revenue” payments which include only a portion of the services they
provide within the city, then they are not compensating the city fairly for
their private use and enjoyment of public assets and resources. Such providers
may derive an unfair advantage. Unfair competition does not foster the city’s
desired technological and business growth. Among the purposes of this chapter
is not only to ensure that the public is properly compensated for the private
use of city resources, but also to ensure that all similarly-situated providers
are treated similarly and fairly in order to foster technological growth and
innovation.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.037 REGULATORY FEES AND COMPENSATION NOT A TAX.
   (A)   The fees and costs addressed in this chapter, and any compensation
charged and paid for regarding the use of the public rights-of-way addressed in
this chapter, are separate from and in addition to any and all other federal,
state, local and city fees, taxes or charges as may be levied, imposed or due
from a provider, its customers or subscribers, or on account of the lease,
sale, delivery or transmission of communications or utility services.
   (B)   The city has determined that any fee provided for by this chapter is
not subject to the property tax limitations of Article XI, §§ 11 and 11 b of
the state constitution. These fees are not imposed on property or property
owners.
   (C)   The fees and costs provided for in this chapter are subject to
applicable federal and state laws.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.038 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words not
defined herein shall be given the meaning set forth in the Communications Act
of 1934, as amended, the Cable Act, the Cable Television Consumer Protection
and Competition Act of 1992, and the Telecommunications Act. If not defined
there, the words shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et
seq.
   CABLE SERVICE. Interpreted consistent with federal law and means the one-way
transmission to subscribers of video programming or other programming service
and subscriber interaction, if any, required for the selection or use of such
video programming or other programming service.
   CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Any provider of cable service. As used herein,
COMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER or PROVIDER includes cable service providers.
   CITY. The City of Tillamook, an Oregon municipal corporation, and
individuals authorized to act on the city’s behalf.
   CITY COUNCIL. The elected governing body of the City of Tillamook, Oregon
   CITY PROPERTY. All real property owned by the city and all property held in
a proprietary capacity by the city but does not include public rights-of-way
and utility easements as defined herein.
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES OR FACILITIES. All plant conduit, fiber,
infrastructure and other equipment and systems, other than customer-premises
equipment, used or owned by any communications provider. For the purposes of
this chapter, facilities used by cable service providers to provide cable
service are communications facilities.
   COMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any provider of communications services and
includes, but is not limited to: every person who directly or indirectly owns,
controls, operates or manages communications facilities within the city and
cable service providers. As used herein, PROVIDER includes COMMUNICATIONS
PROVIDERS.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE(S) OR SERVICE(S). Any service provided for the
purpose of transmission of information, including, but not limited to, voice,
video or data, without regard to the transmission protocol employed, whether or
not the transmission medium is owned by the provider itself and whether or not
the transmission medium is wireline. COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES includes all forms
of telephone services and voice, video, data or information transport and
expressly includes cable service offered by a cable service provider, but does
not include:
      (1)   Open video system service, as defined in 47 C.F.R. § 76;
      (2)   Private communications system services provided without using the
public rights-of-way;
      (3)   Over-the-air radio or television broadcasting to the public-at-
large from facilities licensed by the Federal Communications Commission or any
successor thereto; and
      (4)   Direct-to-home satellite service within the meaning of § 602 of the
Telecommunications Act.
   CONDUIT. Any structure, or portion thereof, containing one or more ducts,
pipes, conduits, manholes, bolts, cables, fiber or other infrastructure used by
or for any telegraph, telephone, electrical utility, conductors, cable service
or dedicated transportation of data or materials.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any activity in the public rights-of-way resulting in physical
change thereto, including excavation or placement of structures, but excluding
routine maintenance or repair of existing facilities.
   CONTROL. Actual working control in whatever manner exercised.
   DAYS. Calendar days unless otherwise specified.
   DUCT. A single enclosed raceway for conductors or cable.
   EMERGENCY. The meaning provided for in O.R.S. 401.025.
   FACILITY or FACILITIES. The plant, equipment and property, including, but
not limited to, the poles, pipes, mains, conduits, ducts, cable, wires, plant
and equipment located under, on or above the surface of the ground within the
public right-of-way of the city and used or to be used for the purpose of
providing utilities, cable or communications services within the city to
residents or outside of the city.
   FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION. The federal administrative agency, or its
lawful successor, authorized to regulate and oversee communications or cable
service providers on a national level.
   FRANCHISE or FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and a
provider which grants a privilege to the provider to use public right-of-way
within the city for a limited, dedicated purpose and in return for specific
compensation, called a franchise fee.
   FRANCHISEE. A non-breaching provider who is a party to a valid, unexpired
franchise agreement with the city.
   OPUC. The statutorily created state agency in the state responsible for
licensing and regulation of certain communications providers as set forth in
state law, or its lawful successor.
   OVERHEAD FACILITIES. Utility poles, utility facilities and communications
facilities above the surface of the ground, including the underground supports
and foundations for such facilities.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, company, association, joint stock
company or association, firm, partnership or limited liability company.
   PRIVATE COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK. A system, including the construction,
maintenance or operation of the system, for the provision of a service or any
portion of a service, which is owned or operated exclusively by a person for
their own use and not for resale, directly or indirectly. PRIVATE
COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK includes services provided by the state pursuant to
O.R.S. 190.240 and 283.140.
   PROVIDER. Every person who directly or indirectly owns, controls, operates
or manages any facilities within the city’s public rights-of-way whether or not
such person provides services to city residents or outside of the city. The
term PROVIDER includes, but is not limited to, providers of communications
services and utility services as defined herein.
   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY or RIGHT-OF-WAY. Includes, but is not limited to: city
streets, roads, highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, trails, paths, public
easements and other public ways generally open to travel, including the
subsurface under and air space over these ways; but does not include parks,
parkland or other city property not generally open to the public for travel.
This definition applies only to the extent of the city’s right, title, interest
or authority to grant a franchise to occupy and use such areas. PUBLIC RIGHTS-
OF-WAY or RIGHT-OF-WAY shall also include utility easements as defined below.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USE FEE. A fee imposed upon a provider for the occupation of or
use of the public right-of-way under this chapter and which is based upon all
the services the provider provides within the city.
   STATE. The State of Oregon.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT. The Communications Policy Act of 1934, as amended by
subsequent enactments including the Telecommunications Act of 1996, 47 U.S.C.§§
151 et seq.
   UNDERGROUND FACILITIES. Utility and communications facilities located under
the surface of the ground, but does not include underground foundations or
supports for “overhead facilities”.
   UTILITY EASEMENT. Any easement granted to or owned by the city and acquired,
established, dedicated or devoted for public utility purposes. UTILITY EASEMENT
does not include any easement dedicated solely for city use or facilities or
any easement where the proposed use is inconsistent with the terms and
conditions of the easement granted to or owned by the city.
   UTILITY or UTILITY SERVICE(S). Interpreted consistently with state law and
means any activity pertaining to the transmission, generation, supply or
distribution of electric energy, oil or gas, water or storm water, sewage or
liquid waste, or other similar products, but does not include garbage or solid
waste collector services which do not use facilities within the public right-
of-way.
   UTILITY SERVICE PROVIDERS. A person or provider providing utility services
using facilities within the public right-of-way. As used herein, PROVIDER
includes utility service providers.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.039 GOVERNING LAW.
   Any franchise agreement granted under this chapter is subject to the
provisions of the constitutions and laws of the United States and the state and
the ordinances and Charter of the city.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.040 WRITTEN AGREEMENT.
   No franchise agreement shall be granted hereunder except by a writing duly
executed by the franchisee and the city.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.041 NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT.
   No franchise agreement granted under this chapter shall confer any exclusive
right, privilege, license or franchise to occupy or use the public rights-of-
way for delivery of communications service or any other purposes.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.042 OTHER REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any judicial remedies
that the city may have, at law or in equity, for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.043 IMMUNITY FROM CERTAIN PERSONAL INJURY OR PROPERTY DAMAGE CLAIMS.
   (A)   Immunity. Pursuant to O.R.S. 105.668(3)(a) and (b), the city, on
behalf of itself and its officers, employees and agents, hereby opts to limit
liability in the manner established by O.R.S. 105.668(2) with respect to
personal injury or property damage resulting from use of a trail that is in a
public easement or in an unimproved right-of-way, or from use of structures in
the public easement or unimproved right-of-way, with respect to claimants who
may be a user on foot, on a horse or on a bicycle or other non-motorized
vehicle or conveyance.
   (B)   Extended immunity. Pursuant to O.R.S. 105.668(3)(c) and (d), the city
further opts to extend the immunity adopted in division (A) of this section to:
      (1)   The owner of land abutting public easements and unimproved rights-
of-way located within the city; and
      (2)   Any nonprofit corporation and its volunteers for the construction
and maintenance of trails or structures in a public easement or unimproved
right-of-way located within the city.
(Res. R120224, passed 12-2-2024)
REGISTRATION OF PROVIDERS
§ 91.055 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of registration is:
   (A)   To assure that all providers who have facilities within the city and/
or who provide communications or utility services within the city using the
public right-of-way comply with the ordinances, rules and regulations of the
city;
   (B)   To provide the city with accurate and current information concerning
providers who offer communications or utility service within the city or who
own or operate facilities within the city; and
   (C)   To assist the city in the enforcement of this chapter and the
collection of any city franchise fees or right-of-way use fees or charges.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.056 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unless excepted in §
91.058, all providers who own, operate or use within the city’s public right-
of-way and all providers who provide communications or utility services to any
customer within the city, shall register with the city, on a form provided by
the city, within 45 days of the effective date of this chapter. Any prospective
providers who want to install or use facilities within the city’s public right-
of-way or want to provide communications or utility services within the city
after the effective date of this chapter shall register with the city, on a
form provided by the city, prior to installing facilities or providing
services.
   (B)   After registering with the city pursuant to division (A) above, the
provider shall, by December 31 of each year, file with the city a new
registration form if it intends to maintain facilities or provide services at
any time in the following calendar year. Providers who file an initial
registration pursuant to division (A) above on or after September 30 shall not
be required to file an annual registration until December 31 of the following
year.
   (C)   (1)   In lieu of filing the city’s registration form, a provider may
submit to the city a copy of the its application and approved license from
either:
         (a)   The State Public Utility Commission (PUC); or
         (b)   The Federal Communications Commission.
      (2)   To the extent not included in the application and license materials
submitted pursuant to this division (C) registrants also shall provide the
following information:
         (a)   The identity and legal status of the registrant, including the
name, address and telephone number of the duly authorized officer, agent or
employee responsible, for the accuracy of the registration information;
         (b)   The name, address and telephone number for the duly authorized
officer, agent or employee to be contacted in case of an emergency;
         (c)   A description of the registrant’s existing or proposed
facilities within the city, a description of the facilities that the registrant
intends to construct, and a description of the communications service that the
registrant intends to offer or provide to persons, firms, businesses or
institutions within the city; and
         (d)   Information sufficient to determine whether the transmission,
origination or receipt of the services provided, or to be provided, by the
registrant constitutes an occupation or privilege subject to the city’s
business license requirements. A copy of the business license or the license
number must be provided.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.057 REGISTRATION FEE.
   Each registration form shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable registration
fee in an amount to be determined by resolution of the City Council. The
registration fee required by this section shall be subject to all applicable
limitations imposed by federal or state law.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.058 EXCEPTION TO REGISTRATION.
   The following providers and facilities are exempt from §§
91.056 and
91.057 registration requirements:
   (A)   Communications facilities owned and operated exclusively by the state,
or a political subdivision of this state, for their own use;
   (B)   A private communications network that does not occupy any public
rights-of-way; and
   (C)   Any provider who is a non-breaching party to an unexpired franchise
agreement with the city if such franchise agreement expressly authorizes the
use and occupation of the public rights-of-way for the specific communications
or utility services provided.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 91.070 GENERAL.
   No person shall commence or continue with the construction, installation or
operation of facilities within a public right-of-way, except as provided in §§
91.071 through
91.082 and
91.095 through
91.099 and in compliance with all applicable city and state codes, rules and
regulations.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.071 CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   Facilities shall be constructed, installed, operated and maintained in
accordance with all applicable federal, state and local codes, rules and
regulations including the National Electrical Code and the National Electrical
Safety Code.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.072 CONSTRUCTION PERMITS REQUESTS.
   (A)   Except in the event of an emergency, no person shall construct or
install any facilities within a public right-of-way without first obtaining the
appropriate construction permit and paying the associated permit fee. No permit
shall be issued for the construction or installation of facilities within a
public right-of-way unless:
      (1)   The requestor has first filed a registration form with the city as
required by §§
91.055 through
91.058; and
      (2)   The requestor has applied for and received a franchise as required
by §§
91.110 through
91.134.
   (B)   In the event of an emergency and in compliance with City Code, a
permittee or its contractor may perform work on its facilities to address the
emergency without first obtaining a permit from the city provided it attempts
to notify the city prior to commencing the emergency work and in any event
applies for a permit from the city and pays any applicable permit fee as soon
as reasonably practicable. As used in this section, EMERGENCY means a
circumstance in which immediate repair to damaged or malfunctioning facilities
is necessary to restore lost service or prevent immediate harm to persons or
property.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.073 CONSTRUCTION PERMITS.
   Requests for permits to construct facilities shall be submitted upon forms
to be provided by the city and shall be accompanied by drawings, plans and
specifications in sufficient detail to demonstrate the following.
   (A)   The facilities will be constructed in accordance with all federal,
state and city applicable codes, rules and regulations.
   (B)   The facilities will be constructed in accordance with any applicable
franchise agreement.
   (C)   The location and route of all facilities to be installed aboveground
or on existing utility poles.
   (D)   The location and route of all facilities on or in the public rights-
of-way to be located under the surface of the ground, including the line and
grade proposed for the burial at all points along the route within the city.
Existing facilities shall be differentiated on the plans from new construction.
If requested, a cross section shall be provided showing new or existing
facilities in relation to the street, curb, sidewalk or right-of-way.
   (E)   The construction methods to be employed for protection of existing
structures, fixtures and facilities within or adjacent to the public rights-of-
way, and description of any improvements that applicant proposes to temporarily
or permanently remove or relocate.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.074 VERIFICATION.
   All construction permit requests shall be accompanied by the verification of
a registered professional engineer, or other qualified and duly authorized
representative affirming that the drawings, plans and specifications submitted
comply with applicable technical codes, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.075 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE.
   Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement, prior to
issuance of a construction permit, the requestor shall pay the appropriate
permit fee as established by City Council resolution. Such fee shall be
designed to defray the costs of city administration of the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.076 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   If satisfied that the plans and documents submitted comply with all
requirements of this chapter and with any applicable franchise agreement, the
Public Works Director shall issue a permit authorizing construction of the
facilities, subject to such further conditions affecting the time, place and
manner of performing the work.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.077 NOTICE OF CONSTRUCTION.
   Except in the case of an emergency, the permittee shall notify the Public
Works Director not less than two working days in advance of any excavation or
construction in the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.078 COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT.
   All construction practices and activities shall be in accordance with the
permit and the approved final plans and specifications for the facilities. The
Public Works Director and representatives shall be provided access to the work
site and such further information as they may require to ensure compliance with
such requirements.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.079 NONCOMPLYING WORK.
   Subject to the notice requirements in §
91.098, all work which does not comply with the permit, the approved or
corrected plans and specifications for the work, or the requirements of this
chapter, shall be removed at the sole expense of the permittee. The city is
authorized to stop work in order to assure compliance with the provision of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.080 COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The permittee shall promptly complete all construction activities so as to
minimize disruption of the public rights-of-way and other public and private
property. All construction work within public rights-of-way, including
restoration, must be completed within 120 days of the date of issuance of the
construction permit unless an extension or an alternate schedule has been
approved by the appropriate city official.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.081 AS-BUILT DRAWINGS.
   Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement, if requested
by the city, the permittee shall furnish the city with up to two complete sets
of plans drawn to scale and accurately depicting the location of all facilities
constructed pursuant to the permit. These plans shall be submitted to the City
Public Works Director or designee within 60 days after completion of
construction, in a format acceptable to the city.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.082 RESTORATION OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   When a permittee, or any person acting on its behalf, does any work in
or affecting any public rights-of-way or city property, it shall at its own
expense promptly restore such ways or property to as good an order and
condition as existed prior to the work, unless otherwise directed by the city.
   (B)   If weather or other conditions do not permit the complete restoration
required by this section, the permittee shall temporarily restore the affected
rights-of-way or property. Such temporary restoration shall be at the
permittee’s sole expense and the permittee shall promptly undertake and
complete the required permanent restoration when the weather or other
conditions no longer prevent such permanent restoration.
   (C)   If the permittee fails to restore rights-of-way or property to good
order and condition, the city shall give the permittee written notice and
provide the permittee a reasonable period of time not exceeding 30 days to
restore the rights-of-way or property. If, after notice, the permittee fails to
restore the rights-of-way or property to as good an order and condition as
existed before the work was undertaken, the city shall cause such restoration
to be made at the expense of the permittee.
   (D)   A permittee or other person acting on its behalf shall use suitable
barricades, flags, flagging attendants, lights, flares and other measures as
required for the safety of all members of the general public and to prevent
injury or damage to any person, vehicle or property by reason of such work in
or affecting such rights-of-way or property.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
LOCATION OF FACILITIES
§ 91.095 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   All facilities located within the public right-of-way shall be constructed,
installed and located in accordance with the terms of the construction permit
and approved final plans and specifications for the facilities, and all
applicable city codes, rules and regulations. Unless otherwise specified in an
unexpired franchise agreement, whenever all existing electric utilities
(excluding electric utility facilities which must remain above ground for
safety reasons) or other facilities are within a public right-of-way and are
required to be located underground by City Code, a provider occupying or
proposing to occupy the same public right-of-way must also locate its
facilities underground at its own expense.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.096 INTERFERENCE WITH THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   No provider may locate or maintain its facilities so as to interfere with
the city’s use of the public rights-of-way or to unreasonably interfere with
use by the general public or by other persons authorized to use or occupy the
public rights-of-way. All use of public rights-of-way shall be consistent with
city codes, ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.097 RELOCATION OR REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   A provider shall, at no cost to the city, temporarily or permanently
remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any facilities within the
public rights-of-way, including relocation of aerial facilities underground,
when requested to do so in writing by the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to preclude a provider from
requesting reimbursement or compensation from a third-party, pursuant to
applicable laws, regulations, tariffs or agreements, provided that the provider
shall timely comply with the requirements of this section regardless of whether
or not it has requested or received such reimbursement or compensation.
   (C)   The city shall provide at least 30 days’ written notice of the time by
which the provider must remove, relocate, change, alter or underground its
facilities. The city may grant extensions upon the provider’s request. If a
provider fails to remove, relocate, alter or underground any facility as
requested by the city and by the date established by the city, the provider
shall pay all costs incurred by the city due to such failure, including, but
not limited to, costs related to project delays. Upon such failure, the city
may cause the facility to be removed, relocated, altered or undergrounded at
the provider’s sole expense and shall use qualified personnel or contractors
consistent with applicable state and federal safety laws and regulations. Upon
receipt of a detailed invoice from the city, the provider shall reimburse the
city for the costs the city incurred within 30 days.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.098 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED FACILITIES.
   (A)   Within 30 days following written notice from the city or at a later
date agreed upon by the parties, any provider or other person who owns,
controls or maintains any unauthorized system, facility or related
appurtenances within the public rights-of-way shall, at its own expense, remove
such system, facilities and/or appurtenances from the city public rights-of-
way.
   (B)   A system, facility or appurtenance is subject to removal under this
section in the following circumstances:
      (1)   One year after the expiration or termination of the provider’s
franchise agreement, unless the city has provided written authorization for
abandonment in place;
      (2)   Upon abandonment of a facility within the public rights-of-way. A
facility will be considered abandoned when it is deactivated, out of service or
not used for its intended and authorized purpose for a period of 90 days or
longer. A facility will not be considered abandoned if it is temporarily out of
service during performance of repairs or if the facility is being replaced. The
city shall contact the provider before concluding that a facility is abandoned.
A facility may be abandoned in place and not removed if the city authorizes
such abandonment and non-removal in writing and there is no apparent risk to
the public safety, health or welfare;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the
appropriate prior authority at the time of construction or installation; and
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
authorized by the provider’s franchise or other legally sufficient permit.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.099 COORDINATION OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
   A provider is required to make a good faith effort to cooperate with the
city.
   (A)   If requested by the city, a provider shall meet with the city to
schedule and coordinate construction in the public rights-of-way.
   (B)   All construction locations, activities and schedules shall be
coordinated, as ordered by the city Public Works Director or designee, to
minimize public inconvenience, disruption or damages.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS REQUIRED
§ 91.110 REGISTRATION, FRANCHISE APPLICATION AND FRANCHISE AGREEMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unless exempted herein, prior to occupying city public rights-of-way,
all providers shall register with the city, as required by §
91.056; shall file a franchise application with the city, as required by §
91.111; and shall enter into a franchise agreement with the city within nine
months of date of application.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, a provider
who is a non-breach in a party to an unexpired franchise agreement for a
service it provides within the city shall not be required to enter into
multiple or different franchise agreements for its provision of a different
service within the city as long as the provider has registered all its services
with the city pursuant to §
91.056. Further, nothing in this division (B) waives a provider’s duty to pay
franchise fees or right-of-way use fee as required under this chapter.
   (C)   Unless exempted herein, any provider who occupies the public rights-
of-way without an unexpired franchise agreement shall file a franchise
application pursuant to this section within 45 days of the effective date of
this chapter.
   (D)   Unless exempted herein, any provider whose facilities occupy the
public right-of-way, with or without an unexpired franchise agreement from the
city, must comply with all provisions of this chapter, specifically including
payment of a right-of-way fee pursuant to §
91.116.
   (E)   The following providers are exempt from the franchise application
process and franchise agreement requirements in §§
91.110 and
91.111, but remain obligated to abide by all other applicable sections of this
chapter.
      (1)   Any provider who is a non-breaching party to an unexpired franchise
agreement with the city which expressly authorizes the provider’s use and
occupation of the public rights-of-way for the specific communications or
utility services provided.
      (2)   Any provider who occupies the public rights-of-way but does not
provide any communications or utility services to persons, providers or
locations within the city.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.111 FRANCHISE APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who desires to use or occupy the public rights-of-way
or desires a franchise agreement with the city must first file a franchise
application with the City Manager, unless exempted in §
91.110(E). The purpose of a franchise application is to provide the city with
necessary information regarding the provider’s services and public right-of-way
needs.
      (2)   The franchise application shall include, at minimum, the following
information:
         (a)   The identity of the applicant;
         (b)   A description of the services to be offered or provided by the
applicant over its facilities, including an indication of whether the applicant
will provide solely cable service;
         (c)   Engineering plans, specifications and a network map in a form
customarily used by the applicant of the facilities located or to be located
within the public rights-of-way in the city, including the location and route
requested for applicant’s proposed facilities;
         (d)   The area or areas of the city the applicant desires to serve and
a preliminary construction schedule for build-out to the entire franchise area;
         (e)   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all
other governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the
facilities and to offer or provide the service proposed; and
         (f)   An accurate map showing the location of any existing facilities
in the city that applicant intends to use or lease.
   (B)   Any provider who occupies the public rights-of-way without an
unexpired franchise agreement shall file a franchise application pursuant to
this section within 90 days of the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.112 DETERMINATION BY THE CITY.
   The city shall issue a written preliminary determination granting or denying
the franchise application in whole or in part. If the franchise application is
denied, the written determination shall include the reasons for denial. The
city shall evaluate the franchise application based upon the continuing
capacity of the public rights-of-way to accommodate the prospective
franchisee’s proposed facilities; the prospective franchisee’s legal, technical
and financial ability to comply with the provisions of this chapter; and the
prospective franchisee’s compliance with applicable federal, state and local
laws, rules, contractual obligations and regulations.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.113 SCOPE OF FRANCHISE AGREEMENT; EFFECT OF ORDINANCE ON FRANCHISE
AGREEMENT.
   (A)   No franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall convey any right,
title or interest in the public rights-of-way, but shall be a non-exclusive
grant to use and occupy the public rights-of-way for the limited purposes,
terms and conditions provided in the franchise agreement.
   (B)   The rights of any franchise agreement granted hereunder are limited to
the right to use the public rights-of-way for the provision of services as
defined herein. Nothing in the franchise shall be construed to prevent the city
from grading, paving, repairing and/or altering any public rights-of-way,
constructing, laying down, repairing, relocating or removing city
infrastructure or establishing any other public work, utility or improvement of
any kind, including repairs, replacement or removal of any city infrastructure.
If a franchisee’s facilities interfere with the construction, repair,
replacement, alteration or removal of any public rights-of-way, public work,
city utility, city improvement or city infrastructure, except those used to
provide competing services, such facilities shall be removed or relocated as
provided in §§
91.097 and
91.098, in a manner acceptable to the city and consistent with industry
standard engineering and safety codes.
   (C)   Application to franchise agreements adopted after this chapter. A
franchise agreement granted hereunder shall at all times comply with the
requirements of this chapter unless this chapter expressly authorizes different
franchise agreement terms. In this chapter, such authorization is indicated by
the introductory phrase, “unless otherwise specified in an unexpired franchise
agreement...”. In the event of a conflict between this chapter and a franchise
agreement adopted after this chapter, this chapter shall prevail.
   (D)   Application to franchise agreements adopted prior to this chapter. To
the extent that this chapter can be implemented consistently with unexpired
franchise agreements adopted prior to this chapter, this chapter shall prevail.
To the extent that this chapter cannot be implemented consistently with an
unexpired franchise agreement adopted prior to this chapter, the terms of the
unexpired franchise agreement shall prevail.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.114 TERM OF GRANT.
   Unless otherwise specified in an unexpired franchise agreement, a franchise
granted hereunder shall be in effect for an initial term of five years and may
be renewed subject to §§
91.118 and
91.119.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.115 FRANCHISE TERRITORY.
   Unless otherwise specified in an unexpired franchise agreement, a franchise
granted hereunder may include the entire city or be limited to a specific
geographic area of the city to be served by the franchisee, as determined by
the City Manager.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.116 FRANCHISE FEE AND RIGHT-OF-WAY USE FEE.
   (A)   A franchise agreement granted hereunder shall require the franchisee
to pay a franchise fee in an amount determined by resolution of the City
Council.
   (B)   Every provider occupying or using the public rights-of-way, whether or
not the provider owns the facilities and whether or not such services are
provided inside the city, shall pay a right-of-way use fee, which shall be
based upon all the services it provides within the city. Such right-of-way use
fee shall be in an amount determined by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   The city shall provide a right-of-way use fee credit to any provider
who, pursuant to a franchise agreement, agrees to pay franchise fees to the
city. The amount of the right-of-way use fee credit shall be equal to the
franchise fees paid to the city during that right-of-way use fee billing
period.
   (D)   If the provider’s sole use of the public right-of-way is to place
wireless facilities above the ground on existing poles or similar structures in
the public right-of-way and the operator does not install or use lines, wires
or cables, a provider is not required to pay a right-of-way use fee or a
franchise fee under this section, as long as it complies with all other
applicable requirements of this chapter and all other applicable city codes,
regulations and rules. Nothing in division (C) above limits the city’s
authority to charge reasonable rental or pole attachment rates for the private
use of city property.
   (E)   Unless otherwise specified in an unexpired franchise agreement, the
franchise fees required by this section shall be paid within 30 days after the
end of each calendar quarter. Each payment shall be accompanied by an
accounting of gross revenues and a calculation of the amount payable. The
franchisee shall pay interest at the rate of 9% per year for any payment made
after the due date.
   (F)   The franchise fee or right-of-way use fee required in this section
remains subject to all applicable limitations imposed by federal or state
statutes.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.117 NEW FACILITIES OR SERVICES.
   (A)   A new registration shall be required of any franchisee who desires to
extend or locate its facilities within public rights-of-way of the city if such
facilities or locations are not included in a non-expired franchise agreement
with the city.
   (B)   A new registration shall be required of any franchisee who desires to
provide an additional service which was not previously included in a non-
expired, franchise agreement with the city.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.118 FRANCHISE TERM RENEWALS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified in an unexpired franchise agreement, a
franchise, if renewed, shall be renewed in the following manner.
   (B)   Franchisees who desire to renew a non-expired, valid franchise under
this chapter shall, not less than 180 days before expiration of the current
franchise agreement, file a request for renewal with the city, which shall
include the following information:
      (1)   The information required pursuant to §§
91.056,
91.057 and
91.111;
      (2)   Any additional information required pursuant to the existing
franchise agreement between the city and the franchisee; and
      (3)   Any desired amendments to the existing franchise agreement
including the desired renewal term, provided that such amendments do not
violate or conflict with this chapter.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.119 RENEWAL DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Within 90 days after receiving a complete renewal request under §
91.118, the city shall issue a written determination granting or denying the
renewal request in whole or in part. Such renewal shall be for a renewal term
or terms to be mutually decided on by the parties.
   (B)   If the renewal request is denied, the written determination shall
provide the reasons for non-renewal.
   (C)   The city shall evaluate the renewal based upon the capacity of the
rights-of-way to accommodate the franchisee’s facilities; the franchisee’s
legal, technical and financial ability to comply with the provisions of this
chapter; and franchisee’s compliance with any applicable federal, state and
local laws, contractual obligations, rules or regulations.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.120 OBLIGATION TO CURE AS A CONDITION OF RENEWAL.
   The city shall not renew a franchise agreement unless the franchise has
cured any violations or defaults in the franchisee’s performance of the
franchise agreement, or of the requirements of this chapter or has provided the
city with a city-approved plan detailing the corrective action to be taken.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.121 ASSIGNMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   A franchise may not be assigned or transferred without prior written
consent of the city, except that a grantee may freely assign a franchise to an
entity who is an affiliate of the franchisee without prior written notice if
the assignment is part of any corporate financing, reorganization or
refinancing. Notwithstanding the above, any transferee, buyer, mortgagee or
assignee shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this agreement.
Grantee shall notify the city 30 days in advance of any transfer, assignment or
change in controlling ownership interest. In the case of transfer or assignment
as security by mortgage or other security instrument in whole or in part to
secure indebtedness, such prior written consent shall not be required from
grantor unless and until the secured party elects to realize upon the
collateral. However, grantor shall provide written notice of the transfer or
assignment as security to city prior to such transfer or assignment.
   (B)   City consent conditions may include, but shall not be limited to, the
following.
      (1)   The franchisee and the proposed assignee or transferee of the
franchise shall agree in writing to assume and abide by all of the provisions
of the franchise agreement.
      (2)   No transfer shall be approved unless the city determines the
assignee or transferee has the legal, technical and financial ability to comply
with the provisions of this chapter and applicable federal, state and local
laws, rules and regulations.
      (3)   Unless otherwise specified in an unexpired franchise agreement, the
franchisee shall reimburse the city for all direct and indirect fees, costs and
expenses reasonably incurred by the city in considering a request to transfer
or assign a franchise.
      (4)   Any transfer or assignment of a franchise, system or integral part
of a system without required prior city approval or without a required and
valid franchise agreement shall be void and is cause for revocation of the
franchise.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.122 TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.
   A franchise agreement to use or occupy public rights-of-way may be
terminated by the city for the following reasons:
   (A)   Construction or operation in the city or in the public rights-of-way
without a construction permit;
   (B)   Construction or operation at an unauthorized location or in violation
of city approvals or permits;
   (C)   Failure to comply with §
91.121 herein with respect to sale, transfer or assignment of a system or
franchise;
   (D)   Misrepresentation by or on behalf of a franchisee to the city in any
registration request or franchise application or franchise renewal request;
   (E)   Unauthorized abandonment of facilities in the public rights-of-way;
   (F)   Failure to relocate or remove facilities as required in this chapter;
   (G)   Failure to pay taxes, compensation, fees or costs when and as due the
city under this chapter or under an applicable franchise agreement;
   (H)   Insolvency or bankruptcy of the franchisee;
   (I)   Violation of material provisions of this chapter; and
   (J)   Violation of the material terms of a franchise agreement.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.123 NOTICE AND DUTY TO CURE.
   In the event that the city believes that grounds exist for termination of a
franchise agreement, the city shall give the franchisee written notice of the
alleged violation and shall provide a short and concise statement of the nature
and general facts of the violation. The city shall provide the franchisee a
reasonable period of time, not exceeding 30 days, to furnish evidence that:
   (A)   Corrective action has been or is being expeditiously pursued to remedy
the violation;
   (B)   Rebuts the alleged violation; and/or
   (C)   Explains why it would be in the public interest to impose a penalty or
sanction less than termination.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.124 PUBLIC HEARING.
   In the event that a franchisee fails to provide evidence reasonably
satisfactory to the city as provided in §
91.123, the City Manager shall refer the alleged violation to the City Council.
The City Council shall provide the franchisee with notice and a reasonable
opportunity to be heard concerning the matter.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.125 STANDARDS FOR TERMINATION OR LESSER SANCTIONS.
   (A)   If persuaded that the franchisee has violated a material provision of
this chapter or of a franchise agreement, the City Council may terminate the
franchise or may establish some lesser sanction and cure, including, but not
limited to, the assessment of penalties pursuant to §
91.999.
   (B)   In doing so, the City Council shall consider the nature,
circumstances, extent and gravity of the violation as reflected by one or more
of the following factors, whether:
      (1)   The violation was egregious;
      (2)   Substantial harm resulted;
      (3)   The violation was intentional or repeated;
      (4)   There is a history of prior violations of the same or other
requirements;
      (5)   There is a history of overall compliance; and
      (6)   The violation was voluntarily disclosed, admitted or cured.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.126 OTHER CITY COSTS.
   All franchisees or providers shall, within 30 days after city’s written
demand therefor, reimburse the city for all reasonable direct and indirect
costs and expenses incurred by the city in connection with any modification,
amendment, renewal or transfer of the franchise or any franchise agreement
consistent with applicable state and federal statutes.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.127 DAMAGE TO PROVIDER’S FACILITIES.
   Each franchise agreement shall include, to the extent permitted by law, the
following limit on city liability for damage to provider’s facilities: unless
directly caused by the city’s negligent, intentional or malicious acts, and at
all times limited by the state statutory and constitutional tort claim limits
without exception, the city shall not be liable for any damage or injury to or
loss of any facility, property or person as a result of or in connection with
any city public works, public improvements, construction, excavation, grading,
filling or work of any kind in the public rights-of-way by or on behalf of the
city, or for any consequential losses resulting directly or indirectly
therefrom.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.128 DUTY TO PROVIDE INFORMATION.
   (A)   Except in emergencies, within 60 days of the city’s written request, a
provider shall provide the city with the following:
      (1)   Information sufficient to demonstrate that provider has complied
with all requirements of this chapter and any applicable franchise agreement,
including, but not limited to, the franchise fee or right-of-way use fee
payments required by §
91.116; and
      (2)   Unless otherwise agreed upon in an unexpired franchise agreement,
all books, records, maps and other documents, maintained by the provider with
respect to its facilities within the public rights-of-way.
   (B)   (1)   If the city’s audit or review of the provider’s books, records
and other documents or information demonstrates that the provider has underpaid
the applicable franchise fee or the right-of-way use fee by 3% or more in any
one year, the provider must correct the underpayment and pay any interest or
penalties owed.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by an unexpired franchise agreement, the
provider shall reimburse the city for the cost of the audit or review.
      (3)   Any underpayment, including any interest or audit cost
reimbursement, shall be paid within 30 days of the city’s notice to provider of
such underpayment, or as otherwise specified in a franchise agreement or other
written agreement between the parties.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.129 COMPENSATION FOR CITY PROPERTY.
   If any right is granted by lease, franchise agreement or other manner to use
and occupy city property for the installation of facilities or other
infrastructure, the compensation to be paid for such right and use shall be
fixed by the city through a separate agreement with the user or provider.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.130 CABLE FRANCHISE.
   Cable service providers shall be subject to this chapter to the extent it is
not inconsistent with the Cable Act. The city and the cable provider shall
enter into a cable franchise agreement pursuant to §
91.112 and such franchise agreement shall be subject to all applicable
provisions of city, state and federal law, including the Cable Act.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.131 LEASED CAPACITY.
   A provider may, without prior city approval, offer or provide capacity or
bandwidth to its customers by lease, use agreements or otherwise, provided that
any revenue derived from such lease or use agreements is included within the
provider’s gross revenue calculations used to determine the franchise fee or
right-of-way use fee owed to the city. If such revenue is not included within
such gross revenue calculations, the provider shall notify the city of the
following: that such lease or use agreement has been granted, to whom it has
been granted and the type or nature of the use or lease granted.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.132 INSURANCE.
   Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement, each provider
shall, as a condition of the grant, secure and maintain liability insurance
policies in amounts and types satisfactory to the city which insure both the
provider and the city and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents
and employees as additional insured. The liability insurance policies required
by this section shall be maintained by the provider throughout the term of the
franchise agreement, and any such other period of time during which the
provider is operating or has facilities within the public rights-of-way. Each
communications provider shall maintain continuous uninterrupted coverage and
shall provide such policies upon city’s request. As an alternative to the
insurance requirements contained herein, a provider may provide evidence of
self-insurance, subject to acceptance by the city.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.133 GENERAL INDEMNIFICATION.
   Each franchise agreement shall include, to the extent permitted by law,
franchisee’s express promise to defend, indemnify and hold the city and its
officers, employees, agents and representatives harmless from and against any
and all damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees and
costs of suit or defense, arising out of, relating to, resulting from or
alleged to arise out of, relate to or result from the negligent, careless or
wrongful acts, omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the franchisee or
its affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in
the construction, operation, maintenance, repair or removal of its facilities
or related to the provider’s provision of services over the facilities, whether
or not such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or prohibited by this
chapter or by a franchise agreement.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.134 PERFORMANCE SURETY.
   Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement, before a
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter is effective, and as necessary
thereafter, the provider shall provide a performance bond, in form and
substance acceptable to the city, as security for the full and complete
performance of a franchise granted under this chapter, including any costs,
expenses, damages or loss the city pays or incurs because of any failure
attributable to the franchisee to comply with the city code, ordinances, rules,
regulations or permits.
(Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
RIGHT-OF-WAY USE LICENSE AND PERMITS
§ 91.145 REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   The city hereby adopts the following requirements for revocable right-of-way
use permits and licenses on city sidewalks.
   (A)   The holder of a permit or license shall assume full responsibility for
maintaining said obstruction on a safe, orderly and presentable fashion.
   (B)   Stationary objects shall be of a safe and durable quality capable of
withstanding rain, wind or other hazards as determined by the City Police
Chief. No sharp, flammable or moving parts are allowed. No artificial
illumination is allowed. No anchoring or affixing to the walkways or surface of
the R.O.W. is allowed, to include any form of wood, rock, metal, sandbags or
similar material.
   (C)   No obstruction shall be allowed to remain on the sidewalk between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. except for flower pots as permitted under §
91.157.
   (D)   Clearances:
      (1)   A minimum distance of five feet shall be maintained as unobstructed
walkway between sign, merchandise or activity placed on said sidewalk and the
closest physical obstruction (meter post, signpost, planting containers, trees
or motor vehicles).
      (2)   The unobstructed walkway shall be maintained with a minimum seven
foot vertical clearance and driveways shall maintain a minimum 15 foot vertical
clearance.
      (3)   No obstruction shall extend closer than two feet toward the inside
edge of existing curb.
      (4)   Ingress/egress from parked vehicles, driveways or building
entrances shall not be impeded.
      (5)   All vision clearances at intersections, as defined by §
152.003, shall be maintained.
   (E)   Signage shall be limited to two-faced freestanding “sandwich” board
signs no more than four feet high when set-up, by two and one-half feet wide.
No more than one per business frontage directly abutting the building.
   (F)   If the proposed use is to be stationary, a picture or example of the
use and a site drawing showing the location of the proposed use in the R.O.W.,
in relation to adjacent buildings and other surroundings, shall be provided
with the application. If the proposed use is to be mobile, and is not proposed
to be at one location for more than eight hours, a picture or example of the
use and proposed route shall be provided with the application.
   (G)   If an activity affects parking, traffic, trash and/or neighboring
businesses and residences within 200 feet, a parking, traffic, trash and/or
notification plan, to include applicant-supplied signage, receptacles and/or
notices, shall be provided with the application.
   (H)   If an activity has areas of security concern (i.e., beer gardens and
the like), fencing, screening and qualified security staffing is required
subject to City Police Chief approval.
   (I)   All city insurance requirements shall be met.
(Res. 1706, passed 5-17-2016; Res. 1797, passed 9-5-2019)
§ 91.146 APPLICATION AND AUTHORIZATION FORMS REQUIRED.
   Right-of-way use permit and license application and authorization forms
incorporating the requirements in §
91.145 shall be developed for approval by the City Manager. Except for vending
licenses described in §
91.145, R.O.W. use permits and licenses shall be approved administratively by
the City Manager, after review and sign-off of a complete application by the
City Planner, City Public Works Director, City Fire Marshal/Chief and City
Chief of Police, as applicable.
(Res. 1706, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 91.147 RENEWALS AND EXPIRATIONS.
   While right-of-way use permits and licenses may be applied for at any time
during a year, validity of such permits shall coincide with that of city
business licenses, thus expiring annually on June 30. Permit and license
renewals shall be mailed with business license renewals.
(Res. 1706, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 91.148 PERMIT AND LICENSE FEE.
   Right-of-way use permit and license fees shall be $60 per activity or second
frontage sign.
(Res. 1706, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 91.149 FEE WAIVED.
   A right-of-way use permit and license application fee shall be waived for
the abutting business requesting one sign that is situated on that portion of
the right-of-way within its frontage, as well as for local non-profit
organizations requesting the use of the public right-of-way for a special event
(i.e., farmer’s market, county fairgrounds events, charity dinners) approved
through a City Council action, in which case they may receive administrative
approval for three directional signs for that special event.
(Res. 1706, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 91.150 OFF-PREMISES DIRECTIONAL OR OFF-FRONTAGE SIGNS.
   No off-premises directional or off-frontage signs are allowed in the R.O.W.
for commercial enterprises. This restriction does not apply to the local non-
profit organizations exceptions described in §
91.149.
(Res. 1706, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 91.151 OTHER DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   No pennants, streamers, festoon lights, balloons, mannequins, statues or
inflatable/structural devices of any kind, other than those described in §
91.150, shall be used for selling, offering for sale, exhibiting, advertising
or branding of merchandise or services. This does not preclude objects
installed as part of city-approved branding, wayfinding or art programs.
Flagpole sleeves in the sidewalk are reserved for governmental or non-profit
use. Banner poles and banners are subject to a city-approved banner program.
Lighting of any type is subject to city-approved lighting programs.
(Res. 1706, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 91.152 TRAVEL LANE, PARKING SPACES AND SHOULDER USE PROHIBITED.
   Except as allowed under a R.O.W. vending license or parade permit, no travel
lanes, parking spaces or shoulders located in the public right-of-way shall be
used for selling, offering for sale, exhibiting, advertising or branding of
merchandise or services, which cause the setting up, maintenance and operation
of a stand, table or bench; the placement of a human or animal decorated with
or carrying commercial signage for greater than ten minutes; or the placement
of a parked vehicle for greater than eight hours. Landscaped areas in the
public R.O.W. may only be utilized under a R.O.W. license if the available
sidewalk is insufficient in width to accommodate the necessary clearances and
the establishment of a sign or activity will not be deleterious to the
plantings and function of the area as determined by the City Police Chief.
(Res. 1706, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 91.153 PROPOSALS FOR USE OF PARKING SPACES OR SHOULDERS.
   R.O.W. vending licenses may be obtained for commercial use of parking spaces
or shoulders upon approval by the City Council after review and sign-off of a
complete application by the City Planner, City Public Works Director, City Fire
Marshal/Chief and City Chief of Police, as applicable. A detailed proposal and
application from the applicant shall be submitted for consideration. The
approval shall consider such concerns as the impacts related traffic volumes,
safety, sanitation, public sealing, surrounding businesses and accessibility,
and may have mitigating conditions attached; however, shall be entirely
discretionary. The fee for an on-street vendor’s license shall be $85 for an
application and $400 per month per parking space or equivalent, if approved.
The approved section shall be posted for no parking by the applicant, with city
approved signs.
(Res. 1706, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 91.154 “NO PARKING” REGULATIONS.
   If an approved activity, other than a R.O.W. vending license or parade
permit, requires that a section of street be temporarily cordoned off for “no
parking”, that section shall be posted by the applicant, with city approved
signs, for 48 hours prior to the actual effective time that “no parking” shall
commence or no enforcement or removal of parked vehicles in the designated area
shall occur.
(Res. 1706, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 91.155 NON-COMPLIANCE.
   All permits and licenses may be revoked for non-compliance.
(Res. 1706, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 91.156 LONG-TERM ENCROACHMENTS AND PLANTING OF STREET TREES.
   Right-of-way use permit and license processing and requirements shall be
waived for long-term encroachments and the planting of a street tree in the
public right-of-way, sidewalk construction, driveway construction, sewer and/or
water line construction in the public right-of-way since these permits and
licenses are already handled by separate processes.
(Res. 1706, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 91.157 FLOWER/ACCENT PLANTERS.
   (A)   A property/business may have up to four flower/accent planters (and
stand/pedestals) per entry way within 15 feet of such entrances; and must be:
      (1)   A minimum of 18 inches high (including pedestal) and in diameter,
with a maximum of 29 inches in diameter;
      (2)   Within a vision clearance area, be limited to a maximum of 36
inches high (which includes the pedestal and height of the plants therein);
      (3)   Originally constructed as a planter and commercially purchased;
      (4)   Of weatherproof and sturdy construction (i.e., pottery, cedar,
treated metals). Plastic is prohibited as are materials which stain or damage
the sidewalk; and
      (5)   Maintained in a clean and orderly condition and in good repair and
plant health at all times. This includes, but is not limited to, maintaining a
condition which is reasonably free of dirt, algae or rust as well as chipped,
faded or cracked exterior coatings.
   (B)   An annual permit and fee will not be required for planters; however,
they must be in compliance with all proper clearances, along with the
specifications of this requirement. Planters required as part of a development
permit may vary from these specifications, but not the clearances.
(Res. 1797, passed 9-5-2019)
ENCROACHMENT LICENSE
§ 91.170 ADOPTION AND INCORPORATION OF EXHIBITS.
   The city hereby adopts the attached exhibits to the resolution incorporated
herein this subchapter as the bases for a revocable encroachment license
application form and license agreement, and hereby incorporates them as
referenced:
   (A)   Exhibit A - Revocable encroachment license application form; and
   (B)   Exhibit B - Revocable license for right-of-way encroachment and
property encumbrance.
(Res. 1695, passed 10-19-2015)
§ 91.171 FORM AND FEE REQUIRED.
   The revocable encroachment license application form shall be accompanied by
a fee of $125 and reviewed administratively by the City Manager, after review
and sign-off by the City Planner, City Public Works Director, City Fire
Marshal/Chief and City Chief of Police, as applicable.
(Res. 1695, passed 10-19-2015; Res. 1696, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 91.172 PREPARATION.
   After signoffs are received, the City Manager shall prepare the revocable
license and sign when all conditions have been addressed satisfactorily.
(Res. 1695, passed 10-19-2015)
§ 91.173 LICENSES ARE REVOCABLE.
   All encroachment licenses are revocable without compensation should the
right-of-way occupied be needed for public purposes.
(Res. 1695, passed 10-19-2015)
§ 91.174 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The applicant shall maintain “per occurrence” form commercial general
liability insurance for the protection of the applicant, the city, its
officers, agents and employees related to the encroachment, and its
construction or removal. Coverage shall include personal injury, bodily injury
(including death) and broad form property damage, including loss of use of
property, occurring in the course of or in any way related to applicant’s
operations, in an amount not less than $1,000,000 combined single limit per
occurrence.
(Res. 1695, passed 10-19-2015)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Unless otherwise indicated, any offense under
this chapter is classified as a violation punishable by a fine set by
resolution. Penalties not set by resolution shall be $250 per violation.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
91.003, on conviction thereof in the City Recorder’s court, shall be punished
by a fine not exceeding $200, or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, or by both
the fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the terms of §
91.004, upon conviction thereof before the City Recorder, shall be punished by
a fine of not more than $50; and in default of payment of any fine so imposed,
one day for each $2 of the fine shall be served in the city jail.
   (D)   Any offense described by §§
91.020 through
91.024 shall be a violation. Each day an offense continues to exist is a
separate offense. An offense herein is punishable by a fine of not less than
$25, or more than $250, per offense and/or per day.
(Prior Code, § 91.99)
   (E)   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting
or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of §§
91.035 through
91.042,
91.055 through
91.058,
91.070 through
91.082,
91.095 through
91.099 and
91.110 through
91.134 or a valid franchise agreement shall be subject to a penalty of not less
than $100 nor more than $1,500 for each offense. A separate and distinct
offense shall be deemed committed each day on which a violation occurs.
(Ord. 448, passed 7-21-1924; Ord. 651, passed 11-7-1949; Ord. 1205, passed 12-
5-2005; Ord. 1315, passed 6-6-2016; Ord. 1326, passed 4-3-2017)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Parks and Recreation Master Plan, adopted
   
92.02   Shell Island Park Master Plan, adopted
   
92.03   Goodspeed Park Master Plan, adopted
   
92.04   Tree Risk Assessment, Inventory and Management Plan for Goodspeed Park,
adopted
   
92.05   Heritage Recreation Area Master Plan, adopted
   
92.06   Ironworks Bark Park Master Plan, adopted
   
92.07   Roosevelt Court Master Plan, adopted
Use of City Parks
   
92.20   Short title
   
92.21   Definitions
   
92.22   Powers of the Council
   
92.23   Organized functions in the park
   
92.24   Prohibited conduct
User Fees for Carnahan Park
   
92.35   Definitions
   
92.36   Duration
   
92.37   Use of user fees
   
92.38   Fees
   
92.39   Fee collection
   
92.40   Parking permit required
   
92.41   Season permits
Dog Parks
   
92.55   Fencing
   
92.56   Guidelines for use of dog-friendly area
 
   
92.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Dog-friendly park guidelines
   
Appendix B: Off-leash dog park guidelines
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 PARKS AND RECREATION MASTER PLAN, ADOPTED.
   (A)   The City Council hereby adopts the Parks and Recreation Master Plan,
attached as Exhibit A to the resolution incorporated herein, in its entirety.
Copies are available through city offices.
   (B)   All references in the Parks and Recreation Master Plan, particularly
those on page 4-4, relating to the treatment of Carnahan Park shall be changed
to reflect the following intent:
      “Improvements to Carnahan Park include lighting, continued tree planting
for Arbor week recognition, lighting and wetlands enhancement to improve the
aesthetics onsite. The east end of the original parcel containing the overflow
parking shall be considered surplus and partitioned off for housing
opportunities.
      “Potential Maintenance and Operations: The Marine Board grants and
parking fee structure during the fall fishing season will be sustained, along
with full city maintenance. The partitioning and surplusing of the east portion
of the original parcel will provide for additional housing opportunities,
additional on-site surveillance of the park and addition revenue for the parks
system.”
(Res. 1644, passed 8-19-2013; Res. 1824, passed 8-17-2020)
§ 92.02 SHELL ISLAND PARK MASTER PLAN, ADOPTED.
   The Shell Island Park Master Plan with attached area map in Exhibit A
attached to the resolution incorporated herein, as amended, is hereby adopted
by reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are available through city
offices.
(Res. 1811, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 92.03 GOODSPEED PARK MASTER PLAN, ADOPTED.
   The Goodspeed Park Master Plan attached as Exhibit A to the resolution
incorporated herein, as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in full herein. Copies are available through city offices.
(Res. 1719, passed 2-6-2017)
§ 92.04 TREE RISK ASSESSMENT, INVENTORY AND MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR GOODSPEED PARK,
ADOPTED.
   The State Department of Forestry’s Tree Risk Assessment, Inventory and
Management Plan for Goodspeed Park, as developed through the urban and
community forestry assistance program is hereby adopted for use and
implementation by the city and adopted by reference as if set out in full
herein. Copies are available through city offices.
(Res. 1676, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 92.05 HERITAGE RECREATION AREA MASTER PLAN, ADOPTED.
   The Heritage Recreation Area Master Plan, as attached as Exhibit A to the
resolution incorporated herein, as amended, and the Prioritization and
Maintenance Plan, attached as Exhibit B to the resolution incorporated herein,
as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein. Copies
are available through city offices.
(Res. 1747, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 92.06 IRONWORKS BARK PARK MASTER PLAN, ADOPTED.
   The Ironworks Bark Park Master Plan with attached area map Exhibit A to the
resolution incorporated herein, as amended, and the estimate of costs, attached
as Exhibit B to the resolution incorporated herein, as amended, is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are available through
city offices.
(Res. 1749, passed 3-19-2018)
§ 92.07 ROOSEVELT COURT MASTER PLAN, ADOPTED.
   The Roosevelt Court Master Plan, as amended, and the area map Exhibit A
attached to the resolution incorporated herein, is hereby adopted by reference
as if set out in full herein. Copies are available through city offices.
(Res. 1753, passed 4-2-2018)
USE OF CITY PARKS
§ 92.20 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be cited as the “City Parks Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 1192, passed 6-21-2004; Ord. 1350, passed 9-5-2019)
§ 92.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. Includes the Mayor, City Council.
   CITY OFFICIAL. Includes the City Manager, Public Works Director, Public
Works employee(s), Police Chief, any police officer, any police community
resource ordinance officer and/or any other city designee.
   ORGANIZED FUNCTION. Any planned activity of any kind involving 20 or more
persons.
   PARK. Any publicly or privately-owned real property placed under the
jurisdiction of the city for park or recreational purposes.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 1192, passed 6-21-2004)
§ 92.22 POWERS OF THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   The city, except as herein otherwise provided, shall have the general
management and supervision of all parks, squares, openings and public grounds
surrounding public buildings now owned or hereafter acquired by the city, and
also the power to regulate and control the planting, trimming, growing, use,
preservation and maintenance of all shade or ornamental trees, shrubs, plants
or flowers in, upon or over any street, boulevard, path or sidewalk of the
city. These powers are in addition to and not exclusive of any other powers or
authority under the city’s Charter, state law and this state and the United
States constitutions.
   (B)   The city may adopt any rules and regulations for the use, management
and supervision of the parks, squares, openings, public grounds and grounds
surrounding public buildings or other places of recreation, now belonging or
hereafter acquired by the city as may be reasonable or necessary. The rules and
regulations shall be consistent with other city ordinances, state statutes and
O.A.R.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. 1192, passed 6-21-2004)
§ 92.23 ORGANIZED FUNCTIONS IN THE PARK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization or association to
conduct or participate in any organized function in a park without the written
permission of the city. Permission must first be requested in writing, in a
timely manner, so that the request may be reviewed by city staff with
sufficient lead time to allow for reasonable response. Specific provisions
relating to application form/permit shall be as established. Reasonable
conditions to provide for the safety and sanitation needs and to protect park
users shall be added to the permit with costs borne by the applicant. Any
disagreement with the administrative dispensation of the request shall be
subject to an appeal to the City Council, the fee for which shall be
established by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) (Ord. 1192, passed 6-21-2004; Ord. 1350, passed 9-5-2019)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   The following conduct unless otherwise excepted shall be prohibited within
city parks.
   (A)   Alcohol and tobacco.
      (1)   Unless specifically authorized by city permit and subject to the
further requirement, if any, of the OLCC, it shall be unlawful for any person
to possess or drink any alcoholic beverage in any city park. Unless
specifically authorized by permit, it shall be unlawful for any person to sell
any alcoholic beverage in any city park.
      (2)   Unless specifically authorized by permit, it shall be unlawful for
any person to smoke tobacco products in any city park or on any city off-street
trail. For purposes of this policy, SMOKING and TOBACCO are defined to include,
but are not limited to: bidis, cigarettes, cigarillos, cigars, clove
cigarettes, e-cigarettes, nicotine vaporizers, nicotine liquids, hookahs,
kreteks and pipes.
   (B)   Park hours; closure. No person shall be in a park any time after
sunset and before sunrise, unless otherwise specifically posted.
   (C)   Additional park closures. The City Council; City Manager; his, her or
its designate; or an officer of the City Police Department may close any city
park or any part thereof, at any time for any reason herein by erecting
barricades or placing signs prohibiting access. Notices that any park or part
thereof is closed shall be posted at appropriate locations during the period of
the closure, if feasible. However, failure to post the notices shall not
invalidate the closure, nor shall it be a defense to the charge of violating
this section. The closure shall be done only in the interest of public safety
and health. The decision for closure shall be based upon one or more of the
following criteria or conditions existing in or near that park:
      (1)   Life or property is endangered and other means cannot reasonably be
utilized to eliminate the danger;
      (2)   The overcrowding of persons or vehicles prevents access by
emergency assistance or emergency vehicle(s);
      (3)   Park property or other property located near the park is
endangered;
      (4)   Loud and unnecessary noise, fighting, violence or threatening
behavior is occurring and other means cannot reasonably be utilized to
eliminate the condition;
      (5)   A hazardous condition exists; and/or
      (6)   Violation of any criminal offense or ordinance is occurring and
other means cannot reasonably be utilized to eliminate the condition.
   (D)   Park closure control. During the period of closure of a park in
accordance with the above provisions, it shall be unlawful for any person to
enter the park or any part thereof that has been closed or remain in the park
or part thereof after having been notified of the closure and having been
requested to leave by the city official. The closure shall not exceed 18 hours
without the written approval of the City Manager or his or her designee. No
person shall enter any building, enclosure or place within any of the parks
upon which the words “no admittance” shall be displayed or posted by sign,
placard or otherwise without the consent of the city official in charge.
   (E)   Animals in parks.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, possessor or keeper of any
animal to permit the same to enter upon or to roam at large in any city park
that has not been consigned to third-party control. Notwithstanding the above
sentence, dogs are permitted in Carnahan Park, where dogs shall remain on leash
at all times, and under control of the owner, possessor or keeper of the dog.
Additionally, dogs are allowed within the boundaries of any identified, fenced-
in, off-leash dog area. These areas shall be set by City Council resolution.
While in the off-leash identified fenced-in area, dogs shall remain under voice
control at all times by the accompanying owner, possessor or keeper of the dog.
Owners, possessors or keepers of any dog are subject to the Animal Code as set
forth in Chapter 90.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above, dogs may also be allowed in city-owned
wayside(s) and trails (including trails that run through a park where dogs are
not otherwise permitted off-trail) as approved by the city. City wayside(s) not
approved shall be signed appropriately to indicate no dogs allowed. Dogs in
approved city wayside(s) and trails shall always be on a leash except when
secured in a vehicle.
      (3)   Owners of dogs or other animals damaging and destroying park
property will be held liable for the full value of the property damaged or
destroyed in addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation for
this section. Animal(s) remaining in vehicle(s) are exempt from this section.
Notwithstanding the above, service animals are exempt from this division (E)(3)
when accompanied by their handler.
         (a)   Fencing. Any designated dog-friendly area shall be fenced-in
with a double- gated entrance for safety of owners and dogs, as recommended by
the city’s insurer.
         (b)   Guidelines for use of dog-friendly area. Guidelines regarding
the use of the dog-friendly parks, or waysides and trails are adopted as set
forth in Appendix A, and shall be posted at the entrance of the park, wayside
or trail. Guidelines regarding the use of the designated fenced-in, off-leash
dog areas are adopted and set forth in Appendix B, and shall be posted at the
entrance of the fenced-in area. Guidelines may be amended by a resolution of
the City Council.
   (F)   Motorized vehicles. No motorized vehicles shall be permitted in any
park or portion thereof within the city except upon designated roadway(s) and
parking area(s).
   (G)   Camping/campfires. No overnight camping or campfires shall be
permitted within or upon any public park within the city, unless otherwise
specifically authorized by city.
   (H)   Firearms and explosive devices. No firearms, explosive devices,
blowgun, bow and arrow, crossbow, BB or pellet gun of any kind shall be
permitted upon or within any city park without appropriate permit or
appropriate license during authorized hunting season(s).
   (I)   Advertising. It shall be unlawful for any person to place or attach
any structure or sign of any kind whatsoever on or upon any part of a city park
without written permission.
   (J)   Rubbish and litter. It shall be unlawful for any person to place any
straw, dirt, chips, paper shavings, shells, ashes, swill or garbage, or other
rubbish, refuse or debris in any city park.
   (K)   Vandalism. It shall be unlawful for any person to damage city
property.
(Prior Code, § 92.05) (Ord. 1192, passed 6-21-2004; Ord. 1292, passed 11-3-
2014; Ord. 1302, passed 6-1-2015; Ord. 1350, passed 9-5-2019; Ord. 050525B,
passed 5-19-2025) Penalty, see §
92.99
USER FEES FOR CARNAHAN PARK
§ 92.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARNAHAN PARK. The city park located on the westerly boundaries of this city
adjacent to the Trask River.
   USER. Any person, company, firm, partnership or corporation that has
occasion to park a vehicle at Carnahan Park.
   VEHICLE. Any motorized or unmotorized vehicle or assembled personal
property, including, but not limited to, boats, trailers and house-trailers.
(Prior Code, § 92.20) (Ord. 1124, passed 8-17-1992)
§ 92.36 DURATION.
   Fees for parking in Carnahan Park shall be charged during the months of
September, October and November of each year.
(Prior Code, § 92.21) (Ord. 1124, passed 8-17-1992)
§ 92.37 USE OF USER FEES.
   Fees collected shall be used for maintenance, repair, ordinance enforcement
and capital costs associated with Carnahan Park usage only. Direct cost of
personnel for normal maintenance/repair work and ordinance enforcement shall be
based on actual hours worked, multiplied by the hourly rate and fringe costs
paid by the city. Approved time slips shall be used for this purpose.
(Prior Code, § 92.22) (Ord. 1124, passed 8-17-1992)
§ 92.38 FEES.
   (A)   Fee imposed. Two dollars per day per parking day per stall used.
   (B)   Seasonal permits. Seasonal permits will be $50 and are available at
City Hall, 210 Laurel Avenue, Tillamook, OR 97141.
(Prior Code, § 92.23) (Ord. 1124, passed 8-17-1992; Ord. 1127, passed 6-7-1993;
Ord. 1130, passed 7-5-1994; Ord. 1252, passed 9-20-2010; Ord. 1275, passed 4-
15-2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.39 FEE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Parking fees shall be collected by insertion of $2 within an approved
Carnahan Park permit envelope and placement within the collection box provided.
   (B)   The envelope shall be completed by the user prior to deposit, with the
user retaining a tear-off portion as a receipt of payment.
   (C)   The tear-off receipt taken from the completed envelope shall be
displayed, including the date, vehicle description and license plates number
visible to enforcement persons, on the vehicle dashboard or, where no
dashboard, in some clearly visible place in the vehicle.
   (D)   Failure to display this completed this tear-off portion of the permit
shall constitute grounds for issuance of a citation to appear in municipal
court for violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.24) (Ord. 1124, passed 8-17-1992; Ord. 1252, passed 9-20-
2010; Ord. 1275, passed 4-15-2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.40 PARKING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No user of a parking space or stall in Carnahan Park shall use or occupy the
space or stall with a vehicle owned by, occupied by, controlled by or in the
possession of the user without first having obtained a parking permit as herein
provided.
(Prior Code, § 92.25) (Ord. 1124, passed 8-17-1992) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.41 SEASON PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits may be issued at the office of the City Recorder with payment
as set forth in §
92.38(B).
   (B)   Permit shall be applied to lower left side of windshield to allow
unobstructed view for enforcement.
   (C)   Permit will be issued to vehicle based on current registered license
plate and shall not be transferred to other vehicles.
   (D)   Violators of this section will be cited per §
92.99.
(Prior Code, § 92.26) (Ord. 1130, passed 7-5-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
DOG PARKS
§ 92.55 FENCING.
   Any designated dog-friendly area shall be fenced-in with a double-gated
entrance for safety of owners and dogs, as recommended by the city’s insurer.
(Ord. 1292, passed 11-3-2014; Ord. 1350, passed 9-5-2019)
§ 92.56 GUIDELINES FOR USE OF DOG-FRIENDLY AREA.
   Guidelines regarding the use of the dog-friendly parks or waysides, and
trails are adopted as set forth in
Appendix A, and shall be posted at the entrance of the park, wayside or trail.
Guidelines regarding the use of the designated fenced-in, off-leash dog areas
are adopted and set forth in
Appendix B, and shall be posted at the entrance of the fenced-in area.
Guidelines may be amended by a resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 1292, passed 11-3-2014; Ord. 1350, passed 9-5-2019)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
92.20 through
92.24 may, upon conviction, be punished as follows:
      (1)   Violation of §
92.24(A), (B), (D), (G), (H) or (K) shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed
$250. In addition, cost of repair(s) and or cleanup may also be levied.
      (2)   Violation of §
92.24(E), (F), (I) or (J) shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $100
   (C)   Any user who violates any term of §§
92.35 through
92.41, upon conviction, shall pay a fine as follows:
      (1)   Failure to purchase, complete or display a parking permit: $20; and
      (2)   Failure to park a vehicle within a marked space at any time: $12.
(Prior Code, § 92.99)
   (D)   Unless otherwise indicated, any offense under this chapter is
classified as a violation punishable by a fine set by resolution. Penalties not
set by resolution shall be $250 per violation.
(Ord. 1124, passed 8-17-1992; Ord. 1127, passed 6-7-1993; Ord. 1130, passed 7-
5-1994; Ord. 1192, passed 6-21-2004; Ord. 1252, passed 9-20-2010; Ord. 1275,
passed 4-15-2013; Ord. 1315, passed 6-6-2016)
APPENDIX A: DOG-FRIENDLY PARK GUIDELINES
DOG-FRIENDLY PARK GUIDELINES
   The following guidelines shall be posted at the entrance/exits of the dog-
friendly park, wayside or trail to inform the patrons of the expectations for
using the park.
   CITY CODE
      ·   The park will be open from 4:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., daily.
      ·   Dogs may not harass humans or other animals.
      ·   Park users who fail to comply with rules of the park and the City
Code may be asked to leave, and may result in fines.
   DOGS
      ·   Dogs must wear a visible and current license.
      ·   Dogs showing any signs of aggression must leave the park immediately.
   OWNERS
      ·   Dogs must remain on a leash at all times.
      ·   Always clean up after your dog. Remove and dispose of waste in the
bins provided.
      ·   No pet grooming is allowed in the park.
      ·   Dog handlers must be at least 12 years old.
(Ord. 1292, passed 11-3-2014; Ord. 1350, passed 9-5-2019)
APPENDIX B: OFF-LEASH DOG PARK GUIDELINES
DOG PARK GUIDELINES
   The following guidelines shall be posted at the entrance/exits of the dog-
friendly area of the park to inform the patrons of the expectations for using
the park.
   CITY CODE
      ·   The park will be open from 4:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. daily.
      ·   Dogs may not harass humans or other animals.
      ·   Park users who fail to comply with rules of the park and the City
Code may be asked to leave, and may result in fines.
   DOGS
      ·   Dogs must wear a visible and current license.
      ·   Dogs must be spayed and/or neutered or they will not be allowed in
the park.
      ·   Dogs must not be contagious and must be current on their
immunizations for the protection of your dogs and the dogs of other patrons of
the park.
      ·   Dogs that are aggressive, likely to bully other dogs or start fights
are not welcome in the park.
      ·   Dogs showing any signs of aggression must leave the park immediately.
      ·   Puppies who have not received all of their vaccinations should not be
allowed in the park due to the risk of them contracting the Parvo virus. If you
do allow your puppy to play in the park prior to receiving their vaccinations,
you are doing so at your own risk.
   OWNERS
      ·   You are legally responsible for your dog’s behavior, and any injuries
or damages he or she causes.
      ·   Never leave your dog(s) unattended or allow them out of sight.
      ·   Never leave the area without your dog(s). Unattended dogs may be
impounded by the animal control officer.
      ·   Owners are required to have voice control over his, her or their dog
(s) at all times.
      ·   Always clean up after your dog. Remove and dispose of waste in the
bins provided.
      ·   No pet grooming is allowed in the park.
      ·   Dog handlers must be at least 12 years old.
(Ord. 1350, passed 9-5-2019)
CHAPTER 93: TREES
Section
   
93.01   Title
   
93.02   Purpose and intent
   
93.03   Definitions
   
93.04   Delegation of Tree Committee functions
   
93.05   Permit procedures, tree planting and types of trees to be planted, by
abutting property owners
   
93.06   Special tree districts within the city
   
93.07   Tree maintenance, care, pruning, corner clearance and removal of
dangerous or nuisance trees
   
93.08   Abuse, mutilation or indiscriminate topping of trees
   
93.09   Interference with the city
   
93.10   Administration of this chapter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Planting Instructions
   
Appendix B: Locating Trees on Property
§ 93.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Tree Ordinance” of the city.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 1266, passed 4-16-2012; Ord. 1303, passed 9-8-2015)
§ 93.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The city, recognizing the value of trees in preserving the
aesthetic and environmental qualities of the community, wishes to maintain the
tree city USA program. This chapter shall constitute the official comprehensive
city tree program of the city. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote and
protect the public health, safety and general welfare by providing for the
regulation of the planting, maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and other
plants within the city public parks, public right-of-way and other public
places where the public has free access.
   (B)   Intent. It is the intent of the city that the terms of this chapter
shall be construed as to promote:
      (1)   The recognition of the special significance of heritage and
distinctive trees, and value the contribution which these trees make to the
beauty and quality of life in the city;
      (2)   The recognition that because of the known benefits of trees, trees
on development properties should be preserved so that they may be considered
for incorporation into development plans; and
      (3)   The intent is not to prohibit the removal of trees but to stop the
thoughtless destruction of that vegetation, which has a beneficial effect on
the value of property and on the city in general.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 1266, passed 4-16-2012; Ord. 1303, passed 9-8-2015)
§ 93.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSH/SHRUB. All other woody vegetation not considered trees.
   CITY. The City of Tillamook.
   DBH. Diameter of a tree at breast height.
   FELL. To remove or sever a tree or to use any procedure which is to cause
the death or other substantial destruction of the tree. FELL does not in any
context include normal trimming or pruning.
   ILLEGALLY REMOVED TREE. A tree removed without first obtaining City Council
approval and a city permit.
   IMMEDIATE DANGER OF COLLAPSE OF A TREE. A tree may already be leaning with
the surrounding soil heaving, and/or there is a significant likelihood that the
tree will topple or otherwise fail and cause damage to the surroundings.
IMMEDIATE DANGER OF COLLAPSE does not include hazardous conditions that can be
alleviated by pruning or treatment.
   PARKING STRIP, PLANTER STRIP or TREE LAWN. The area between the street curb
and sidewalk in the public right-of-way, utilized for landscaping and street
tree planting.
   PEDESTRIAN TRAVEL PATH. Generally concrete, but can also be gravel, asphalt
and, in some cases, dirt or vegetation in non-improved areas.
   POLLARD. A tree cut back to the trunk to promote the growth of a dense head
of foliage.
   SAFE PEDESTRIAN WAY. A travel path five feet wide, where possible, but not
less than four feet wide when affected by other obstacles in addition to a
tree; an eight-foot overhead clearance from the sidewalk to the lowest tree
branches hanging over the travel path (seven-foot overhead clearance may be
allowed when requiring an eight-foot clearance would require removing a
substantial portion of the tree).
   STREET. Includes land within the dedicated public right-of-way, including
easements, sidewalks, tree lawn or tree well and roadway.
   TREE. Any woody plant having a trunk six-caliper inches or larger in
diameter at breast height (DBH). If a tree splits into multiple trunks above
ground, but below four and one-half feet, the trunk is measured at its most
narrow point beneath the split, and is considered one tree if greater than six
inches DBH. Trees specifically planted and maintained as a hedge shall not be
considered a TREE. Different classifications of TREES include the following.
      (1)   DEAD TREE. A tree is lifeless. Evidence of lifelessness may include
unseasonable lack of foliage, brittle dry branches or lack of any growth during
the growing season.
      (2)   HERITAGE TREE. A tree listed on the official city heritage tree
list, adopted by the City Planning Commission.
      (3)   PARK OR MONUMENT TREE. A tree located in a public park or other
area owned by the city having an individual name, and all other areas owned by
the city, or to which the public has free access as a park.
      (4)   PRIVATE TREE. A tree located on private property other than a
dedicated right-of-way or city utility easement or public parks and grounds.
      (5)   SIGNIFICANT TREE. A tree having a trunk 18-caliper inches DBH or
larger in diameter.
      (6)   STREET TREE. A tree on land lying within a dedicated right-of-way
along either side of a street, avenue or other way within a dedicated utility
easement of the city.
      (7)   TREE CUTOUT or TREE WELL. The area between the street and a
sidewalk in the public right-of-way, for street tree planting.
   TREE REMOVAL. To cut down a tree, or remove 50% or more of the crown, trunk
or root system of a tree; or to damage a tree so as to cause the tree to
decline and/or die. REMOVAL includes topping. REMOVAL includes, but is not
limited to, damage inflicted upon a root system by application of toxic
substances, operation of equipment and vehicles, storage of materials, change
of natural grade due to unapproved excavation or filling, or unapproved
alteration of natural physical conditions. REMOVAL does not include normal
trimming or pruning of trees.
   TREE SIZE. Notwithstanding the above tree classifications, the size of a
tree, though not specific, will be described as either:
      (1)   SMALL. Being less than 15 feet high, usually with small main
branches that are one to three inches in diameter.
      (2)   LARGE. Being over 15 feet high, usually with main branches or limbs
over three inches in diameter.
   TREE TOPPING. The severe cutting back of a tree’s limbs to stubs three
inches or larger in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to
remove the natural canopy and disfigure the tree. TOPPING does not include the
practice of pollarding when conducted in accordance with the standards
established by the International Society of Arboriculture.
(Prior Code, § 93.03) (Ord. 1266, passed 4-16-2012; Ord. 1303, passed 9-8-2015;
Ord. 1327, passed 4-12-2017)
§ 93.04 DELEGATION OF TREE COMMITTEE FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   Designation. The authority of the Tree Committee is hereby delegated
to the City Council.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Tree Committee.
      (1)   The Tree Committee shall study, investigate and develop, and/or
update annually, and administer the ordinance for the care, preservation,
pruning, replanting, removal or disposition of street trees and park trees.
This chapter shall be presented when required to the City Council and, upon
their acceptance and approval, shall constitute the official comprehensive city
tree program of the city.
      (2)   The Tree Committee, when requested by the City Planning Commission
or City Council, shall consider, investigate, make findings, report and
recommend upon any special matter or question coming within the scope of its
work. Such report, with or without recommendations, shall be presented first to
the City Planning Commission and then to the City Council for their review and
final consideration and action if needed.
      (3)   This chapter provides full power and authority to the Tree
Committee to make recommendations to the City Council which has final authority
over all trees, plants and shrubs located within street rights-of-way, parks
and public places of the city, and to trees, plants and shrubs located on
private property that constitute a hazard or threat as described herein.
(Prior Code, § 93.04) (Ord. 1266, passed 4-16-2012; Ord. 1303, passed 9-8-2015)
§ 93.05 PERMIT PROCEDURES, TREE PLANTING AND TYPES OF TREES TO BE PLANTED, BY
ABUTTING PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Permit procedures. Property owners abutting the public right-of-way
may be granted permission to plant street trees administratively upon review by
the assigned City Planner or designee if street tree(s) are proposed on an
existing tree lawn and an established road right-of-way with curb. The
following information must be provided to the city:
      (1)   A request in writing is provided in the form of a city public works
permit application;
      (2)   A plot plan of area referencing water and sewer lines, power lines,
driveways and intersecting streets is provided;
      (3)   Approval, if granted by the city, shall be required in the form of
an approved city public works permit prior to planting of the tree or trees.
Fees for the permit shall be paid prior to approval by the abutting property
owner; and
      (4)   A permit fee for the planting or removal of a street tree shall be
established by resolution and incorporated into the land use fee schedule.
   (B)   The diagrams contained in
Appendix A to this chapter display general instructions on how to plant a bare-
root tree and a containerized tree.
   (C)   Tree species to be planted and minimum tree planting dimensions. The
official city street tree list of acceptable species of trees, shrubs, bushes
and other woody plant material, as modified below in the listings under minimum
planting dimensions, shall be compiled by the Council, reviewed and adopted by
the City Council in a resolution and made available to the public.
      (1)   No person, without the written permission of the city, through a
city public works permit shall plant a street tree or park (monument) tree of a
species other than those included on the list.
      (2)   Street tree (identified in divisions (C)(2)(a) through (C)(2)(d)
below) and park (monument) tree (identified in division (C)(2)(e) below)
plantings shall be restricted to the following guidelines unless division (C)
(2)(k) applies:
         (a)   The following small street trees are allowed in a minimum three-
foot wide parking strip, or a minimum three-foot by three-foot tree well in the
Commercial Districts, with the exception of the Town Center Commercial
District, with minimum 20-foot spacing between trees:
Common Name Scientific Name
Common Name         Scientific Name
Almira Norway Maple Acer Platanoides “Almira”
Chinese Dogwood     Cornus Kousa
English Hedge Maple Acer Campestre
Full Moon Maple     Acer juponicum
Green Leaf Maple    Acer Palmatum
LaValle Hawthorne   Crataegus Lavellei
Manchurian Maple    Acermanchuricanum
Paper Bark Maple    Acer griseum
Red Leaf Maple      Atropurpuraum
Snake Bark Maple    Acer laxiflorum
Thundercloud Plum   Prunus “Thundercloud”
These trees will grow from 18-30 feet in height.
 
         (b)   The following small street trees are allowed in a minimum four-
foot wide parking strip, no closer than two feet from any curb, curb-line or
sidewalk, with minimum 30-foot spacing between trees:
Common Name Scientific Name
Common Name                 Scientific Name
Northern Red Oak            Quercus rubra
Pyramidal European Hornbeam Carpinus Betulus “Pyramidal”
Pyramidal Sycamore Maple    Acer Pseudo Plantanus
Rancho Little Leaf Linden   Tilia Cordata
Red Maple Species           Acer rubrum species
Scarlet Oak                 Quercus coccinea
These trees will grow from 20-35 feet in height.
 
         (c) The following medium street trees are allowed in a minimum six-
foot wide parking strip, no closer than three feet from any curb, curb-line or
sidewalk, with minimum 40-foot spacing between trees:
Common Name Scientific Name
Common Name              Scientific Name
Black Tupelo             Nyssa silvatica
Crimean Linden           Tilia Echlora
Flame Ash                Fraxinus Pennsylvania “Atropurpurea”
Ginkgo                   Ginkgo biloba
Mongolian Linden         Tilia
Norway Maple Species     Acer platanoides species
Purple Beech             Fagus riversii
Purple European Hornbeam Carpinus
Royal Crimson Maple      Acer Platanoides “Royal Crimson”
Ruby Red Horse Chestnut  Aesculus Carnea
Shade King Red Maple     Acer Rubrum “Shade King”
Vineleaf Sycamore Maple  Acer Pseudo Plantanus “Vineleaf”
These trees will grow 35-40 feet in height.
 
         (d)   The following large trees are allowed in a minimum eight-foot
wide parking strip, no closer than four feet from any curb, curb line or
sidewalk, with a minimum 50-foot spacing between trees:
Common Name Scientific Name
Common Name            Scientific Name
Blue Ash               Fraxinus quadrangulata
Linden Species         Tilia species
Norway Maple Cultivars Acer platanoides
Oriental Plaintree     Plantanus orientalis
Pin Oak                Quercus palustris
Red Maple              Acer rubrum
River Birch            Betula nigra
Sugar Maple            Acer saccharinum
Tupelo                 Nyssa sylvatica
These trees will grow 60-120 feet in height.
 
         (e)   The following monument trees are recommended to be planted in
city parks and other public places:
Common Name Scientific Name
Common Name            Scientific Name
Bald Cypress           Taxodium distichum
Balsam Fir             Abies balamae
Big Leaf Maple         Acer macrophyllum
Chinese Birch          Betula albo-sinensis
Dawn Redwood           Metasequoia glyptostroboides
English Oak            Quercus robur
Fraser Fir             Abies fraserii
Grand Fir              Abies grandis
Honey Locust           Gleditsia triacanthos
Japanese Cedar         Cryptomeria japonica
Japanese Snowbell Tree Styrax japonica
Korean Fir             Abies koreana
Lacebark Pine          Pinus bungeana
Magnolia Species       Magnolia species
Noble Fir              Abies procera
Nordmann Fir           Abies nordmanii
Northern Red Oak       Quercus rubra
Oriental Spruce        Picea orientalis
Pin Oak                Quercus palustris
Sourwood               Oxydendrum arboreum
Swamp White Oak        Quercus bicolor
Weeping Alaska Cedar   Chamaecyparis nootkatensis
Whitespire Birch       Betula platyphylos
Witch Hazel Cultivar   Hammamelis xintermedia species
Yellow Birch           Betula lutea
Yoshino Cherry         Prunus xyedoensis
Zelkova                Zelkova serrata
 
         (f)   The diagram contained in
Appendix B to this chapter is an example of planting the right trees in the
right place.
         (g)   Street trees and monument trees shall not be allowed closer than
20 feet from the tangent point at street intersections as described in the
vision clearance areas specified in §§
152.050(E) and
152.055;
         (h)   Small tree species within the list in division (C)(2)(a) above
of acceptable species may be planted under overhead utilities.
         (i)   No trees shall be allowed within five lateral feet of
underground utilities, sewer and water lines.
         (j)   In new subdivisions or when the development of commercial
property occurs, the City Planner and Public Works Director shall review
landscaping plans and may require street trees and monument trees to be planted
in any of the streets, parking lots, parks and other public places abutting
land henceforth developed and/or subdivided, prior to division (C)(2)(k) below.
         (k)   No person, without the written permission of the City Council,
shall plant a street tree or a monument tree of a species other than those
included on the list.
         (1)   The following trees are illegal and may not be planted in
dedicated street rights-of-way or utility easements:
Common Name Scientific Name
Common Name    Scientific Name
Box Elder      Acer Negundo
Catalpas       Catalpa Species
Elms           Ulmus
Hickory        Carya Species
Holly          Ilex Species
Horse Chestnut Aescules Hippocastanum
Lilac Species  Syringa Species
Locust Species Robinia Species
Pines          Pinus Species
Poplar Species Populus Species
Silver Maple   Acer Saccharinum
Spruces        Picea Species
Tree of Heaven Ailanthus Altissima
Walnuts        Juglans Species
Willow Species Salix Species
In general, no conifers or fruit-bearing trees may be planted in the right-of-
way as street trees.
 
   (D)   Landscaping credit for street tree planting.
      (1)   The retention of trees shall be considered in the design of
partitions, site plans, subdivisions or planned developments; the placement of
roads and utilities shall preserve trees wherever feasible.
      (2)   The preservation of trees shall provide a basis for consideration
of a landscaping credit, which can reduce the landscaping requirements
described in §
152.055.
      (3)   The planting of trees in the public right-of-way shall provide a
basis for consideration of a landscaping credit, which can reduce the
landscaping requirements described in §
152.055.
   (E)   Tree Technical Manual. The City Council may adopt a Tree Technical
Manual, and revise its contents from time to time. The Tree Technical Manual
shall contain specialized, arboricultural reference materials; establish
procedures and design standards required for installation, planting, grating,
pruning, thinning, removal and maintenance of trees; and establish or preserve
the tree and root protection zone. Any person who is required under this code
or pursuant to a condition of approval of a development permit to undertake
those activities or to comply with the tree and root protection zone shall
comply with the requirements and procedures set forth in the Tree Technical
Manual.
(Prior Code, § 93.05) (Ord. 1266, passed 4-16-2012; Ord. 1303, passed 9-8-2015)
§ 93.06 SPECIAL TREE DISTRICTS WITHIN THE CITY.
   The following district(s) shall be considered special tree district(s), and
shall have detailed descriptions contained in Attachment C to Ordinance 1230,
which attachment is hereby adopted by reference, for the planned location of
street trees and other amenities.
   (A)   Town Center (TC) District Streetscape Design Plan. This district shall
include three-foot by three-foot tree wells located approximately 30 feet apart
from one another with an historic streetlight centered between each tree (see
adopted attachment). Street trees shall be required on all streets in the Town
Center District, except Main and Pacific Avenues, between First and Fourth
Streets. A reduction to the number of street trees may be granted when the
development preserves healthy, mature trees adjacent to the sidewalk. Under
this design plan, there is no requirement to remove existing trees on Main
Avenue, but the planting of new trees on Main Avenue between First and Fourth
Streets is discouraged.
   (B)   Allowed trees. The following small street trees are allowed in the
Town Center Commercial District:
 
Common Name      Scientific Name
Hedge Maple      Acer campestre
Manchurian Maple Acer mandshuricanum
Paper Bark Maple Acer griseum
 
(Prior Code, § 93.06) (Ord. 1266, passed 4-16-2012; Ord. 1303, passed 9-8-2015)
§ 93.07 TREE MAINTENANCE, CARE, PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE AND REMOVAL OF
DANGEROUS OR NUISANCE TREES.
   (A)   Standards. All public trees must be pruned to National Arborist
Association Pruning Standards for Shade Trees. These standards shall be adopted
as part of the city tree program.
   (B)   Adjacent property owners to maintain private and street trees. Unless
identified in a written agreement or memorandum of understanding, every
adjacent property owner of any tree overhanging any right-of-way within the
city shall prune the branches so that the branches shall not obstruct the light
from a street lamp, or obstruct the view of any street intersection. The owner
of a tree at or within 20 feet of a street intersection shall follow the
criteria for the vision clearance areas as described in §§
152.050. The owner of a tree which is encroaching on or adjacent to electric
wires is required to notify the city people’s utility district (PUD) prior to
removal of hazardous limbs or branches. It is PUD’s responsibility to remove,
prune or trim tree from electric wires. The owner shall maintain a clear space
of 14 feet over the street, and a safe pedestrian way. Owners shall remove all
dead, diseased or dangerous trees or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a
menace to public safety.
      (1)   In reviewing trees, tree size will be factored in where possible so
as to be realistic in clearance concerns.
      (2)   With small trees, there will be small limbs that will be less than
the seven foot height requirement, over a walkway. As long as there is still a
wide enough safe pedestrian way, aesthetics and viability will be used to
determine if further pruning or cutting would not be required at present and in
fact could damage the tree or effect viability in certain conditions such as
wind, criminal mischief and the like.
      (3)   With larger trees, aesthetics and viability will also be taken in
account. If cutting off a major limb would affect tree viability, as long as
there is a safe pedestrian way, that limb would be allowed to exist but would
be reviewed on a regular basis.
   (C)   Adjacent property owners liable. Unless identified in a written
agreement or memorandum of understanding, the owner of property abutting trees
on a right-of-way shall be liable for injury, damage or loss to persons or
property caused by the property owner’s negligent failure to comply with
division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 93.07) (Ord. 1266, passed 4-16-2012; Ord. 1303, passed 9-8-2015;
Ord. 1332, passed 12-18-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 ABUSE, MUTILATION OR INDISCRIMINATE TOPPING OF TREES.
   (A)   No person shall abuse, destroy or mutilate any street tree, in a
dedicated public right-of-way, park or any other public place owned by the
city; attach or place any rope or wire (other than one used to support the tree
itself), sign, poster, handbill or other thing to or on any tree growing in a
public place; cause or permit any wire charged with electricity to come into
contact with any tree; or to allow any gaseous, liquid or solid substance which
is harmful to trees to come into contact with their roots or leaves.
   (B)   Except as provided by this section, it shall be unlawful as a normal
practice of any person, firm or city department to top any street tree, park
tree or other tree on public property owned by the city. Trees severely damaged
by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or obstructions
where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this chapter
by the determination of the city.
(Prior Code, § 93.08) (Ord. 1266, passed 4-16-2012; Ord. 1303, passed 9-8-2015)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 INTERFERENCE WITH THE CITY.
   No person shall prevent, delay or interfere with the city or any of its
agents, while engaging in the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning,
spraying or removal of any street trees, park trees or private trees as
authorized by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.09) (Ord. 1266, passed 4-16-2012; Ord. 1303, passed 9-8-2015)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 ADMINISTRATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   The interpretation and administration of this chapter is the
responsibility of the City Manager or persons designated by the City Manager.
   (B)   City staff shall review trees in the city rights-of-way and city
property and, once a tree is identified as being a concern, the person,
business or entity responsible for the tree will be notified, either in person
or by letter, with letter being the best practice for documentation. The letter
shall identify the issue and the code(s) involved.
      (1)   The notification process shall be performed by the Police
Department for documentation and follow up.
      (2)   Extension of time for mitigating the concern may be allowed if
requested but shall be timely to the concern.
      (3)   If there is no response to the notification, then further action
shall occur up to and including citation into municipal court, following city
codes.
   (C)   (1)   If the person, business or entity requests to contest the
concern or remedy, prior to the issuance of a citation, then the issue may be
brought up before the City Council with the person, business or entity being
notified of date, time and location to appear and present their response or
other suggested remedy. The Police Department will also present all information
to date available to the City Council to assist in any further recommendation
to the Council.
      (2)   The City Council will then make a recommendation for the next
Council meeting, to either move forward allowing the person, business or entity
to complete a specific remedy or recommend that there is no agreed upon
resolution. The Council, after review, may revoke the charges, accept other
mitigation or direct the Police Department to move forward with other
enforcement options to include citation into municipal court.
(Prior Code, § 93.10) (Ord. 1266, passed 4-16-2012; Ord. 1303, passed 9-8-2015;
Ord. 1332, passed 12-18-2017)   
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Nuisance. Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed to be causing a nuisance and be considered in
violation of
Chapter 130.
   (B)   Failure to comply. When a person to whom a notice is directed shall
fail to comply within the specified time, the violation shall be considered a
nuisance and it shall be lawful for the city to cause the tree(s) in question
to be pruned and/or removed; and the exact cost thereof shall be assessed to
the property owner as provided by law in the case of public nuisance
abatements.
(Prior Code, § 93.99)
   (C)   Generally. Unless otherwise indicated, any offense under this chapter
is classified as a violation punishable by a fine set by resolution. Penalties
not set by resolution shall be $250 per violation.
(Ord. 1266, passed 4-16-2012; Ord. 1303, passed 9-8-2015; Ord. 1315, passed 6-
6-2016)
APPENDIX A: PLANTING INSTRUCTIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1037.jpg]
 
(Ord. 1266, passed 4-16-2012; Ord. 1303, passed 9-8-2015)
APPENDIX B: LOCATING TREES ON PROPERTY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1039.jpg]
 
(Ord. 1303, passed 9-8-2015)
CHAPTER 94: EXCLUSIONS FROM CITY PROPERTY
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Purpose of exclusion
   
94.03   Exclusion from city property
   
94.04   Telephone contact
   
94.05   Appeal
   
94.06   Authority of Municipal Court to hear exclusion appeals
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY BUILDING. A building owned or leased by the city.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee.
   CITY PROPERTY. Real property owned or leased by the city, including city
buildings and parks. CITY PROPERTY does not include city rights-of-way.
   MUNICIPAL COURT. The county justice court, or any other court designated by
the City Council to act as the municipal court for the city.
   NECESSARY OFFICIAL BUSINESS. A prearranged and verifiable meeting with a
city employee or official on city property.
   PROHIBITED CONDUCT. Any of the following types of conduct:
      (1)   Behavior that constitutes a crime;
      (2)   Behavior that constitutes a violation of the code of the city or
any city ordinances;
      (3)   Disorderly conduct;
      (4)   Riotous or violent or threatening behavior;
      (5)   Unreasonably loud or disruptive behavior;
      (6)   Disorderly or riotous assemblies;
      (7)   Disruption of lawful meetings, events or work;
      (8)   Obstruction of access to government services;
      (9)   Abusive language or conduct;
      (10)   Visible intoxication;
      (11)   Violation of city policies intended to maintain a safe, orderly
and efficient work environment in public buildings, including the violence in
the workplace policy and the anti-harassment policy; or
      (12)   Conduct that is otherwise disruptive to the efficient functioning
of government affairs.
(Ord. 1294, passed 10-20-2014; Ord. 1301, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 94.02 PURPOSE OF EXCLUSION.
   In furtherance of maintaining a safe environment for public employees and
citizens, and pursuant to the powers and authority of the City Council, this
chapter addresses:
   (A)   Exclusion from city property; and
   (B)   Prohibition on telephoning the city.
(Ord. 1294, passed 10-20-2014; Ord. 1301, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 94.03 EXCLUSION FROM CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   An individual is subject to immediate exclusion from city property if
that individual is observed to be engaged in prohibited conduct.
   (B)   An individual who engages in prohibited conduct on city property in
violation of this policy may be excluded from the particular city property on
which the individual engaged in prohibited conduct for a period of up to six
months (exclusion period).
   (C)   During the exclusion period, the individual who has been excluded may,
with prior notice to and approval from the City Manager, enter onto the city
property from which the individual has been excluded, to conduct necessary
official business.
   (D)   All exclusion notices shall be in writing, shall state the prohibited
conduct that is the basis for the exclusion notice, shall state the exclusion
period, and shall include appeal information. The exclusion notice shall be
personally served on the individual or mailed to the individual by certified
mail if a mailing address is available. Service of an exclusion notice is
deemed to have occurred on the date of personal service or the date of
acceptance of a certified mailing.
   (E)   The exclusion notice will be kept on file by the City Manager.
   (F)   The exclusion will remain in effect for the period of time specified
in the notice unless modified or rescinded due to an appeal.
   (G)   Except as provided in division (C) above, if an individual who
receives a notice of exclusion remains in or returns to the city property from
which he or she has been excluded, the individual is subject to immediate
arrest for criminal trespass.
(Ord. 1294, passed 10-20-2014; Ord. 1301, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 94.04 TELEPHONE CONTACT.
   (A)   The City Manager has the authority to forbid individuals from calling
city telephone numbers for up to six months, if the individual has previously
engaged in conduct that would violate O.R.S. 166.090, telephonic harassment
when calling city telephone numbers.
   (B)   All notices forbidding an individual from calling city telephone
numbers must be in writing, and either personally served or mailed to the
individual by certified mail if a mailing address is available. Service of a
notice forbidding an individual from calling city telephone numbers is deemed
to have occurred on the date of personal service or the date of acceptance of a
certified mailing.
   (C)   Notices forbidding an individual from calling a city telephone number
must state the conduct that is the basis for the notice, must state the period
during which the individual may not call the city telephone number and must
include appeal information.
(Ord. 1294, passed 10-20-2014; Ord. 1301, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 94.05 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any exclusion from city property and any prohibition against calling
city telephones may be appealed by filing a written appeal with municipal court
within five business days after service of notice of exclusion or notice
forbidding telephone contact.
   (B)   The exclusion or prohibition against calling city telephones shall
remain in effect during the appeal period.
   (C)   If an appeal is not timely filed with the municipal court, no appeal
hearing will be held and the exclusion notice or notice forbidding telephone
contact shall become the final decision of the city.
   (D)   The municipal court judge shall hold a hearing on the appeal within
seven business days of the date of filing of the appeal, unless the appellant
and the city agree to a different date.
   (E)   The appeal hearing shall be conducted by the municipal court judge. No
jury shall be empaneled for a hearing pursuant to this section.
   (F)   The municipal court judge will review the written appeal and may
consider any testimony, evidence and other argument presented by the city and
by the person who is the subject of the notice, as well as any other testimony,
evidence and other argument that the municipal court judge considers relevant
to whether the exclusion of prohibition is lawful and consistent with this
chapter, O.R.S. 166.090 or any other applicable law.
   (G)   The municipal court judge shall issue a written decision on the appeal
within five business days of the date of the appeal hearing.
   (H)   The municipal court judge may uphold, amend or rescind the exclusion
or telephone prohibition. The decision of the municipal court judge is the
final decision of the city.
(Ord. 1294, passed 10-20-2014; Ord. 1301, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 94.06 AUTHORITY OF MUNICIPAL COURT TO HEAR EXCLUSION APPEALS.
   The municipal court of the city is hereby authorized to hear, consider and
render a decision upon appeals of exclusions from city property and
prohibitions on calling city telephone numbers, following the appeal process
described in this chapter.
(Ord. 1294, passed 10-20-2014; Ord. 1301, passed 4-20-2015)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   City assistance to those discriminated
   
95.02   Publication and awareness
   
95.03   Informing citizens; complaints
§ 95.01 CITY ASSISTANCE TO THOSE DISCRIMINATED.
   Within the resources available to the city through city, county, state,
federal and community volunteer sources, the city will assist all persons who
feel they have been discriminated against because of race, color, religion,
sex, disability (physical and mental), familial status (children) or national
origin in the process of filing a complaint with the Oregon Civil Rights
Division or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Seattle
Regional Office Compliance Division, that they may seek equity under federal
and state laws.
(Res. R040422, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 95.02 PUBLICATION AND AWARENESS.
   The city shall publicize this chapter and, through this publicity, shall
cause real estate brokers and sellers, private home sellers, rental owners,
rental property managers, real estate and rental advertisers, lenders,
builders, developers, home buyers and home or apartment renters to become aware
of their respective responsibilities and rights under the Fair Housing
Amendments Act of 1988 and any applicable state or local laws or ordinances.
(Res. R040422, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 95.03 INFORMING CITIZENS; COMPLAINTS.
   The Fair Housing Program, for the purpose of informing those affected of
their respective responsibilities and rights concerning Fair Housing law and
complaint procedures, will at a minimum include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   The printing, publicizing and distribution of this chapter;
   (B)   The distribution of posters, flyers, pamphlets and other applicable
fair housing information provided by local, state and federal sources, through
local media of community contacts; and
   (C)   The publicizing of locations where assistance will be provided to
those seeking to file a discrimination complaint.
(Res. R040422, passed 4-4-2022)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS REGISTRATION AND FEES
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   ADULT BUSINESSES
      
113.   SOLICITING
      
114.   GARAGE SALES
      
115.   PSILOCYBIN REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS REGISTRATION AND FEES
Section
Businesses in General
   
110.001   Purpose of business registration
   
110.002   Definitions
   
110.003   Registration
   
110.004   Coverage and rates
   
110.005   Non-resident proprietors
   
110.006   Transfer and assignment of registration
   
110.007   Business registration non-contractual
   
110.008   Exempt businesses
   
110.009   Payment of business registration fees – non-refundable; temporary
registration
   
110.010   Application
   
110.011   Misrepresentation by applicant
   
110.012   Use of public right-of-way; city property
   
110.013   Regulation of hours
   
110.014   Violation
   
110.015   Concurrent remedies
   
110.016   Business registration fee reduction of waiver; fee; appeal
Business Registration Fee
   
110.030   Licensing fees
   
110.031   Additional fees
   
110.032   Definitions
   
110.033   Violations
   
110.034   Surcharge fee
Taxicab Regulations
   
110.045   Purpose
   
110.046   Definitions
   
110.047   General operating procedure
   
110.048   Taxicab company license required
   
110.049   Applications for taxicab company license
   
110.050   Liability insurance
   
110.051   License fee
   
110.052   Denial, revocation or suspension of license and permit
   
110.053   Taxi stands; fee
   
110.054   Driver’s permits required
   
110.055   Application
   
110.056   Denial of permit
   
110.057   Renewal of driver’s permit
   
110.058   Appeals
   
110.059   Conduct of drivers
Food Court Park and Food Carts
   
110.070   Application fee
   
110.071   Applicability
   
110.072   Mobile unit requirements
   
110.073   State standards
   
110.074   Flood zone requirements
   
110.075   Food cart standards
   
110.076   Right to update
   
110.077   Open space temporary unit sites fee schedules
   
110.078   Permits required
Open Space Temporary Unit
   
110.090   Adoption
   
110.091   Application fee
   
110.092   Applicability
   
110.093   Standards
   
110.094   Open space temporary unit application
   
110.095   Open space temporary unit fee schedule
 
   
110.999   Penalty
BUSINESSES IN GENERAL
§ 110.001 PURPOSE OF BUSINESS REGISTRATION.
   This subchapter is enacted for the purposes of providing for the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the city by raising revenue for municipal
purposes, to provide revenue to pay for the necessary expense required to issue
the business registration and for business identification. The registration
fees hereinafter imposed shall be in addition to all general ad valorem taxes
now or hereafter levied pursuant to law, and shall be in addition to any and
all other license or franchise fees otherwise imposed by the city under
existing ordinances.
(Ord. 1288, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 110.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUCTIONS and AUCTIONEERS. Every person who shall by public outcry offer for
sale, either as principal or agent, to the highest bidder on the spot, any
article of merchandise or property, shall be deemed an AUCTIONEER, and every
such sale shall be deemed an AUCTION; provided, however, that nothing in this
section shall apply to judicial sales, nor to sales by executors,
administrators or trustees under court order.
   BUSINESS.
      (1)   As a noun, shall mean all manufacturers, professions, trades,
occupations and shops of all and every kind carried on for profit.
      (2)   As a verb, shall mean any lawful activity or enterprise engaged in
for gain, benefit, advantage or livelihood.
      (3)   A BUSINESS shall also be determined by the discrete location(s)
which are encompassed by the enterprises accounting records.
   CITY PROPERTY. For the purposes of this subchapter and other ordinance(s),
property owned and/or controlled by the city as described in this subchapter or
other ordinance(s). For example, CITY PROPERTY includes, but is not limited to,
highways, roadways, public rights-of-way, sidewalks, alleys, parking lots,
parks, open spaces and any other city-owned property. (This does not include
private parking lots or private property; either open to the public or
controlled access.)
   EMPLOYEE/EMPLOYER. Any owner, operator, salesperson, agent or worker whether
paid by salary, bonus, commission, piecework or hourly wage and associated with
or working for any commercial, professional, fraternal or public establishment
within the city, unless excluded through franchise agreement or federal or
state laws.
   EMPLOYEE/EMPLOYER VOLUNTEER. Any person, who not for compensation, acting or
serving willingly and with no constraint or guarantee of reward, performs any
function(s) normally done by an employee/employer in any commercial,
professional, fraternal or public establishment within the city, unless
excluded through franchise agreement or federal or state laws.
   FISCAL YEAR. July 1 to June 30.
   HAWKER. Any person who, for himself, herself or as agent of another, carries
for sale and offers for sale, or exposes for sale, any goods, wares or
merchandise, or any article or thing for which a price is asked, in or on the
streets, to customers in or on the streets, or who offers or exposes for sale
any such commodity from a doorway, recess, alleyway, vacant lot or other place
facing on the street, whether making outcry or not.
   NON-PROFIT. For the purposes of this subchapter, the person which is:
      (1)   Organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable,
scientific, testing for public safety, literary or educational purposes, or for
the prevention of cruelty to children or animals;
      (2)   For which no part of the net earnings inures to the benefit of a
private shareholder or individual; and
      (3)   By which no substantial part of the person’s activities is for
carrying on propaganda or otherwise attempting to influence legislation and
which does not participate in or intervene in, including the publishing or
distributing of statements, any political campaign on behalf of any candidate
for public office and possessing a certificate from the Internal Revenue
Service to that effect.
   PEDDLE. Any sale, or offering for sale, or exposing for sale of any goods,
wares or merchandise, or any article or thing for which a price is asked by a
peddler in pursuance of his or her occupation as a peddler, but shall not be
construed to include any wholesaler selling directly to a licensed business.
   PEDDLER. Any person who, for himself or herself or as agent for another,
goes from place to place or from house to house within the city, carrying for
sale and offering or exposing for sale at retail any goods, wares or
merchandise, or any article or thing for which a price is asked.
   PERSON. All corporations, associations, syndicates, partnerships of every
kind, joint ventures, societies and individuals, employees, employers,
volunteer, solicitor, transient, merchant, whether for profit or non-profit,
transacting and carrying on business in the city.
   RETAIL. Any sale direct to the ultimate consumer or user for consumption or
use and not for resale purposes; provided, however, that the above definition
shall not be deemed to include persons engaged in the sale of goods, wares and
merchandise to dealers by commercial travelers or sales agents in the usual
course of business, nor bona fide sales of goods, wares or merchandise by the
same for future delivery in interstate commerce, or to the sale of staple
products by the grower thereof or his or her employee.
   SOLICITOR. Every person or individual who goes from house to house or from
place to place within the city selling, offering to sell or taking orders for
any products, wares, merchandise or any article or service whether payment is
made prior to receiving purchased goods/services or delivery is made upon
payment. The term SOLICITOR shall not include any commercial traveler receiving
orders for goods at wholesale from merchants nor shall said term include any
person seeking customers for farm fresh products.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily occupies a fixed location,
sells and delivers from stock on hand and does business in much the same manner
as a permanent business.
   UMBRELLA REGISTRATION. A single business registration for a number of
business or activities on special occasions. Examples include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Insurance, real estate or other agency-type where brokers supervise
independent agents;
      (2)   The Chamber of Commerce’s June dairy parade; and
      (3)   The City Revitalization Association’s events and/or the city’s
farmers’ market.
(Ord. 1288, passed 4-7-2014; Ord. 1339, passed 12-4-2018)
§ 110.003 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   On or after July 1, 2002, any person who operates a business or
conducts business, to include peddlers, solicitors, hawkers and occult arts,
within the jurisdiction of the city, shall first obtain a business registration
registering that business. The applicant shall apply on a form approved by the
city and shall pay a fee for the registration in advance. Fees for this
subchapter shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Any person that carries on or engages in a business that does not
comply with city, state or federal law is prohibited from being issued a
business license. Additionally, currently held licenses may be revoked for
violation of city, state or federal law.
   (C)   Registrations shall be valid for one 365 day year, the period being
July 1 to June 30. Registrations are renewable on July 1 of each year, with
renewal notices sent out in May of each year. A late fee will be assessed if
not paid by July 1. Additional penalty and citation into the city’s municipal
court will be issued 15 days from the date of the written late notice.
(Ord. 1288, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 110.004 COVERAGE AND RATES.
   This subchapter shall apply to manufacturers, trades, professions,
occupations, businesses and shops of every kind, unless otherwise exempted. All
business registration fees shall be established by resolution of the City
Council.
(Ord. 1288, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 110.005 NON-RESIDENT PROPRIETORS.
   Any agent or agents of non-resident proprietors engaged in any business in
the city shall be personally liable for the business registration fee required
and shall be subject to the penalties hereof for the failure to pay that fee to
the same extent as if he, she or they were himself, herself or themselves the
proprietors of the business. The act of advertising within the city of and by
itself shall not require a business registration under this subchapter.
(Ord. 1288, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 110.006 TRANSFER AND ASSIGNMENT OF REGISTRATION.
   No transfer or assignment of any business registration issued here shall be
valid or permitted, except as follows: a business registration may be
transferred or assigned for only the remainder of the registration period when
the successive business continues the same use and level of use of the
property, when the number of employees remains the same or less, and when city
is notified and paid a transfer or assignment fee, as set by resolution.
(Ord. 1288, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 110.007 BUSINESS REGISTRATION NON-CONTRACTUAL.
   The registration application is not a contract between the city and
registrant or any other person. The city may unilaterally at any time raise
registration fees. However, the increased fee shall apply to the next fiscal
year’s registration fee and/or to registrations issued subsequent to the
effective date of any new fee.
(Ord. 1288, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 110.008 EXEMPT BUSINESSES.
   The following are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Government agencies;
   (B)   Non-profit organizations which are federally tax exempt unless the
non-profit organization is carrying an umbrella registration as defined in this
subchapter;
   (C)   Home based businesses operated solely by the owner with no employees
(i.e., babysitting/childcare where the individual either goes to the person’s
home or does babysitting in their home, music teachers, house cleaning,
cosmetic sales, yard care, odd jobs, mending and the like if the average weekly
hours for any given month do not exceed ten hours). Daycare facilities, as
defined by the zoning ordinance in Chapter 152, do not qualify for this
exemption;
   (D)   Individuals below the age of 18 who do not operate a commercial
business establishment or have other employees;
   (E)   Garage sales permitted under city ordinance;
   (F)   Non-resident businesses offering merchandise by catalog or by
telecommunications for future delivery to the customer;
   (G)   Construction subcontractors working under a general contractor who
possess a valid business license;
   (H)   Any agent or business specifically exempted by state law; and
   (I)   Delivery services unless the deliverer operates from a facility based
within the city’s jurisdiction
(Ord. 1288, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 110.009 PAYMENT OF BUSINESS REGISTRATION FEES – NON-REFUNDABLE; TEMPORARY
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any persons to carry on any business, trade,
occupation, profession or calling, or transact any business as described in
this subchapter, without first paying in advance the registration fee as set by
resolution.
   (B)   For the purpose of fairness, the city shall allow registration fees to
be prorated for new applicants not applying on July 1. Fees shall be calculated
for the remainder of the fiscal year by quarters.
   (C)   A business may register for a temporary license under this subchapter
for up to three months and the fee shall be one-third of the yearly fee.
(Ord. 1288, passed 4-7-2014) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.010 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Business registration is effective from July 1 to June 30 of each
year. On or before the first day of July of each and every business
registration year after the passage of the ordinance incorporated in this
subchapter, every person/business, as defined in the ordinance, engaged in a
business in the city shall make application to the city upon a form furnished
by the city, for a business registration to carry on his or her business for
the year in question.
   (B)   The applications shall be numbered consecutively; they shall have the
year for which application for business registration is applied, printed or
stamped thereon, and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Amount of business registration fee tendered with application;
      (2)   Signature of applicant or agent making application;
      (3)   Date of application;
      (4)   Type of business; and
      (5)   Any other information the City Manager or City Recorder or City
Council deems said application should contain.
   (C)   The same application standard shall apply for those making application
during the business registration year. The City Manager, City Recorder or his
or her designee shall be empowered to issue a business registration upon
receipt of proper application and appropriate fee paid. If a question arises
between the applicant for a business registration and the city, as to fee or
otherwise, the same may be referred to the City Council for its determination.
This determination may be made by the City Council at the next regularly
scheduled City Council meeting. The determination of the City Council shall be
final. Each business registration issued under the provisions hereof shall at
all times be displayed in a conspicuous place in the business. Replacement
license costs shall be established by resolution.
(Ord. 1288, passed 4-7-2014) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.011 MISREPRESENTATION BY APPLICANT.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person to willfully
make any false or misleading statement in his or her application for the
purpose of determining the amount of any business registration to be paid, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of this section shall be set by resolution.
   (C)   The conviction of any person for violation of any of the provisions of
this subchapter shall not relieve said person from paying any business
registration fee or penalty for which said person shall be liable, nor shall
the payment of any business registration fee be a bar to or prevent prosecution
in the city municipal court of any complaint for the violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1288, passed 4-7-2014) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.012 USE OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY; CITY PROPERTY.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any business, person
conducting business, peddler, solicitor, hawker or other activity described in
this subchapter as requiring a business registration, to conduct business,
operate a business, solicit, peddle, hawk or conduct any other activity
described in this chapter, on any public rights-of-way or city property, as
defined in this subchapter, without written approval of the city. Penalty for
violation of this subchapter shall be set by resolution.
(Ord. 1288, passed 4-7-2014) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.013 REGULATION OF HOURS.
   No peddler, solicitor or hawker registered under this subchapter shall
solicit before the hour of 9:00 a.m. or after the hour of 8:00 p.m.
(Ord. 1288, passed 4-7-2014) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.014 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Upon conviction of a violation of this subchapter, the court shall
order the defendant to pay any cost, disbursement, fee, fine or penalty
authorized by this subchapter or as amended.
   (B)   Each day or distinct time period of a violation, as described in this
subchapter, shall be considered a separate violation, subject to a separate
penalty, as described in this subchapter and by resolution. Fees and fines
identified in this subchapter shall be set by resolution.
(Ord. 1288, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 110.015 CONCURRENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   In addition to the penalties heretofore provided, and as separate and
distinct remedies, the city may sue in any court of competent jurisdiction to
obtain judgment and to enforce payment of any business registration fee due
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter and to seek injunctive relief
against any person violating this subchapter.
   (B)   Attorney fees, costs, disbursements and/or prevailing party fees shall
be awarded to the prevailing party, unless otherwise agreed or waived by city.
(Ord. 1288, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 110.016 BUSINESS REGISTRATION FEE REDUCTION OF WAIVER; FEE; APPEAL.
   (A)   A person may apply for a reduction, or waiver, of the business
registration fee by submitting a letter justifying the request and a non-
refundable fee, set by resolution, to the City Manager.
   (B)   The City Council or City Manager may grant in writing a reduction or
waiver of the business registration fee for good cause shown, hardship or
equity. The City Manager may refer an application directly to the City Council.
Applicant may appeal, without additional fee, City Manager’s decision to City
Council.
(Ord. 1288, passed 4-7-2014)
BUSINESS REGISTRATION FEE
§ 110.030 LICENSING FEES.
 
Licensing Fees
Base fee (up to 11 employees)  $75
12 - 30 employees              $150
31+ employees                  $300
Transfer/assignment fee        $10
Temporary (up to three months) One-third of the annual fee
Replacement license            $10
 
(Res. 1661, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 110.031 ADDITIONAL FEES.
 
Additional Fees
Peddler, solicitor and hawker photo ID $10
processing fee
Late registration fee (after July 1)   $25
Penalty for non-compliance (per day)   $250 (plus citation to municipal court)
 
(Res. 1661, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 110.032 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANNUAL. July 1 to June 30.
   EMPLOYERS. Owner or manager shall be counted with respect to the base fee.
In case of multiple owners, any owner, operator, salesperson, agent or worker
whether paid by salary, bonus, commission, piecework or hourly wage and
associated with or working for any commercial, professional, fraternal or
public establishment within the city shall be counted with respect to the base
fee.
   INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS. Each individual with a state license affiliated
with a business shall count as one employee.
   PART-TIME EMPLOYEES. Employee working over 24 hours per week on average
shall be counted as one full-time employee; every two part-time employees shall
be counted as one full-time employee regardless of hours worked.
(Res. 1661, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 110.033 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A violation of §§
110.001 through
110.016 and
110.030 through
110.034 shall result in a fine not to exceed $250. Upon conviction of any
violation of §§
110.001 through
110.016 and
110.030 through
110.034, the court shall also order the defendant to pay any cost, disbursement
or fee due as authorized by this subchapter or as amended.
   (B)   Each day or distinct time period of a violation as described in this
suchapter shall be considered a separate violation, subject to a separate
penalty as described in this subchapter and by resolution.
(Res. 1661, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 110.034 SURCHARGE FEE.
   (A)   An annual surcharge of $25 shall be paid in addition to the business
registration fee, and said surcharge is to be dedicated to Tillamook
Revitalization Association activities.
   (B)   The surchage fee shall be in effect from the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2024.
   (C)   All temporary business registrations shall pay a surcharge of $6.25
per temporary registration.
   (D)   The city shall be allowed to recover administrative costs up to $600
associated with the surcharge.
   (E)   The City Revitalization Association has a plan in place for
utilization of the surcharge proceeds with measurable performance objectives.
The Association shall provide the City Council with annual reports regarding
its activities and budget.
(Res. 1779, passed 5-20-2019)
TAXICAB REGULATIONS
§ 110.045 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to require that those persons operating
taxicabs do so in a safe, fair and efficient manner. Because taxicabs
constitute an essential part of the city’s transportation system, some
regulation is necessary to ensure that the safety and well-being of its
citizens is protected, the public needs provided and the public convenience
promoted.
(Prior Code, § 110.030) (Ord. 984, passed 9-15-1980)
§ 110.046 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LICENSEE. A person or entity who has applied for a license to operate a
taxicab company or to whom a license to operate a taxicab company has been
issued.
   OPERATE. To drive a vehicle, to use a vehicle in the conduct of business, to
receive money from the use of a vehicle or to cause or allow another person to
do the same.
   PERMITTEE. A person who has applied for a permit to operate a taxi or to
whom a permit to operate a taxi has been issued.
   TAXI or TAXICAB. Every motor vehicle which carries passengers for hire and
has a seating capacity of nine passengers or less, as per manufacturer’s
rating; except, however, that motor vehicles for rent without drivers and motor
vehicles of private nonprofit organizations which provide transportation of
passengers for hire, or not for hire, and are not operated exclusively over a
fixed and defined route are not TAXIS or TAXICABS.
   TAXICAB COMPANY. A person or any entity operating taxicabs other than as a
driver and regardless of whether the vehicles so operated are owned by the
company, leased or owned by individual members of the company.
(Prior Code, § 110.031) (Ord. 984, passed 9-15-1980)
§ 110.047 GENERAL OPERATING PROCEDURE.
   All taxis operating within the limits of the city shall be clean, properly
equipped and in safe condition for the transportation of passengers. Further,
the vehicle shall be clearly marked “taxi” or “taxicab” in an approved method.
(Prior Code, § 110.032) (Ord. 984, passed 9-15-1980) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.048 TAXICAB COMPANY LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall conduct business as a taxicab company within the corporate
limits of this city without first obtaining from the City Recorder a license
permitting the operation of a taxicab company business.
(Prior Code, § 110.033) (Ord. 984, passed 9-15-1980) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.049 APPLICATIONS FOR TAXICAB COMPANY LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person making application for a license to operate a taxicab
company business within the city shall produce satisfactory evidence at the
time of making application for a license that the applicant has complied with
all the laws of the state with reference to registration of the automotive
equipment to be used under the license.
   (B)   In addition, each applicant shall furnish the following information to
the City Recorder under oath:
      (1)   Name under which business is to be conducted;
      (2)   Name and address of all owners or persons having an interest in the
business;
      (3)   Name and address of each operator;
      (4)   Name, make and identification of all vehicles to be operated;
      (5)   Name and address of the insurance company or companies (together
with policy numbers) in which the liability insurance coverage required in §
110.050 is in force;
      (6)   Applicant’s certification of giving direction to all insurance
companies to give 15 days’ advance notice to City Recorder of the company’s
intention to cancel any policy on any of the applicant’s taxicabs, and
requiring the same to be included on all policies; and
      (7)   Any additional information as the City Manager may require for the
efficient administration of this subchapter, including, but not limited to,
fingerprints; criminal record, if any; and motor vehicle driving record of all
persons having an interest in the business.
   (C)   The application shall thereupon be submitted to the office of City
Manager for investigation. If the City Manager finds from his or her
investigation that divisions (C)(1) through (C)(5) below apply, the City
Manager shall direct the City Recorder to issue the license.
      (1)   The applicant (and all persons having an interest in the business)
has complied with all the applicable laws of the state and the ordinances of
this city.
      (2)   Applicant (and all persons having an interest in the business) is
financially responsible and adequately equipped to conduct the business.
      (3)   The equipment listed is safe for operation.
      (4)   The operation is not contrary to the public interest.
      (5)   The granting of the license will not result in the impairment of
the ability of existing operators to serve the public adequately.
(Prior Code, § 110.034) (Ord. 984, passed 9-15-1980)
§ 110.050 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   A licensee who operates a taxicab or taxicab company in the city shall at
all times have in full force and effect as to each taxicab in operation,
liability and property damage insurance policy or policies issued by an
insurance company licensed to conduct insurance business in the state. The
minimum limits of insurance coverage for liability for injury to person shall
not be less than $100,000 as to any one person and $300,000 in any single
occurrence for injuries to more than one person, and $50,000 for damage to
property. Proof of this insurance shall be filed with the City Recorder, who
shall be entitled to receive 15 days’ notice in advance of any insurance
company’s intention to cancel any policy on any taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 110.035) (Ord. 984, passed 9-15-1980) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.051 LICENSE FEE.
   After the application has been approved by the City Manager, the City
Recorder shall, upon payment of fees established by the City Council in this
subchapter or as may hereafter be amended by resolution of the City Council,
grant a license to the applicant to operate a taxicab company. The annual
license fee is as follows: for each vehicle to be operated as a taxi, the sum
of $25 per year; provided, however, that the license may be issued semi-
annually upon the payment of $12.50, the license to expire on June 30 and
December 31 of each year. Each taxi shall carry its own license which shall be
plainly visible in the vehicle at all times. The license shall not be
transferable to another licensee or to another vehicle; provided, however, that
the City Manager, in his or her discretion, may authorize a transfer of a
license from a less serviceable vehicle to a more serviceable vehicle and waive
payment of the regular license fee upon proof that the less serviceable vehicle
has been permanently withdrawn from use in carrying passengers for hire by the
licensee, or upon proof that the previous vehicle is in a temporary state of
needing service and repairs.
(Prior Code, § 110.036) (Ord. 984, passed 9-15-1980)
§ 110.052 DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE AND PERMIT.
   (A)   Except as herein provided, a license to operate a taxicab company and
a permit to operate a taxi shall be denied, revoked or suspended by the City
Manager when either of the following has occurred with respect to any licensee
or permittee:
      (1)   Conviction of a felony within the past five years;
      (2)   Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
      (3)   Conviction of a major traffic offense within the past five years;
      (4)   Repeated violation of the laws of the state;
      (5)   Repeated violation of the ordinances of the city;
      (6)   Violation of the terms of this subchapter;
      (7)   Physical or mental illness or disability which may make the
operation of a taxicab hazardous to members of the public; or
      (8)   Engaging in any of the following acts of misconduct:
         (a)   Allow another person to use his or her driver’s permit;
         (b)   Operate a taxi while under the influence of intoxicants or in a
careless or reckless manner;
         (c)   Use a taxicab in the commission of any crime; or
         (d)   Defraud a passenger in any way.
   (B)   Upon receiving information that any licensee or permittee has engaged
in any conduct prohibited by division (A) above, or has been convicted in any
manner proscribed by division (A) above, the City Manager shall give written
notice by United States Mail to the licensee/permittee at his or her last known
address or by personally delivering the notice to him or her, stating that
unless the licensee/permittee appears at the office of the City Manager in the
City Hall, at a designated date and hour, which shall be not sooner than five
days nor longer than 14 days from the date the notice is mailed or is
personally delivered, and shows good cause why his or her license/permit should
not be revoked, it will be revoked. The notice shall state the reason for the
revocation or proposed revocation. After hearing the evidence produced by
licensee/permittee, the City Manager shall, within five days thereafter, make a
determination as to whether the license/permit should be revoked.
   (C)   The City Manager shall have the authority to summarily and without
prior notice suspend a license and permit for a period of ten days where facts
of a strong and convincing nature come into his or her possession causing him
or her to have strong reason to believe that the licensee/permittee’s license/
permit should be revoked under the provisions of this subchapter and that the
following of the procedure of giving notice as set forth in division (B) above
could reasonably result in serious or irreparable injury to the best interests
of the city and/or its citizens. At the same time the City Manager issues a
suspension order as provided in this section, he or she shall forward a notice
to the licensee/permittee for a hearing as provided in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 110.037) (Ord. 984, passed 9-15-1980; Ord. 1166, passed 7-2-
2001)
§ 110.053 TAXI STANDS; FEE.
   Whenever a license has been issued in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter for the operation of a taxi within the corporate limits of the city,
application may be made to the City Council of the city for the designation by
the Council of a taxi stand upon the street or streets of the city, and proper
marking thereof upon the curb of the street so designated for the use and
benefit of the licensee. The annual permit fee for each and every taxicab stand
shall be $150.
(Prior Code, § 110.038) (Ord. 984, passed 9-15-1980)
§ 110.054 DRIVER’S PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive or allow another person to drive a taxicab without a
valid state Class 4 license and a taxicab driver’s permit issued under §
110.055. Taxicab driver’s permits shall be valid for no more than one year and
all permits shall expire on December 31 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 110.039) (Ord. 984, passed 9-15-1980; Ord. 1093, passed 3-20-
1989) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.055 APPLICATION.
   An applicant for a taxicab driver’s permit shall submit to the Chief of
Police an application form containing any information as the city may require,
including two passport-size photographs and a nonrefundable fee of $10. The
information given by the applicant shall be under oath. The applicant shall
submit to fingerprinting if required to do so. Driver’s permits shall be
renewed upon the payment of a renewal fee of $10 on or before December 1 of
each year. If any of the information contained in the application changes, the
applicant or permittee shall promptly report the change to the city. Upon
presentation of convincing evidence that a taxicab driver’s permit has been
lost or destroyed and a payment of a replacement fee of $5, the city shall
issue a replacement permit. The Chief of Police shall submit all applications
and information to the office of City Manager for issuance or renewal of a
taxicab driver’s permit.
(Prior Code, § 110.040) (Ord. 984, passed 9-15-1980)
§ 110.056 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   No taxicab driver’s permit shall be issued to any person that the permit,
had it been issued, should be revoked for any of the grounds for revocation set
forth in §
110.052. The grounds for revocation of a license/permit set forth in §
110.052 are adopted by this reference as grounds for the denial of a driver’s
permit in the first instance.
(Prior Code, § 110.041) (Ord. 984, passed 9-15-1980)
§ 110.057 RENEWAL OF DRIVER’S PERMIT.
   Any driver’s permit may be renewed only upon the determination by the City
Manager that if it were in force it should not be revoked as provided in §
110.052.
(Prior Code, § 110.042) (Ord. 984, passed 9-15-1980)
§ 110.058 APPEALS.
   The denial of issuance, or revocation/suspension of any license or permit,
by the office of the City Manager is subject to appeal before the City Council.
Any appeal must be submitted to the office of the City Manager in writing at
least five days prior to a regularly scheduled Council meeting.
(Prior Code, § 110.043) (Ord. 984, passed 9-15-1980)
§ 110.059 CONDUCT OF DRIVERS.
   No taxicab driver shall:
   (A)   Operate a taxi in a manner contrary to the laws of this city or state;
   (B)   Use profane or obscene language while operating a taxicab;
   (C)   Smoke or chew tobacco without the consent of the passenger;
   (D)   Be discourteous to a passenger or fail to accede to a passenger’s
reasonable request;
   (E)   Drive a passenger to his or her destination by any other than the most
direct route, unless requested to do so by the passenger; or
   (F)   Refuse to issue a receipt for a fare paid, if one is requested.
(Prior Code, § 110.044) (Ord. 984, passed 9-15-1980) Penalty, see §
110.999
FOOD COURT PARK AND FOOD CARTS
§ 110.070 APPLICATION FEE.
   A one-time application fee of $150 shall be instituted, and the effective
date of the fee shall be immediately upon passage of the resolution
incorporated herein this subchapter.
(Res. 1737A, passed 8-7-2017)
§ 110.071 APPLICABILITY.
   These food carts standards shall be for the rental of spaces on city-owned
property in the city for the temporary placement of specifically designed
“mobile food cart units” containing less than 500 square feet of space.
(Res. 1737A, passed 8-7-2017)
§ 110.072 MOBILE UNIT REQUIREMENTS.
   Each mobile unit must be originally manufactured as a food cart. No open
carts are allowed. Food cart units permitted on the subject property shall meet
the following standards as determined by an inspection by the building
official. It shall have a state insignia indicating compliance with State
Construction Standards in effect at the time of manufacture, and including
compliance for reconstruction or equipment installation made after manufacture.
(Res. 1737A, passed 8-7-2017) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.073 STATE STANDARDS.
   Notwithstanding deterioration, misuse, neglect, accident or other cause, the
mobile unit shall meet the state standards for construction evidenced by the
insignia. Food carts standards have been developed with the following
provisions and any additional conditions set forth in the city’s approval prior
to occupancy.
(Res. 1737A, passed 8-7-2017) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.074 FLOOD ZONE REQUIREMENTS.
   In any flood zone, each unit shall maintain emergency shut-off or
disconnection points for all utilities and be able to be disconnected from
these utilities (sewer, water and electrical services) and vacated safely and
timely from the subject property in the event of flooding or other natural
hazards or other emergency in order to protect life and property.
(Res. 1737A, passed 8-7-2017) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.075 FOOD CART STANDARDS.
   Unless located within a fully designed food court, the following standards
apply.
   (A)   The space provided for each unit shall be 1,600 square feet, exclusive
of any space used for common areas, such as driveways, walkways, parking spaces
for vehicles other than recreational vehicles/mobile units and landscaped
areas.
   (B)   Driveways shall not be less than 24 feet in width if parking is
permitted on the margin of the driveway, or less than 20 feet in width if
parking is not permitted on the edge of the driveway. Driveway shall be paved
with asphalt, concrete or similar impervious surface and designed to permit
easy access to each unit space.
   (C)   Unless existing prior to adoption of the resolution incorporated in
this subchapter, a space provided for each unit shall be paved with existing
asphalt, concrete or similar material and be designed to provide runoff of
surface water. The part of the space which is not occupied by the unit, not
intended as an access way to the unit or part of an outdoor patio, need not be
paved or covered with gravel, provided the area is landscaped or otherwise
treated to prevent dust and mud.
   (D)   Except where prohibited by FEMA regulations, parking surfaces shall be
covered with paved with asphalt, concrete or similar material.
   (E)   Each unit may be required to be connected to the water and sewage
service depending on the length of occupancy. If existing prior to adoption of
this subchapter, auxiliary storage tanks are allowed on the pad, if connected
to existing gray water tank and removal of gray water must be done by the
tenant on a regular basis.
   (F)   All units are required to provide a program for maintenance of fats,
oils and grease and, upon request, provide evidence that the program is being
followed.
   (G)   Each unit space may be connected with electrical service depending on
the length of occupancy.
   (H)   Each tenant shall provide one trash receptacle for the disposal of
solid waste materials in convenient locations for the use of guests, and
located in such number and be of such capacity that there is no uncovered
accumulation of trash at any time. The tenant will provide garbage collection
on a routine basis.
   (I)   Each tenant shall provide a restroom (or port-a-potty) with a
handwashing facility that provides hot and cold running water, soap and paper
towels or air dryer.
(O.A.R. 333-162-0020(4))
   (J)   The tenant shall provide one picnic table clearly identified as being
affiliated with his, her or their food cart.
   (K)   Each unit space shall be maintained in a neat appearance at all times.
Except for vehicles, there shall be no outdoor storage of materials or
equipment. Grounds keeping maintenance shall be the responsibility of the
tenant.
   (L)   Each vendor shall provide the city with proof of liability insurance,
insuring vendor and city from claims for personal injury, real and/or personal
property damage from activities on the subject property.
   (M)   Each unit on the subject property shall be located no closer than 12
feet from another unit on the subject property. Each unit on the subject
property shall be located no closer than ten feet from the property boundary.
   (N)   Each unit shall have external lighting for customer safety.
   (O)   Each unit serving food shall:
      (1)   Install a backflow prevention device and provide the city with a
copy of a signed/approved county sanitation inspection;
      (2)   Provide a copy of the Health Department approval upon request; and
      (3)   Provide a Type 1 cooking hood with a fire suppression system.
(Res. 1737A, passed 8-7-2017)
110.076 RIGHT TO UPDATE.
   The city reserves the right to update, add to and/or change these standards
as necessary.
(Res. 1737A, passed 8-7-2017)
§ 110.077 OPEN SPACE TEMPORARY UNIT SITES FEE SCHEDULES.
 
             Peak Season     Off-Peak Season
             May - September October - April
Daily rate   $40             $40
Weekly rate  $200            $150
Monthly rate $800            $500
Annual rate  $625 per month ($7,500 annual lease)
 
(Res. 1737A, passed 8-7-2017)
§ 110.078 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Fees will be determined at the time of the application.
   (B)   (1)   City business license, temporary or annual depending on length
of occupancy.
      (2)   Zoning permit, depending on length of occupancy.
      (3)   Sign permit for free-standing sign, building or unit sign.
      (4)   City water hook-up, if applicable.
      (5)   City sewer hook-up, if applicable.
      (6)   County permits, as required.
(Res. 1737A, passed 8-7-2017)
OPEN SPACE TEMPORARY UNIT
§ 110.090 ADOPTION.
   The city hereby adopts the attached Exhibit A for Open Space Temporary Unit
Site Standards to the resolution incorporated herein, revised application form
for temporary units, and §
110.094.
(Res. 1796, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 110.091 APPLICATION FEE.
   A one-time application fee of $150 shall be instituted for open space
temporary units and implemented immediately upon passage of the resolution
incorporated herein.
(Res. 1796, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 110.092 APPLICABILITY.
   Open space temporary unit site standards on city-owned property shall be for
the rental of spaces for the temporary sitting of “recreational vehicles”,
mobile units, other temporary unit or merchandise display containing less than
500 square feet of space, hereafter called UNIT.
(Res. 1796, passed 7-15-2019)
Editor’s note:
   Food cart standards are separate standards and were adopted by City Council
on August 7, 2017 in Resolution 1737.
§ 110.093 STANDARDS.
   Open space temporary unit siting standards have been developed with the
following provisions and any additional conditions set forth in the city’s
approval prior to occupancy.
   (A)   The space provided for each unit shall be 1,600 square feet exclusive
of any space used for common areas, such as driveways, walkways, parking spaces
for vehicles other than recreational vehicles/mobile units and landscaped
areas. All merchandise and primary unit must be contained in 500 square feet of
space that is set back at least 20 feet from the property frontage.
   (B)   Driveways shall not be less than 24 feet in width if parking is
permitted on the margin of the driveway, or less than 20 feet in width if
parking is not permitted on the edge of the driveway. Driveways shall be paved
with asphalt, concrete or similar impervious surface and designed to permit
easy access to each unit space.
   (C)   A space provided for each unit shall be covered with crushed gravel or
paved with existing asphalt, concrete or similar material and be designed to
provide runoff of surface water. The part of the space which is not occupied by
the unit, not intended as an access way to the unit or part of an outdoor patio
need not be paved or covered with gravel, provided the area is landscaped or
otherwise treated to prevent dust and mud.
   (D)   Each unit may be required to be connected to the water and sewage
service depending on the length of occupancy.
   (E)   Each unit space may be connected with electrical service depending on
the length of occupancy.
   (F)   Trash receptacles for the disposal of solid waste materials shall be
provided in convenient locations for the use of guests, and located in such
number and be of such capacity that there is no uncovered accumulation of trash
at any time.
   (G)   Parking spaces shall be covered with crushed gravel or paved with
asphalt, concrete or similar material.
   (H)   If renting for more than one week per year, the leasee shall provide
toilets or lavatories for each property.
   (I)   Each unit space shall be maintained in a neat appearance at all times.
Except for the primary space described in division (A) above, there shall be no
outdoor storage of materials or equipment. Grounds keeping maintenance shall be
the responsibility of the leasee.
   (J)   Each vendor shall provide the city with proof of liability insurance,
insuring vendor and city from claims for personal injury, real and/or personal
property damage from activities on the subject property.
   (K)   Each unit on the subject property shall be located no closer than 12
feet from another unit on the subject property. Each unit on the subject
property shall be located no closer than ten feet from the property boundary.
In addition, each unit on the subject property shall have a setback on at least
one side of 40 feet from a public street or property boundary, for adequate
off-street parking and vehicle maneuvering.
   (L)   Each mobile unit permitted on the subject property shall meet the
following standards as determined by an inspection by the building official.
      (1)   It shall have a state insignia indicating compliance with State
Construction Standards in effect at the time of manufacture, and including
compliance for reconstruction or equipment installation made after manufacture.
      (2)   Notwithstanding deterioration which may have occurred due to
misuse, neglect, accident or other cause, the mobile unit shall meet the state
standards for construction evidenced by the insignia.
   (M)   Each unit on the subject property shall maintain emergency shut-off or
disconnection points for all utilities and be able to be disconnected from
these utilities (sewer, water and electrical services) and vacated safely and
timely from the subject property in the event of flooding or other natural
hazards or other emergency in order to protect life and property.
   (N)   The name of the proprietor/business shall be clearly displayed to the
public.
(Res. 1796, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 110.094 OPEN SPACE TEMPORARY UNIT APPLICATION.
APPLICANT INFORMATION
Last Name                First M.I.                      Date
Mailing Address                                           Apartment/Unit #
City                     State                           ZIP
Phone                    Cell Number
Email Address                   Proposed Start Date
Preferred Location Applied for:
Is your business non- YES NO    Length of rental request: Weekly
profit?                            Daily               Monthly
Will food be sold?    YES NO    If not, what will be sold?
Do you have liability YES NO    If NO, explain
insurance?
BUSINESS INFORMATION
Name of business                Owner’s Name             
Name of Persons Involved in     Address
Your Business
                     Name      Relationship of Person
1.
2.
3.
      
DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
DIAGRAM OF UNIT SETUP
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EMERGENCY CONTACT INFORMATION
Name                            Phone Number
Address
Any Other Information:
DISCLAIMER AND SIGNATURE
Signature:                Date
 
FOR CITY HALL USE:
Location Assigned:             Routed to Police:      
City Business License Number:  Application Fee Paid:  
Date:                          Date Paid:             
Authorized By:
 
(Res. 1796, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 110.095 OPEN SPACE TEMPORARY UNIT FEE SCHEDULE.
   A one-time application fee of $150 is due at submission of an application.
 
             Peak Season May - September Off-Peak Season October - April
Daily rate   $40                         $40
Weekly rate  $200                        $150
Monthly rate $800                        $500
Annual rate  $625 per month ($7,500 annual lease)
 
(Res. 1796, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 110.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Penalty(s) for violation of any section of §§
110.001 through
110.016 are to be set by resolution.
      (2)   Each day’s violation of a provision of §§
110.001 through
110.016 constitutes a separate violation.
      (3)   A citation or other charging instrument filed in court shall
include all violations from the date of any written warning notice (also known
as abatement), as cited in the charging instrument.
   (C)   Violation of any provision of §§
110.045 through
110.059 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $200.
(Prior Code, § 110.999)
   (D)   Unless otherwise indicated, any offense under this chapter is
classified as a violation punishable by a fine set by resolution. Penalties not
set by resolution shall be $250 per violation.
(Ord. 984, passed 9-15-1980; Ord. 1173, passed 4-15-2002; Ord. 1175, passed 6-
17-2002; Ord. 1288, passed 4-7-2014; Ord. 1315, passed 6-6-2016)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Amusement Devices, Pinball Games and the Like
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   Privilege license fee
   
111.03   License year defined
   
111.04   Receipt
   
111.05   Display of receipt
   
111.06   Effective date
Social Games and Games of Chance
   
111.20   Gambling prohibited; confiscation of property
   
111.21   Definitions
   
111.22   Application for license
   
111.23   Cardroom license not transferable
   
111.24   Granting and denial of application
   
111.25   Suspension and revocation of license
   
111.26   Regulations
   
111.27   Signs
   
111.28   Cardroom and card table fees
   
111.29   Exceptions to license
Occult Arts
   
111.40   License required
   
111.41   Application; fees
 
   
111.99   Penalty
AMUSEMENT DEVICES, PINBALL GAMES AND THE LIKE
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT DEVICE. A device designed to be operated for music or amusement
only or for playing a game by the insertion of legal tender of the United
States in the machine, which amusement device is so designed and constructed
that it cannot pay tokens, money or any other thing of value in violation of
the laws of the state, and which can be operated, played or employed for
amusement purposes only.
(Prior Code, § 111.001) (Ord. 1123, passed 6-1-1992)
§ 111.02 PRIVILEGE LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on every music and amusement device of every
description or designation a privilege license fee as follows: each music
machine, $50 annually; for every amusement device or game, $100 annually;
provided, however, that a maximum fee of $1,000 shall be charged annually to
any one licensee for amusement devices or games located at any one business
location, notwithstanding the number of devices or games exceeding ten in
number at one location.
(Prior Code, § 111.002) (Ord. 1123, passed 6-1-1992)
§ 111.03 LICENSE YEAR DEFINED.
   The fee as specified in §
111.02 shall be paid on an annual basis. The license year for the purposes of
this subchapter shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31.
(Prior Code, § 111.003) (Ord. 1123, passed 6-1-1992)
§ 111.04 RECEIPT.
   Upon payment of the privilege license fee hereby imposed, the City Recorder
shall issue to each applicant a receipt therefor. For each new amusement device
or game acquired any time after January 1 of any year, the full fee as listed
in §
111.02 shall be paid on a monthly proration to year end. All license fees paid
shall be nonrefundable.
(Prior Code, § 111.004) (Ord. 1123, passed 6-1-1992)
§ 111.05 DISPLAY OF RECEIPT.
   It is hereby made unlawful for any person to display in any public or
private place of amusement or business in the city any amusement device subject
to the fee imposed by this subchapter unless there is affixed to the device
subject to the fee, or posted in a conspicuous place in the room in which the
device is displayed, a receipt of the City Recorder for payment of the fee. The
receipt, sticker or label shall contain the name and address of the owner and
operator thereof, the number of the device, the receipt number, the date issued
and the year and months for which the same is issued, signed by the City
Recorder. Absence of a duly issued receipt as herein provided shall be prima
facie evidence that the fee has not been paid.
(Prior Code, § 111.005) (Ord. 1123, passed 6-1-1992) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect 30 days from the date it
is signed by the Mayor of the city.
(Prior Code, § 111.006) (Ord. 1123, passed 6-1-1992)
SOCIAL GAMES AND GAMES OF CHANCE
§ 111.20 GAMBLING PROHIBITED; CONFISCATION OF PROPERTY.
   No person shall participate in, operate or assist in operating any gambling
game or activity, including a lottery. No person shall have in his or her
possession any property, instrument or device designed or adapted for use in
any type of gambling activity. Any such property, instrument or device is a
nuisance and may be summarily seized by any police officer. Property so seized
shall be placed in the custody of the Chief of Police of the city. Upon
conviction of the person owning or controlling the property for a violation of
this section, the municipal judge shall order the property confiscated and
destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 111.020) (Ord. 855, passed 1-3-1977) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARDROOM. Any place open to the public wherein any table is maintained upon
which games of cards are played.
   GAMBLING.
      (1)   Any contest, game, gaming scheme, gaming device or machine in which
the outcome depends in a material degree upon an element of chance,
notwithstanding the skill of the contestants may also be a factor therein.
      (2)   The term GAMBLING shall not include social games.
   SOCIAL GAMES.
      (1)   A game involving the playing of cards only, which does not include
lotteries or any game involving the use of any property, instrument or device
designed or adapted for the use in any type of gambling activity, between
players in a private home where no house player, house bank or house odds
exist, and there is no house income from the operation of the SOCIAL GAME.
      (2)   A game involving the playing of cards only, which does not include
lotteries or any game involving the use of any property, instrument or device
designed or adapted for the use in any type of gambling activity, between
players in a private business, private club or place of public accommodation,
where no house player, house bank or house odds exist and there is no income
from the operation of the SOCIAL GAMES.
(Prior Code, § 111.021) (Ord. 855, passed 1-3-1977)
§ 111.22 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   From and after this date, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to engage in or carry on, or maintain or conduct any cardroom in
the city without having valid license for the cardroom and licenses for the
card tables therein. Any person desiring to obtain licenses under the
provisions of this subchapter shall pay to the City Recorder fees as specified
in §
111.28.
(Prior Code, § 111.022) (Ord. 855, passed 1-3-1977; Ord. 994, passed 5-4-1981)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.23 CARDROOM LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No cardroom license shall be assignable or transferable. A change of persons
having a financial interest in a licensed business shall be reported
immediately to the City Manager, who shall order an investigation by the Police
Department and the changes approved or denied by the City Council. Application
for change of financial ownership shall be accompanied by a $65 nonrefundable
investigation fee.
(Prior Code, § 111.023) (Ord. 855, passed 1-3-1977; Ord. 994, passed 5-4-1981)
§ 111.24 GRANTING AND DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall either approve the application and grant the
license applied for or deny the application and refuse to grant the license.
   (B)   The above shall not be granted if:
      (1)   The applicant has been previously convicted of a felony within the
last ten years;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted of five misdemeanors, the last of
which was within five years;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of or forfeited bail for any crime
involving gambling within the last five years;
      (4)   The applicant has been directly or indirectly involved in a
forfeiture proceeding regarding a gambling device, as defined in state
statutes, where the gambling device has been ordered destroyed, or a bond has
been forfeited in lieu of the gambling device being destroyed within the last
five years;
      (5)   Any false or misleading information is supplied in the application
or any information requested is omitted from the application;
      (6)   The applicant has had a license which was in his or her name
revoked or suspended three times by the State Liquor Control Commission, the
last of which was in the last five years;
      (7)   The applicant violates any section of this subchapter; or
      (8)   Any other conduct involving moral turpitude on the part of the
applicant.
(Prior Code, § 111.024) (Ord. 855, passed 1-3-1977; Ord. 1027, passed 1-17-
1983)
§ 111.25 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Manager shall temporarily suspend any cardroom license issued
hereunder if:
      (1)   Any person who has any interest in the business has been previously
convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Any person who has any interest in the business has been convicted
of five misdemeanors, except minor traffic offenses;
      (3)   Any person who has any interest in the business has been convicted
of or forfeited bail for any crime involving gambling;
      (4)   Any person who has any interest in the business has been directly
or indirectly involved in a forfeiture proceeding regarding a gambling device,
as defined in the state statutes, where the gambling device has been ordered
destroyed or a bond has been forfeited in lieu of the gambling device being
destroyed;
      (5)   Any false or misleading information is supplied in the application;
      (6)   Any person who has any interest in the business has had a license
which was in his or her name revoked or suspended three times by the State
Liquor Control Commission;
      (7)   Any person who has any interest in the business or any employee who
violates any section of this subchapter; or
      (8)   Any other conduct involving moral turpitude on the part of any
person who has any interest in the business.
   (B)   Action in this respect shall be subject to the right of appeal to the
City Council meeting in regular Council session. Notice of the appeal shall be
filed with the City Recorder within ten days or the action shall be deemed
final and conclusive. A temporary suspension shall be 30 days.
   (C)   Permanent revocation may be made only by the City Council, and the
revocation shall only take place at a City Council meeting in regular City
Council session upon application of the City Manager and only after the
licensee has been served with notice at least 20 days prior to the City Council
meeting. The notice shall include the time and date of the City Council meeting
and the grounds upon which the permanent revocation is sought. Notice shall be
deemed to have been received by the licensee if the City Manager mails the
notice to the address listed by the licensee on his or her application for a
license.
(Prior Code, § 111.025) (Ord. 855, passed 1-3-1977; Ord. 1027, passed 1-17-
1983)
§ 111.26 REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a cardroom in violation of any of the
following regulations and rules.
   (A)   With respect to the social games set forth in this subchapter, there
shall be a limit on any bet of $10 and a three-raise limit.
   (B)   Licensees holding or obtaining licenses under the provisions of this
subchapter shall thereby automatically agree to be bound by and observe each
and all of the terms, conditions and provisions of this subchapter and of the
regulations and rules established thereby.
   (C)   Each and all of the games conducted or operated in the city pursuant
to the provisions of this subchapter shall be conducted and operated in full
conformity with, and subject to, all the provisions of the laws of this state
and the city.
   (D)   No licensee shall allow the use of any cardroom between the hours of
2:30 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. of any day.
   (E)   All cardrooms shall be open to police inspection during all hours of
operation. The cardroom license shall be available for inspection during all
hours of operation.
   (F)   No person who has any direct financial interest in a business
permitting social gaming, per this subchapter and state law, shall participate
in any card game, procure players, back, farm out, assign or sublet any card
games lawfully permitted on the premises in which the person has any interest
or works. DIRECT FINANCIAL INTEREST means any interest, legal or equitable, of
any person as an owner, co-owner, stockholder, officer or shareholder in any
corporation, joint venture, partnership, trading company or association.
   (G)   The playing of all card games shall be so arranged as to provide free
access and visibility to any interested party. Doors leading into the cardroom
must remain unlocked during all hours of operation.
   (H)   No person under the age of 21 shall be permitted to participate in any
card game or to enter or remain upon the premises.
   (I)   No charge shall be collected from any player for the privilege of
participating in any game.
   (J)   With respect to tables at which any form of Blackjack or Twenty-one is
played, there shall be a limit of three tables for the play in any licensed
cardroom.
   (K)   To provide for special events and promotional programs temporary
tables will be allowed. The following requirements for temporary tables shall
apply in addition to regulations set forth in this subchapter for regular table
operations:
      (1)   The maximum number of tables in operation shall not exceed six,
including regularly licensed tables;
      (2)   Licenses must be issued prior to the use of the temporary tables;
      (3)   The license fee for temporary tables shall be per §
111.28;
      (4)   Temporary table licenses may be suspended or denied by the City
Manager upon receiving a report from the Chief of Police of the city that the
business establishment of a temporary license has become a law enforcement
problem by reason of any of the following:
         (a)   Rowdy and/or disorderly conduct occurring on the premises of the
licensed business;
         (b)   Drunkenness and/or being under the influence of intoxicants on
the premises of the licensed business;
         (c)   The use, possession, sale, gifts, barter or exchange by any
person on the premises of licensed business of any controlled substance, as
defined by O.R.S. 475.005, or any drug whose possession, sale, exchange, gift
or use is made illegal by any law of this state or of the United States;
         (d)   Gambling occurring and/or permitted on the premises of the
licensed business contrary to the law of the state and/or this subchapter; or
         (e)   Any lewd, lascivious or immoral conduct or act occurring upon
the premises of the licensed business which is contrary to or offends the
current moral standards of the community.
      (5)   Denial or suspension of all temporary table licenses may be made by
the City Manager upon receiving a report by the Chief of Police that, on the
dates of special promotional events, increased law enforcement demands occur
within public or private properties within the city by reason of the following:
         (a)   Drunkenness and/or being under the influence of intoxicants;
         (b)   Rowdy and/or disorderly conduct;
         (c)   Lewd, lascivious or immoral conduct or acts; and/or
         (d)   Vandalism of public or private property.
      (6)   Upon suspension of a temporary license, the licensee may give
notice of an appeal to the City Recorder within 24 hours of being advised by
the City Manager of the suspension. Within 48 hours after an appeal is filed, a
hearing shall be held before the City Recorder, at which time the licensee
shall show cause why the temporary license suspensions should not be made
permanent. When the City Manager gives notice of the suspension to the
licensee, there shall be included with the notice the reason for the
suspension. The burden of proof pertaining to a suspension of a license shall
be by the preponderance of the evidence.
(Prior Code, § 111.026) (Ord. 855, passed 1-3-1977; Ord. 989, passed 2-3-1981;
Ord. 1027, passed 1-17-1983; Ord. 1070, passed 5-19-1986; Ord. 1974, passed 7-
21-1986) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.27 SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs advertising gambling, playing of cards or advertising specific
forms of card playing or enticing players shall not be displayed so as to be
seen from outside the building housing the cardroom.
   (B)   Signs visible from inside the building, informing the public in which
areas cards may be played and/or designating permitted games, will be allowed.
   (C)   Neon signs or flashing light signs will not be permitted.
   (D)   Signs, and the placement of same, shall first be approved by the City
Manager.
(Prior Code, § 111.027) (Ord. 855, passed 1-3-1977; Ord. 994, passed 5-4-1981)
§ 111.28 CARDROOM AND CARD TABLE FEES.
   Any person who shall keep, maintain or operate any cardroom shall pay in
advance a yearly cardroom license fee of $50. Tables at which any form of
Blackjack or Twenty-one is played shall be charged each quarter a table license
fee of $140, or once annually a table license fee of $500, at the option of the
applicant. Quarterly licenses shall expire on March 31, June 30, September 30
and December 31, respectively, during the year. Annual licenses shall expire on
December 31 of the year for which it is issued. Card tables used for other card
games shall be charged $50 for each card table kept or maintained therein.
Cardroom and table licenses shall expire on December 31 of the year for which
they are issued.
(Prior Code, § 111.028) (Ord. 855, passed 1-3-1977; Ord. 975, passed 7-7-1980;
Ord. 994, passed 5-4-1981; Ord. 1042, passed 2-7-1984)
§ 111.29 EXCEPTIONS TO LICENSE.
   A nonprofit society, club or fraternal organization having adopted bylaws
and duly elected directors and members may be granted a permit at an annual fee
of $500, expiring on December 31, when it appears that the tables are for the
exclusive use of members of the society, club or fraternal organization, and no
charge is made for participation. The society, club or fraternal organization
shall have been in continuous existence, actively conducting its affairs in the
city for a period of two years immediately preceding application for a license,
and only if the conduct of a cardroom is not the primary reason for existence
of the society, club or fraternal organization.
(Prior Code, § 111.029) (Ord. 855, passed 1-3-1977; Ord. 975, passed 7-7-1980)
OCCULT ARTS
§ 111.40 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful from and after the passage of this subchapter for any
person to engage in the business of telling fortunes or the practice of
necromancy, conjuration, spiritualism, mesmerism or any of the occult arts or
sciences for the purpose of healing or otherwise within the corporate limits of
the city for a fee or consideration of any kind, without first having obtained
a license from the City Recorder so to do.
(Prior Code, § 111.080) (Ord. 554, passed 10-16-1939) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.41 APPLICATION; FEES.
   Any person desiring to engage in the business of telling fortunes or the
practice of necromancy, conjuration, spiritualism, mesmerism or any of the
occult arts or sciences for the purpose of healing or otherwise, for a fee or
consideration paid directly or indirectly, shall apply to the City Recorder for
a license and at the time of making the application shall deposit with the City
Recorder the sum of $10, which application shall be presented to the City
Council at its next regular meeting and shall be then considered by the City
Council; and if the application be approved by the Council, the City Recorder
shall thereupon issue a license to the applicant upon the payment of $10
license fee; and the license shall authorize the person to engage in the
business or practice described in the license for a period of one week;
provided, however, that the licensee prior to the expiration of the period of
one week may pay an additional $5 which will automatically extend the license
period for an additional week; and the license may continue from week to week
upon payment of the $5 until the same shall be revoked by order of the City
Council. In the event the license be not granted, the City Recorder shall
return the application, together with the $10 fee paid.
(Prior Code, § 111.081) (Ord. 554, passed 10-16-1939)
Cross-reference:
   Occult arts, see also §
110.005
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
111.01 through
111.06, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the
privilege license fee amount plus court costs.
   (C)   Violation of, or failure to comply with, any provision of §§
111.20 through
111.29 is punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not to exceed $1,000, or
imprisonment in jail not to exceed one year, or both the fine and imprisonment.
   (D)   Violation of any provision of §§
111.40 and
111.41 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 111.999)
   (E)   Unless otherwise indicated, any offense under this chapter is
classified as a violation punishable by a fine set by resolution. Penalties not
set by resolution shall be $250 per violation.
(Ord. 554, passed 10-16-1939; Ord. 855, passed 1-3-1977; Ord. 874, passed 3-28-
1977; Ord. 1123, passed 6-1-1992; Ord. 1301, passed 4-20-2015; Ord. 1315,
passed 6-6-2016)
CHAPTER 112: ADULT BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Findings of fact
   
112.03   Additional enforcement
   
112.04   Business hours
   
112.05   Activities not prohibited
Administration
   
112.20   License suspension or revocation
   
112.21   Notice of appeal
   
112.22   Date, time, place for hearing
   
112.23   Scope of matters considered in appeal
   
112.24   Waiver of right to appeal
   
112.25   Action after hearing
   
112.26   Appeal from City Council
   
112.27   Stay during appeal
Licenses
   
112.40   License for establishment required; fee; expiration
   
112.41   License for managers, entertainers required; fee
   
112.42   Due date for license fees
   
112.43   Renewal of license; late penalty
   
112.44   License applications
   
112.45   Manager on premises
Regulations
   
112.60   Standards of conduct and operation
   
112.61   List of entertainments; fees
   
112.62   Physical layout of premises; sight obstructions
   
112.63   Notice to customers
   
112.64   Additional requirements for peepshows
   
112.65   Additional requirements for adult entertainment establishments
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Any exhibition, performance or dance of any type
conducted in a premises where the exhibition, performance or dance involves a
person who is unclothed or in such costume, attire or clothing as to expose any
portion of the breast below the top of the areola or any portion of the pubic
region, anus, buttocks, vulva or genitals, or wearing any device or covering
exposed to view which simulates the appearance of any portion of the female
breast below the top of the areola or any portion of the pubic region, anus,
buttocks, vulva or genitals, or human male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if completely and opaquely covered; or any exhibition, performance
or dance of any type conducted in a premises where the exhibition, performance
or dance is distinguished or characterized by a predominant emphasis on the
depiction, description, simulation or relation to the following specified
sexual activities:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breast; or
      (4)   Any exhibition, performance or dance intended to sexually stimulate
any patron and conducted in a premises where the exhibition, performance or
dance is performed for, arranged with or engaged in with fewer than all patrons
on the premises at that time, with separate consideration paid, either directly
or indirectly, for the performance, exhibition or dance. For purposes of
example and not limitation, these exhibitions, performances or dances are
commonly referred to as table dancing, couch dancing, taxi dancing, lap
dancing, private dancing or straddle dancing.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. Any commercial premises to which any
patron is invited or admitted and where adult entertainment is provided on a
regular basis and as a substantial part of the premises activity.
   APPLICANT. The individual or entity seeking an adult entertainment license
in the city.
   APPLICANT CONTROL PERSONS. All partners, corporate officers and directors
and any other individuals in the applicant’s business organization who holds a
significant interest in the adult entertainment establishment, based on
responsibility for management of the adult entertainment business.
    EMPLOYEE. Any and all persons, including managers, entertainers and
independent contractors who work in or at or render any services directly
related to the operation of any adult entertainment establishment.
   ENTERTAINER. Any person who provides live adult entertainment, whether or
not a fee is charged or accepted for the entertainment.
   MANAGER. Any person who manages, directs, administers or is in charge of the
affairs and/or the conduct of any portion of any activity involving adult
entertainment occurring at any adult entertainment establishment.
   OPERATOR. Any person operating, conducting or maintaining an adult
entertainment establishment.
   PANORAMA or PEEPSHOW. Any device which, upon insertion of a coin or by any
other means of payment, including membership fee or other charge, exhibits or
displays a picture or view by film, video or by any other means, including
observation of live performances.
   PANORAMA PREMISES. Any premises or portion of a premises or portion of a
premises on which a panorama is located and which is open to the public,
including through membership.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, trust, incorporated or
unincorporated association, marital community, joint venture, governmental
entity or other entity or group of persons, however organized.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Acts of:
      (1)   Sexual intercourse within its ordinary meaning;
      (2)   Any contact between persons involving the sex organs of one person
and the mouth or anus of another;
      (3)   Masturbation, manual or instrumental, of oneself or of one person
by another; or
      (4)   Touching of the sex organs or anus, of oneself or of one person by
another.
(Prior Code, § 112.01) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   Based on public testimony and other evidence presented to it, the City
Council makes the following findings of fact.
   (A)   The secondary effects of the activities defined and regulated in this
chapter are detrimental to the public health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the citizens of the city and, therefore, these activities must be
regulated.
   (B)   Regulation of the adult entertainment industry is necessary because,
in the absence of the regulation, significant criminal activity has
historically and regularly occurred. This history of criminal activity in the
adult entertainment industry has included prostitution, illegal employment of
minors, narcotics and alcoholic beverage law violations, breaches of the peace,
tax evasion and the presence within the industry of individuals with hidden
ownership interests and outstanding arrest warrants.
   (C)   Proximity between entertainers and patrons during adult entertainment
performances can facilitate sexual contact, prostitution and related crimes.
Concerns about crime and public sexual activity are legitimate and compelling
concerns of the city which demand reasonable regulation of adult entertainment
establishments in order to protect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   (D)   The activities described in divisions (B) and (C) above occur, in the
absence of regulation, regardless of whether the adult entertainment is
presented in conjunction with the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   It is necessary to license entertainers in the adult entertainment
industry to prevent the exploitation of minors, to ensure that each entertainer
is an adult and to ensure that the entertainers have not assumed a false name,
which would make regulation of the entertainer difficult or impossible.
   (F)   It is necessary to have a licensed manager on the premises of
establishments offering adult entertainment at such times as the establishments
are offering adult entertainment so that there will at all necessary times be
an individual responsible for the overall operation of the adult entertainment
establishment, including the actions of patrons, entertainers and other
employees.
   (G)   The license fees required in this chapter are necessary as nominal
fees imposed as necessary regulatory measures designed to help defray the
substantial expenses incurred by the city in regulating the adult entertainment
industry.
   (H)   Hidden ownership interests for the purposes of skimming profits and
avoiding the payment of taxes have historically occurred in the adult
entertainment industry in the absence of regulation. These hidden ownership
interests have historically been held by organized and white collar crime
elements. In order for the city to effectively protect the public health,
safety, morals and general welfare of its citizens and effectively allocate its
law enforcement resources, it is important that the city be fully apprised of
the actual ownership of adult entertainment establishments, and identities and
backgrounds of persons responsible for management and control of the adult
entertainment establishment.
   (I)   It is not the intent of this chapter to suppress or censor any
expressive activities protected by the First Amendment of the United States
Constitution or Article 1 of the state constitution, but rather to enact time,
place and manner regulations which address the compelling interests of the city
in mitigating the secondary effects of adult entertainment establishments.
   (J)   In an undercover operation in 1995, police officers entered the Deja
Vu adult entertainment establishment in Federal Way, Washington over an
approximately five-month period. Approximately 24 criminal violations were
charged for acts occurring while the officers were inside Deja Vu. Police
officers repeatedly observed managers ignoring criminal law violations
committed inside Deja Vu, within a short distance from the manager. Managers
would look at the patrons/officers while criminal violations were committed by
the entertainers. Entertainers continuously violated the Federal Way City Code.
There have been numerous instances where entertainers masturbate the patrons
and where the entertainers, without invitation, press their vaginas on the
genital area and mouths of the patrons, including undercover officers.
   (K)   Experience in the city demonstrates that in less than three months of
operation of one adult entertainment establishment, violations of liquor laws,
controlled substance laws, assaults, lewd conduct, vandalism and excessive
noise were reported. In addition, within a few days of operation a serious
injury was suffered by an employee of the establishment which resulted in
hospitalization and reportedly lifelong debility. As a consequence of repeated
offenses by this establishment, the State Liquor Control Commission denied the
application for a permanent liquor license for the establishment based on the
negative neighborhood impact.
(Prior Code, § 112.02) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.03 ADDITIONAL ENFORCEMENT.
   Notwithstanding the existence or use of any other remedy, the City Recorder
may seek legal or equitable relief to enjoin any acts or practices which
constitute or will constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.03) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.04 BUSINESS HOURS.
   No adult entertainment shall be conducted between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and
10:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 112.04) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.05 ACTIVITIES NOT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   This chapter shall not be construed to prohibit:
      (1)   Plays, operas, musicals or other dramatic works which are not
obscene, as defined in this chapter;
      (2)   Classes, seminars and lectures held for serious scientific or
educational purposes; or
      (3)   Exhibitions or dances which are not obscene.
   (B)   Whether or not activity is obscene shall be judged by consideration of
the following factors:
      (1)   Whether the average person, applying contemporary community
standards, would find that the activity taken as a whole appeals to a prurient
interest in sex;
      (2)   Whether the activity depicts or describes in a patently offensive
way, as measured against community standards, sexual contact as described in
O.R.S. 163.305; and
      (3)   Whether the activity taken as a whole lacks serious literary,
artistic, political or scientific value.
(Prior Code, § 112.05) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 112.20 LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Recorder may, at any time upon the recommendation of the
Chief of Police and as provided below, suspend or revoke any license issued
under this chapter:
      (1)   Where the license was procured by fraud or false representation of
fact;
      (2)   For the violation of, or failure to comply with, the provisions of
this chapter or any other similar local or state law by the licensee or by any
its servants, agents or employees when the licensee knew or should have known
of the violations committed by its servants, agents or employees; or
      (3)   For the conviction of the licensee of any crime or offense
involving prostitution, promoting prostitution or transactions involving
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (as that term is defined in O.R.S. 167.002 through
167.027) committed on the premises, or the conviction of any of the licensee’s
servants, agents or employees of any crime or offense involving prostitution,
promoting prostitution, or transactions involving CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (as
that term is defined in O.R.S. Chapter 475) committed on the licensed premises
when the licensee knew or should have known of the violations committed by its
servants, agents or employees.
   (B)   A license procured by fraud or misrepresentation shall be revoked.
Where other violations of this chapter or other applicable ordinances, statutes
or regulations are found, the license shall be suspended for a period of 30
days upon the first violation, 90 days upon the second violation with a 24-
month period, and revoked for third and subsequent violations within a 24-month
period, not including periods of suspension.
   (C)   The City Recorder shall provide at least ten days’ prior written
notice to the licensee of the decision to suspend or revoke the license. The
notice shall inform the licensee of the right to appeal the decision to the
hearing examiner or other designated hearing body and shall state the effective
date of the revocation or suspension and the grounds for revocation or
suspension.
   (D)   Notification shall be by personal service or registered or certified
mail, return receipt requested, of the decision. Notice mailed to the address
on file shall be deemed received three days after mailing. The notice shall
specify the grounds for the suspension or revocation. The suspension or
revocation shall become effective ten days from the date the notice is
delivered or deemed received unless the person affected thereby files a written
request with the City Recorder for a hearing before the City Council within the
ten-day period. The City Council shall conduct a hearing and render its
decision within 45 days following the close of the appeal hearing. Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the City Council shall have the right to appeal
the decision to the Circuit Court within 14 days of the City Council’s
decision, by writ of mandamus as provided in the state statutes. The decision
of the City Recorder shall be stayed during the pendency of any administrative
and judicial appeals, except as provided in division (E) below.
   (E)   Where the city building official, Fire Marshal or the County Health
Department find that any condition exists upon the premises of an adult
entertainment establishment which constitutes a threat of immediate serious
injury or damage to persons or property, the official may immediately suspend
any license issued under this chapter pending a hearing in accordance with
division (C) above. The official shall issue notice setting forth the basis for
the action and the facts that constitute a threat of immediate serious injury
or damage to persons or property, and informing the licensee of the right to
appeal the suspension to the City Council under the same appeal provisions set
forth in division (C) above; provided, however, that a suspension based on
threat of immediate serious injury or damage shall not be stayed during the
pendency of the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 112.20) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.21 NOTICE OF APPEAL.
   Any person falling under the provisions of this chapter may appeal from any
notice of suspension, denial or revocation or civil penalty assessment by
filing with the City Recorder within ten days from the date the notice is
delivered or deemed received, a written appeal containing:
   (A)   A heading in the words: “Before the City Council for the City of
Tillamook”;
   (B)   A caption reading “appeal of” giving the names of all appellants
participating in the appeal;
   (C)   A brief statement setting forth the legal interest of each of the
appellants participating in the appeal;
   (D)   A brief statement in concise language of the specific order or action
protested, together with any material facts claimed to support the contentions
of the appellant;
   (E)   A brief statement in concise language of the relief sought, and the
reasons why it is claimed the protested order or action should be reversed,
modified or otherwise set aside;
   (F)   The signatures of all parties named as appellants, and their official
mailing addresses; and
   (G)   The verification, by declaration under penalty of perjury, of at least
one appellant as to the truth of the matters stated in the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 112.21) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.22 DATE, TIME, PLACE FOR HEARING.
   As soon as practicable after receiving the written appeal, the City Council
shall fix a date, time and place for the hearing of the appeal before the City
Council. The date shall be not less than ten days nor more than 30 days from
the date the appeal was filed with the City Recorder, unless the parties agree
to an extension of time. Written notice of the time and place of the hearing
shall be given at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing to each
appellant by the City Recorder either by causing a copy of the notice to be
delivered to the appellant personally or by mailing a copy thereof, postage
prepaid, addressed to the appellant at his or her address shown on the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 112.22) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.23 SCOPE OF MATTERS CONSIDERED IN APPEAL.
   Only those matters or issues specifically raised by the appellant in the
written notice of appeal shall be considered in the hearing of the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 112.23) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.24 WAIVER OF RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Failure of any person to file an appeal in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter shall constitute a waiver of his or her right to an
administrative hearing and adjudication of the notice and order, or any portion
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 112.24) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.25 ACTION AFTER HEARING.
   Upon completion of the hearing, the City Council shall:
   (A)   Affirm the City Recorder’s decision; or
   (B)   Reverse or modify the City Recorder’s decision.
(Prior Code, § 112.25) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.26 APPEAL FROM CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City Council shall have
the right to appeal the decision to the Circuit Court within 14 days of the
City Council’s decision, by writ of mandamus as provided in the state statutes.
   (B)   If no appeal is filed, or the applicant or license holder does not
follow the procedures within the time periods set forth in this chapter, the
City Council decision shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 112.26) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.27 STAY DURING APPEAL.
   The decision of the City Recorder to suspend, revoke or refuse to renew a
license under this chapter shall be stayed during administrative and judicial
review, but refusal to issue an initial license shall not be stayed.
(Prior Code, § 112.27) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
LICENSES
§ 112.40 LICENSE FOR ESTABLISHMENT REQUIRED; FEE; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Adult entertainment establishments shall not be operated or maintained
in the city unless the owner or operator has first obtained a license from the
City Recorder, as set forth in this chapter. It is unlawful for any
entertainer, employee or operator to knowingly work in or about, or to
knowingly perform any service directly related to the operation of any
unlicensed adult entertainment establishment.
   (B)   The fee for an adult entertainment establishment license in the city
as required in this section is $500 per year.
(Prior Code, § 112.40) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.41 LICENSE FOR MANAGERS, ENTERTAINERS REQUIRED; FEE.
   No person shall work as a manager or entertainer at an adult entertainment
establishment without having first obtained a manager’s or an entertainer’s
license from the City Recorder pursuant to §§ 9-110(b) and 9-111. The annual
fee for the license shall be $50.
(Prior Code, § 112.41) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.42 DUE DATE FOR LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The license fee required by §
112.40 is due and payable to the City Recorder at least two weeks before the
opening of the adult entertainment establishment.
   (B)   The license fees required by §§
112.40 and
112.41 are due and payable to the City Recorder before the beginning of the
entertainment or beginning employment.
   (C)   Every license issued or renewed pursuant to this chapter shall expire
on December 31 of each year.
   (D)   The entire annual license fee shall be paid for the applicable
calendar year regardless of when the application for license is made, and shall
not be prorated for any part of the year, except that if the original
application for license is made subsequent to June 30, the license fee for the
remainder of that year shall be one-half of the annual license fee. Annual
license renewals shall be required to be obtained and paid in full by January
31 of each respective calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 112.42) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.43 RENEWAL OF LICENSE; LATE PENALTY.
   (A)   A late penalty shall be charged on all applications for renewal of a
license received later than seven days after the expiration date of the license
as set forth in the respective resolution or ordinance establishing the
expiration date of the license.
   (B)   The amount of the penalty is fixed as follows:
 
Days Past Due Additional
8 – 30      $25
31 – 60     $50
61 and over   $100
 
(Prior Code, § 112.43) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.44 LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Adult entertainment establishment license.
      (1)   Required information:
         (a)   All applications for an adult entertainment establishment
license shall be submitted to the City Recorder in the name of the person or
entity proposing to conduct the adult entertainment establishment on the
business premises and shall be signed by the person or his or her agent and
notarized or certified as true under penalty of perjury.
         (b)   All applications shall be submitted on a form supplied by the
city, which shall require the following information:
            1.   The name of the applicant, location and doing-business-as name
of the proposed adult entertainment establishment, including a legal
description of the property, street address and telephone number, together with
the name and address of each owner and lessee of the property;
            2.   For the applicant and for each applicant control person,
provide: names; any aliases or previous names; driver’s license number, if any;
Social Security number, if any; and business, mailing and residential address,
and business telephone number;
            3.   If the applicant is a partnership, whether general or limited;
and if a corporation, date and place of incorporation, evidence that it is in
good standing under the laws of this state, and name and address of any
registered agent for service of process;
            4.   For the applicant and each applicant control person, list any
other licenses currently held for similar adult entertainment or sexually
oriented businesses, including motion picture theaters and panoramas, whether
from the city or another city, county, state and, if so, the names and
addresses of each other licensed business;
            5.   For the applicant and each applicant control person, list
prior licenses held for similar adult entertainment or other sexually oriented
businesses, whether from the city or from another city, county or state,
providing names, addresses and dates of operation for the businesses, and
whether any business license or adult entertainment license has been revoked or
suspended, and the reason therefor;
            6.   For the applicant and all applicant control persons, any and
all criminal convictions or forfeitures within five years immediately preceding
the date of the application, other than parking offenses or minor traffic
infractions including the dates of conviction, nature of the crime, name and
location of court and disposition;
            7.   For the applicant and all applicant control persons, a
description of business, occupation or employment history for the three years
immediately preceding the date of the application;
            8.   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to seek
information to confirm any statements set forth in the application;
            9.   Two two-inch by two-inch photographs of the applicant and
applicant control persons, taken within six months of the date of application
showing only the full face;
            10.   For the applicant or each applicant control person, a
complete set of fingerprints prepared at the City Police Department on forms
provided by the Department; and
            11.   A scale drawing or diagram showing the configuration of the
premises for the proposed adult entertainment establishment, including a
statement of the total floor space occupied by the business, and marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises. Performance areas, seating areas,
manager’s office and stations, restrooms and service areas shall be clearly
marked on the drawing. An application for a license for an adult entertainment
establishment shall include building plans which demonstrate conformance with
this chapter.
      (2)   The application must demonstrate compliance with the provisions of
the city’s zoning code concerning allowable locations for adult entertainment
establishments.
      (3)   An application shall be deemed complete upon the applicant’s
provision of all information requested above, including identification of
“none” where that is the correct response, and the applicant’s verification
that the application is complete. The City Recorder may request other
information or clarification in addition to that provided in a complete
application, where necessary to determine compliance with this chapter.
      (4)   A nonrefundable application fee in the amount of $65 must be paid
at the time of filing an application, in order to defray the costs of
processing the application.
      (5)   Each applicant shall verify, under penalty of perjury, that the
information contained in the application is true.
      (6)   If any person or entity acquires, subsequent to the issuance of an
adult entertainment establishment license, a significant interest based on
responsibility for management or operation of the licensed premises or the
licensed business, notice of the acquisition shall be provided in writing to
the City Recorder, no later than 21 days following the acquisition. The notice
to the City Recorder shall include the same information required for an initial
adult entertainment establishment license application.
      (7)   The adult entertainment establishment license, if granted, shall
state on its face the name of the person or persons to whom it is issued, the
expiration date, the doing-business-as name and the address of the licensed
establishment. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near
the entrance to the adult entertainment establishment so that it can be easily
read at any time the business is open.
      (8)   No person granted an adult entertainment establishment license
pursuant to this chapter shall operate the establishment under a name not
specified on the license, nor shall any person operate the establishment at any
location not specified on the license.
      (9)   Upon receipt of the complete application and the nonrefundable
application fee, the City Recorder shall provide copies to the Police, Fire and
Community Development Departments for their investigation and review to
determine compliance of the proposed adult entertainment establishment with the
laws and regulations which each department administers. Each department shall,
within 25 days of the date of the application, inspect the application and
premises and shall make a written report to the City Recorder whether the
application and premises complies with the laws administered by each
department.
         (a)   No license may be issued unless each department reports that the
application and premises comply with the relevant laws. In the event the
premises is not yet constructed, the departments shall base their
recommendation as to premises compliance on their review of the drawings
submitted in the application.
         (b)   Any adult entertainment establishment license approved prior to
the premises construction shall contain a condition that the premises may be
open for business until the premises have been inspected and determined to be
in substantial conformance with the drawings submitted with the application.
         (c)   A department shall recommend denial of a license under this
division (A)(9) if it finds that the proposed adult entertainment establishment
is not in conformance with the requirements of this chapter or other law in
effect in the city.
         (d)   A recommendation for denial shall cite the specific reason
therefor, including applicable laws.
      (10)   An adult entertainment establishment license shall be issued by
the City Recorder within 30 days of the date of filing a complete license
application and nonrefundable application fee, unless the City Recorder
determines that the applicant has failed to meet any of the requirements of
this chapter or provide any information required under this division (A)(10),
or that the applicant has made a false, misleading or fraudulent statement of
material fact on the application for a license.
         (a)   The City Recorder shall notify the applicant within five working
days of application submittal if the application is incomplete, and shall grant
an applicant’s request for a reasonable extension of time in which to provide
all information required for a complete license application.
         (b)   If the City Recorder finds that the applicant has failed to meet
any of the requirements for issuance of an adult entertainment establishment
license, the City Recorder shall deny the application in writing and shall cite
the specific reasons therefor, including applicable law.
         (c)   If the City Recorder fails to issue or deny the license within
30 days of the date of filing of a complete application and fee, the applicant
shall be permitted, subject to all other applicable laws, to operate the
business for which the license was sought until notification by the City
Recorder that the license has been denied, but in no event may the City
Recorder extend the application review time for more than an additional 20
days.
   (B)   Application for manager or entertainer license.
      (1)   Required information: no person shall work as a manager/assistant
manager or entertainer at an adult entertainment establishment without an adult
entertainment manager or entertainer license from the city.
         (a)   All applications for a manager’s or entertainer’s license shall
be signed by the applicant and notarized or certified to be true under penalty
of perjury.
         (b)   All applications shall be submitted on a form supplied by the
city, which shall require the following information:
            1.   The applicant’s name, home address, home telephone number,
date and place of birth, fingerprints taken by County Sheriff, Social Security
number and any stage names or nicknames used in entertaining;
            2.   The name and address of each business at which the applicant
intends to work;
            3.   Documentation that the applicant has attained the age of 18
years. Any two of the following shall be accepted as documentation of age:
               a.   A motor vehicle operator’s license issued by any state
bearing the applicant’s photograph and date of birth;
               b.   A state-issued identification card bearing the applicant’s
photograph and date of birth;
               c.   An official passport issued by the United States;
               d.   An immigration card issued by the United States; and/or
               e.   Any other identification that the city determines to be
acceptable.
            4.   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant for
any misdemeanor or felony violations in this or any other city, county or state
within five years immediately preceding the date of the application, except
parking violations or minor traffic infractions;
            5.   A description of the applicant’s principal activities or
services to be rendered;
            6.   Two two-inch by two-inch photographs of the applicant, taken
within six months of the date of application showing only the full face; and
            7.   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to
investigate and confirm any statements set forth in the application.
      (2)   The City Recorder may request additional information or
clarification when necessary to determine compliance with this chapter.
      (3)   (a)   A manager’s or an entertainer’s license shall be issued by
the City Recorder within 14 days from the date the complete application and fee
are received unless the City Recorder determines that the applicant has failed
to provide any information required to be supplied according to this chapter,
has made any false, misleading or fraudulent statement of material fact in the
application, or has failed to meet any of the requirements for issuance of a
license under this chapter.
         (b)   If the City Recorder determines that the applicant has failed to
qualify for the license applied for, the City Recorder shall deny the
application in writing and shall cite the specific reasons therefor, including
applicable laws. If the City Recorder has failed to approve or deny an
application for a manager’s license within 14 days of filing of a complete
application, the applicant may, subject to all other applicable laws, commence
work as a manager in a duly licensed adult entertainment establishment until
notified by the City Recorder that the license has been denied, but in no event
may the City Recorder extend the application review time for more than an
additional 20 days.
      (4)   (a)   Every adult entertainer shall provide his or her license to
the adult entertainment establishment manager on duty on the premises prior to
his or her performance.
         (b)   The manager shall retain the licenses of the adult entertainers
readily available for inspection by the city at any time during business hours
of the adult entertainment establishment.
      (5)   An applicant for an adult entertainer’s license shall be issued a
temporary license upon receipt of a complete license application and fee. The
temporary license will automatically expire on the fourteenth day following the
filing of the complete application and fee, unless the City Recorder has failed
to approve or deny the license application, in which case the temporary license
shall be valid until the City Recorder approves or denies the application, or
until the final determination of any appeal from a denial of the application.
In no event may the City Recorder extend the application review time for more
than an additional 20 days.
(Prior Code, § 112.44) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.45 MANAGER ON PREMISES.
   A licensed manager shall be on the premises of an adult entertainment
establishment at all times that adult entertainment is being provided.
(Prior Code, § 112.45) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
REGULATIONS
§ 112.60 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT AND OPERATION.
   The following standards of conduct must be adhered to by employees of any
adult entertainment establishment.
   (A)   No employee or entertainer shall be unclothed or in a less than opaque
and complete attire, costume or clothing so as to expose to view any portion of
the female breast below the top of the areola or any portion of the pubic
region, anus, buttocks, vulva or genitals, except upon a stage at least 18
inches above the immediate floor level and removed at least eight feet from the
nearest patron.
   (B)   No employee or entertainer mingling with patrons shall be unclothed or
in less than opaque and complete attire, costume or clothing as described in
division (A) above, nor shall any male employee or entertainer at any time
appear with his genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and
opaquely covered, or wear or use any device or covering which simulates the
same.
   (C)   No employee or entertainer mingling with patrons shall wear or use any
device or covering exposed to view which simulates the breast below the top of
the areola, vulva, genitals, anus or buttocks.
   (D)   No employee or entertainer shall caress, fondle or erotically touch
any patron. No employer or entertainer shall encourage or permit any patron to
caress, fondle or erotically touch any employee or entertainer. No employee or
entertainer shall sit on a patron’s lap or separate a patron’s legs.
   (E)   No employee or entertainer shall perform actual or simulated acts of
sexual conduct as defined in this chapter, or any act which constitutes a
violation.
   (F)   No employee or entertainer mingling with patrons shall conduct any
dance, performance or exhibition in or about the non-stage area of the adult
entertainment establishment unless that dance, performance or exhibition is
performed at a torso-to-torso distance of no less than four feet from the
patron or patrons for whom dance, performance or exhibition is performed.
   (G)   No tip or gratuity offered to or accepted by an adult entertainer may
be offered or accepted prior to any performance, dance or exhibition provided
by the entertainer. No entertainer performing upon any stage area shall be
permitted to accept any form of gratuity offered directly to the entertainer by
any patron. Any gratuity offered to any entertainer performing upon any stage
area must be placed into a receptacle provided for receipt of gratuities by the
adult entertainment establishment or provided through a manager on duty on the
premises. Any gratuity or tip offered to any adult entertainer conducting any
performance, dance or exhibition in or about the non-stage area of the adult
entertainment establishment shall be placed into the hand of the adult
entertainer or into a receptacle provided by the adult entertainer, and not
upon the person or into the clothing of the adult entertainer.
(Prior Code, § 112.60) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.61 LIST OF ENTERTAINMENTS; FEES.
   There shall be posted and conspicuously displayed in the common areas of
each place offering adult entertainment a list of any and all entertainment
provided on the premises. The list shall further indicate the specific fee or
charge in dollar amounts for each entertainment listed.
(Prior Code, § 112.61) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.62 PHYSICAL LAYOUT OF PREMISES; SIGHT OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Every place offering adult entertainment shall be physically arranged in
such a manner that:
   (A)   Performance area. The performance area, where adult entertainment, as
described in §
112.01, is provided, shall be a stage or platform at least 18 inches in
elevation above the level of the patron seating areas, and shall be separated
by a distance of at least eight feet from all areas of the premises to which
patrons have access. A continuous railing three to five feet in height above
the floor and located at least eight feet from all points of the performance
area shall separate the performance area and the patron seating areas. The
stage and the entire interior portion of cubicles, rooms or stalls wherein
adult entertainment is provided must be visible from the common areas of the
premises and at least one manager’s station. Visibility shall not be blocked or
obstructed by doors, curtains, drapes or any other obstruction whatsoever; and
   (B)   Not visible to public. No activity or entertainment occurring on the
premises shall be visible at any time from any other public place.
(Prior Code, § 112.62) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.63 NOTICE TO CUSTOMERS.
   A sign shall be conspicuously displayed in a common area of the premises
which shall read as follows in 24-point type or larger:
 
This adult entertainment establishment is regulated by the city. Entertainers
are:
1.Not permitted to engage in any type of sexual conduct;
2.Not permitted to appear semi nude or nude, except on stage;
3.Not permitted to accept tips or gratuities in advance of their performance;
and
4.Not permitted to accept tips or gratuities directly from patrons while
performing upon any stage area.
 
(Prior Code, § 112.63) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.64 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PEEPSHOWS.
   The following additional requirements must be adhered to at any panorama or
peepshow.
   (A)   The interior of the panorama or peepshow premises shall be arranged in
such a manner as to ensure that customers are fully visible from the waist
down, and all persons viewing the panorama pictures shall be visible from the
entrance to the premises.
   (B)   The licensee shall not permit any doors to public areas on the
premises to be locked during business hours.
   (C)   Any room or area on the premises shall be readily accessible at all
times for inspection by any law enforcement officer or license inspector.
   (D)   Sufficient lighting shall be provided in and equally distributed in
and about the parts of the premises which are open to patrons so that all
objects are plainly visible at all times, and so that on any part of the
premises which is open to patrons, a program, menu or list printed in eight-
point type will be readable by the human eye with 20/20 vision from two feet
away.
(Prior Code, § 112.64) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.65 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS.
   At any adult entertainment establishment the following are required:
   (A)   Admission must be restricted to persons of the age of 18 years or
more;
   (B)   No adult entertainment shall be visible outside of the adult
entertainment establishment, nor any photograph, drawing, sketch or other
pictorial or graphic representation which includes lewd matter as defined in
O.R.S. Chapter 167 or display of sexually explicit material in violation of
O.R.S. Chapter 167; and
   (C)   Sufficient lighting shall be provided in and equally distributed in
and about the parts of the premises which are open to patrons so that all
objects are plainly visible at all times, and so that on any part of the
premises which is open to patrons, a program, menu or list printed in eight-
point type will be readable by the human eye with 20/20 vision from two feet
away.
(Prior Code, § 112.65) (Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any other penalty provided in this section or by law,
any person who violates any provision of any business license ordinance shall
be subject to a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed $250 per violation, to
be directly assessed by the City Recorder. The City Recorder, in a reasonable
manner, may vary the amount of the penalty assessed to consider the
appropriateness of the penalty to the size of the business of the violator; the
gravity of the violation; the number of past and present violations committed;
and the good faith of the violator in attempting to achieve compliance after
notification of the violation. All civil penalties assessed that remain unpaid
for 30 days after assessment will be docketed as a lien on real property in the
lien book of the city and be enforced and collected in accordance with the
procedure for foreclosing liens on real property.
(Prior Code, § 112.99)
   (B)   Unless otherwise indicated, any offense under this chapter is
classified as a violation punishable by a fine set by resolution. Penalties not
set by resolution shall be $250 per violation.
(Ord. 1145, passed 5-20-1996; Ord. 1315, passed 6-6-2016)
CHAPTER 113: SOLICITING
Section
Auctioneers, Solicitors, Hawkers and Peddlers
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Application for licenses
   
113.03   Fee
   
113.04   Application
   
113.05   Issuance of license
   
113.06   Carry license
   
113.07   Revocation
   
113.08   Appeal
   
113.09   Orders
Charitable Solicitations
   
113.20   Definitions
   
113.21   Charitable solicitations permit required; exemptions
   
113.22   Application for charitable solicitations permit
   
113.23   Investigation by Manager of charitable solicitation permit
applications
   
113.24   Standards for Manager’s action in granting or denying applications for
charitable solicitation permits
   
113.25   Fee for charitable solicitations permit
   
113.26   Charitable solicitations permit, form of; granting of is not
endorsement by city; time limit on
   
113.27   Permit nontransferable; return of upon expiration
   
113.28   Agents and solicitors for charitable solicitation permit holders
   
113.29   Written receipts required
   
113.30   Hearing after denial of application for a permit; exceptions;
decisions
   
113.31   Revocation of permits; hearing; decision
   
113.32   Notice of suspension or revocation of permit to Chief of Police
   
113.33   Books and records of permit holders
   
113.34   Report required from permit holder
   
113.35   Religious solicitations; registration and certificate required;
credentials for solicitors
   
113.36   Investigation of affairs of persons soliciting for religious purposes
and persons exempt from permit and certificate requirements; publication of
findings
   
113.37   Solicitations Advisory Board
   
113.38   Use of fictitious name; fraudulent misrepresentation and misstatements
prohibited
 
   
113.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Peddlers, solicitors and hawkers, see also §
110.005
AUCTIONEERS, SOLICITORS, HAWKERS AND PEDDLERS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUCTIONEER. Includes every person or individual who engages in offering
goods, wares, merchandise or property of any kind for sale by public auction;
provided that the term AUCTIONEER shall not be deemed to mean or include any
Sheriff, Chief of Police, administrator, executor or other officer or person
making sales pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of a court, or under a
warrant to enforce the collection of taxes or assessments, or to execute or
complete any judicial or legal process.
   HAWKER. Includes every person or individual who offers for sale goods, wares
or merchandise, or any article from a stand or wagon or on the streets, with or
without outcry.
   PEDDLER. Includes every person or individual who sells or offers for sale
goods, wares, merchandise or other articles carried with him or her as he or
she travels from place to place or from house to house, whether the goods,
wares, merchandise or other articles so sold or offered for sale are sold
directly to the customer from a conveyance or vehicle, or whether the goods are
sold by sample or order to be afterwards delivered from the conveyance or
vehicle.
   PERSON. Includes any natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
   SOLICITOR.
      (1)   Includes every person or individual who goes from house to house or
from place to place within the city selling, offering to sell or taking orders
for any products, wares, merchandise or any article or service, whether payment
is made prior to receiving purchased goods/services or delivery is made upon
payment.
      (2)   SOLICITOR shall not include any commercial traveler receiving
orders for goods at wholesale from merchants, nor shall the term include any
person seeking customers for farm fresh products.
(Prior Code, § 113.01) (Ord. 1080, passed 6-15-1987)
§ 113.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any auctioneer, solicitor, hawker or peddler to
engage in business or to do any of the acts described in §
113.01 without first making application for and obtaining a license as provided
by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) (Ord. 1080, passed 6-15-1987) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 FEE.
   (A)   The license fee for auctioneers, solicitors, hawkers and peddlers
shall be per the following schedule:
 
Auctioneers $25 per day of auction sale
Hawkers     Each $10 per month/$25 per year
Peddlers    Each $10 per month/$25 per year
Solicitors  Each $10 per month/$25 per year
 
   (B)   Fees shall be paid in full prior to the issuance of the appropriate
license.
   (C)   The City Recorder may waive the payment of the license fee for an
applicant that is blind or an honorably discharged disabled veteran, suffering
40% or more disability, of the United States military services.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) (Ord. 1080, passed 6-15-1987)
§ 113.04 APPLICATION.
   Applicants for permit and license under this subchapter must file with the
City Recorder a sworn application in writing (in duplicate) on a form to be
furnished by the City Recorder, which shall give the following information:
   (A)   Name, date of birth, Social Security number, driver’s license number
and description of the applicant;
   (B)   Address (legal and local);
   (C)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold;
   (D)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship;
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (F)   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together with
license number or other means of identification;
   (G)   A photograph shall be taken at the time of application to be attached
to the applicable license;
   (H)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of
the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor;
   (I)   Health certificates/state food handlers cards shall be presented for
review for food sales whenever that certification is required by county or
state agencies. Farm fresh produce is exempt from this requirement;
   (J)   At the time of filing an application, a background investigation and
photo will be taken with a fee of $7 paid to the City Recorder in addition to
the applicable license fee for each person going from door to door or place to
place within the city; and
   (K)   The applicant shall agree to the inclusion in the application form and
as a condition for the issuance of a license the terms and conditions as
follows which shall be included and made a part of the application:
The undersigned applicant as a condition for the issuance of the license herein
applied for by the City of Tillamook does hereby agree and consent to the
following:
(1)   I hereby consent to the release to Tillamook City, its officers and
agents all medical information and records pertaining to my physical, emotional
and mental health and well-being, and request that all doctors, hospitals,
pharmacies and other health care providers, evaluators and other persons, firms
and/or corporation having information concerning any and all matters pertaining
to my physical, emotional and mental status, past, present and future, be
furnished to Tillamook City, its officers and agents upon request, and that a
photostat copy of this application shall serve as my release and consent.
Further, I hereby release any and all parties engaged in obtaining and/or
furnishing any of the aforesaid information, of and from all liability.
(2)   I hereby consent to the release to Tillamook City, its officers and
agents all information and records pertaining to my motor vehicle driving
record and records pertaining to arrest and conviction of crimes, including
violations of ordinances, offenses and infractions, and request that all law
enforcement agencies and other persons, firms and/or corporations having
information concerning any and all matters pertaining to the above-mentioned
records, be furnished to Tillamook City, its officers and agents upon request,
and that a photostat copy of this application shall serve as my release and
consent. Further, I hereby release any and all parties engaged in obtaining
and/or furnishing any of the aforesaid information, of and from all liability.
(3)   I hereby appoint                                              , who is my
(wife, husband, father, mother, brother, friend, etc.) whose permanent
residence address is  (street address)  and  (post office box) , (city) ,
(state) (zip), (telephone #)  as my agent for service of all notices,
citations, complaints, both civil and criminal in nature, in addition to myself
who may be served with any of the foregoing process which may be made,
initiated or instituted by Tillamook City, its officers or agents, or by any
person with whom I have had business dealings or made a contract or taken an
order in connection with my business.
(4)   I further consent and agree that service of any notice, citation or
complaint, civil or criminal in nature, may be made upon me by forwarding the
same to me personally or to my agent for service hereinbefore designated, by
certified mail; and further, that upon the posting by the city, its officers,
agent or other persons designated in division (3) preceding with the postage
thereon paid and addressed to me or my agent for service, I shall be considered
subject to the jurisdiction of the court in which such notice, citation and/or
complaint is filed.
(5)   The venue, that is to say, the place of trial upon any proceedings, civil
or criminal in nature, instituted against me arising out of my activity in the
exercise of the conduct of my business for which license herein applied for has
been obtained, shall be Tillamook County, Oregon.
(6)   I agree that no business transaction I make in the course of the conduct
of my business shall be valid or binding upon the purchaser of my goods and/or
services unless I have delivered to the purchaser at the time of the entering
into of each transaction with the purchaser, a written statement which informs
the purchaser that the transaction, contract, order, purchase order may be
cancelled within three days after the date of the order, if the goods and/or
services are delivered at the date of the execution or entering into of the
transaction, contract, order or purchase order, or if the goods and/or services
are delivered at a subsequent time the buyer will have the right to cancel
within three days after receipt of the goods and/or services.
(Prior Code, § 113.04) (Ord. 1080, passed 6-15-1987)
§ 113.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   If the Chief of Police shall determine after investigation that the facts
set forth in the application are true, the applicant has not been convicted of
a felony crime, petty theft, moral turpitude or any crime which would cause
harm to the property or persons residing within the city within the past ten
years, and he or she proposes to engage in a lawful and legitimate commercial
or professional enterprise, he or she shall then approve the application and
the City Recorder may issue the license applied for. No license may be issued
without the investigation and recommendation of the City Police Chief or his or
her designated officer.
(Prior Code, § 113.05) (Ord. 1080, passed 6-15-1987)
§ 113.06 CARRY LICENSE.
   (A)   The license shall be carried at all times by each solicitor for whom
issued, when soliciting or canvassing in the city, and shall be exhibited by
the solicitor wherever he or she shall be requested to do so by any police
officer or any person solicited.
   (B)   (1)   The license, with photo, will be presented at each home or place
visited for the purpose of selling or canvassing.
      (2)   Each license shall carry a disclaimer of the city endorsement of
the product, goods or service being offered. The wording shall be: “The City of
Tillamook does not warrant, guarantee nor endorse the product, goods or service
being offered by the licensed salesperson”.
(Prior Code, § 113.06) (Ord. 1080, passed 6-15-1987)
§ 113.07 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Permits and licenses issued under the provisions of this subchapter
may be revoked by the City Manager or Chief of Police of the city after notice
of hearing, for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his or her business as solicitor or as canvasser;
      (3)   Any violation of this subchapter;
      (4)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
or
      (5)   Conducting the business of soliciting, or of canvassing, in an
unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or
to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given by
telephone to a number specified within the application at which an agent of the
licensee is available for accepting this notification by the city, setting
forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and place of hearing.
A confirming notice shall be mailed postage prepaid, to the licensee at the
address given in the application at least one day prior to the date set for
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 113.07) (Ord. 1080, passed 6-15-1987)
§ 113.08 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police or the City
Recorder in the denial of a permit or license, as provided in §
113.05, shall have the right of appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
action complained of has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal. The City
Council shall set a time and place for a hearing on the appeal, and notice of
the hearing shall be given to the appellant in the same manner as provided in §
113.07 for notice of hearing on revocation. The decision and order of the City
Council on the appeal shall be final and conclusive.
(Prior Code, § 113.08) (Ord. 1080, passed 6-15-1987)
§ 113.09 ORDERS.
   (A)   All orders taken by licensed solicitors shall contain among other
things, time and date of the order in writing in duplicate and shall have
stated therein the name of the solicitor, the address of the solicitor and the
name and address of the solicitor’s employer, the terms of the order, the
amount paid in advance and shall state in boldface type the following:
      This order may be cancelled by the purchaser at any time within three
days after it is delivered to the purchaser if the subject matter of the order
is delivered to the purchaser at the time the order is written; if the subject
matter of the order is not delivered until a later date, then purchaser shall
have three days after the subject matter of the order is delivered to
purchaser, within which to cancel the order.
   (B)   A copy of the purchase order shall be delivered to the purchaser at
the time the order is written. Any order not obtained in conformity with the
terms of this subchapter shall not be enforceable against the purchaser.
(Prior Code, § 113.09) (Ord. 1080, passed 6-15-1987) Penalty, see §
113.99
CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS
§ 113.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE. Includes the words patriotic, philanthropic, social service,
welfare, benevolent, educational, civic or fraternal, either actual or
purported.
   CONTRIBUTIONS. Includes the words alms, food, clothing, money, subscription,
property or donations under the guise of a loan of money or property.
   MANAGER. The City Manager.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, copartnership, corporation, company,
association or joint stock association, church, religious sect, religious
denomination, society, organization or league, and includes any trustee,
receiver, assignee, agent or other similar representative thereof.
   PROMOTER. Any person who promotes, manages, supervises, organizes or
attempts to promote, manage, supervise or organize a campaign of solicitation.
   RELIGIOUS and RELIGION. Shall not mean and include the word CHARITABLE as
herein defined, but shall be given their commonly accepted definitions.
   SOLICIT and SOLICITATION.
      (1)   The request directly or indirectly of money, credit, property,
financial assistance or other thing of value on the plea or representation that
the money, credit, property, financial assistance or other thing of value will
be used for a charitable or religious purpose as those purposes are defined in
this subchapter.
      (2)   These words shall also mean and include the following methods of
securing money, credit, property, financial assistance or other thing of value
on the plea or representation that it will be used for a charitable or
religious purpose as herein defined:
         (a)   Any oral or written request;
         (b)   The distribution, circulation, mailing, posting or publishing of
any handbill, written advertisement or publication;
         (c)   The making of any announcement to the press, over the radio, by
telephone or telegraph concerning an appeal, assemblage, athletic or sports
event, bazaar, benefit, campaign, contest, dance, drive, entertainment,
exhibition, exposition, party, performance, picnic, sale or social gathering,
which the public is requested to patronize or to which the public is requested
to make a contribution for any charitable or religious purpose connected
therewith; and
         (d)   The sale of, offer or attempt to sell any advertisement,
advertising space, book, card, chance, coupon, device, magazine, membership,
merchandise, subscription, ticket or other thing in connection with which any
appeal is made for any charitable or religious purpose, or where the name of
any charitable or religious person is used or referred to in any appeal as an
inducement or reason for making the sale, or when or where in connection with
any sale, any statement is made that the whole or any part of the proceeds from
the sale will go or be donated to any charitable or religious purpose.
      (3)   A SOLICITATION, as defined herein, shall be deemed completed when
made, whether or not the person making the same receives any contribution or
makes any sale referred to in this section.
(Prior Code, § 113.20) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949)
§ 113.21 CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS PERMIT REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   No person shall solicit contributions for any charitable purpose within the
city without a permit from the Manager authorizing the solicitation; provided,
however, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to any established
person organized and operated exclusively for religious or charitable purposes
and not operated for the pecuniary profit of any person, if the solicitations
by the established person are conducted among the members thereof by other
members or officers thereof, voluntarily and without remuneration for making
the solicitations, or if the solicitations are in the form of collections or
contributions at the regular assemblies or services of the established person.
(Prior Code, § 113.21) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949)
§ 113.22 APPLICATION FOR CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a permit to solicit as provided by §
113.21 shall be made to the Manager upon forms provided by the city.
   (B)   The application shall be sworn to and filed with the Manager at least
15 days prior to the time at which the permit applied for shall become
effective; provided, however, that the Manager may for good cause shown allow
the filing of an application less than 15 days prior to the effective date of
the permit applied for. The application herein required shall contain the
following information or, in lieu thereof, a detailed statement of the reason
or reasons why the information cannot be furnished:
      (1)   The name, address or headquarters of the person applying for the
permit;
      (2)   If applicant is not an individual, the names and addresses of the
applicant’s principal officers and managers and a copy of the resolution, if
any, authorizing the solicitation, certified to as a true and correct copy of
the original by the officer having charge of the applicant’s records;
      (3)   The purpose for which the solicitation is to be made, the total
amount of funds proposed to be raised thereby, and the use or disposition to be
made of any receipts therefrom;
      (4)   A specific statement, supported by reasons and, if available,
figures, showing the need for the contributions to be solicited;
      (5)   The names and addresses of the person or persons by whom the
receipts of the solicitations shall be disbursed;
      (6)   The name and address of the person or persons who will be in direct
charge of conducting the solicitation and the names of all promoters connected
or to be connected with the proposed solicitation;
      (7)   An outline of the method or methods to be used in conducting the
solicitations;
      (8)   The time when the solicitations shall be made, giving the preferred
dates for the beginning and ending of the solicitation;
      (9)   The estimated cost of the solicitation;
      (10)   The amount of any wages, fees, commissions, expenses or emoluments
to be expended or paid to any person in connection with the solicitations, and
the names and addresses of all those persons;
      (11)   A financial statement for the last preceding fiscal year of any
funds collected for charitable purposes by the applicant, the statement giving
the amount of money so raised, together with the cost of raising it, and final
distribution thereof;
      (12)   A full statement of the character and extent of the charitable
work being done by the applicant within the city;
      (13)   A statement that the actual cost of the solicitation will not
exceed 25% of the total amount to be raised;
      (14)   A statement to the effect that if a permit is granted, it will not
be used or represented in any way as an endorsement by the city, or by any
department or officer thereof; and
      (15)   Any other information as may be reasonably required by the Manager
in order for him or her to determine the kind and character of the proposed
solicitation and whether the solicitation is in the interest of, and not
inimical to, the public welfare.
   (C)   If, while any application is pending or during the term of any permit
granted thereon, there is any change in fact, policy or method that would alter
the information given in the application, the applicant shall notify the
Manager in writing thereof within 24 hours after the change.
(Prior Code, § 113.22) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949)
§ 113.23 INVESTIGATION BY MANAGER OF CHARITABLE SOLICITATION PERMIT
APPLICATIONS.
   The Manager shall examine all applications filed under §
113.22 and shall make, or cause to be made, any further investigation of the
application and the applicant as the Manager shall deem necessary in order for
him or her to perform his or her duties under this subchapter. Upon request by
the Manager, the applicant shall make available for inspection by the Manager,
or any person designated in writing by the Manager as his or her representative
for that purpose, all of the applicant’s books, records and papers at any
reasonable time before the application is granted, during the time a permit is
in effect or after a permit has expired.
(Prior Code, § 113.23) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949)
§ 113.24 STANDARDS FOR MANAGER’S ACTION IN GRANTING OR DENYING APPLICATIONS FOR
CHARITABLE SOLICITATION PERMITS.
   (A)   The Manager shall issue the permit provided for in §
113.20 whenever he or she shall find the following facts to exist.
      (1)   All of the statements made in the application are true.
      (2)   The applicant has a good character and reputation for honesty and
integrity or, if the applicant is not an individual person, that every member,
managing officer or agent of the applicant has a good character or reputation
for honesty and integrity.
      (3)   The control and supervision of the solicitation will be under
responsible and reliable persons.
      (4)   The applicant has not engaged in any fraudulent transaction or
enterprise.
      (5)   The solicitation will not be a fraud on the public.
      (6)   The solicitation is prompted solely by a desire to finance the
charitable cause described in the application and will not be conducted
primarily for private profit.
      (7)   The cost of raising the funds will be reasonable. Any cost in
excess of 25% of the amount collected shall be considered to be unreasonable
unless special facts are presented showing that peculiar reasons make a cost
higher than 25% reasonable in the particular case.
   (B)   The Manager shall file in his or her office for public inspection, and
shall serve upon the applicant, by registered mail, a written statement of his
or her finding of facts and his or her decision upon each application.
(Prior Code, § 113.24) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949)
§ 113.25 FEE FOR CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS PERMIT.
   Before a permit is issued, there shall be paid to the city the sum of $5 to
cover the costs of investigation and permit issuance. An amount of $1 shall be
paid for each additional copy of the permit that is desired.
(Prior Code, § 113.25) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949; Ord. 898, passed 5-23-1977)
§ 113.26 CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS PERMIT, FORM OF; GRANTING OF IS NOT
ENDORSEMENT BY CITY; TIME LIMIT ON.
   Permits issued under this subchapter shall bear the name and address of the
person by whom the solicitation is to be made, the number of the permit, the
date issued, the dates within which the permit holder may solicit and a
statement that the permit does not constitute an indorsement by the city or by
any of its departments, officers or employees of the purpose, nor of the person
conducting the solicitation. All permits must be signed by the Manager. No
permit may grant the right to solicit longer than 90 days from its date, but
the Manager may extend any permit for not more than 90 additional days upon a
showing that unnecessary hardship would be created by a failure to extend the
original 90 days’ period for the additional days.
(Prior Code, § 113.26) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949)
§ 113.27 PERMIT NONTRANSFERABLE; RETURN OF UPON EXPIRATION.
   Any permit issued under this subchapter shall be nontransferable and shall
be returned to the Manager within two days of its date of expiration, together
with all facsimile copies thereof.
(Prior Code, § 113.27) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949)
§ 113.28 AGENTS AND SOLICITORS FOR CHARITABLE SOLICITATION PERMIT HOLDERS.
   (A)   All persons to whom permits have been issued under this subchapter
shall furnish proper credentials to their agents and solicitors for the
solicitation. These credentials shall include the name of the permit holder,
the date, a statement describing the holder’s charitable activity, a
description of the purpose of the solicitation, the signature of the permit
holder or of the holder’s chief executive officer; and the name, address, age,
sex and signature of the solicitor to whom the credentials are issued and the
specific period of time during which the solicitor is authorized to solicit on
behalf of the permit holder. A copy of the credentials must be filed with the
Manager at the time the application for a permit is filed and must be approved
by him or her as conforming to the requirements of this section before the
permit is issued. No person shall solicit under any permit granted under this
subchapter without the credentials required by this section and a facsimile
copy of the permit in his or her possession. The credentials and the facsimile
copy of the permit must be shown, upon request, to all persons solicited and to
any police officer of the city.
   (B)   No agent or solicitor shall solicit contributions for any charitable
purpose for any person in the city unless the person has been granted a permit
under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.28) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949)
§ 113.29 WRITTEN RECEIPTS REQUIRED.
   Any person receiving money or anything having a value of $1 or more from any
contributor under solicitation made pursuant to a permit granted under this
subchapter shall give to the contributor a written receipt signed by the
solicitor, showing plainly the name and permit number of the person under whose
permit the solicitation is conducted, the date and the amount received;
provided, however, that this section shall not apply to any contributions
collected by means of a closed box or receptacle used in solicitation with the
written approval of the Manager, where it is impractical to determine the
amount of the contributions.
(Prior Code, § 113.29) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949)
§ 113.30 HEARING AFTER DENIAL OF APPLICATION FOR A PERMIT; EXCEPTIONS;
DECISIONS.
   Within five days after receiving notification by registered mail that his or
her application for a permit to solicit under this subchapter has been denied,
any applicant may file a written request for a public hearing on the
application before the Manager, together with written exceptions to the
findings of fact upon which the Manager based his or her denial of the
application. Upon the filing of a request, the Manager shall fix a time and
place for the hearing and shall notify the applicant thereof. The hearing shall
be held within five days after the request is filed. At the hearing, the
applicant may present evidence in support of his or her application and
exceptions. Any interested person may, in the discretion of the Manager, be
allowed to participate in the hearing and present evidence in opposition to the
application and exceptions. Within ten days after the conclusion of the
hearing, the Manager shall render a written report either granting or denying
the application for a permit. In this report, the Manager shall state the facts
upon which his or her decision is based and his or her ruling upon any
exceptions filed to his or her original findings of fact upon the application.
This report shall be filed in the Manager’s office for public inspection, and a
copy shall be served by registered mail upon the applicant and all parties to
the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 113.30) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949)
§ 113.31 REVOCATION OF PERMITS; HEARING; DECISION.
   Whenever it shall be shown, or whenever the Manager has knowledge, that any
person to whom a permit has been issued under this subchapter has violated any
of the provisions of this subchapter, or that any promoter, agent or solicitor
of a permit holder has misrepresented the purpose of the solicitation, the
Manager shall immediately suspend the permit and give the permit holder written
notice by registered, special delivery mail of a hearing to be held within two
days of the suspension to determine whether or not the permit should be
revoked. This notice must contain a statement of the facts upon which the
Manager has acted in suspending the permit. At the hearing, the permit holder,
and any other interested person, shall have the right to present evidence as to
the facts upon which the Manager based the suspension of the permit and any
other facts which may aid the Manager in determining whether this subchapter
has been violated and whether the purpose of the solicitation has been
misrepresented. If, after the hearing, the Manager finds that this subchapter
has been violated or the purpose of the solicitation has been misrepresented,
he or she shall, within two days after the hearing, file in his or her office
for public inspection and serve upon the permit holder, and all interested
persons participating in the hearing, a written statement of the facts upon
which he or she bases the finding and shall immediately revoke the permit. If,
after the hearing, the Manager finds that this subchapter has not been violated
and the purpose of the solicitation has not been misrepresented, he or she
shall, within two days after the hearing, give to the permit holder a written
statement canceling the suspension of the permit and stating that no violation
or misrepresentation was found to have been committed.
(Prior Code, § 113.31) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949)
§ 113.32 NOTICE OF SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT TO CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall be notified forthwith by the Manager of the
suspension or revocation of any permit issued under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.32) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949)
§ 113.33 BOOKS AND RECORDS OF PERMIT HOLDERS.
   No person shall solicit any contributions for any charitable purpose without
maintaining a system of accounting whereby all donations to it and all
disbursements are entered upon the books or records of the person’s treasurer
or other financial officer.
(Prior Code, § 113.33) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.34 REPORT REQUIRED FROM PERMIT HOLDER.
   It shall be the duty of all persons issued permits under this subchapter to
furnish to the Manager, within 30 days after the solicitation has been
completed, a detailed report and financial statement showing the amount raised
by the solicitation, the amount expended in collecting the funds, including a
detailed report of the wages, fees, commissions and expenses paid to any person
in connection with the solicitation, and the disposition of the balance of the
funds collected by the solicitation. This report shall be available for public
inspection at the Manager’s office at any reasonable time; provided, however,
that the Manager may extend the time for the filing of the report required by
this section for an additional period of 30 days upon proof that the filing of
the report within the time specified will work unnecessary hardship on the
permit holder. The permit holder shall make available to the Manager, or to any
person designated in writing by the Manager as his or her representative for
that purpose, all books, records and papers whereby the accuracy of the report
required by this section may be checked.
(Prior Code, § 113.34) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949)
§ 113.35 RELIGIOUS SOLICITATIONS; REGISTRATION AND CERTIFICATE REQUIRED;
CREDENTIALS FOR SOLICITORS.
   (A)   No person shall solicit contributions for any religious purpose within
the city without a certificate from the Manager. Application for a certificate
shall be made to the Manager upon forms provided by the city. The application
shall be sworn to, or affirmed, and shall contain the following information or,
in lieu thereof, a statement of the reason or reasons why the information
cannot be furnished:
      (1)   The name and address of headquarters of the person applying for the
permit;
      (2)   If applicant is not an individual, the names and addresses of the
applicant’s principal officers and managers and a copy of the resolution, if
any, authorizing the solicitation, certified as a true and correct copy of the
original by the officer having charge of the applicant’s records;
      (3)   The purpose for which the solicitation is to be made, the total
amount of funds proposed to be raised thereby and the use or disposition to be
made of any receipts therefrom;
      (4)   A specific statement, supported by reasons and, if available,
figures, showing the need for the contributions to be solicited;
      (5)   The name and address of the person or persons by whom the receipts
of the solicitations shall be disbursed;
      (6)   The name and address of the person or persons who will be in direct
charge of conducting the solicitation and the names of all promoters connected
or to be connected with the proposed solicitation;
      (7)   An outline of the method or methods to be used in conducting the
solicitation;
      (8)   The time when the solicitation shall be made, giving the preferred
dates for the beginning and ending of the solicitation;
      (9)   The estimated cost of the solicitation;
      (10)   The amount of any wages, fees, commissions, expenses or emoluments
to be expended or paid to any person in connection with the solicitations, and
the names and addresses of all the persons;
      (11)   A financial statement for the last preceding fiscal year of any
funds collected for religious purposes by the applicant, the statement giving
the amount of money so raised, together with the cost of raising it, and final
distribution thereof;
      (12)   A full statement of the character and extent of the religious work
being done by the applicant within the city;
      (13)   A statement to the effect that if a permit is granted, it will not
be used or represented in any way as an endorsement by the city, or by any
department or officer thereof; and
      (14)   Any other information as may be submitted to the Manager in order
for him or her to determine the kind and character of the proposed
solicitation.
   (B)   (1)   If, while any application is pending, or during the term of any
certificate granted thereon, there is any change in fact, policy or method that
would alter the information given in the application, the applicant shall
notify the Manager in writing thereof within 24 hours after the change.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the application, the Manager shall forthwith issue
the applicant a certificate of registration. The certificate shall remain in
force and effect for a period of six months after the issuance thereof and
shall be renewed upon the expiration of this period upon the filing of a new
application as provided for in this section. Certificates of registration shall
bear the name and address of the person by whom the solicitation is to be made,
the number of the certificate, the date issued and a statement that the
certificate does not constitute an endorsement by the city, or by any of its
departments or officers, of the purpose or of the person conducting the
solicitation. All persons to whom certificates of registration have been issued
shall furnish credentials to their agents and solicitors, which credentials to
conform to the requirements specified for credentials in §
113.27; and a copy of the credentials shall be filed with the Manager at the
time of the filing of the application for a certificate. No person shall
solicit for any religious cause without having these credentials in his or her
possession, together with a copy of the certificate of registration under which
the solicitation is being conducted; and the person shall, upon demand, present
these credentials and this copy of the certificate to any person solicited or
to any police officer of the city; provided, however, that the provisions of
this section shall not apply to any established person organized and operated
exclusively for religious purposes and not operated for the pecuniary profit of
any person if the solicitations by the established person are conducted among
the members thereof by other members or officers thereof, voluntarily and
without remuneration for making the solicitations, or if the solicitations are
in the form of collections or contributions at the regular assemblies or
services of the established person.
(Prior Code, § 113.35) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.36 INVESTIGATION OF AFFAIRS OF PERSONS SOLICITING FOR RELIGIOUS PURPOSES
AND PERSONS EXEMPT FROM PERMIT AND CERTIFICATE REQUIREMENTS; PUBLICATION OF
FINDINGS.
   The Manager is authorized to investigate the affairs of any person
soliciting for religious purposes under a certificate issued under §
113.35, and the affairs of any person exempted from the requirement of a permit
under §
113.21 or exempted from the requirement of a certificate under §
113.35, and make public his or her written findings in order that the public
may be fully informed as to the affairs of any of the persons. The persons
shall make available to the Manager, or to any representative designated by the
Manager in writing for this specific purpose, all books, records or other
information reasonably necessary to enable the Manager to fully and fairly
inform the public of all facts necessary to a full understanding by the public
of the work and methods of operation of the persons; provided that five days
before the public release of any findings under this section, the Manager must
first serve a copy of the findings upon the person investigated; and at the
time of the release of his or her findings, he or she must release a copy of
any written statement the person may file with the Manager in explanation,
denial or confirmation of the findings.
(Prior Code, § 113.36) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949)
§ 113.37 SOLICITATIONS ADVISORY BOARD.
   There is hereby created a Solicitations Advisory Board which shall consist
of seven citizens of the city, appointed by the Mayor. The members of this
Board shall be appointed to serve for a period of four years, and any vacancy
occurring shall be filled in the same manner as provided for the original
appointment. The Mayor shall designate one member of this Board to serve as
chairperson. The members of this Board shall serve without remuneration and any
member thereof may be removed by the Mayor. The Board is authorized to advise
and submit recommendations to the Manager regarding the issuance of permits and
certificates under this subchapter. The Manager may refer any application for a
permit under this subchapter to the Board for its recommendations thereon.
(Prior Code, § 113.37) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949)
§ 113.38 USE OF FICTITIOUS NAME; FRAUDULENT MISREPRESENTATION AND MISSTATEMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall, directly or indirectly, solicit contributions for any
purpose by misrepresentation of his or her name, occupation, financial
condition, social condition or residence; and no person shall make or
perpetrate any other misstatement, deception or fraud in connection with any
solicitation of any contribution for any purpose in the city, or in any
application or report filed under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.38) (Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of §§
113.01 through
113.09 shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not less than $25, nor more
than $200, for each offense. Every day upon which the violation shall occur or
upon which the violation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Violations of any provision of §§
113.20 through
113.38, or filing or causing to be filed an application for a permit or
certificate under this subchapter containing false or fraudulent misstatements,
is punishable by a fine not less than $25, nor more than $100, or by
imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or by both the fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 113.99)
   (D)   Unless otherwise indicated, any offense under this chapter is
classified as a violation punishable by a fine set by resolution. Penalties not
set by resolution shall be $250 per violation.
(Ord. 648, passed 10-3-1949; Ord. 898, passed 5-23-1977; Ord. 1080, passed 6-
15-1987; Ord. 1315, passed 6-6-2016)
CHAPTER 114: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Exemptions
   
114.03   Permits
   
114.04   Advertising
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE. Any sale, displaying of goods for sale or the offer to sell
used goods within the city limits by any individual or group of individuals
from any private property, including, but not limited to, garages, porches,
carports and yards.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, organization or personal
representative.
(Prior Code, § 114.01) (Ord. 890, passed 5-9-1977)
§ 114.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   The offering for sale of one item by public display with a sign
indicating the item is for sale, and the sale of more than one individual item
not offered for sale by public display or by signs concerning a sale or place
of sale; and
   (B)   Sales commonly referred to as “rummage sales”, conducted by members of
fraternal, civic, patriotic, religious, service, charitable or educational
organizations.
(Prior Code, § 114.02) (Ord. 890, passed 5-9-1977)
§ 114.03 PERMITS.
   (A)   The City Manager or his or her delegate shall issue a permit for a
garage sale upon application and upon payment of a fee, if it appears from the
application that the applicant will comply with the terms and provisions of
this chapter. Issuance of a permit under this chapter shall not constitute a
waiver of the requirements of the zoning ordinance or any other ordinance of
the city. The fee shall be $5 and any future fee increases shall be set by
resolution.
   (B)   The City Manager may prescribe the form of permit and the application
to be used therefor, subject to the terms of this chapter.
   (C)   The City Manager or his or her delegate may issue a permit upon
application, for a period not to exceed three consecutive days; provided,
however, that no more than two permits shall be issued for sales at the same
location within any calendar year.
   (D)   No permit granted under the provisions herein shall be assignable.
(Prior Code, § 114.03) (Ord. 890, passed 5-9-1977; Ord. 972, passed 6-16-1980;
Ord. 993, passed 4-20-1981; Ord. 1016, passed 8-2-1982; Ord. 1122, passed 2-18-
1992; Ord. 1219, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 114.04 ADVERTISING.
   (A)   There shall be allowed only one sign, not to exceed 24 inches by 25
inches, posted on the premises from which the garage sale is to be held under
the provisions of this section; and no other signs shall be posted on the
premises or on any other public or private place advertising the sale.
   (B)   This section is not intended to prohibit advertising in newspaper,
radio or television.
(Prior Code, § 114.04) (Ord. 890, passed 5-9-1977)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person in violation of this chapter shall be subject to fine not
exceeding $100. Each day that a sale is conducted in violation of this chapter
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 114.99)
   (B)   Unless otherwise indicated, any offense under this chapter is
classified as a violation punishable by a fine set by resolution. Penalties not
set by resolution shall be $250 per violation.
(Ord. 890, passed 5-9-1977; Ord. 1315, passed 6-6-2016)
CHAPTER 115: PSILOCYBIN REGULATIONS
Section
   
115.01   Purpose
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Limitations on location of licensed facilities within city
   
115.04   Licensed facility operations
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted for the purpose of providing for the health, safety,
and welfare of the citizens of the city. This chapter adopts reasonable
regulations of state-licensed psilocybin facilities under the authority of
O.R.S. Chapter 475A.
(Ord. 102124, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LICENSED FACILITY. The premises licensed by the Oregon Health Authority
under O.R.S. Chapter 475A.
   LICENSEE. A holder of a license issued by the Oregon Health Authority under
O.R.S. Chapter 475A.
(Ord. 102124, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 115.03 LIMITATIONS ON LOCATION OF LICENSED FACILITIES WITHIN CITY.
   (A)   A licensed facility shall not be located:
      (1)   Within 500 feet of a city park.
      (2)   Within 1,000 feet of a public or private elementary, middle, or
high school or other school attended primarily by children under 18 years of
age.
      (3)   Within 1,000 feet of another licensed facility.
      (4)   Within 500 feet of a cannabis facility licensed under O.R.S.
Chapter 475C.
      (5)   Within a structure that also contains a residential use.
      (6)   Within a structure that also contains a business that operates with
a liquor license issued under O.R.S. Chapter 471.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the distance specified is measured
from the closest points between the property lines of the affected properties.
(Ord. 102124, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 115.04 LICENSED FACILITY OPERATIONS.
   The licensee of a licensed facility is responsible for maintaining
compliance with the following:
   (A)   A licensed facility may only operate between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m., daily. An individual licensed facility may set hours within
those specified hours, but may not operate outside those hours.
   (B)   Landscaping shall be continuously maintained to provide clear lines of
sight from public rights-of-way to all licensed facility entrances.
   (C)   Prior to disposal, all psilocybin waste shall be rendered unusable by
either grinding and mixing (at a ratio of at least one-to-one) with other
compostable materials, or by mixing with non-compostable solid waste such as
paper, cardboard, soil, or other similar materials.
   (D)   Any facility generating psilocybin waste shall use the services of a
solid waste franchisee or self-haul such materials to a properly licensed and
approved solid waste disposal facility.
   (E)   A licensed facility operating in the city shall maintain its license
with the Oregon Health Authority.
   (F)   A licensed facility shall comply with all state and local laws,
regulations, and development code provisions, as well as all administrative
rules and regulations established by the Oregon Health Authority.
(Ord. 102124, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter is punishable by a fine.
Unless otherwise proscribed by state law, all penalties, fees, and fines under
this chapter shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   A fine for a violation of this chapter not set by City Council
resolution shall be $250 per violation.
(Ord. 102124, passed 11-4-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Offenses/Nuisances
   
130.01   Purpose
   
130.02   Public nuisance
   
130.03   Separate violations
   
130.04   Summary abatement
   
130.05   Definitions, interpretations and conflict of laws
   
130.06   Drinking in public places
   
130.07   Public urination
   
130.08   Noise
   
130.09   Radio and television interference
   
130.10   Discharge of weapons
   
130.11   Fireworks
   
130.12   Throwing rocks
   
130.13   Noxious vegetation, trees, hedges, bushes and shrubs
   
130.14   Fences
   
130.15   Waters, drainage, snow and ice
   
130.16   Minors in places of amusement
   
130.17   False reports
   
130.18   Open cellar doors or grates
   
130.19   Obstruction of fire hydrants
   
130.20   Painting or marking sidewalks and curbs
   
130.21   Obstruction of streets and sidewalks; permits
   
130.22   Posted notices
   
130.23   Hauling
   
130.24   Shopping carts
   
130.25   Obstructing public rights-of-ways
   
130.26   Unlawful transfer on vehicular portion of the public right-of-way
Nuisances Affecting Public Health and Safety
   
130.35   Nuisances affecting public health
   
130.36   Creating a hazard
   
130.37   Offensive littering
   
130.38   Trash, rubbish
   
130.39   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
130.40   Graffiti
   
130.41   Offenses outside city limits
   
130.42   Soliciting or confederating to violate ordinances
   
130.43   Attempt to commit offenses
Abatement
   
130.55   Abatement generally
   
130.56   Citation or warning; procedure
   
130.57   Abatement by the person responsible
   
130.58   Nuisance abatement; warrant
   
130.59   Protection of things seized; liability of agency; disposal of nuisance
property removed
   
130.60   Order of abatement; cancellation
   
130.61   Costs of securing or abating property as lien; priority of lien;
filing notice of pendency
   
130.62   Collection
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL OFFENSES/NUISANCES
§ 130.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to list and define actions by individuals
which cause harm to the citizens of this city generally. This chapter is not
intended to create private, civil causes of action between private parties.
That is left to the state’s tort law, whether statutory or common.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 130.02 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   No person shall commit a public nuisance, as defined by this chapter, within
or on any land owned or controlled by the city. Any offense under this chapter
is classified as a violation punishable by a fine as set forth in §
130.99.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 SEPARATE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Each day’s violation of a provision of this chapter constitutes a
separate offense.
   (B)   The abatement of a nuisance is not a penalty for violating this
chapter, but is an additional remedy. The imposition of a penalty does not
relieve a person of the duty to abate the nuisance.
   (C)   A citation or other charging instrument filed in court shall include
all violations from the date of any written warning (also known as “abatement”)
notice, as cited in the charging instrument.
   (D)   There is no requirement for any violation of this chapter that a
written notice must first be delivered to abate or cite the violation. For
determining the number of day(s) the violation has occurred or has continued,
it shall be from the day the violation is first identified by the city, not the
date a warning, written or verbal, is provided or received.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   The procedures and/or remedies provided by this chapter are not exclusive
but are in addition to the procedures and/or remedies provided by other
ordinances. The Chief of the Fire Department, the Chief of Police or any other
city official may proceed summarily to abate a health or other nuisance which
imminently endangers human life or property.
(Prior Code, § 130.04) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 130.05 DEFINITIONS, INTERPRETATIONS AND CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   Except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning, the
definitions contained in the Oregon Revised Statutes, as now or hereafter
constituted, are adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter. In any
conflict of laws, the city’s definitions and interpretation shall control. The
City Council expressly retains the exclusive authority to define and interpret
the meaning and application of the city’s ordinances, orders, rules,
resolutions and/or other city law, even those laws borrowed from any other
jurisdiction and incorporated as city law, such as the Oregon Revised Statutes.
The City Council reaffirms and adopts current O.R.S. and O.A.R. in effect and
referenced in this chapter.
   ABATEMENT. Defined in §
130.55.
   CITY. As the context may require, the City of Tillamook, its City Mayor and
City Council, City Manager, Police Chief, Public Works Director or other city
employee charged with noticing, reporting or enforcing any city ordinance
violation.
   DAY. A 24-hour calendar day.
   DEBRIS. Bits, pieces and/or whole units of rubbish and/or litter, whether of
animal, mineral, vegetable or human-made material, or a combination thereof.
   DISCARDED VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is licensed or unlicensed and is in one
or more of the following conditions: inoperative, wrecked, dismantled or
partially dismantled, abandoned, junked or which cannot be moved without being
repaired or dismantled or is no longer safely usable for the purpose for which
it was manufactured. This term shall also include, but not be limited to, major
vehicle parts, such as vehicle bodies, engines or transmissions.
   DRIVEWAY. The area that provides vehicular access to a site from the street.
A DRIVEWAY generally is the same width as the curb cut excluding any aprons or
extensions of the curb cut.
   EMERGENCY MINOR VEHICLE REPAIR. For purposes of this chapter, the process of
making repairs or minor installation of parts or equipment to a vehicle over a
period of hours in one 24-hour day and not over multiple days.
   GRAFFITI. Any inscription, word, figure, design, painting, writing, drawing
or carving that is marked, etched, scratched, drawn, painted or otherwise
applied to property without the authorization of the owner of the property,
regardless of the graffiti content, or nature of the material used in the
commission of the act, or the material of the property.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Defined in §
130.39.
   JUNK. Defined in §
130.38.
   NOISE. Defined in §
130.08.
   NOISE SENSITIVE UNIT. Any building or other structure, or portion thereof,
used as a church, day care center, hospital, nursing care center, school or
place used for overnight accommodations of persons, including, but not limited
to, individual homes, individual apartments, trailers and nursing homes.
   NOXIOUS VEGETATION. Grass and/or weeds exceeding eight inches in height,
and/or blackberries, shrubbery or brush allowed to create a fire or safety
hazard or to go to seed.
   NUISANCE. Generally means an intentional, negligent or reckless act or
failure to act by a person which interferes with the use and/or enjoyment of
the life or property of another person or which interferes with the rights of
the public and for which the law will presume resulting damage. NUISANCE here
more specifically means any of the enumerated offenses identified by this
chapter. However, the enumerated offenses in this chapter shall not be
considered an exhaustive list. Additional public NUISANCES may be identified by
facts and circumstances meeting the elements of the general definition.
NUISANCE also means ALLEGED NUISANCE as the context in this chapter may
require.
   OWNER. The owner of the title of real property, or the contract purchaser of
real property of record, as shown on the last available complete tax assessment
roll. OWNER shall also mean any agent of the owner.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
legal entity of any kind subject to the jurisdiction of the city.
   PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY. An agent, manager, occupant, lessee, contract
purchaser or other person having possession or control of property or the
supervision of any construction project of any person.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE. The owner of real and/or personal property, and/or
owner’s agent, assignee, beneficiary or successor-in-interest, if any, or
tenant of any kind. PERSON RESPONSIBLE also means person in charge having care,
custody or control of real and/or personal property.
   POLLUTE. To corrupt, defile or contaminate the soil, air and/or water by the
addition of any noxious substance and/or noise.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A building, way, place or accommodation, whether publicly or
privately-owned, which is open and available to the general public.
   PUBLIC WAY. Defined in §
130.37.
   RUBBISH WITHIN RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Depositing without the city’s prior permission
any material within public or private rights-of-way, including, but not limited
to, TRASH as defined in this section, compost piles, garbage cans, cages, dog
houses, trailers and any other materials which will in any way create a safety
or fire hazard or become unsightly or obnoxious.
   STORED VEHICLE. For the purposes of this chapter, a motor vehicle that is
parked on private property for a period longer than 30 cumulative days in any
six-month period and the vehicle is not currently registered, insured and in
immediate legal operating condition.
   TRASH. Unregistered or currently UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLES, as defined by
the State Motor Vehicle Code, vehicle parts, machinery, appliances, appliance
parts, iron or other metals, broken pieces, plastic, glass, paper, lumber, wood
or furniture.
   VEHICLE UNDER REPAIR/REMODEL. Any vehicle which is in the process of being
dismantled; discarded; repaired, other than emergency minor repair; discarded;
remodeled; or refurbished or stored, as defined in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 130.05) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010; Ord. 1262, passed 1-3-
2012)
§ 130.06 DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall drink or consume alcoholic liquor in or upon a street,
alley, mall, parking lot or structure, motor vehicle, public grounds, city park
or other public place without a license or permit from the city and/or the
State Liquor Control Commission, if applicable.
(Prior Code, § 130.06) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 PUBLIC URINATION.
   No person shall urinate or defecate while in, or in view from, a public
place, except in toilets complying with all applicable local, state and federal
health laws.
(Prior Code, § 130.07) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 NOISE.
   (A)   Noise disturbance prohibited - generally. No person shall allow, cause
to be made, make or assist another person in making a noise disturbance which
disturbs, injures or endangers the health, safety or welfare of others.
   (B)   Electronically amplified noise disturbance. It shall be unlawful for
any person responsible for a noise disturbance caused by electronically
amplified sound or a gathering of five or more people to:
      (1)   Fail, within 30 minutes, to eliminate or cease such noise
disturbance after receiving a citation or other notice of a violation of this
section; or
      (2)   Intentionally or recklessly create the same or similar noise
disturbance within six months of having received a citation or other notice of
a violation of this section.
   (C)   Noise disturbance - specific prohibitions. Unless exempted by division
(D) below, the following acts are declared to be noise disturbances. However,
this enumeration shall be not be deemed an exclusive list of violations of this
code, nor shall the recitation of specific prohibitions below be deemed the
exclusive and entire listing of unlawful noise disturbances for each
subcategory.
      (1)   Sound producing, amplifying or reproducing equipment. Operating or
permitting the use or operation of any device designed for sound production,
amplification or reproduction, including, but not limited to, a radio, drums
and other musical instruments; phonograph; television set; tape recorder; loud
speaker; or other similar device:
         (a)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day
so as to be plainly audible within any dwelling unit or noise sensitive unit
which is not the source of the sound; or
         (b)   On public property or on a public right-of-way so as to be
plainly audible 50 feet or more from such device, except as specifically
authorized in writing by the city through a right-of-way permit issued under §
130.21. The City Manager or Chief of Police shall approve a permit to use such
a device on public property or on a public right-of-way if an applicant submits
a right-of-way application that demonstrates compliance with the requirements
listed in §
130.21.
      (2)   Keeping or permitting keeping of any animal of fowl otherwise
permitted to be kept, which by any sound, cry or behavior causes vocal or other
sounds on a sustained basis during a 15-minute period shall constitute a noise
disturbance;
      (3)   Is capable of being heard at or beyond the boundary of property
from which the noise originates and/or can be heard inside a noise sensitive
unit;
      (4)   The use of an engine, thing or device which is so loaded, out of
repair or operated in manner as to create a loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (5)   The use of a mechanical device operated by compressed air, steam or
otherwise, unless the noise created thereby is effectively muffled; and
      (6)   The construction, including excavation, demolition, alteration or
repair of a building or other structure, or repair of a vehicle or other
machinery other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. except upon
special permit granted by the city.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following sounds are exempted from the provisions of
this section:
      (1)   Sounds made by warning devices to protect persons or property from
imminent exposure to danger; provided, however, that burglar or fire alarms
shall not operate continuously for more than 15 minutes;
      (2)   Sounds made by an emergency vehicle, as defined in O.R.S., when
responding to or from an emergency or when in pursuit of an actual or suspected
violator of the law;
      (3)   Sounds produced pursuant to a specific variance granted by the
State Environmental Quality Commission or by the city;
      (4)   Sounds caused by sources regulated as to sound production by
federal law or sounds caused by sources the regulation of which is preempted by
state law;
      (5)   Sounds not electronically amplified, created by athletic and
entertainment events other than motor vehicle racing events;
      (6)   The sounding of any horn or signaling device on an automobile,
motorcycle or other vehicle reasonably required by the exigencies of vehicular
or pedestrian traffic; and
      (7)   Sounds specifically authorized under a permit or license issued by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.08) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010; Ord. 1341, passed 2-4-
2019; Ord. 1347, passed 6-3-2019) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 RADIO AND TELEVISION INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   No person shall interfere by any means with radio or telephone
reception or transmission, unless otherwise permitted by local, state or
federal law. This section shall also specifically apply to interference with
any police, fire and/or emergency communication systems.
   (B)   This section does not apply to devices licensed approved and operated
under the rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission.
(Prior Code, § 130.09) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   No person, other than a peace officer during the performance of his or her
duties, shall fire or discharge a gun, including spring or air-actuated pellet
guns, air guns or BB guns, or other weapon which propels a projectile by use of
gunpowder or other explosive, jet or rocket propulsion, unless otherwise
approved by the City Council or protected under the state constitution or
constitution of the United States of America.
(Prior Code, § 130.10) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge fireworks except in compliance with local,
state and federal law.
   (B)   No owner of property, as defined in §
130.05, or person in charge of property, as defined in §
130.05, shall allow unlawful fireworks to be possessed and/or discharged on
property owned, possessed, supervised or controlled by that person.
(Prior Code, § 130.11) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010; Ord. 1278, passed 8-19-
2013) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 THROWING ROCKS.
   No person shall throw, cast or sling from his or her hand, or by a
slingshot, bean shooter or other device, any stone, pebble, rock, shot or other
solid substance within the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.12) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 NOXIOUS VEGETATION, TREES, HEDGES, BUSHES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   No owner or person in charge of property that abuts upon a street or
public sidewalk shall permit trees, hedges or bushes on his or her property to
interfere with street or sidewalk traffic. It shall be the duty of an owner or
person in charge of property that abuts upon a street or public sidewalk to
keep all trees, hedges, shrubs and bushes on his or her premises, including the
adjoining parking strip, trimmed to a height of not less than eight feet above
the sidewalk and not less than 14 feet above the roadway.
   (B)   No owner or person in charge of property shall allow standing a dead
or decaying tree to become or remain a hazard to the public or to persons or
nearby property.
   (C)   No owner, person responsible or person in charge of property shall
allow noxious vegetation to exist on property within the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.13) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010; Ord. 1256, passed 6-6-
2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.14 FENCES.
   (A)   No owner or person in charge of property shall construct or maintain a
barbed wire fence thereon, or permit barbed wire to remain as part of a fence
along a sidewalk or public way; except this wire may be placed above the top of
other fencing not less than six feet, six inches high.
   (B)   No owner or person in charge of property shall construct, maintain or
operate an electric fence along a sidewalk or public way or along the adjoining
property line of another person, unless placed at least three feet behind an
initial fence.
(Prior Code, § 130.14) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.15 WATERS, DRAINAGE, SNOW AND ICE.
   (A)   Waters. No owner or person in charge of a building or structure shall
suffer or permit rainwater, ice or snow to fall from the building or structure
onto a street or public sidewalk or to flow across the sidewalk.
   (B)   Drainage. The owner or person in charge of property shall install and
maintain in good repair adequate drainpipes and/or stormwater drainage system
to prevent water flowing from owner’s property to flow across or upon a
sidewalk.
   (C)   Snow and ice. No owner or person responsible of property abutting on a
public sidewalk shall permit snow or ice to remain on the sidewalk for a period
longer than the first two hours after sunrise or after the snow has fallen or
ice has formed unless the snow or ice is covered with sand, ashes or other
suitable material to assure safe pedestrian travel.
(Prior Code, § 130.15) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 MINORS IN PLACES OF AMUSEMENT.
   (A)   No person responsible shall allow a person under 18 years of age to,
and no person under age 18 years shall, enter, visit or loiter in or about a
public card room, poolroom or billiard parlor, or to engage therein in any game
of cards, pool, billiards, dice, darts, pinball, games of like character or
games of chance, either for amusement or otherwise.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the playing of billiards or pool in a
recreational facility. As used in this section, a RECREATIONAL FACILITY means
an area, enclosure or room in which facilities are offered to the public to
play billiards or pool for amusement only, and:
      (1)   Which is clean, adequately supervised, adequately lighted and
adequately ventilated;
      (2)   In which no alcoholic liquor is sold or consumed; and
      (3)   Access to which does not require passing through a room where
alcoholic liquor is sold or consumed.
(Prior Code, § 130.16) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 FALSE REPORTS.
   No person shall knowingly or recklessly make or file with the city, its
Police Department and/or City Attorney a false, misleading or unfounded
statement or report concerning the violation or alleged violation of a city
ordinance, or the commission or alleged commission of a crime, or any
application for any city permit or approval.
(Prior Code, § 130.17) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 OPEN CELLAR DOORS OR GRATES.
   No owner or person in charge of property shall permit a cellar door or grate
located in or upon a sidewalk or public pathway to remain open except when the
entrance is being used and, when being used, there are adequate safeguards to
prevent harm to pedestrians using the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 130.18) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No owner of property adjacent to a street upon which is located a fire
hydrant shall place or maintain within four feet of the fire hydrant any bush,
shrub or tree, or other obstruction.
(Prior Code, § 130.19) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.20 PAINTING OR MARKING SIDEWALKS AND CURBS.
   No person shall paint, paste, print, mark or color anything upon any
sidewalk, curbing or other public right-of-way within the city, without first
having obtained permission from the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.20) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; PERMITS.
   (A)   No person(s) shall use any city property, as defined in §
71.002, or other public right-of-way, for the purpose of selling, offering for
sale, exhibiting or advertising merchandise, vehicle(s) or any other goods or
services, without written permission of the city. No person(s) shall use any
city property for any activity, event or use other than obvious intended use,
generally indicated by sign or design without written permission of the city.
In those cases specifically involving a right-of-way within the city, a right-
of-way application shall be submitted and approved prior to using any city
property. A fee shall be set by resolution for any application, license and/or
permit. Regulations governing the approval of any application, license and/or
permit may be set by resolution. All permits, licenses and/or permissions shall
be revocable by the city.
   (B)   No person(s) shall place or deposit upon any city property, city
right-of-way or other public right-of-way to include, but not be limited to,
sidewalks, streets and alleys, any sign, barricade or other item or article
without written permission from the city. A right-of-way application shall be
completed, submitted, approved and all fees paid prior to any sign, barricade,
item or article being placed or deposited on any city right-of-way or city
property.
   (C)   No person(s) shall use or operate sound producing, amplifying or
reproducing equipment, as defined in §
130.08(C)(1)(b), on public property or in a public right-of-way so as to be
plainly audible 50 feet or more from such device without a right-of-way permit
issued by the Chief of Police/City Manager under this chapter. The Chief of
Police or City Manager shall issue a right-of-way permit to produce amplified
sound if he or she finds that an applicant’s application satisfies the
requirements listed in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) below. The Chief of Police
or City Manager may revoke or modify permits issued under this chapter if he or
she finds that the applicant has violated any conditions of the right-of-way
permit or provisions of this chapter. Applicants for right-of-way permits to
produce amplified sound shall complete and submit a right-of-way permit
application on a city form that demonstrates compliance with the following
standards.
      (1)   The applicant will not produce any sound that injures or endangers
the health or safety of a human, disturbs a reasonable person of normal
sensitivities or injures or endangers personal or real property.
      (2)   The applicant will direct sound away from any nearby noise
sensitive units, including, but not limited to, residential properties,
healthcare facilities, religious facilities, libraries and schools.
(Prior Code, § 130.21) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010; Ord. 1311, passed 4-18-
2016; Ord. 1347, passed 6-3-2019) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 POSTED NOTICES.
   No person shall affix a placard, sign, bill or poster upon personal or real
property, private or public, without first obtaining permission from the owner
thereof and the city and from any other proper public authority, if applicable.
(Prior Code, § 130.22) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 HAULING.
   No person shall haul sand, gravel, rock, wood or other substance in any
vehicle or conveyance that is so constructed or in a condition as to allow the
sand, gravel, rock, wood or other substance to fall on and litter the public
streets of the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.23) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.24 SHOPPING CARTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ABANDONED CART. Any cart that has been removed from the cart owner’s
premises without written consent of the owner and is located on either public
or private property.
      CART or SHOPPING CART. A basket is mounted on wheels or a similar device
that is provided by an owner to a customer for the purpose of transporting
goods of any kind, including a basket used in a laundromat or similar business.
      ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any officer or person designated with the authority
to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      OWNER. Any person or entity that, in connection with the conduct of a
business, provides carts available to the public for use at or in their
business.
      PREMISES. The entire area owned, occupied, or utilized by an owner,
including any parking lot, loading area, and adjacent public rights-of-way, or
any other property provided by or on behalf of an owner for customer parking or
use.
   (B)   Cart removal warnings, cart identification, and reporting abandoned
carts. An owner shall:
      (1)   Post signs in sufficient number to give notice to members of the
public entering onto or leaving the business premises that unauthorized
appropriation of a shopping cart is a crime under O.R.S. 164.015, and provide a
toll-free or local telephone number, to the owner, that members of the public
may use to report abandoned shopping carts.
      (2)   Identify the owner’s business on each shopping cart and post a sign
on the shopping cart that:
         (a)   Notifies any member of the public using the shopping cart that
unauthorized appropriation of a shopping cart is a crime under O.R.S. 164.015;
and
         (b)   Provides a toll-free or local telephone number for use in
reporting an abandoned shopping cart to the owner.
      (3)   Establish, maintain, and make available to the public, at the
owner’s expense, a toll-free or local telephone line for the purpose of
reporting abandoned shopping carts to the owner. The owner shall forward each
report they receive concerning an abandoned shopping cart to the city’s Code
Enforcement Officer within one business day after the owner receives the
report.
   (C)   Retrieval of abandoned shopping carts. All owners shall implement a
cart retrieval system to promptly collect and return abandoned shopping carts
to designated areas on their premises. The cart retrieval system shall involve
business efforts to educate customers on the importance of returning carts and
encouraging voluntary compliance.
      (1)   When the owner receives a notice concerning an abandoned shopping
cart, they must forward the report in accordance with §
130.24(B)(3), unless the city is providing the notice.
      (2)   Once notice is given to the owner, they shall retrieve a shopping
cart within 72 hours after receiving notification that the shopping cart has
been abandoned.
      (3)   If the city identifies, salvages, or reclaims an abandoned shopping
cart, it shall report the existence and location of an abandoned shopping cart
to the owner of the shopping cart, if the owner is identifiable.
   (D)   Custody, enforcement, and disposal of abandoned shopping carts.
      (1)   The city may take custody of an abandoned shopping cart and impose
a penalty under §
130.99 on the owner of the shopping cart if the owner does not retrieve the
shopping cart within 72 hours after the city makes a report under §
130.24(D)(3) or after the owner receives a report under §
130.24(B)(3).
      (2)   The city may release a shopping cart held in the city’s custody to
the owner upon payment of the penalty under §
130.99.
      (3)   The city may take title to a shopping cart in the city’s custody
and dispose of the shopping cart as the city deems appropriate if the owner
does not claim the shopping cart within 30 days.
   (E)   Unauthorized appropriation of shopping cart. A person commits the
violation of unauthorized appropriation of a shopping cart if the person,
without written permission of the owner of the shopping cart, abandons or is in
possession of a shopping cart off the premises of the retail establishment of
the owner of the shopping cart.
   (F)   Rulemaking authority. The City Manager or designee is authorized to
promulgate any rules necessary for the implementation of this section.
(Ord. 012224, passed 2-5-2024) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.25 OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAYS.
   (A)   Except as authorized by the city, no person shall obstruct the free
movement of vehicles or pedestrians using the streets, sidewalks, roads, or
other public rights-of-ways.
   (B)   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in such a manner or location
that it impedes or obstructs traffic or constitutes a hazard to public safety
or an obstruction on a street, sidewalk, road, or other public right-of-way.
   (C)   The prohibitions of divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not apply
to:
      (1)   Officers and employees of the city in the discharge of their
official duties;
      (2)   Persons performing work within a right-of-way under contract with
the city;
      (3)   Persons performing work within a right-of-way under authority of a
franchise, license, or other permission by the city to erect, construct, place
and maintain utilities or other facilities or equipment in or upon the right-
of-way; and
      (4)   Businesses providing goods and services to a licensed business in
the city, or a licensed business conducting business within the city, while
actively loading or unloading, but with a time frame not to exceed 120 minutes.
(Ord. 071524A, passed 8-19-2024)
§ 130.26 UNLAWFUL TRANSFER ON VEHICULAR PORTION OF THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of unlawful transfer under this section
if the person:
      (1)   While a driver or passenger in a vehicle on the vehicular portion
of a highway, road, or street within the boundaries of the city, gives or
relinquishes possession or control of, or allows another person in the vehicle
to give or relinquish possession or control of, any item of property to a
pedestrian; or
      (2)   While a pedestrian accepts, receives, or retains possession or
control of any item of property from a driver or passenger in a vehicle on the
vehicular portion of a highway, road, or street within the boundaries of the
city.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A) of this section, the phrase ON THE
VEHICULAR PORTION OF A HIGHWAY, ROAD, OR STREET means located in the vehicular
travel or turning lane or any associated shoulder or traffic divider area
within the right-of-way where vehicles are reasonably expected to be
encountered. The prohibitions of this section do not apply if the vehicle is
parked in a legal parking space located on or off the right-of-way or during a
law enforcement stop or action.
   (C)   The prohibitions of division (A) of this section do not apply to
persons participating in a pedestrian activity, as defined in O.A.R. 734
Division 58, for which a permit has been issued by the Oregon Department of
Transportation, so long as all terms of such permit are being met.
(Ord. 071524A, passed 8-19-2024)
NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
§ 130.35 NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC HEALTH.
   (A)   No person responsible shall cause or permit on property owned or
controlled by him or her a nuisance affecting public health.
   (B)   The following are nuisances affecting public health and may be abated
as provided in this subchapter:
      (1)   Cesspools. Cesspools or septic tanks, which are in an unsanitary
condition or which cause an offensive odor;
      (2)   Debris. No person responsible shall allow the accumulation of
debris, rubbish, manure and other refuse that are not removed within a
reasonable time. An accumulation is any amount greater than one pound in weight
or one cubic foot in volume;
      (3)   Food. No person responsible shall offer for human consumption any
decayed or unwholesome food;
      (4)   Odor. No person responsible for premises shall cause an offensive
odor or allow the premises to be in an unsanitary condition;
      (5)   Privies. No person responsible shall allow open vaults or privies
within the city, except those allowed or maintained in connection with formally
permitted construction projects and in accordance with local, state and federal
law, specifically including the State Health Division regulations;
      (6)   Stagnant water. No person responsible shall allow or maintain
stagnant water or other condition affording a breeding place for mosquitoes
and/or other insect pests. This section shall not apply to commercial animal
husbandry or insectarium operations which are in compliance with all applicable
local, state and federal laws;
      (7)   Surface drainage. Drainage of liquid wastes from private premises;
and
      (8)   Water pollution. No person responsible shall pollute any surface or
subsurface water, well, spring, stream or drainage ditch.
(Prior Code, § 130.35) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.36 CREATING A HAZARD.
   No person responsible shall create a hazard by:
   (A)   Maintaining or leaving in a place accessible to children a container
with a compartment of more than one and one-half cubic feet capacity and a door
or lid which locks or fastens automatically;
   (B)   Maintaining or leaving access to a well, cistern, cesspool, excavation
or other hole of a depth of four feet or more and a top width of 12 inches or
more unsecured by failing to cover, fence or install other suitable protective
measures to prevent harm; or
   (C)   Failing to adequately secure against access by, or injury or death to,
minors to:
      (1)   Equipment or other devices dangerous to minors;
      (2)   Lumber, logs or pilings placed or stored in a manner dangerous to
minors; or
      (3)   Any excavation dangerous to minors.
(Prior Code, § 130.36) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.37 OFFENSIVE LITTERING.
   (A)   No person responsible shall:
      (1)   Discard, drain or in any manner deposit any rubbish, trash,
garbage, debris, sewage from any source or other refuse or pollutant of any
kind upon the land of another or upon any public way without permission of the
owner and without complying with all applicable local, state and/or federal
laws; or
      (2)   Permit any rubbish, trash, garbage, debris, tobacco product or
paraphernalia (whether or not lit or burning) or other refuse to be thrown, or
fall or be blown from a vehicle which he or she is operating; except that this
division (A)(2) shall not apply to a person operating a vehicle transporting
passengers for hire subject to regulation by the Interstate Commerce Commission
or the Public Utility Commissioner of the state or a person operating a school
bus.
   (B)   As used in this section, PUBLIC WAY includes, but is not limited to,
roads, streets, alleys, lanes, trails, beaches, parks and all recreational
facilities operated by the city, state or county for use by the general public.
   (C)   No person shall drop, spill, deposit or place in any manner whatsoever
any sawdust, log fuel or other small wooden matter, grass or lawn clippings or
any other solid matter which may be blown or scattered by the wind or which may
be carried or washed by the rain or surface waters into the storm sewers, upon
any paved street or upon any sidewalk, without immediately disposing of and
taking care of the same in such a manner as to wholly prohibit the same from
being scattered or blown by the wind or washed or carried by the rain or
surface waters into the storm sewers.
(Prior Code, § 130.37) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.38 TRASH, RUBBISH.
   No person responsible shall allow:
   (A)   Trash to be kept outdoors and visible to any member of the public
within the city;
   (B)   Rubbish or trash to be deposited on or remain on any public right-of-
way, street, road, highway or alley within the city, or on any private property
within view from any premises open to the public or public way; or
   (C)   Junk or trash to be kept outdoors on any street, lot, private property
or premises or in any building that is not wholly or entirely enclosed, except
for doors used for entry and exit. JUNK includes all motor vehicles not
functioning, licensed and insurable, motor vehicle parts, old machinery, old
machinery parts, appliances or parts thereof, metal scrap, glass, paper, lumber
or wood or other waste or discarded material. This section does not apply to a
licensed business which maintains or sells these described items.
(Prior Code, § 130.38) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.39 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall place, or allow to remain, an inoperable motor vehicle
on public or private property within view for a period greater than 24 hours.
   (B)   An inoperable motor vehicle (IMV) is not within view where it is:
      (1)   Placed within a legally permitted structure; or
      (2)   Covered by a commercially available vehicle cover specific to the
make and model of the motor vehicle being covered. However, tarps and/or
plastic sheeting are not commercially available vehicle cover specific to the
make and model of the motor vehicle being covered.
   (C)   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE (IMV) means any motor vehicle which is not
currently lawfully registered, insured as required by state law or in immediate
legal operating condition.
   (D)   No person shall place more than two inoperable motor vehicles on
public or private property even when the IMVs are not within view as defined in
division (B) above.
   (E)   Any inoperable motor vehicle placed outside a structure shall be
located entirely on real property owned and/or controlled by the vehicle owner,
as proven by a recorded deed or mortgage, a written lease or rental agreement
and/or the written consent of the real property owner.
   (F)   This section does not apply to the following, non-exclusive list of
city-registered businesses:
      (1)   Licensed auto repair or dismantling businesses;
      (2)   Licensed motor vehicle dealers;
      (3)   Licensed motor vehicle dismantling businesses;
      (4)   Junk dealers; or
      (5)   Any lawful business requiring for a business purpose the placement
of inoperable motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 130.39) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.40 GRAFFITI.
   Graffiti not only damages property but creates a visual blight. When
graffiti is allowed to remain on property and is not promptly removed, it
invites additional graffiti and criminal activity. No person may cause graffiti
to exist on private property or the public right-of-way directly abutting the
property. Graffiti which has been applied to property and is visible from any
public right-of-way, from any other public or private property or from any
premises open to the public must be removed or covered by the person owning,
leasing, occupying or having charge or possession of the property within 14
days of the graffiti’s initial existence at the site. Failure to remove or
cover the graffiti within the specified time period is a violation of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 130.40) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.41 OFFENSES OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   Where permitted by state law, an act made unlawful by this chapter shall
constitute an offense when committed on any property owned or leased by the
city, even though outside the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.41) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.42 SOLICITING OR CONFEDERATING TO VIOLATE ORDINANCES.
   No person shall conspire with another to violate a provision of this chapter
or any other ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.42) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.43 ATTEMPT TO COMMIT OFFENSES.
   A person who shall attempt to commit any of the offenses mentioned in this
chapter or any ordinance of the city, but who for any reason is prevented from
completing the act, shall be deemed guilty of attempt of that specific
ordinance. ATTEMPT means any overt act constituting a substantial step toward
completing an offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.43) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
ABATEMENT
§ 130.55 ABATEMENT GENERALLY.
   Abatement is a judicial remedy in addition to any fine, fee or other
available judicial remedy for any violation of this chapter. ABATEMENT means
the destruction, extinguishment, removal, stoppage, suppression or otherwise
rendering harmless by any reasonable means of that which causes a nuisance. The
city may issue a citation and/or the city may issue a written warning in
advance of a possible citation to the person responsible to fix or abate the
alleged nuisance within a certain time. ABATEMENT also refers to this
discretionary warning process by the city to a person responsible for a
violation of this chapter that a citation is imminent if the nuisance is not
abated. However, an “abatement warrant”, as described in §
130.58, shall issue only after a judge issues an order or judgment for an
offense of a city ordinance or other law.
(Prior Code, § 130.55) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 130.56 CITATION OR WARNING; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   When the city learns that a nuisance exists, the city shall cause to
be delivered to the person responsible for the location of the nuisance:
      (1)   A citation; or
      (2)   A written warning notice directing the person responsible to abate
the nuisance by a certain time.
   (B)   The written warning notice to abate a nuisance shall contain:
      (1)   A description of the real property, by street address, common
description or legal description, on which the nuisance exists;
      (2)   A description of the nuisance;
      (3)   A direction to abate the nuisance within 14 days from the date of
receiving the notice;
      (4)   A statement that failure to abate a nuisance may cause the person
responsible be cited into municipal court with possible imposition of a fine,
as well as abatement costs;
      (5)   A statement that the person responsible may protest the order to
abate by giving notice to the city within 14 days from the date of actual or
constructive receipt of the notice; and
      (6)   A statement that the person responsible may make request to the
city for an extension of time to abate the nuisance, not to exceed 30 days from
date of receipt of the original notice.
   (C)   The city, upon sending out notice under division (B) above, shall also
cause a report to be filed in the Police Department documenting all action
occurring with this nuisance.
   (D)   An error in the name or address of the person responsible shall not
make the notice void where the person responsible receives actual or
constructive notice herein.
(Prior Code, § 130.56) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.57 ABATEMENT BY THE PERSON RESPONSIBLE.
   (A)   Within 14 days after receipt of mailing of a warning notice, as
provided in §
130.56, the person responsible shall abate the nuisance or prove to the city no
nuisance exists.
   (B)   A person responsible may contest that no nuisance exists by filing
with the city within 14 days a written statement describing in detail the
basis, reasons and facts for denying the nuisance exists. This statement shall
be received within 14 days from the date of receipt of the notice. The person
responsible may request an extension from the city at any time within the
original 14 days provided for nuisance abatement.
   (C)   The city shall have 14 days to respond in writing. The response shall
indicate either:
      (1)   The nuisance no longer exists and no further action is required;
      (2)   The city may allow an extension to abate, not to exceed 30 days;
and/or
      (3)   The nuisance still exists. If the nuisance still exists, then the
city shall notify the person responsible to abate the nuisance immediately and
shall issue a citation as soon as practicable.
   (D)   Once the final date allowed to abate has passed and the city
determines the nuisance has not been abated, the city shall then cite the
person responsible into municipal court.
(Prior Code, § 130.57) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 130.58 NUISANCE ABATEMENT; WARRANT.
   (A)   Abatement. If, following the time limit set by the court, any nuisance
has not been abated, the city may apply to the court for an abatement warrant
to cause the nuisance to be “seized”, removed and abated, including disposal in
an approved manner.
   (B)   Warrants. When the city is unable, within a reasonable time, to secure
permission to enter private property to seize and abate the nuisance, a
municipal, justice or circuit court judge shall issue a nuisance abatement
warrant, unless not otherwise allowed by law.
   (C)   Procedure for issuance of a nuisance abatement warrant.
      (1)   Examination. Before issuing a nuisance abatement warrant, the judge
may examine the available evidence and/or receive additional evidence,
including, without limitation, witnesses’ testimony, e.g., applicant, a citizen
complainant, city’s officer and/or any other witness, under oath for the
purpose of determining whether or not a responsible person has complied with a
judicial order or judgment.
      (2)   Issuance. If the judge determines a prior order or judgment to
abate remains unsatisfied in whole or part, the judge shall issue the abatement
warrant particularly describing the person or persons authorized to execute the
warrant; the property to be entered; a statement of the general types and
estimated quantity of the items to be removed or conditions abated; and the
scope, time, place and manner of the abatement. The warrant shall contain a
direction that it be executed either on any day of the week between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., or where the judge has specially determined, upon a
showing that it cannot be effectively executed between those hours, that it be
executed at any additional or other time of the day or night.
      (3)   Police assistance. In issuing a nuisance abatement warrant, the
judge may authorize any peace officer, as defined in state statutes, to enter
the described property to remove any person or obstacle and to assist and/or
protect the representative of the city in any way necessary to enter the
property and remove and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Execution of nuisance abatement warrants.
      (1)   Occupied property. Except as provided in division (B) above, in
executing a nuisance abatement warrant, the person authorized to execute the
warrant shall, before entry into the occupied premises, make a reasonable
effort to present the person’s credentials, authority and purpose to an
occupant or person in possession of the property designated in the warrant; and
give the occupant or person in possession of the property a copy of the
warrant.
      (2)   Unoccupied property. In executing a nuisance abatement warrant on
unoccupied property, the person authorized to execute the warrant need not
inform anyone of the person’s authority and purpose, as prescribed in division
(D)(1) above, but may promptly enter the designated property if, at the time,
it is reasonably believed to be in that condition. In this case, a copy of the
nuisance abatement warrant shall be conspicuously posted on the property, e.g.,
without limitation the main entrance, and subsequently mailed by first-class
United States Mail, postage prepaid to the owner of record of the property.
      (3)   Return. A nuisance abatement warrant must be executed within five
working days of its issue and returned to the judge by whom it was issued
within ten working days from its date of execution. After the expiration of the
time prescribed by this division (D), the warrant unless executed is void.
(Prior Code, § 130.58) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 130.59 PROTECTION OF THINGS SEIZED; LIABILITY OF AGENCY; DISPOSAL OF NUISANCE
PROPERTY REMOVED.
   (A)   Where the city seizes property, the city shall take reasonable steps
to safeguard and protect the things seized against loss, damage and
deterioration.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, the city is not liable for loss,
damage or deterioration resulting from any reasonable actions taken to secure
or develop evidence of an ordinance violation, crime or offense.
   (C)   The city may cause the nuisance items removed pursuant to the nuisance
abatement warrant to be disposed of in an approved manner whenever the city
finds that the fair and reasonable value of the items at resale would be less
than the cost of storing and selling the items. In making the above
determination, the City Manager may include in the costs of sale the reasonable
cost of removing the items to a place of storage, of storing the items for
resale, of holding the resale including reasonable staff allowances and all
other reasonable and necessary expenses of holding the sale.
(Prior Code, § 130.59) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see O.R.S. 133.537
§ 130.60 ORDER OF ABATEMENT; CANCELLATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, if the existence of the
nuisance is established in the action, an order of abatement shall be entered
as part of the general judgment in the case.
   (B)   The court, if satisfied of an owner’s good faith, shall enter no order
of abatement as to that owner if the court finds that the owner:
      (1)   Had no knowledge of the existence of the nuisance or has been
making reasonable efforts to abate the nuisance;
      (2)   Has not been guilty of any contempt of court in the proceedings;
and
      (3)   Will make best efforts to immediately abate any nuisance that may
exist and prevent it from being a nuisance for a period of one year thereafter.
   (C)   If an order of abatement has been entered and an owner subsequently
meets the requirements of this section, the order of abatement shall be
canceled as to that owner.
   (D)   The lien shall be enforced in the same manner as liens for street
improvements are enforced and shall bear interest at the rate of 9% per annum.
The interest shall commence to run from the date of the entry of the lien in
the lien docket. In addition, the lien may be foreclosed by a suit in circuit
court in the same manner as for the foreclosure of liens under O.R.S. 88.010 et
seq. Where necessary, a “lien” herein shall be substituted for “mortgage” or
“purchase money mortgage” under those statutes to allow the foreclosure.
   (E)   An error in the name of the person responsible shall not void the
assessment, nor will a failure to receive the notice of the proposed assessment
render the assessment void; but it shall remain a valid lien against the
property.
   (F)   Further, the “municipal general judgment with money award” lien may be
recorded in the records of the County Clerk and/or the County Circuit Court to
attach to real property of any responsible person or persons.
(Prior Code, § 130.60) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see O.R.S. 105.580
§ 130.61 COSTS OF SECURING OR ABATING PROPERTY AS LIEN; PRIORITY OF LIEN;
FILING NOTICE OF PENDENCY.
   (A)   Any costs associated with securing the property under §§
130.55 through
130.62, inclusive, shall constitute a lien against the property declared to be
a nuisance from the time a notice specifying the costs is filed of record.
   (B)   Any costs incurred by the city to secure a property that is a nuisance
shall constitute a lien against the property declared to be a nuisance from the
time a notice specifying the costs is filed of record.
   (C)   A notice of pendency of an action may be filed pursuant to O.R.S.
93.740 with respect to any action filed under §§
130.55 through
130.62, inclusive.
(Prior Code, § 130.61) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see O.R.S. 105.585
§ 130.62 COLLECTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall preclude or prevent the city from referring
its judgments under this or any other city ordinance to a public or private,
commercial or otherwise, collection agency or process.
(Prior Code, § 130.62) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise indicated, any offense under this chapter is classified as
a violation punishable by a fine up to $250 per offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.99) (Ord. 1253, passed 12-6-2010; Ord. 1315, passed 6-6-
2016)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODES
      
151.   DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
      
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES
Section
   
150.01   Site work of buildings demolished by fire or mechanical means
   
150.02   State Building Codes adopted
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 SITE WORK OF BUILDINGS DEMOLISHED BY FIRE OR MECHANICAL MEANS.
   (A)   Building wholly or partially destroyed. Any building within the limits
of the city that is wholly or partially destroyed by fire or is partially torn
down or dismantled, or is demolished by any means shall not be permitted to be
or become a public nuisance.
   (B)   Site work required. Within 60 days of the partial or total dismantling
or demolition or burning of a building, the following requirements shall be
met:
      (1)   All unsalvageable building materials shall be removed to an
approved site;
      (2)   All unburned materials and trash shall be removed to an approved
site;
      (3)   Any basement excavations, pits or trenches shall be filled or
properly fenced;
      (4)   All sewer lateral connections shall be properly capped and located
for future use;
      (5)   Salvageable materials must be neatly stacked for storage during the
60-day period following the demolition or burning of a building and shall be
removed from the premises (site of the demolished or burned building) within
the 60-day period; and
      (6)   Site shall be graded to a uniform gradient.
   (C)   Public nuisance. Failure to comply with all of the requirements of
division (B) above shall be deemed a public nuisance.
   (D)   Violation. Any person who is the owner of land, or who is in
possession of land on which there exists a demolished or burned building which
is a public nuisance in violation of this section, shall, upon conviction, be
subject to the penalties provided in a Class B infraction as provided in state
law.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 1144, passed 4-1-1996) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 STATE BUILDING CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   Standards applicable to building. In addition to compliance with this
and other ordinances of the city, building and related activities shall comply
with provisions of the State Structural Specialty Code and Fire and Life Safety
Code, and the State Mechanical Specialty Code and Mechanical Fire and Life
Safety Code, as adopted by the Director of the State Department of Commerce and
the State Fire Marshal, as these codes are now or hereafter constituted.
   (B)   City code administration. The city shall provide for the
administration of a plan checking, permit and inspection program for structural
and mechanical work, but not for electrical or plumbing work. This city program
is applicable to public as well as private building.
   (C)   Excavation and grading. Chapter 70, Excavation and Grading, of the
appendix to the Uniform Building Code edition, as adopted in division (A) of
this section, shall apply to all excavation and grading activities in the city.
   (D)   Local interpretation. In addition to the provisions of § 106 of the
Structural Specialty Code and similar provisions of other specialty codes, the
building official may approve a material or a method of construction not
specifically prescribed by this section; provided that he or she finds that the
proposed design is satisfactory and that the material, method or work offered
is for the purpose intended at least the equivalent of that specifically
prescribed by this section in quality, effectiveness, fire resistance,
durability, safety and energy conservation, and that the Director of the
Department of Commerce has not issued a report disapproving the material or
method for the purpose. The building official may refer the proposed design to
the City Board of Appeals, and a person affected by a ruling of the building
official may appeal the ruling to the Board of Appeals within 30 days of the
date of the ruling. The provisions of this section shall not be interpreted to
preclude a person from requesting a ruling from the Director of the Department
of Commerce prior to submitting an application to the city for a permit or
after withdrawing a previously submitted application.
   (E)   Unsafe buildings. The Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings, 1997 edition, is hereby adopted as the ordinance for the city
providing for the abatement of dangerous buildings. As such, the City Council
is hereby established as the Board of Appeals for purposes of this section.
   (F)   Board of Appeals. For application in this city, division (a) of § 204
of the Structural Specialty Code and division (a) of § 203 of the Mechanical
Specialty Code are replaced by the following:
      In order to determine the suitability of alternate materials and methods
of construction and to provide for reasonable interpretations of the provisions
of standards applicable to building and related activities administered through
this city, there is created a Board of Appeals consisting of five voting
members who are qualified by experience and training to pass upon matters
pertaining to building and related activities. The Building Official shall be
an ex officio nonvoting member and shall act as secretary of the Board. The
Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the Mayor and hold office at his
pleasure. The Board shall adopt reasonable rules and regulations for conducting
its investigations and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to
the building official with a duplicate copy to the appellant. The Administrator
of the State Building Codes Division shall be furnished copies of decisions
interpreting State Building Code requirements.
   (G)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure in the city, or cause
the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions of
this section.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this section shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and the person shall be
deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof
during which any violation of any of the provisions of this section is
committed, continued or permitted; and, upon conviction of the violation, the
person(s) shall be punished as set forth in §
150.99.
(Prior Code, § 150.03) (Ord. 875, passed 3-28-1977; Ord. 1039, passed 11-21-
1983; Ord. 1040, passed 1-3-1984; Ord. 1156, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Building codes. Any person violating §
150.02, upon conviction of the violation, shall be punished by a fine of not
more than $1,000, or by imprisonment for not more than 180 days, or by both the
fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 150.99) (Ord. 875, passed 3-28-1977; Ord. 1039, passed 11-21-
1983; Ord. 1040, passed 1-3-1984; Ord. 1156, passed 7-6-1998)
CHAPTER 151: DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Street naming
   
151.02   Satellite dishes
   
151.03   Land use fee schedule
Development Plans
   
151.15   Comprehensive Plan, adopted
   
151.16   Stormwater Drainage Master Plan, adopted by reference
   
151.17   Urban Renewal Plan, adopted
   
151.18   Color chart for the Town Center overlay district, adopted
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 STREET NAMING.
   (A)   Naming of streets and avenues. There shall be a uniform system of
naming and designating all avenues in the city by designating the avenues
commencing with the west boundary of the city and running thence eastward.
      The presently designated Seventh Avenue West shall be and is hereby named
Ash Avenue; the presently designated Sixth Avenue West shall be and is hereby
named Birch Avenue; the presently designated Fifth Avenue West shall be and is
hereby named Cedar Avenue; the presently designated Fourth Avenue West shall be
and is hereby named Douglas Avenue; the presently designated Third Avenue West
shall be and is hereby named Elm Avenue; the presently designated Second Avenue
West shall be and is hereby named Fir Avenue; the presently designated First
Avenue West shall be and is hereby named Grove Avenue; the presently designated
Stillwell Avenue shall be and is hereby named Stillwell Avenue; the presently
designated First Avenue East shall be and is hereby named Ivy Avenue; the
presently designated Second Avenue East shall be and is hereby named Main
Avenue; the presently designated Third Avenue East shall be and is hereby named
Pacific Avenue; the presently designated Fourth Avenue East shall be and is
hereby named Laurel Avenue; the presently designated Fifth Avenue East shall be
and is hereby named Madrona Avenue; the presently designated Sixth Avenue East
shall be and is hereby named Nestucca Avenue; the presently designated Miller
Avenue shall be and is hereby named Miller Avenue; the presently designated
Park Avenue shall be and is hereby named Park Avenue; the presently designated
Del Monte Avenue shall be and is hereby named Del Monte Avenue; the presently
designated Manor Avenue between the presently designated West Sixth Street and
the presently designated West Ninth Street shall be and is hereby named Manor
Place; that certain avenue between the presently designated East First Street
and the presently designated East Third Street shall be and is hereby named
Ocean Place; that certain avenue between the presently designated East First
Street and the presently designated East Third Street presently designated
Goodspeed Avenue shall be and is hereby named Goodspeed Place.
   (B)   Numbering of buildings. There shall be a uniform system of numbering
all houses, stores and other buildings, except sheds and outbuildings, erected
or to be erected within the city limits, by placing on the door or door frame
of the main entrance to the buildings, or as near thereto as practicable, the
number assigned thereto, as hereinafter provided, which numbers to be painted
on the building, or on metal or glass, or by a metallic figure used at the
option of the owner. The figure designating the number, whether painted or
otherwise, may be artistic as long as legible and shall not less than three
inches in height. Once assigned, the property owner is required to post the
house number in a conspicuous place visible from the street.
   (C)   Bases for numbering. The base for numbering houses west to east shall
be the west city limits, the north to south shall be Front Street and the
numbering east from the west city limits shall be in regular order commencing
with 1,000 and adding 100 numbers per block for each block added in distance
from the west city limits to the east city limits.
   (D)   East and west numbering. On streets running east and west, the numbers
on the north side of the street shall be even numbers; those on the south side
of the street shall be odd numbers; those on the north side to run from two to
16 inclusive; and those on the south side from one to 15 inclusive.
   (E)   North and south numbering. On all avenues and places running north and
south, the numbering shall commence on Front Street and continue to the south
city limits. The numbers on the west side shall be even and the numbers on the
east side odd, and the numbering shall be from two to 16 inclusive on the even
and one to 15 inclusive on the odd.
   (F)   Effective date. All houses or buildings now erected shall be numbered
as herein provided on or before December 31, 1951, and all houses or buildings
hereafter erected shall be numbered before being occupied.
   (G)   Penalty. The owner of any house or building required by this section
to be numbered, who shall fail, refuse or neglect to comply with the provisions
of this section, shall be subject to the provisions of §
151.99.
(Prior Code, § 151.05) (Ord. 668, passed 9-17-1951; Ord. 1349, passed 8-19-
2019) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 SATELLITE DISHES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of divisions (A) to (H) below is to regulate
microwave receiving dishes so as to minimize their visual impact. For purposes
of these divisions, MICROWAVE RECEIVING DISH means any conical or dish-shaped
device or structure used for receiving television or other telecommunications
signals transmitted from satellites or earth-based transmitters. MICROWAVE
RECEIVING DISHES may also be known as TELEVISION RECEIVE ONLY (TVRO) DISHES,
SATELLITE DIRECT SERVICE (SDS) DISHES, MULTI-DISTANCE SERVICE (MDS) DISHES and
EARTH STATIONS.
   (B)   General. The city zoning ordinance, codified in Chapter 152, is hereby
adopted by referral, as the source of definitions contained herein.
Applications for siting of microwave receiving dishes shall be made on forms
provided by the city. The City Manager or his or her appointed designee shall
be responsible for the interpretation and enforcement of this section.
   (C)   Ground dishes. Microwave receiving dishes shall be permitted within
all zones subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   Siting shall be based on technical need with the rear yard given
first priority, side yard second priority, and front yard third priority.
Written verification of technical need may be requested from a qualified dealer
prior to siting in a front yard area;
      (2)   A ground dish shall abide by the setback requirements of the zone
in which it is located. Zones without an established setback area shall, at a
minimum, provide a five-foot side and rear yard setback and a minimum of ten
feet shall be required for a front yard setback area. The portion of a ground
dish which is above the ten-foot height, measured from ground level, must be
inset an additional one-half foot for each foot of height exceeding ten feet;
and
      (3)   SETBACK shall mean the minimum allowable horizontal distance from a
property line, to the nearest vertical element of a microwave receiving dish.
   (D)   Roof dishes. Microwave receiving dishes three feet or less in diameter
may be mounted on roofs, porches or project from a wall of the dwelling. For
dishes in excess of three feet in diameter, see division (F) below.
   (E)   Aesthetic review standards. All ground microwave receiving dishes
located in a front or side yard shall be screened by sight-obscuring fences
and/or dense landscape buffers. These buffers shall, at a minimum, screen 50%
of a ground dish based on the total vertical height. A maximum buffer height
shall be six feet. Dishes may be required to be painted to blend with the
existing surroundings.
   (F)   Conditional uses. Roof-mounted microwave receiving dishes exceeding
three feet in diameter shall be required to apply for a conditional use permit.
The permit shall be reviewed according to the procedures set forth in the
conditional use permits section of §
152.071.
   (G)   Variances. Exceptions to the quantifiable standards contained in this
section may be obtained through a variance. The request shall be reviewed
according to the procedures set forth in the variances section of §
152.073.
   (H)   Shared use. In addition to the standards contained herein, multiple
users of a single microwave receiving dish shall record any appropriate
easements and agreements relating to the use of the dish. It shall not be the
responsibility of the city to interpret or enforce the provisions of the
agreement.
   (I)   Appeal process.
      (1)   Any appeal from a decision of the administration relating to the
enforcement or interpretation of this section shall be made in writing and
shall be filed with the City Council within 15 days after the decision.
      (2)   The Council shall consider the appeal and render its decision
within 60 days after the filing thereof. Any action of the City Council
interpreting any uncertainty or ambiguity may be in the form of a resolution,
and shall be signed by the President or presiding member of the Council and
filed with the City Recorder.
   (J)   Penalties for violation. Any person, firm or corporation whether as
principal, agent, employee or otherwise violating any of the provisions of this
section shall be given written notice of the nature of the violation and
provided 15 days to correct the violation. Failure to comply shall be a
violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine as set
forth in §
151.99.
   (K)   Fees. Any fee, other than that required by divisions (F) or (G) above,
relating to the administration of this section shall be established or changed
by the City Council by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 151.06) (Ord. 1060, passed 4-1-1985; Ord. 1315, passed 6-6-2016)
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 LAND USE FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following land use fee schedule is hereby adopted.
LAND USE REVIEWS AND FEES
   (A)   Ministerial (Type I) review. Ministerial (Type I) reviews are those
made by city staff which do not require public notice. Generally, ministerial
reviews should be based on clear and objective criteria only. City staff have
up to 30 days after submittal to review for completeness and approve, approve
with conditions, or deny the proposal. The final decision must be issued within
120 days of a complete submittal.
      (1)   In addition, the City Planner may refer certain ministerial reviews
to the Planning Commission in rare cases, such as actual conflict of interest
or projects which have highly unusual features.
      (2)   A pre-application conference is optional for these reviews.
      (3)   The following typically require ministerial review only:
         (a)   Single-family detached dwellings.
         (b)   Manufactured homes on individual lots.
         (c)   A duplex, which is not being reviewed as part of any other
development.
         (d)   Minor modifications.
         (e)   Home occupations.
         (f)   Commercial addition less than 50% of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started.
      (4)   Any other use may require additional standards of reviews.
• Zoning Clearance Permit (ZP)                                                    $25
ZP review is required for all structural development. ZP applications may be submitted
simultaneously with other reviews, after other reviews are completed, or at any point in
between. ZP reviews are completed last and serve as the clearance that all other reviews and
requirements have been met. The Tillamook County Building Department will typically not
accept building permit applications without an approved ZP.
Zoning permit fees are cumulative for the entire project. A new single-family home with a
detached garage would total $25 (Base ZP Cost) + $175 (New Residential) + $50 (One Unit) +
$25 (Accessory Structure) + $25 (Address Issuance) = $300.
   • New Commercial/Industrial                                                 $225
                                                                                    $125 +
   • Commercial Addition/Accessory Structure                                   $25/
                                                                                    1,000
                                                                                    sq. ft.
   • New Residential (Incl. ADU)                                               $175 +
                                                                                    $50/unit
   • Residential Addition/Accessory Structure under 200 sq. ft.                $25
   • Reroofing or Remodel with no increase in footprint or volume              $50
   • Demolition                                                                $50
   • Address Issuance/Change                                                   $50
                                                                                    $175 +
   • Wetland/Riparian Area                                                     Cost of
                                                                                    Peer
                                                                                    Review
• Land Use Compatibility Statements (LUCS)                                         
State agency actions must be completed in a manner that is consistent with the local
comprehensive plan. A form confirming that a proposal is consistent with the plan is a land
use compatibility statement, or “LUCS.” Signing a LUCS is not a land use decision. Common
LUCS requests include new or amended water rights, on-site sewage disposal approval, and
wetland fill or removal.
   • Verification letter on letterhead                                         $50
   • Form with no required findings (including in-house form)                  $25
   • Form or letter with required findings (e.g., DEQ LUCS)                    $75
• Flood Hazard Development Permit (FHD)                                            
   • Non-Structural Development (Grading/Fill)                                 $250
   • Structural Development (including grading/fill)                           $750
   • Peer Review (if needed)                                                   At Cost
                                                                                    $130 +
                                                                                    $3.96
• Sign Permit (S)                                                                 per sq.
                                                                                    ft. (Max
                                                                                    fee of
                                                                                    $2,147)
• Special Use Permit (SU)                                                          
Special Uses are described in §
152.051. Many of these are simple siting and design standards, which are reviewed under a
standard zoning clearance permit. Some are criteria that apply to certain quasi-judicial
reviews. Some, however, require specialized standards, reviews, submittals, or permits.
These are covered here and in administrative reviews (for those which require notice). SU
review is in addition to all other applicable reviews.
   • Animal hospitals, kennels, breeding grounds and veterinary clinics        $25
   • Barns, coops, corrals and hutches, paddocks, pens for farm animals, livest$25,
and poultry farms and eggeries (in residential zone, not urban farming)
   • Bed and breakfast establishments                                          $25
   • Circuses, carnivals, animal rides, animal displays, amusement rides, flea $50
markets or Christmas tree lots
   • Drive-in theaters                                                         $25
   • Home occupation                                                           $50
   • Mobile unit food and beverage cart                                        $150
   • Wireless communication facilities                                         $50
• Final Partition (P)                                                             $50
• Final PUD without Amendment                                                     $500
• Public Works Permits (PW)                                                        
   • Driveway                                                                  $100
   • Sewer line extension                                                      $100
   • Sidewalk                                                                  $100
   • Water line extension                                                      $100
   • Street tree planting                                                      $50
• Right-of-Way Use Permits (ROW)                                                   
   • First Sandwich Board per Business                                         $0
   • All Other Temporary Uses in ROW (such as tables and chairs)               $60
   • Special Event Permit (with Amplified Sound)                               $60
• Revokable Encroachment License (ENC)                                            $125
                                                                                    25% of
• Amendment to Ministerial Approval                                               Original
                                                                                    Fee
 
   (B)   Administrative (Type II) review. Administrative (Type II) reviews are
those made by city staff which require notice. Staff’s decision must be based
on criteria, but criteria may allow for a degree of discretion, such as
determining conditions of approval. Generally, city staff have up to 30 days to
review a submitted application for completeness, followed by a 10-day notice
comment period, after which staff have up to 10 days to approve, approve with
conditions, or deny proposals. Including all local appeals, the final decision
must be issued within 120 days of a complete submittal.
      (1)   In addition, the City Planner may refer any administrative review
to the Planning Commission as a quasi-judicial review.
      (2)   A pre-application conference is not required but recommended for
these reviews.
• Site Plan Review (SP)                                                            
   • Conversion of residences to commercial uses                               $250
   • Commercial addition is less than 50% of the existing structure(s) or less than
10,000 square feet (whichever is smaller) AND exceeds 50% of the market value       $300
before improvement
   • Previously approved site plan reviews that are null and void and no change25% of
are proposed                                                                        Original
                                                                                    Fee
• Conditional Use (CU)                                                            $500
   • Signs                                                                      
   • Modifications of an existing conditional use permit                        
• Variance (V)                                                                    $500
   • Deviation from the minimum building setback of not more than 20%           
   • Deviation from the building height limitation of not more than 10%         
   • Deviation from any other zoning requirements of not more than 10% (i.e.,
required % of area, required coverage, required density, sign requirements, lot      
requirements, off-street parking requirements).
   • Deviation from a residential accessory dwelling living area of not more th 
5%.
   • Expansion of a conditional or non-conforming use by not more than 20% of t 
gross building volume.
• Special Use Permit (SU)                                                          
   • Mural and Public Artwork (goes before City Council)                       $200
   • Display and sale of agricultural products in a residential zone           $200
   • Temporary Use                                                             $200
   • Urban Farming                                                             $200
• Lot Line Adjustment (LA)                                                        $300
• Preliminary Partition (P)                                                       $300
• Final Subdivision (SUB)                                                         $150
                                                                                    25% of
• Time Extension                                                                  Original
                                                                                    Fee
   • Partition                                                                  
   • Subdivision                                                                
   • PUD                                                                        
   • Conditional Use Permit                                                     
   • Site Plan Review                                                           
   • Variance                                                                   
                                                                                    25% of
• Minor Modification to Site Plan Approval                                        Original
                                                                                    Fee
 
   (C)   Quasi-judicial (Type III) review. Quasi-judicial (Type III) reviews
are those made by the Planning Commission which require notice and a public
hearing. The Commission’s decision must be based on criteria, but criteria may
allow for a degree of discretion, such as determining conditions of approval.
City staff have up to 30 days to review for completeness, followed by a minimum
20-day notice and comment period. A hearing may be scheduled at the first
regular Planning Commission meeting after this period. These meetings are held
on the first Thursday of each month. The Planning Commission may choose to
approve, approve with conditions, or deny the proposal.
      (1)   Including all local appeals, the final decision must be issued
within 120 days of a complete submittal.
      (2)   A pre-application conference is required for these reviews.
• Site Plan Review (SP)                                                           
   • New Commercial/Industrial                                                $1,000
   • Commercial Addition/Accessory Structure greater than 50% of the existing $1,000
structure or greater than 10,000 square feet
   • New Residential                                                          $750 +
                                                                                   $50/unit
   • Residential Additions/Accessory Structures greater than 50%              $750
• Conditional Use (CU)                                                           $750
   • Requires Site Plan Review                                                 
• Variance (V)                                                                   $750
                                                                                   $750 +
• Preliminary Subdivision (SUB)                                                  $50/
                                                                                   created
                                                                                   lot
   • Final Subdivision                                                        $1,023
• Planned Unit Development (PUD)                                                  
                                                                                   $1,500 +
   • Preliminary PUD                                                          $100/
                                                                                   created
                                                                                   lot
   • Final PUD with Amendment                                                 $1,500
                                                                                   50% of
• Major Modification to Site Plan Approval                                       Original
                                                                                   Fee
 
   (D)   Legislative (Type IV) review. Legislative (Type IV) reviews are those
which require final approval by the City Council, typically via ordinance.
Generally, these reviews go first before the Planning Commission for review and
recommendation to the City Council. In addition, certain legislative reviews
require notice to the state Department of Land Conservation and Development,
which can require additional time. Zone change requests which do not amend the
Zoning Ordinance or Comprehensive Plan must be completed within 120 days. Other
legislative reviews carry no time limit.
 
• Zoning Map Amendment/Zone Change (ZC)$1,500 + $250/lot
• Zoning Ordinance Amendment (ZOA)     $2,000
• Comprehensive Plan Amendment (PA)    $3,000
• Urban Growth Boundary Amendment (UGBA$3,000 + $500/lot
• Annexation (AX)                      $2,000 + $500/lot
• Plat/Street Vacation (VAC)           $1,000 + $100/adjacent lot
 
   (E)   Other.
• Pre-Application Conference (PX)                                                 $250
   • Applies toward any associated fees for land use review following the pre-  
application conference.
• Code Interpretation (CI)                                                        $350
CI may be requested from the Planning Commission to clarify an unclear section of
the Zoning Code, or to make certain determinations as to the meaning of the code.    
The most common CI request is to determine if a use not specifically named in the
allowed uses of a district may be included among the allowed uses.
• Appeals (AP)  To be paid by Appellant.                                         
                                                                                    lesser of
                                                                                    25% of
    •  Administrative Decision to Planning Commission (O.R.S. 227.175(10))     Original
                                                                                    Land Use
                                                                                    Fee or
                                                                                    $250*
                                                                                    25% of
    •  Planning Commission to City Council                                     Original
                                                                                    Land Use
                                                                                    Fee
                                                                                    1.1% of
• Community Development Fee* – All Projects greater than $20,000               project
                                                                                    valuation
                                                                                    See most
• Water Connection Fee*                                                           recent
                                                                                    schedule.
                                                                                    See most
• System Development Charges*                                                     recent
                                                                                    schedule.
• Fees paid after start of work                                                   Doubled
 
   *    Paid at or before zoning clearance permit approval.
   **    Fee refunded if appellant prevails at the hearing or upon subsequent
appeal. Fee does not apply to appeals made by a neighborhood or community
organization recognized by the City Council and whose boundaries include the
site.
   (F)   Fee waivers. On written request, the City Manager may reduce or waive
permit fees for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Special event permits, such as farmer’s market, county fairgrounds
events, charity dinners, as well as up to three directional signs in the right-
of-way.
      (2)   Projects resulting from natural disaster or similar emergency
situation.
      (3)   Permits submitted by governmental or non-profit entities for
projects which further one or more goals or policies adopted by the City
Council (through plans, ordinances, or resolutions).
      (4)   Denial of reduced fees by the City Manager may be appealed to the
City Council. Any appeal must be submitted to the office of the City Manager in
writing at least ten business days prior to a regularly scheduled Council
meeting.
      (5)   All other fee reductions or waivers must be approved by the City
Council.
   (G)   Miscellaneous standards.
      (1)   Except where forbidden, an applicant shall be billed the actual
cost of processing an application when the itemized cost exceeds the prescribed
fee by at least 50%.
      (2)   Except where noted otherwise, fees are not refundable.
(Res. R082123B, passed 8-21-2023)
DEVELOPMENT PLANS
§ 151.15 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, ADOPTED.
   The Comprehensive Plan of the city, as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are available through city
offices.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 1114, passed 5-21-1991; Ord. 1150, passed 12-16-
1996; Ord. 1153, passed 6-16-1997; Ord. 1154, passed 6-16-1997; Ord. 1170,
passed 12-3-2001; Ord. 1183, passed 1-21- 2003; Ord. 1185, passed 6-2-2003;
Ord. 1187, passed 11-3-2003; Ord. 1270, passed 10-15-2012; Ord. 1277, passed 7-
15-2013; Ord. 1312, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 1313, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 1318,
passed 9-6-2016; Ord. 1328, passed 6-5-2017; Ord. 1330, passed 8-24-2017; Ord.
080221, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 151.16 STORMWATER DRAINAGE MASTER PLAN, ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Stormwater Drainage Master Plan document prepared for the city by the
LDC Design Group, Inc., dated October 2004, along with any subsequent
amendments, is hereby adopted and incorporated hereto by reference.
(Prior Code, § 151.02) (Ord. 1204, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 151.17 URBAN RENEWAL PLAN, ADOPTED.
   (A)   The city finds that:
      (1)   The area described in the Urban Renewal Plan (hereafter “Plan”), as
amended, is blighted;
      (2)   Rehabilitation and redevelopment is necessary to protect the public
health, safety or welfare of the city;
      (3)   The Plan conforms to the city’s Comprehensive Plan as a whole, and
provides an outline for accomplishing the projects that the Plan proposes;
      (4)   Provisions have been made to house displaced persons within their
financial means and in accordance with O.R.S. 35.500 through 35.530 and, except
in the relocation of elderly or handicapped individuals, without displacing on
priority lists persons already waiting for existing federally subsidized
housing;
      (5)   No real property has been identified for acquisition at this time,
and, therefore, that no findings of necessity have been made at this time;
      (6)   The adoption and carrying out of the Urban Renewal Plan is
economically sound and feasible;
      (7)   The city shall assume and complete any activities prescribed within
it by the Plan;
      (8)   The City Council hereby incorporates by reference the Plan,
attached to the ordinance establishing this section as Exhibit A and hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in full herein, as support for its above-
mentioned findings; and
      (9)   The City Council further relies on the report on the Plan, attached
to the ordinance establishing this section as Exhibit B, which is incorporated
herein by reference, the report of the Planning Commission, the public hearing
and the entire record before the City Council in this matter.
   (B)   The City Council hereby adopts and approves the Plan, as amended,
pursuant to the provisions of O.R.S. Chapter 457, and directs the City Recorder
to publish notice of the adoption of this section in accordance with the
requirements of O.R.S. 457.115. This section shall take effect 30 days
following its passage by the Council and approval by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 151.03) (Ord. 1215, passed 11-20-2006; Ord. 1243, passed 11-16-
2009; Ord. 1267, passed 6-18-2012)
§ 151.18 COLOR CHART FOR THE TOWN CENTER OVERLAY DISTRICT, ADOPTED.
   The City Council hereby adopts Exhibit A and Exhibit B attached to the
resolution incorporated in this section as the color chart for the Town Center
Overlay District for the city and future building colors must match the chart
or equivalent.
(Res. 1675, passed 9-15-2014)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   House numbering. Any person violating the provisions of §
151.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, before the City Recorder, be subject to
a fine of not less than $1 or more than $5 for each day’s neglect or refusal.
   (C)   Satellite dishes. Failure to comply with the provisions of §
151.02 shall be a violation and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by
a fine of not more than $25 for each and every day the violation is allowed to
exist.
(Prior Code, § 151.99) (Ord. 668, passed 9-17-1951; Ord. 1060, passed 4-1-1985;
Ord. 1315, passed 6-6-2016; Ord. 1349, passed 8-19-2019)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title, purpose and compliance with provisions
   
152.002   Establishment of zoning district and zoning maps
   
152.003   Definitions
   
152.004   Application procedures and fee
Districts
   
152.015   Open space land use (O District)
   
152.016   Residential Low District (R-7.5 District)
   
152.017   Residential Medium District (R-5.0 District)
   
152.018   Multiple Use Residential District (R-O District)
   
152.019   Neighborhood Commercial District (N-C District)
   
152.020   Highway Commercial District (H-C District)
   
152.021   Central Commercial District (C-C District)
   
152.022   Light Industrial District (L-I District)
   
152.023   General Industrial District (G-I District)
   
152.024   Public and Semi-Public District (P & S-P District)
   
152.025   Planned Unit Development District (PUD District)
Overlay Districts
   
152.030   Town Center Overlay District (TC District)
   
152.031   Health Care Overlay (HCO District)
   
152.032   Hoquarton Waterfront Overlay (HWO District)
   
152.033   Limited Use Overlay District (LU District)
   
152.034   Airport Approach Overlay Zone (AAO District)
   
152.035   Hazard Overlay Zone (HO District)
   
152.036   Water Resources Protection Overlay District (WRPO District)
   
152.037   Flood Hazard Overlay Zone (FHO District)
   
152.038   Estuary standards, requirements and Shoreland Overlay District
Interpretation, Standards and Regulations
   
152.050   Interpretations and exceptions
   
152.051   Provisions applying to special uses
   
152.052   Site development standards and requirements
   
152.053   Design and landscaping standards and requirements
   
152.054   Off-street parking and loading
   
152.055   Sign standards and requirements
Procedures
   
152.070   Site plan review
   
152.071   Conditional use permits
   
152.072   Land divisions (partitions, subdivisions)
   
152.073   Variances
   
152.074   Non-conforming uses
   
152.075   Amendments
   
152.076   Appeals, general
   
152.077   Revocation of permits or variances
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE, PURPOSE AND COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the “zoning ordinance” of the
City of Tillamook, Oregon. It is part of the City Development Code.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to further the objectives and
goals of the Comprehensive Plan and to provide for the public health, safety
and general welfare of the citizens of the city through orderly community
development and planning with considerations for: desirable concentrations of
population; protection of property values; aesthetics and enhancement of the
appearance of the community; limitation of dangerous or offensive trades or
industries; maintenance of adequate open space for light and air and emergency
access; the provisions for access and privacy; and facilitation and the
adequate provision of community utilities and facilities, such as
transportation, power, water, sewage, fire, police, schools, parks and other
public requirements.
   (C)   Compliance with ordinance provisions. A parcel may be used and a
structure or part of a structure constructed, reconstructed, remodeled,
occupied or used only as this chapter permits. Where this chapter imposes
greater restrictions than those imposed or required by other rules or
regulations or ordinances, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Ord. 1283, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 152.002ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICT AND ZONING MAPS.
   (A)   Classification of zoning districts.
      (1)   For the purposes of this chapter, the city is divided into
underlying zoning districts designated as follows:
Zoning District Map Symbol and Abbreviated Designation Reference Section
Zoning District            Map Symbol and Abbreviated Reference Section
                           Designation
Open Space                 O
Residential - Low          R-7.5
Residential - Medium       R-5.0
Residential - Multiple Use R-O
Commercial - Neighborhood  N-C
Commercial - Highway       H-C                           
Commercial - Central       C-C
Industrial - Light         L-I
Industrial - General       G-I
Public and Semi-Public     P & SP
 
      (2)   Additionally, the city is divided into the following overlay zoning
districts:
 
Overlay Zoning District           Map Symbol and Abbreviated Reference Section
                                  Designation
Airport Overlay                   AO
Hazard Overlay                    HO
Town Center Overlay               TC
Water Resource Protection Overlay WRPO
Estuary/Shoreland Overlay         ESH
Flood Hazard Overlay              FHO
 
   (B)   Application of regulations to districts generally. Except as otherwise
provided in this chapter:
      (1)   No building or part thereof or other structure shall be erected,
altered, added to or enlarged, nor shall any land, building, structure or
premises be used for any purpose or in any manner other than is included among
the uses hereinafter listed as permitted in the district in which such
building, land or premises is located.
      (2)   No building or part thereof or structure shall be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered to exceed in height the limit hereinafter
designated for the district in which such building is located.
      (3)   No building or part thereof or structure shall be erected, nor
shall any existing building be altered, enlarged or rebuilt or moved into any
district, nor shall any open space be encroached upon or reduced in any manner,
except in conformity with the yard, setback, building location, site area and
coverage requirements hereinafter prescribed with the district in which such
building or open space is located.
      (4)   No yard or other open space provided about any building or on any
building lot for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter
shall be considered as providing a yard or other open space for any other
building or any other building lot.
      (5)   The requirements of an overlay district shall apply to those areas
of the underlying zoning district that are located in an overlay district.
   (C)   Zoning map.
      (1)   The location and boundaries of zones designated in this section are
hereby established as shown on the map entitled “Zoning Map of the City of
Tillamook”, dated with the effective date of this chapter, and reflect revised
Flood Hazard Overlay Zones as designated by the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security, Federal Emergency Management Administration and signed by the Mayor
and City Recorder, and hereinafter referred to as the “Zoning Map”.
      (2)   The signed copy of said zoning map shall be the “official map” of
the city zoning districts and maintained on file in the office of the Recorder
and is hereby made part of this chapter. Any revisions or replacements of said
map, when duly entered, signed and filed with the City Recorder, as authorized
by this section, are part of this chapter.
      (3)   When the zoning of any area is changed by the City Council in the
manner prescribed by this chapter, the City Manager shall cause the official
zoning map to be revised so that it accurately portrays said change, provided
that failure to so revise the said map shall not affect the validity of any
zone change. The City Council may, from time to time, direct the City Manager
to replace the official zoning map, or a portion thereof, with a map, which
includes all lawful changes of zone and city boundaries to date. Such map, or
portion thereof, filed as a replacement, shall bear the number of the ordinance
authorizing same and shall bear dated, authenticating signatures of the Mayor
and City Recorder. Any map or portion thereof thereby replaced shall be
retained in a separate file by the City Recorder.
   (D)   Interpretation of district boundaries. In making a determination where
uncertainty exists as to boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts as shown
on said zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   District boundaries shall follow the outside boundaries of streets,
alleys or highways.
      (2)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated in the
manner authorized by law, the zoning district adjoining each side of such
street, alley or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of
the former right-of-way and all of the area included in the vacation shall then
and henceforth be subject to all regulation of the extended districts.
      (3)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following
property lines, such property lines at the date of adoption of this chapter
shall be construed to be said boundaries. If a district boundary divides a
platted lot into two or more districts, the entire lot shall be placed in the
district that accounts for the greater area of the lot by the adjustment of the
district boundary; provided that the boundary adjustment is for a distance of
less than 20 feet. If an adjustment of more than 20 feet is required, the
change in the district boundary shall be treated as a change of zone.
   (E)   Zoning of annexed areas. City zoning regulations and zoning districts
shall apply to all of the area within the city urban growth boundary.
(Ord. 1283, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 050525A, passed 5-19-2025) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING. Adjoining with a common boundary line; except that where two or
more lots adjoin only at a corner or corners, they shall be considered as
abutting if the common property line between the two parcels measures a minimum
of eight feet in a single direction.
   ACCESS. A legally and physically defined area available and practical for
motor vehicle ingress and egress to a parcel or lot. In determining
practicality, the topography, drainage, potential for erosion and other factors
may be considered.
   ACCESS EASEMENT or ACCESS WAY. The place, means or way by which pedestrians
and vehicles shall have safe, adequate and usable ingress and egress to a
property or use, and the right to cross between public and private property, as
required by this chapter.
   ACCESS MANAGEMENT. The control of street (or highway) access for the purpose
of improving the efficiency, safety and/or operation of the roadway for
vehicles; may include prohibiting, closing or limiting direct vehicle access to
a roadway from abutting properties.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE or USE. A building, structure or use which is
necessary for the operation or enjoyment of a lawful use, and appropriate and
subordinate to such lawful use. A use which involves an increase in the number
of dwelling units in a building, or on a lot, beyond that which is permitted
outright in the district, or which constitutes, in effect, the conversion of a
use to one not permitted in the district, shall not be considered an accessory
use. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES in a residential district include detached garages,
sheds, workshops, greenhouses and similar structures.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU). A subordinate dwelling unit which provides
complete, independent living facilities for one or more persons, including
permanent provisions for living, sleeping, cooking, eating and sanitation on
the same lot or parcel as the primary dwelling unit and which is incidental to
the main use of the property. In no case shall the ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT
exceed in area, extent or purpose, the principal lawful use of the main
structure or land or the area established in the zone district.
   ADJACENT. Next to, touching or contiguous, including sites, structures and
parcels which are directly across and on the opposite side of a public street
right-of-way.
   ADJOIN. The same as ABUTTING.
   ADMINISTRATIVE. A discretionary action or permit decision made without a
public hearing, but requiring public notification and an opportunity for
appeal.
   ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION. A decision made by the Planning Director or
designated staff with public notice and an opportunity for a public hearing.
The appeal of an ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION is heard by the Planning Commission.
See also MINISTERIAL.
   ADULT BUSINESS. Any person, group, firm, business or organization (except
non-profit corporations which are not open to the general public) which
prohibits admission to all or portions of the premises to any persons younger
than 18 years of age in which an adult use is conducted.
   ADULT BUSINESS AND ADULT USES. Those businesses which are not legally open
to minors under age 18 as defined by O.R.S. Chapter 167.060 to 167.090 and as
amended.
   ADULT DAY CARE. A community-based group program which has been designed to
meet the needs of adults who have impairments. ADULT DAY CARE PROGRAMS must
offer individual plans of care. Non-residential programs are designed to
provide health, social and related support services in a safe and protective
setting. ADULT DAY CARE services can be offered during any part of a day, but
for less than 24 hours.
   ADULT FOSTER HOME. As defined by O.A.R. 411-37-0000, a state-certified
dwelling operated in a family-type setting for senior citizens and/or disabled
persons over the age of 18 who are in need of help in the provision of shelter,
food, medical care and/or other service.
   ADULT USE. A use of whatever character, conducted on the premises of any
business, where persons under 18 years of age are prohibited by law in O.R.S.
Chapter 167 and as amended.
   ADVERTISING STRUCTURE. Any notice or advertisement, pictorial or otherwise,
and any structure or three dimensional form used as, or for the support of, any
notice or advertisement for the purpose of making anything known about goods,
services or activities, or for simply attracting visual attention to a
business.
   ADVERSE IMPACT. Negative affect of development that can be measured (e.g.,
noise, air pollution, vibration, dust and the like).
   AESTHETIC(S). The perception of design elements or elements in the natural
or created environment that are pleasing to the eye.
   AFFORDABLE HOUSING. Housing affordable to a certain percentage of the
population earning a specified level of income and spending no more than 30% of
their income on housing expenses. For more information, refer to the State
Department of Housing and Community Services.
   AGGREGATE RESOURCES. Sand, gravel, rock, stone, loam and dirt.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of the land for agricultural purposes, including
farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture, apiaries and animal and poultry husbandry, and the necessary
accessory uses for storing produce; provided, however, that the operation of
any such accessory use shall be incidental to that of normal agricultural
activities and provided further that the above uses shall not include the
operation of a feedlot or other commercial feeding of animals. This definition
is not intended to comply with state laws relating to farm uses.
   AIRPORT APPROACH SAFETY ZONE. A surface longitudinally centered on the
extended runway center line and extending outward and upward from each end of
the primary surface. The inner edge of the approach surface is the same width
as the primary surface and extends to a width of: 1,250 feet for utility runway
having only visual approaches; 1,500 feet for a runway other than a utility
runway having only visual approaches; 2,000 feet for a utility runway having a
non-precision instrument approach; 3,500 feet for a non-precision instrument
runway other than utility, having visibility minimums greater than three-
fourths of a statute mile; 4,000 feet for a non-precision instrument runway
having visibility minimums as low as three-fourths statute mile; and 16,000
feet for precision instrument runways. The AIRPORT APPROACH SAFETY ZONE extends
for a horizontal distance for 5,000 feet at a slope of 20 feet outward for each
foot upward (20:1) for all utility and visual runways.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure, tree or use of land which exceeds height
limits established by the airport imaginary surfaces.
   AIRPORT IMAGINARY SURFACES. Those imaginary areas in space which are defined
by the airport approach safety zone, transitional zones, horizontal zone, clear
zone and conical surface and in which any object extending above these
imaginary surfaces is an obstruction.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way through a block which affords access to
abutting property at the rear or sides thereof. Normally used as secondary
access, but primary access may be approved by the Planning Commission after
consideration of public safety or improved traffic circulation.
   ALTERED. See STRUCTURALLY ALTERED.
   ALTERATION. The addition to, removal of or from or physical modification or
repair of any exterior part or portion of a site or structure governed by this
chapter. Sign changes shall be considered a form of ALTERATION.
   ALTERATIONS. Any change in size, shape, method of illumination, position,
location, construction or supporting structure.
   AMBIENT. Something that surrounds, as in the level of light, dust or noise.
   AMUSEMENT, COMMERCIAL. Any amusement enterprise, in an indoor or outdoor
setting, offering entertainment or games of skill to the general public, for a
fee or charge; this term includes, but is not limited to, a golf driving range,
archery range and miniature golf course, bowling alley, movie theater or pool
hall.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. A place where animals or pets are given medical or surgical
treatment and are cared for during the time of such treatment. Use as a kennel
shall be limited to short-time boarding and shall be only incidental to such
hospital use. See also § 152.051(C).
   ANTENNA. A specific exterior transmitting or receiving device used to
capture, transmit or receive radio frequency signals, microwave signals and/or
other communications energy transmitted from, or to be received by, other
antennas. This includes, but is not limited to, omni-directional (“whip”)
antennas, directional (“panel”) antennas and parabolic (“dish”) antennas.
   ANTENNA ARRAY. Two or more antennas.
   ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A structure or device specifically designed,
constructed and/or erected for the purpose of attaching, mounting or otherwise
affixing antennas at a height, altitude or elevation which is above the base of
such structure. Such support structures shall include, but are not limited to
the following.
      (1)   LATTICE TOWER. A vertical support structure consisting of a network
of crossed metal braces, forming a tower with three, four or more sides.
      (2)   GUYED TOWER. A monopole or lattice tower that is tied to the ground
or to the surface by diagonal cables.
      (3)   MONOPOLE. A vertical support structure consisting of a single
vertical metal, concrete or wooden pole, pipe, tube or cylindrical structure,
typically round or square, and driven into the ground or mounted upon or
attached to a foundation.
   ANTIQUE SHOP. An establishment offering for sale articles such as glass,
china, furniture or similar furnishing and decorations, which have value and
significance as a result of age, design or sentiment.
   APARTMENT. See DWELLING, MULTIPLE FAMILY.
   APPEAL. Request for review of a planning staff, Planning Commission or City
Council decision or any interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   APPLIANCE. Large or small household goods, including washers, dryers,
refrigerators, freezers, ranges, TVs, toasters, electric irons and the like.
   APPLICATION. A formal request to the city for development, administered
through a form to be filled out by an applicant, approved by the City Planner;
such as an application for a land use development permit or a zoning clearance
permit.
   ARCADE. An arched or covered passageway; often along building fronts or
between streets.
   AREA OF ILLUMINATION. The area illuminated by lighting in certain areas of a
site plan.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet; a clearly
defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. AO is characterized as sheet
flow and AH indicates ponding.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. Special flood
hazard area designation on maps always includes the letters A or V.
   ARCHITECTURAL SIGNIFICANCE. The building or structure:
      (1)   Portrays the environment of a group of people in an era of history
characterized by a distinctive architectural style;
      (2)   Embodies those distinguishing characteristics of an architectural-
type specimen;
      (3)   Is the work of an architect or master builder whose individual work
has influenced the development of the city; or
      (4)   Contains elements of an architectural design, detail, materials or
craftsmanship which represent a significant innovation.
   ARTICULATE/ARTICULATION. The jointing and interrelating of building spaces
through offsets, projections, overhangs, extensions and similar features.
   ASSEMBLY or MEETING HALL. A building used for social, organizational,
ecumenical, business or educational purposes.
   ASSESSOR. The County Assessor of Tillamook County.
   ATTACHED. Architecture joined to or by a wall, especially by sharing a wall
with another building; not freestanding.
   AUTOMOBILE. A motor vehicle such a passenger car, truck or trailer.
   AUTOMOBILE, BOAT OR TRAILER SALES LOT. An open lot used for display, sale or
rental of new or used motor vehicles, boats or trailers in operative condition
and where no repair work is done.
   AUTOMOBILE-ORIENTED USE. Automobiles and/or other motor vehicles are an
integral part of the use. These uses include vehicle repair, sales, rental,
storage and service; and drive-up, drive-in and drive-through facilities.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. The general repair, rebuilding or reconditioning
of engines, motor vehicles or trailers; collision service including body, frame
or fender straightening or repair; overall painting or paint shop.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. Upholstering of, replacement of parts for and
motor service to passenger cars and trucks not exceeding one and one-half tons
capacity, but not including any operation named under AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR,
or any other similar operation thereto.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION or FILLING STATION. A building or lot having
pumps and storage tanks where fuels, oils or accessories for motor vehicles are
dispensed, sold or offered for sale at retail only, and where repair service is
secondary. See also § 152.051(B).
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING. The dismantling or disassembling of motor vehicles or
trailers, or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled, partially dismantled,
obsolete or wrecked vehicles, or their parts.
   AWNING. A shade structure that projects from the wall of a building for the
purpose of shielding a doorway or window from the elements, and is supported by
either posts or columns and/or by a permanent structure.
   BALCONY. A platform projecting from the exterior wall, enclosed by a
railing, supported by brackets or columns or cantilevered out.
   BARBER and BEAUTY SHOP. A facility, licensed by the state, where
haircutting, hairdressing, shaving, trimming beards, facials, manicures and/or
related serves are performed.
   BASE COURSE. A course of specified aggregate material of planned thickness
placed upon the subgrades.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. Also referred to as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. Designation on maps always
includes the letters A or V.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The crest elevation, in relation to mean sea level,
expected to be reached by the base flood, also known as the REGULATORY FLOOD
ELEVATION.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. Any establishment located in a structure designed for a
single-family residence, regardless of whether the owner or operator of the
establishment resides in such structure, which:
      (1)   Has one or more rooms for rent on a daily basis to the public;
      (2)   Offers a breakfast meal as part of the cost of the room;
      (3)   Serves only one breakfast meal a day to guest, staff and owners,
only; and
      (4)   License requirements per O.A.R. Chapter 333, Division 170.
   BERM. An earthen mound designed to provide visual interest, screen
undesirable views and/or decrease noise.
   BEVELED BUILDING CORNER. A rounded or flat edge on a building usually at a
street corner; may include an entrance, windows, pillars or other architectural
details and ornamentation.
   BICYCLE FACILITIES. A general term denoting improvements and provisions made
to accommodate or encourage bicycling, including parking facilities and all
bikeways.
   BICYCLE PATH. A path that is physically separated from the roadway and
designed exclusively for non-motorized traffic.
   BIKEWAY. Any road, path or way that is in some manner specifically open to
bicycle travel, regardless of whether such facilities are designated for the
exclusive use of bicycles or are shared with other transportation modes. The
five types of BIKEWAYS are:
      (1)   MULTI-USE PATH. A paved way (typically ten to 12 feet wide) that is
physically separated from motorized vehicular traffic; typically shared with
pedestrians, skaters and other non-motorized users;
      (2)   BIKE LANE. A portion of the roadway (typically four to six feet
wide) that has been designated by permanent striping and pavement markings for
the exclusive use of bicycles;
      (3)   SHOULDER BIKEWAY. The paved shoulder of a roadway that is four feet
or wider; typically shared with pedestrians in rural areas;
      (4)   SHARED ROADWAY. A travel lane that is shared by bicyclists and
motor vehicles; and
      (5)   MULTI-USE TRAIL. An unpaved path that accommodates all-terrain
bicycles; typically shared with pedestrians.
   BILLBOARD. The same as ADVERTISING STRUCTURE.
   BLACKSMITH SHOP. A shop for a worker of iron, forging iron, repairing the
iron work on a wheel, barrel or making and shaping plow shares or draft animal
shoes and a horse shoer. See MACHINE OR WELDING SHOP.
   BLOCK. A parcel of land or group of lots bounded by intersecting streets.
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners of Tillamook County, Oregon.
   BOARDING OR LODGING HOUSE OR ROOMING HOUSE. A residential building, other
than a hotel or motel, where lodging and/or meals are provided to tenants in
one or more rooms for periods of 30 days or more, and for which a fee is
charged.
   BOAT YARD. A place where boats are constructed, dismantled, stored, serviced
or repaired, including maintenance work thereon.
   BOLLARD. A post of metal, wood or masonry that is used to separate or direct
traffic (vehicles, pedestrians and/or bicycles). BOLLARDS are usually
decorative and may contain sidewalk or pathway lighting.
   BOULEVARD. A street with broad open space areas; typically with planted
medians.
   BUFFER. A combination of physical space and vertical elements, such as
plants, berms, fences or walls, the purpose of which is to separate and screen
incompatible land uses from each other.
   BUILDABLE AREA. (As it relates to the calculation of required landscaping),
the area of a lot remaining after other zoning requirement, including, but not
limited to, setback, off-street parking and ingress/egress have been met.
   BUILDING. A structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind, but not including swimming
pools, fences and patios.
   BUILDING FOOTPRINT. The outline of a building as measured around with the
shape of its foundation.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. See HEIGHT OF BUILDING definition.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector of the city, as designated by the
City Council.
   BUILDING LINE. A line on the plat map indicating the limit beyond which
buildings or structures may not be erected.
   BUILDING LOT. A lot occupied or intended to be occupied by a principal
building or a group of such buildings and accessory buildings, together with
such open spaces as are required by this chapter, and having the required
frontage on a street.
   BUILDING, MAIN. A building within which is conducted the principal use
permitted on the lot, as provided in this chapter.
   BUILDING MASS. The aggregate size of a building or the total height, width
and depth of all its parts.
   BUILDING PAD. A vacant building site on a lot with other building sites.
   BUILDING SCALE. The dimensional relationship of a building and its component
parts to other buildings.
   BULLETIN BOARD. A sign of a permanent nature, but which accommodates
changeable copy, indicating the names of persons associated with events
conducted upon or products or services offered upon, the premises upon which
the sign is located.
   BUSH or SHRUB. A planting whose primary purpose is decorative and whose
normal height will not be in excess of ten feet.
   BUSINESS. A commercial or industrial enterprise.
   BUSINESS or PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. An office of a professional providing a
service to the public, including, but not limited to, medical or dental
offices, architectural, engineering or surveying office; certified public
accountant or tax preparer’s office, realty or insurance office; business or
computer consultant.
   BUSINESS FRONTAGE. The lineal front footage of the building or a portion
thereof, devoted to a specific business or enterprise and having an entrance/
exit opening to the general public.
   CABANA. A stationary, lightweight structure which may be prefabricated, or
demountable, with two or more walls, used adjacent to and in conjunction with a
mobile home to provide for additional living space, meant to be moved with the
mobile home.
   CABINET, CARPENTRY AND WOODWORK SHOP, CUSTOM. Shop for the repair or
creation of individual items of furniture and wooden home furnishings on a
custom basis; not a factory, planing mill or similar woodworking plant.
   CAMPING or RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Vacation trailer, park trailer, self-
propelled vehicle or structure equipped with wheels for highway use which is
designed for human occupancy and is being used for temporary vacation/
recreational or emergency purposes, as allowable by this chapter, but not for
residential purposes, and may be equipped with plumbing, sink or toilet.
   CAPACITY. Maximum holding or service ability, as used for transportation,
utilities, parks and other public facilities.
   CAPACITY TOWER. A tower lower than a “coverage tower” with lower antennas
and reduced power output, added to fill in the service ability not covered by a
“coverage tower”.
   CARTOON. A caricature of an animate or inanimate object.
   CELL TOWER. See UTILITY FACILITY, WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY.
   CEMETERY. Land dedicated for burial purposes, including mortuary, crematory,
mausoleum and columbarium, when operated within the boundary of a cemetery.
   CERTIFIED ARBORIST. An arborist having been certified by the International
Society of Arboriculture.
   CHANGE OF USE AS RELATES TO A NON-CONFORMING USE. Visible or audible changes
that would affect surrounding properties and neighbors, including, but not
limited to, traffic, parking, noise level, lighting, signing, smoke, dust,
odor, vibration, soot, heat or glare. An application for such change of use may
be granted administratively or by the Planning Commission in accordance with
provisions of § 152.070.
   CHURCH. A permanently located building commonly used for religious worship
and religious training, fully enclosed with walls (including windows and doors)
and having a roof (canvas or fabric excluded), and conforming to applicable
legal requirements affecting design and construction. A CHURCH is considered a
public facility.
   CITY COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Tillamook, Oregon.
   CITY ENGINEER. The City Engineer of the City of Tillamook, Oregon, as
designated by the City Council.
   CITY MANAGER. The duly appointed administrative officer of the city or a
person designated by him or her to fulfill his or her obligations as set forth
in this chapter.
   CITY PLANNER. The duly appointed City Planner of the city or the City
Planning Commission.
   CITY RECORDER. The City Recorder of the City of Tillamook, Oregon.
   CLEAR VISION AREA. Identified in this chapter under § 152.050.
   CLEAR ZONE. An area that extends from the primary surface to a point where
the approach surface is 50 feet above the runway and elevation.
   CLINIC MEDICAL, DENTAL OR OPTICAL. Facility for examining, consulting with
and treating patients, including offices, laboratories and outpatient
facilities, but not including hospital beds for overnight care or treatment.
      (1)   CRITICAL CLINIC. A facility for extensive and continuous care and
treatment, and closely monitored health care provided to critically ill
patients.
      (2)   EMERGENCY CLINIC. A facility for the performance of acts or
procedures under emergency conditions in the observation, immediate care and
counsel of persons who are ill or injured or who have disabilities.
      (3)   URGENT CARE CLINIC. A facility for the delivery of ambulatory care
in a facility dedicated to the delivery of medical care outside of a hospital
emergency department, usually on an unscheduled, walk-in basis. Urgent care
centers are primarily used to treat patients who have an injury or illness that
requires immediate care but is not serious enough to warrant a visit to an
emergency department.
      (4)   WALK-IN CLINIC. A facility, often associated with a hospital or
medical school, that is devoted to the diagnosis and care of outpatients.
   CLUB. An association of persons (whether or not incorporated, religious or
otherwise) for a common purpose, but not including groups which are organized
primarily to render a service carried on as a business for profit.
   CO-LOCATION (COLLOCATION). The use of a personal wireless service utility
facility or wireless communication facility by two or more wireless
communications service providers for more than one type of communication
technology and/or placement of two or more wireless service facilities on
adjacent properties, or utilization of a single antenna support structure,
alternative antenna support structure or an underground conduit or duct by more
than one wireless communications service provider.
   COMMERCIAL. Any use of land or structure involving buying/selling of goods
or services as the primary activity.
   COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISE. Any use of land, structures or natural resources for
profit, or non-profit making activities not residential, public facility or
industrial in character.
   COMMERCIAL RETAIL. Any commercial enterprise of, relating to or engaged in
the sale of commodities or goods in small quantities directly to the ultimate
consumer.
   COMMERCIAL SERVICE. Any commercial enterprise which provides a useful labor
that does not produce or involve the sale of a tangible commodity or good.
   COMMISSION or PLANNING COMMISSION or PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. The
Planning and Zoning Commission of the City of Tillamook, Oregon.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. An open area within a development, designed and intended
for the use or enjoyment of all residents of the development, or for the use
and enjoyment of the public in general.
   COMMUNITY BUILDING AND COMMUNITY CENTER. A facility, whether owned or not,
by a governmental agency or a nonprofit community organization, for the purpose
of public assembly, used for meetings, recreation or education.
   COMPATIBILITY. Aspects of buildings and other constructed features which, by
material, shape, scale and architectural detail, tend to support the ambient
quality of the city. COMPATIBILITY may be achieved through building design,
setbacks, screening, materials choices, building orientation, site design or
other design solutions.
   COMPREHENSIVE. All-inclusive, both in terms of the geographic area covered
and functional and natural activities and systems occurring in the area covered
by the Plan.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The city’s Comprehensive Plan is the official document
adopted by the city which delineates the general long range policies on how the
city’s future development should occur. The city’s Comprehensive Plan
interrelates all functional and natural systems and lands, including, but not
limited to, sewer and water systems, transportation systems, education systems
and recreational management programs. The city’s Comprehensive Plan includes
several parts among which are the following: an inventory, a policy element
which includes the city’s policies on future development, community plans,
functional plans, a plan map and implementing measures.
   CONDITIONAL USES. Those uses which may be appropriate, desirable, convenient
or necessary in the zone district in which they are allowed, but which by
reason of their height or bulk, intensity of use or the creation of traffic
hazards or parking problems or other adverse conditions may be injurious to the
public safety, welfare, comfort and convenience unless appropriate conditions
are imposed.
   CONDOMINIUM. A structure containing more than one dwelling unit, each of
which is owned individually, exclusive of the land of the land upon which the
structure is located.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. As described in O.R.S. 244.020, when the prospect of
personal gain prevents a member of some public body from carrying out the
purposes of that body in a fair and  objective fashion, state law requires that
a Planning Commissioner not take part in a decision in which he or she may have
such a conflict, reference O.R.S. 244.020 regarding cities.
   CONICAL SURFACE. An area that extends 20 feet outward for each one foot
upward (20:1) for 4,000 feet beginning at the edge of the horizontal surface
(5,000 feet from the center of each end of the primary surface of each visual
and utility runway at 150 feet above the airport elevation) an upward extending
to a height of 350 feet above the airport elevation.
   CONSOLIDATION. The act of aggregating two or more tax lots or tracts of land
into one or more parcels.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A sign stating the names, addresses or telephone numbers
of those individuals or businesses directly associated with a construction
project on the premises.
   CONTIGUOUS. Lots, parcels or lots and parcels that have a common boundary.
CONTIGUOUS includes, but is not limited to, lots, parcels or lots and parcels
separated only by an alley, street or other right-of-way or flagpole. Lots or
parcels are not CONTIGUOUS if their common boundary is an arterial or collector
street.
   CONTRACT ANNEXATION. A binding agreement between a city and county which
requires the parties to accomplish specified tasks prior to and/or after
property identified in the contract is annexed by city action into city
jurisdiction.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A small retail store that is open long hours and that
typically sells staple groceries, snacks and sometimes gasoline.
   CONVERSION PLAN. A binding plan which shows how a parcel can be ultimately
divided into the maximum practical number of lots allowed by the zoning
district; and shows how a proposed land division will be compatible with the
allowable ultimate land division, and provides all of the graphic information
required for a land subdivision or a partition, based on the ultimate number of
lots allowable under the zoning district. A critical purpose of such a plan is
to preserve future rights-of-way, easements and utility corridors.
   COOKING FACILITY. An arrangement within a residential unit which provides,
but is not limited to, the following features: refrigeration capability; hot
plate, electrical frying pan, toaster oven, crock pot, counter top burners,
stove or microwave; and facilities for washing and cleaning.
   COTTAGE. An individual dwelling unit that is part of a “cottage cluster.”
   COTTAGE CLUSTER. A grouping or no fewer than four detached dwelling units
per acre with a footprint of less than 900 square feet each that includes a
common courtyard.
   COTTAGE INDUSTRY. An industry where the creation of products and services is
home-based, rather than factory-based. These products and services created by
cottage industry are often unique and distinctive given the fact that they are
usually not mass-produced.
   COUNTY. The County of Tillamook, State of Oregon.
   COUNTRY CLUB. A club organized and operated primarily for social indoor and
outdoor recreation purposes, including incidental accessory uses and
structures.
   COURT. An open unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building or group of buildings.
   COVERAGE TOWER. A wireless communication facility tower for initial
deployment of a large area. COVERAGE TOWERS operate at high power levels and
are tall.
   CREEK. See STREAM.
   CRITERION. A legal threshold against which an application is compared in
order to determine its adequacy.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Includes, but is not limited to, schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, installations
which produce, use or store hazardous materials or hazardous waste. A CRITICAL
FACILITY is a facility for which even a slight chance of flooding might be too
great.
   CROP AND TREE FARMING. The use of land for horticultural uses.
   CURB CUT. A driveway opening where a curb is provided along a street.
   CURVILINEAR. Represented by curved lines.
   D.B.H. (DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT). Circumference of the tree’s trunk(s) at
four and one-half feet above grade/ground level, and dividing by 3.14.
   DAY. Unless otherwise specified by this chapter or statute, all references
to DAYS is calendar days. References to DAYS involving deadlines apply to
normal department business hours. When a deadline falls on a holiday or
weekend, it shall be presumed to be extended to the next working day of the
department.
   DAY CARE CENTER. An institution maintained under public or private auspices
and licensed by the state, for which care is provided on a daily basis for
three or more children under 16 years of age. Note DAY CARE CENTERS providing
care for more than six children result in an educational (“E” occupancy) status
for the structure under the Uniform Building Code and the National Electrical
Code. (See FAMILY DAY CARE PROVIDERS’ HOME.)
   DECIDUOUS. A tree or shrub that sheds its leaves seasonally.
   DEDICATION. The designation of land by its owner(s) for any public use as
shown on a subdivision plat or deed. The term may also be used for dedication
to a private homeowners association.
   DEMOLISH or DEMOLITION. To raze, destroy, dismantle, deface or in any other
manner cause partial or total ruin of a structure.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units, expressed in a ratio to land area.
DENSITY is computed by dividing the number of dwelling units by total gross
acreage of the site. (Example: 20 dwelling units divided by five acres, equals
a density of four units per acre.)
   DEVELOPABLE. Buildable land, as identified by the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
This shall include both vacant land and land likely to be redeveloped.
   DEVELOPER. A person or other legal entity who subdivides or partitions land,
or constructs on more than one parcel of land.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved tracts of land,
including, but not limited to, construction of buildings or other structures,
mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations
located within the area.
      (1)   INTERIM. Existing, serving or effective for not more than three
years and having an improvement value of greater than $30,000.
      (2)   PERMANENT. Not interim development.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any permit or authorization issued by the city as a
prerequisite for undertaking any development. It includes permits and
authorizations customarily known as certificates of appropriateness, building
permits, zoning or rezoning permits, variances, conditional use permits, street
plans, plat approvals, subdivision or planned unit development permits.
   DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE. A construction timeline schedule submitted by the
applicant showing all major events. If the project is to be constructed in
phases, a schedule shall be submitted for each phase. Areas designated for
staged development shall be indicated on the tentative plan. It shall indicates
the approximate date when construction of a planned unit development is
expected to begin and end, or if developed in phases, the development schedule
for each phase shall be keyed to a plan that indicate phasing boundaries. It
coordinates the improvement of the common open space, and the construction of
buildings and other structures in the common open space with the construction
of the primary structures in the planned unit development.
   DIRECT ILLUMINATION. A source of illumination directed towards such signs so
that the beam of light falls upon the exterior surface of the sign.
   DIRECTOR. The City Manager or his or her designated representative.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the territory of the city within which certain
uniform regulations and requirements of various combinations thereof apply
under the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   That certain uses are required to be a specified distance from “any
R District” as provided in this chapter, the term “an R District” shall include
any R-7.5, R-5.0 and R-O District.
      (2)   The term “any C District” shall include any N-C, H-C or C-
C District.
      (3)   The term “any I District” shall include any L-I or G-I District.
   DIVIDE. To separate land into two or more parcels or lots for the purpose of
transferring a substantial interest in land.
   DIVISION. The act or process of dividing land or a tract that has been
divided.
   DOOR. A movable structure used for opening and closing an entrance or for
giving access to something.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A term used to describe a lot or parcel which has road
access and frontage at each end. Corner lots are not considered to have DOUBLE
FRONTAGE unless they front roads on three sides. Alley access is not considered
FRONTAGE in this definition.
   DOWNSLOPE. Of or having 10% or greater slope from an adjoining property line
to point of setback.
   DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment, the primary activity of which is
the sale and consumption on the premises of beer, wine or other liquors, and
where food service, if any, is secondary to the sale of beer, wine or other
liquors. Synonymous with BAR, LOUNGE or TAVERN.
   DRIP LINE. The area on the ground below every tree that would be affected if
water were dripping off of the tree’s leaves and branches on a calm day. From a
plan view, the area on the ground covered by the tree canopy.
   DRIVEWAY. A legally and physically defined area available and practical for
motor vehicle ingress and egress to the building site from a road.
   DRUG STORE or PHARMACY. Facility for preparing, preserving, compounding and
dispensing drugs and medicines; and may include the display and sale of other
merchandise, such as cosmetics, notions, fountain service and similar items.
   DRY CLEANER OR LAUNDRY, COMMERCIAL. A plant for cleaning garments, fabrics,
rugs, draperies or other similar items on a commercial or bulk basis.
   DRY CLEANING OR LAUNDRY SHOP, SMALL CUSTOM. An establishment for custom
cleaning only of individual garments, fabrics, rugs, draperies or other similar
items, and not a bulk or commercial type plant.
   DURABLE, DUSTLESS SURFACE. A permanently surfaced area of asphalt, concrete,
brick, cobblestone, oil-matte and/or chip-seal for the standing and maneuvering
of vehicles in all zones maintained adequately for all weather uses.
   DWELLING. A living facility that includes provisions for sleeping, eating,
cooking and sanitation, as required by the Uniform Building Code (UBC), a
building, or portion thereof, designed or used for human occupancy as a
residence for one or more persons, not including vehicles, travel trailers or
recreational/camping vehicles.
      (1)   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached structure on a lot or parcel
that is comprised of a single dwelling unit. Each SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING must
have separate utility services.
      (2)   DWELLING, or DUPLEX. Two attached or detached dwelling units on a
lot or parcel. A DUPLEX does not include a “single family dwelling” with an
“accessory dwelling unit” on the same lot or parcel.
      (3)   DWELLING, TRIPLEX. Three attached or detached dwelling units on a
lot or parcel.
      (4)   DWELLING, MULTIPLE FAMILY. A building containing five or more
dwelling units, including units that are located one over the other.
      (5)   DWELLING, SEASONAL. A dwelling unit not used as a principal
residence that may be occupied weekends and for brief periods during the year.
      (6)   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE. A dwelling unit that is part of a row of two
or more attached dwelling units, where each unit is located on an individual
lot or parcel and shares at least one common wall with an adjacent dwelling
unit.
      (7)   DWELLING, QUADPLEX. Four attached or detached dwelling units on a
lot or parcel.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms designed, occupied or intended for
occupancy as a separate living quarter, with cooking, sleeping and sanitary
facilities provided within the unit for the exclusive use of the occupants
maintaining the household.
   EASEMENT. A non-possessory interest in the land of another which entitles
the owner of the interest to a limited use or enjoyment of the other’s land and
to protection from interference with this use.
   EATING ESTABLISHMENT. Synonymous with restaurant, but does not include
drinking establishment.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, sheer walls, post piers,
pilings or columns.
   ELEVATION. A building face, or scaled drawing of the same, from grade to
roof ridgeline.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL FACILITY. A first aid station or headquarters for an
ambulance service, which offers emergency outpatient treatment only.
   EMERGENCY WATER STORAGE FACILITY. A facility for the storage of water used
for fire protection and suppression. Such facility may consist of a storage
tank, whether elevated, above ground or underground; a swimming pool; or other
reasonable means to store an emergency water supply on the premises.
   EMERGENCY MEASURES. Unforeseen or sudden occurrences usually caused by civil
unrest or natural disaster, especially of a danger demanding immediate remedy
or action.
   ENGINE OR MOTOR REPAIR SHOP. A shop for the repair of engines or motors. The
term includes electric or fuel power motors.
   EQUIPMENT, HEAVY. Farm, forestry or construction machinery weighing in
excess of 10,000 pounds.
   EVERGREEN. A plant with foliage that persists and remains green year round.
   EX PARTE CONTACT. Private meetings or discussions between a member of a
reviewing body and a person or persons who have some interest in a case to be
heard by that body, state law does not forbid such contact but requires that
decision makers disclose them publicly. O.R.S. 227.180 is the pertinent statute
for cities.
   FAMILY DAY CARE CENTER. A day care facility where care is provided in the
home of the provider to fewer than 13 children, including children of the
provider, regardless of full- or part-time status.
   FARM USE. The current employment of land for the purpose of obtaining a
profit in money by raising, harvesting and selling crops or by the feeding,
breeding, management and sale of, or the produce of, livestock, poultry, fur-
bearing animals or honeybees or for dairying and the sale of dairy products or
any other agricultural or horticultural use of animal husbandry or any
combination thereof. FARM USE includes the preparation and storage of the
products raised on such land for human use and animal use and disposal by
marketing or otherwise.
   FEED STORE, RETAIL (NO MILL). Facility for the sale of grain, prepared feed
and forage for pets, livestock and fowl, but not involving the grinding, mixing
or commercial compounding of such items, and the sale of additional pet items,
gardening supplies and farm equipment.
   FELL. To remove or sever a tree or to use any procedure the natural result
of which is to cause the death or other substantial destruction of the tree.
FELL does not in any context include normal trimming or pruning.
   FENCE, SIGHT OBSCURING. Any fence which contains any sort of non-transparent
paneling, lath, sheeting, planking, posts, fabric or organic material either
dead or alive, and the like, of any material which is not necessary for the
support of the fence, shall be termed sight obscuring. This shall not include
chain link or other similar fences which are maintained clear and clean of any
material, either organic or inorganic.
   FILL. The placement by humans of sand, sediment, concrete or other material,
usually in submerged lands or wetlands, to create new uplands or raise the
elevation of land. FILL shall also include a properly engineered sanitary
landfill.
   FINAL MAP. A map prepared in accordance with this chapter, which is
designated to be filed with the County Clerk and the state.
   FISH HABITAT. Those areas upon which fish depend in order to meet their
requirements for spawning, rearing, food supply and migration (according to
O.A.R. 660-23-0090(1)).
   FISH USE. An area inhabited at any time of the year by anadromous or game
fish species or fish that are listed as threatened or endangered species under
the federal or state endangered species acts. FISH USE is determined from State
Department of Forestry stream classification maps.
   FLAG LOT. A “panhandle” shaped lot or parcel with its widest area set hack
some distance from a road, and having a thin strip of land connecting to the
road to provide legal access.
   FLAGPOLE. The thin strip of land connecting the widest area of a flag lot to
a road. The FLAGPOLE shall be considered a part of the tax lot for purposes of
calculating total lot area.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP. An official map of a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide
(i.e., mudflow) and related erosion areas having hazards have been designated
as Zone A, M and/or E.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the federal flood
insurance program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOODPLAIN. The area adjoining a stream, river or lake that is subject to
regional flooding. A regional flood is standard statistical calculation used by
engineers to determine the probability of severe flooding. It represents the
largest flood which has a 1% chance of occurring in any one year in an area as
a result of periods of higher than normal rainfall or stream flows, high winds,
rapid snow melt, natural stream blockages or combinations thereof.
   FLOODPLAIN 100-YEAR. The land within the city subject to a 1% chance of
flooding in any given year, including the floodway and floodway fringe.
   FLOODPRONE. Areas likely to be flooded by virtue of their location adjoining
a river, stream or other water course or water body to the extent where the
level of hazard exceeds acceptable designated floodplain, floodway and
approximate method floodplain, torrential flood hazard area identified by the
Department of Geology and Mineral Industries and other areas both within or
outside of FEMA mapped areas which are either known to be flood prone or where
flood hazard conditions may be more extreme than indicated by FEMA and
development would jeopardize life or property.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOR AREA. The maximum horizontal area of living space, to include guest
house and/or ancillary unit, not to include decks, balconies, porches, exterior
stairways, garages, carports and storage.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR). The gross floor area of all buildings or structures
on a lot divided by the total lot area.
   FLUORESCENT COLORS. Extra bright and glowing type colors; includes “dayglow”
orange, fluorescent green and the like.
   FLUORESCENT LIGHTING. Light provided by fluorescent tubes. FLUORESCENT
LIGHTING is a type of electric discharge lamp consisting of a glass tube filled
with a mixture of argon and mercury vapor. Fluorescent lamps are cooler and
more efficient than incandescent lamps.
   FOOD STORE, RETAIL SALE. An establishment where diversified foods and
associated items are kept and displayed for retail sales. Synonymous with
grocery store, supermarket and convenience grocery.
   FOSTER FAMILY HOME. As defined by O.A.R. 413-80-0050. Any state-certified
home maintained by a person who has under his or her care any child unattended
by parents or a guardian for the purpose of providing such child with care,
food and lodging. Such homes include foster, family, group and shelter homes.
   FOUNDATION (PERMANENT). Primary support for a structure through which the
imposed load is transmitted to the footing or earth.
   FRATERNAL OR LODGE BUILDING. A building for a chartered private service
organization, club, society or order.
   FRONTAGE. The portion of a parcel of property or building which abuts a
dedicated public street or highway.
      (1)   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The single wall surface of a building facing a
given direction.
      (2)   DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A parcel of property or building which abuts two
dedicated public streets or highways.
   FUEL ALCOHOL PRODUCTION. The distillation of fuel alcohol from agricultural
products, byproducts or waste.
   FUEL BREAK. An area maintained around buildings and structures for fire
protection, which is cleared of dry brush and grass. The FUEL BREAK may contain
ornamental shrubbery, specimen trees, lawn or other plants used as ground
cover, provided the plant material does not provide a means of rapidly
transmitting fire from native growth to buildings and structures, or from
development to surrounding rural lands.
   GARAGE. An attached or accessory structure, designed primarily for storage
of the family automobile(s). Also used for the storage of additional items,
personal shop activities, but limited to non-habitable uses.
   GARDEN SHOP AND PLANT SALES, DISPLAY OR GREENHOUSE. A facility for the
growing, display and sale of garden and/or flower seeds, plants, nursery stock
and related items, which may include a glassed enclosure for the cultivation or
protection of tender plants.
   GOVERNMENT FACILITY. Projects, activities and facilities deemed to be
necessary for the maintenance of city, county, state or federal purposes
consistent with Comprehensive Plan policies. GOVERNMENT FACILITIES shall
include federal, state, county or municipal offices or facilities. See also
PUBLIC FACILITY.
   GOVERNMENT OFFICES. Projects and activities deemed to be necessary for the
maintenance of city, county, state or federal purposes consistent with
Comprehensive Plan policies, and shall include federal, state, county or
municipal offices.
   GRADE. See GRADE (NATURAL).
   GRADE (NATURAL). The elevation of the ground level in its natural state,
before construction, filling or excavation.
   GROCERY STORE. See FOOD STORE.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA (GFA). The GROSS FLOOR AREA of a building is the same (in
square feet) of the area at each floor level, including cellars, basements,
mezzanines, penthouses, corridors, lobbies, stores and offices, that are
included within the principal outside faces of exterior walls, not including
architectural setbacks or projections. Included are all stories or areas that
have floor surfaces with clear standing head room (six feet, six inches
minimum) regardless of their use. Where a ground level area, or part thereof,
within the principal outside faces of the exterior wall is left unenclosed, the
GROSS FLOOR AREA of the unenclosed portion is said to be considered as a part
of the overall square footage of the building. All unroofed areas and
unenclosed roofed-over spaces, except as defined above, are to be excluded from
the area calculations. Any roofed-over areas with three or more sides and used
for storage of materials or goods shall be included in the GROSS FLOOR AREA.
   GROUND COVER. A plant material or non-plant material (e.g., mulch, bark
chips, dust) that is used to cover bare ground.
   GROUP HOME. A licensed home maintained and supervised by adults for the
purpose of providing care, food and lodging for children under the age of 18
years, unattended by parent(s) or guardian(s), where the number of unrelated
persons living together as one household commonly exceeds five. The maximum
occupancy allowed in GROUP HOMES shall not exceed the number of persons allowed
by state statute.
   GUEST HOUSE. Living quarters within an accessory structure, located on the
same tax lot as the main dwelling, and occupied solely by members of the
owner’s family or temporary guests. A GUEST HOUSE contains no kitchen or
kitchen facilities. A GUEST HOUSE must conform to the dwelling density and
standards of the zoning district.
   GUEST SUITES. An accommodation with two or more contiguous rooms comprising
a compartment, with or without doors between such rooms, that provides living,
sleeping, sanitary and storage facilities.
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor which is or can be made suitable for living
purposes. These areas may be walled and are suitable for use as a place of
working, sleeping, cooking, recreation or the like, usually having access to
heat, plumbing and electricity. It includes foyers, hallways, restrooms,
closets, storage and other common areas within a building. HABITABLE FLOOR does
not include mechanical rooms, elevators and fireplaces.
   HAMMERHEAD TURNAROUND. A “T” or “L” shaped dead-end street that allows for
vehicles to turn around.
   HANDCRAFT, CERAMIC SCULPTURE or SIMILAR ART WORK STUDIO OR FACILITY.
Facility to create custom, artistic or decorative objects such as leather
goods, jewelry, glass, ceramic or other oven-fired nonmetallic mineral
products, woodwork or other carved, three-dimensional works of art, made by
hand.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE.
      (1)   Discarded, useless or unwanted materials or residues in solid,
liquid or gaseous state and their empty containers which are classified as
hazardous pursuant to O.R.S. 459.410, O.A.R. 340-100 through 340-101 and these
rules.
      (2)   A hazardous material is a substance this same definition applies to
except that it is not a waste.
   HEALTH RELATED CENTER or SPA. A facility which offers health related
treatment, education and recreation, with equipment and facilities for
exercising and improving physical fitness, not including long-term or emergency
care.
   HEDGE. Any combination of non-annual plantings intended to form an
obstruction to ingress or egress and/or vision, such plantings providing no
physical or visual space between individual plantings and where branches or
foliage of one planting physically contact adjacent plantings.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The height of all structures measured vertically from
the natural grade at the lowest exposed portion of the foundation to the
uppermost point of the roof edge or peak, wall, parapet, mansard or other
feature perpendicular to that grade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1513.jpg]
 
   HERITAGE TREE. A tree listed on the Official City of Tillamook Heritage Tree
List.
   HISTORIC REHABILIT ATION. The act or process of returning a property to a
state of utility through repair or alteration, which makes possible an
efficient, contemporary use, while preserving those portions or features of the
property which are significant to its historical, architectural and cultural
values.
   HISTORIC RESOURCE. Any building, structure or site having historic or
architectural significance, as defined by O.A.R. 660-023-0200(7).
   HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE. The site or structure:
      (1)   Has character interest or value, as part of the development,
heritage or cultural characteristics of the city, state or nation;
      (2)   Is the site of an historic event with an effect upon society;
      (3)   Is identified with a person or group of persons who had some
influence on society; or
      (4)   Exemplifies the cultural, political, economic, social or historic
heritage of the community.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An accessory use, usually of a nonresidential nature,
carried on in a dwelling unit except where otherwise allowed by this chapter,
and which:
      (1)   Is incidental to the primary occupancy of the home as a dwelling;
      (2)   Is for gainful employment involving the manufacture, provision or
sale of goods and/or services; and
      (3)   Does not take on an outward appearance or manifest any
characteristics of a business or operation of a retail nature; and conforms to
the standards specified for home occupations.
   HOME SCHOOLING. Homeschool, home education or home learning is the education
of children at home, typically by parents but sometimes by tutors, an academic
curriculum at home rather than in other formal settings of public or private
school.
   HORIZONTAL SURFACE. A horizontal plan 150 feet above the established airport
elevation, the perimeter of which is constructed by swinging arcs of 5,000 feet
from the center of each end of the primary surface of each visual or utility
runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines tangent to those arcs.
   HOSPITAL. Any institution, place, building or agency which maintains and
operates organized facilities for 20 or more persons for the diagnosis, care
and treatment of human illness, including convalescence and including care
during and after pregnancy, or which maintains and operates organized
facilities for any such purpose, and to which persons may be admitted for
overnight stay or for a longer period. A HOSPITAL is considered a critical care
facility and an urgent care facility.
   HOTEL. An establishment that provides lodging as a temporary abiding place,
containing guest rooms or units, furnishing customary hotel services such as
linen, maid service and the use and upkeep of furniture and usually meals and
other services for travelers and other paying guests.
   HYDRAULICS. A study of the mechanical behavior of water in physical systems
and processes. In floodplain management, HYDRAULICS refers to determination of
the lateral and vertical extent of a particular flood. HYDRAULICS also
encompasses the flow characteristics around and through hydraulic structures
such as bridges, culverts and weirs.
   HYDROLOGICAL STUDY/HYDROLOSIC ANALYSIS. An analysis used to estimate flood
flow rates in a floodplain to develop a reasonable estimate of the future
conditions of the 1% annual chance flood flow, relying on rainfall runoff
simulations with altered land use conditions. Common methods are stream gage
analysis, rainfall-runoff models or a combination of the two. All of the
currently accepted hydrology models for peak flow determination can be used to
estimate future conditions by changing land cover/use parameters. All runoff
models should be calibrated to past flood events before they are used for base
flood determination. It is recommended that a conservative assumption be used
that all of the areas in the watershed will be developed as planned. This
information can be used in the hydrologic model’s land use-to-land cover
relationships to describe a build-out condition within the watershed. These
flood studies are necessarily dependent on past precipitation and flow records,
which do not provide information on flows generated under different climatic
conditions.
   ILLUSTRATION. A line drawing or silhouette of a realistic object.
   IMMEDIATE DANGER OF COLLAPSE OF A TREE. A tree may already be leaning, with
the surrounding soil heaving and/or there is a significant likelihood that the
tree will topple or otherwise fail and cause damage to the surroundings.
IMMEDIATE DANGER OF COLLAPSE does not include hazardous conditions that can be
alleviated by pruning or treatment.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Development that does not allow for water infiltration
(e.g., pavement, roofs and the like) and any material which reduces and
prevents absorption of stormwater into previously undeveloped land.
   INCOMPATIBILITY OF LAND USES. An issue arising from the proximity or direct
association of contradictory, incongruous or discordant land uses or
activities, including the impacts of noise, vibration, smoke, odors, toxic
matter, radiation and similar environmental conditions.
   INDUSTRIAL. Any use of land, structure or natural resources involving the
manufacturing, processing or assembly of semi-finished or finished products.
   INFILL. The development of vacant bypassed lands located in an area that is
mainly developed.
   INTENSITY. The floor area ratio (FAR). Floor area ratios are used as a
measure of the INTENSITY of the site being developed. The ratio is generated by
dividing the building area by the parcel area, being sure to use the same
units.
   JUNK YARD. A place where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including auto
wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and places or yards for
storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment; but not including such places where such uses are conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building, and not including pawn shops and
establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used furniture and
household equipment, used cars in operative conditions or salvaged materials
incidental to manufacturing operations.
   KENNEL. A facility:
      (1)   In which dogs are given training for which a fee is charged;
      (2)   Operated not for profit and intended to provide temporary care for
lost, strayed or abandoned animals;
      (3)   In which dogs, which are not licensed under O.R.S. 609.100(1), are
kept, when such dogs are kept for farm use, breeding or sale; or
      (4)   Which is a business conducted for the purpose of boarding and/or
sale of dogs or cats.
   KINDERGARTEN. Public or private school or class for children usually from
four to six years old.
   KITCHEN. Any room, all or any part of which is designed, built, equipped,
used or intended to be used for the preparation of food and/or the washing of
dishes.
   LABORATORY, MANUFACTURING. Operations involving the compounding of products
such as perfumes and pharmaceuticals, and the development and assembly of
instruments and similar items.
   LABORATORY, SCIENTIFIC TESTING PRECISION. Facility which performs scientific
tests or analysis or experimental studies.
   LAND DIVISION. The process of dividing land to create parcels or lots. See
PARTITION LAND for further details. See also PARTITION. EXPEDITED LAND DIVISION
PROCESS means a land division process with distinct procedures and requirements
from the quasi-judicial process. (See ADMINISTRATIVE.)
   LAND USE. The main activity that occurs on a piece of land, or the structure
in which the activity occurs.
   LANDSCAPING. Not only trees, grass, bushes, shrubs, flowers and garden
areas, but also the arrangement of fountains, patios, decks, street furniture
and ornamental concrete, or stonework areas, and artificial turf, mulch or
carpeting, but excludes artificial plants, shrubs, bushes or flowers.
   LANDSCAPE or PLANT NURSERY. Facility for raising and marketing plants,
trees, shrubs, bulbs and related materials.
   LAWN. Grass or similar materials maintained as a ground cover of less than
six inches in height, and generally managed to restrict the growth of shrubs
and trees that inhibit the growth of grasses and forbs. For purposes of this
chapter, LAWN is not considered native vegetation regardless of the species
used.
   LEGISLATIVE DECISION. Matters involving the creation, revision or large
scale implementation of public policy, zone changes and comprehensive plan
amendments which apply to entire districts. LEGISLATIVE DECISIONS are initially
considered by the Planning Commission whose job it shall be to provide a
recommendation to the City Council, with the final decision being made by the
City Council.
   LIGHT FABRICATION AND ASSEMBLY PROCESS. Manufacturing which does not involve
the generation outside the property of noise, odor, vibration, dust or hazard.
The term includes, but is not limited to, the manufacture of electronic
components, jewelry, clothing, trimming decorations and any similar item.
   LIGHT INDUSTRIAL. Any industrial enterprise where activities and operations
in no manner affect in a detrimental way any of the surrounding properties and
where any adverse impacts are restricted to the subject property. Such uses
shall not be adverse due to odor, particulate matter, smoke, noise, vibration,
appearance or similar impacts. Vehicular access to and use of streets shall be
no greater than that generated by a commercial enterprise.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space or berth on the same lot with a building
for the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials, and which abuts upon a street, alley or other
appropriate means of access.
   LOCAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT (LID). A small district formed for the purpose of
carrying out local improvements (paving of streets, construction of storm
sewers, development of a park and the like). Property owners within the LID are
assessed for the cost of the improvements in accordance with O.R.S. 223.387
through 223.485.
   LOCAL UTILITIES. The usual electric power, telephone, gas, water, sewer
drainage lines and those inline facilities such as gas regulating stations and
water pumping stations.
   LOT. A unit or parcel of land used or capable of being used under the
regulations of this chapter, lawfully created by a subdivision or ordinances in
effect at the time of its creation.
   LOT AREA. The computed area contained within the lot boundary lines,
measured in a horizontal plane; said area to be exclusive of street or alley
right-of-way.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot, parcel or portion thereof situated at the intersection
of two or more streets.
   LOT COVERAGE. The percentage of the total lot area covered by structures as
herein defined.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot lines.
In the case of a corner lot, the depth shall be the length of its longest front
lot line.
   LOT, FLAG. A lot or parcel which has access to a road, street or easement,
by means of a narrow strip of lot or easement.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot or parcel of land other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot or parcel.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The property line separating the lot or parcel from the
road or street, other than an alley. In the case of a corner lot or parcel or a
lot with double frontage, the shortest property line along a street or road
which has been improved and for which addresses have already been assigned,
other than an alley. In the case of a flag lot or other parcel or lot, where
the majority of the lot or parcel does not front on a road, the front lot or
parcel line shall be one of the shortest lines, if a rectangular lot or parcel.
   LOT LINE, REAR. A property line which is opposite and most distant from the
front lot or parcel line. In the case of an irregular, triangular or other
shaped lot or parcel, a line ten feet in length within the lot or parcel,
parallel to and at a maximum distance from the front lot or parcel line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line not a front lot line or a rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot held in separate ownership as shown on the records of
the County Assessor at the time of the passage of an ordinance or regulation
establishing the zoning district in which the lot is located.
   LOT, THROUGH. An interior lot having a frontage on two streets and/or
highways.
   LOT WIDTH. Horizontal distances between the side lot lines or parcel lines
measured within the lot or parcel boundaries or the main distance between the
side lot lines within the buildable area. In the case of a corner lot, lot
width is the main horizontal distance between the longest front lot line and
the opposite lot line not abutting the street.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   LUMBER YARD. Facility for stocking and selling lumber and other materials
needed for building. The term includes hardware and building materials and
supplies.
   MACHINE SHOP. Facility in which material is processed by machining, cutting,
grinding, welding or similar processing. The term includes blacksmith shop,
electric motor repair and gun shop.
   MACHINERY SALES AND SERVICE. Facility for repairing equipment and selling
and/or servicing machinery.
   MAINTAIN. To cause or allow to continue in existence. When the context
indicates, the word to preserve and care for a structure, through improvement,
alterations of site conditions or to such an extent that it remains attractive,
safe and presentable and carries out the purpose for which it was installed,
constructed or required.
   MANAGEMENT UNIT. A discrete geographic area, defined by physical
characteristics and features, within which particular uses and activities are
promoted, encouraged, protected or enhanced, and others are discouraged,
restricted or prohibited.
   MANUFACTURED DWELLING.
      (1)   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure constructed for movement on the
public highways, that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is
intended for human occupancy, is being used for residential purposes and was
constructed in accordance with federal manufactured housing construction and
safety standards regulations in effect at the time of construction.
      (2)   MOBILE HOME. A structure constructed for movement on the public
highways; that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities; that is intended
for human occupancy; is being used for  residential purposes and was
constructed between January 1, 1962 and June 16, 1976; and met the construction
requirements of the state mobile home law in effect at the time of
construction.
      (3)   RESIDENTIAL TRAILER. A structure constructed for movement on the
public highways, that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is
intended for human occupancy, is being used for residential purposes and was
constructed before January 1, 1962.
   MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARK. Any place where four or more mobile homes are
located within 500 feet of one another on a lot, tract or parcel of land under
the same ownership, the primary purpose of which is to rent space or keep space
for rent to any person for a charge or fee paid or to be paid for the rental or
use of facilities or to offer space free in connection with securing the trade
or patronage of such person. MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARK does not include a lot
or lots located within a subdivision being rented or leased for occupancy by no
more than one mobile home per lot if the subdivision was approved by the city
(added per Ord. 1121, effective 2/22/1992).
   MANUFACTURED HOME ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Any awning, portable,
demountable or permanent cabana, ramada, carport, porch skirting or steps
established for use of the occupant of the manufactured dwelling and which are
designed or intended to be attached to and which depend, in whole or in part,
upon the manufactured dwelling for structural support.
   MAN. As used by this chapter, the word MAN refers generally to humans and is
inclusive of both the masculine and feminine, unless the context otherwise
requires.
   MAP. A final diagram, drawing or other writing concerning a major or minor
partition.
      (1)   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MAP. A generalized, coordinated land use map and
policy statement of the governing body of a local government that interrelates
all functional and natural systems and activities relating to the use of lands,
including, but not limited to, sewer and water systems, transportation systems,
educational facilities, recreational facilities and natural resources and air
and water quality management programs.
      (2)   FLOOD MAP. The flood insurance rate map (FIRM) for a community
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (3)   WETLANDS MAP. The city map with graphic representations of the
type, size and location of the wetlands in the city.
      (4)   ZONING MAP. The city map that depicts current zoning designations
in the city.
   MARQUEE. A permanent, roofed, non-enclosed structure projecting over an
entrance to a building and not separately attached to the ground surface.
   MASSING or BUILDING MASS. The height, width and depth of a structure. Often
used in comparison to the relative masses of the buildings around the subject
structure, hence MASSING.
   MASTER PLAN. A long range plan or long range site plan which provides for
development of an applicant’s property or properties or specified area of the
city.
   MEDICAL SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaged in the provision of
personal health services ranging from prevention, diagnosis and treatment, or
rehabilitation services provided by physicians, dentists, nurses and other
health personnel, as well as the provision of medical testing and analysis
services. Typical uses include medical offices, dental laboratories, health
maintenance organizations or detoxification centers, critical care facilities,
emergency care facilities, urgent care facilities and walk-in facilities.
   MICRO-FACILITY. An attached wireless communication facility which consists
of antennas equal to or less than four feet in height, or six feet in height
for omni-directional antennas and with an area of not more than 580 square
inches.
   MIDDLE HOUSING. Duplexes, triplexes, fourplexes, cottage clusters and
townhouses.
   MIDDLE HOUSING LAND DIVISION. A partition or subdivision of a lot or parcel
on which the development of middle housing is allowed.
   MINISTERIAL DECISION. Decisions made by the Planning Director or designated
staff where there is clear and objective criteria and the decision requires no
use of discretion. These decisions are made without public notice or public
hearing. See ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS.
   MINERAL RESOURCES. Precious metals and other earth or natural materials
other than aggregate resources.
   MINIFACILITY. An attached wireless communication facility which consists of
antennas equal to or less than ten feet in height, or a parabolic antenna up to
one meter in diameter and with an area of not more than 50 square feet as
viewed from any one point.
   MINI-WAREHOUSE/STORAGE UNITS. A structure or structures divided into units,
used only for storage of goods by an individual or business on a rental basis.
   MITIGATION. To avoid, rectify, repair or compensate for negative impacts,
which result from other actions and restoration of riparian areas, enhanced
buffer treatment or similar measures.
      (1)   OFF-SITE MITIGATION. Mitigation undertaken in areas distant from or
coterminous with a development site.
      (2)   ON-SITE MITIGATION. Mitigation undertaken within the lot or parcel
affected by a development action.
   MITIGATION PLAN. A detailed plan to compensate for identified adverse
impacts on water resources, riparian setback areas and wetlands that result
from alteration, development, excavation or vegetation removal within the
wetland-riparian overlay district. A MITIGATION PLAN must be prepared by
qualified biologists (according to O.A.R. 660-23-0090(1)).
   MOBILE HOME/MODULAR HOME. A structure or vehicle fabricated on a permanent
chassis that is transportable in one or more sections; is designed to be used
with or without a permanent foundation  when connected to the required
facilities; has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, or any combination
thereof; and is intended for human occupancy or is being used for residential
purposes.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. As described in O.R.S. 446.003, any place where four or
more such homes are located within 500 feet of each other on a lot, tract or
parcel of land under the same ownership, the primary purpose of which is:
      (1)   To rent or lease space for mobile homes for a charge or fee paid;
      (2)   To be paid for the rental, lease or use of facilities for mobile
homes; or
      (3)   To offer space free for location of mobile homes in connection with
securing the trade or patronage of such person, but not including those used
exclusively for farm labor or recreational camps.
   MOBILE UNIT FOOD AND BEVERAGE CART USERS. Owners and operators of individual
and affiliated mobile unit food and beverage carts, along with their employees.
   MOBILE UNIT FOOD AND BEVERAGE CARTS. A mobile kitchen and food service
establishment that is a vehicle-mounted or wheeled, capable of being readily
moved and set up for the purpose of selling and marketing prepared food and
beverage.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings used for transient residential
purposes containing guest rooms and/or dwelling units with automobile storage
space provided in connection therewith, which building or group is designed,
intended or used primarily for the accommodation of transient automobile
travelers with lodging for motorists in rooms usually having direct access to
an open parking area; including groups designated as auto cabins, motor courts,
motor hotels and similar designations.
   MURAL. A large picture, painting or wallpaper pattern painted or affixed
directly on an interior or exterior wall or ceiling. The size of the MURAL
usually is limited to the size of the surface on which it is to be affixed.
   NATURAL HAZARD. Natural areas that can cause dangerous or difficult
development situations. For example, natural hazard areas include steep slopes,
unstable soils, landslides and flood areas.
   NEGOTIATE. To confer with another or others in order to come to terms or
reach an agreement.
   NEIGHBORHOOD. A geographical area lived in by neighbors and usually having
distinguishing character.
   NEIGHBORHOOD IDENTIFICATION. A sign located at the entry point to a single-
family subdivision comprising not less than two acres, or a sign identifying a
multiple-family development.    NEIGHBORHOOD-SCALE DESIGN. Site and building
design elements that are dimensionally related to housing and pedestrians, such
as narrow streets with tree canopies, smaller parking areas, lower building
heights and similar neighborhood characteristics.
   NEON LIGHT. A form of illumination using inert gases in glass tubes.
Includes “black light” and other neon lights.
   NET LOSS. A permanent loss of riparian functions provided by native riparian
structure and vegetation that results from a development action despite
mitigation measures having been taken.
   NOISE. A level of sound which disturbs, injures or endangers the health,
safety or welfare of others, capable of being heard at or beyond the boundary
of property from which the noise originates, results in the disturbance of
peace and exceeds sound in volume made by any make and model of engine or
machine that is not consistent with its new or stock, manufactured condition.
   NOISE SENSITIVE AREAS. Areas used as a church, day care center, hospital,
nursing care center, school or place used for overnight accommodations of
persons, including, but not limited to, individual homes, individual
apartments, trailers and nursing homes.
   NON-CONFORMING LOTS OR PARCELS. Lots or parcels legally created prior to the
effective date of a land division or zoning regulation and not meeting the
minimum lot area, width or access requirements of those regulations.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. A building, structure or portion thereof, which
lawfully existed prior to adoption of a zoning regulation with which the
structure does not conform. Such structures may be non-conforming as to height,
setback, lot coverage or similar requirements of the zone.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use lawfully made prior to adoption of a zoning
regulation with which the use does not conform.
   NO-RISE ANALYSIS. Any project in a floodway reviewed to determine if the
project will increase flood heights. An engineering analysis must be conducted
before a permit can be issued. The community’s permit file must have a record
of the results of this analysis, which can be in the form of a no-rise
certification. This no-rise certification must be supported by technical data
and signed by a registered professional engineer. The supporting technical data
should be based on the standard step-backwater computer model used to develop
the 100-year floodway shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
   NUISANCE. An intentional, negligent or reckless act or failure to act by a
person which interferes with the use and/or enjoyment of the life or property
of another person or which interferes with the rights of the public and for
which the law will presume resulting damage.
   NURSING HOME OR CONVALESCENT HOME. Facility providing care, rehabilitation
services and minor treatment for more than five persons under the direction of
a physician, licensed by the state. A NURSING HOME may furnish basic provisions
of food and laundry. Term includes rest home, home for the aged and sanatorium.
   OFF-STREET PARKING. All off-street areas designed, used, required or
intended to be used for the parking of motor vehicles. OFF-STREET PARKING areas
shall be a durable and dustless, surfaced and marked area.
   ON-STREET PARKING. Parking in the street right-of-way, typically in parking
lanes or bays. Parking may be “parallel” or “angled” in relation to the edge of
the right-of-way or curb.
   OPEN SPACE. Any portion of a building lot not covered by a building, and
shall more specifically include parks, landscaped viewsheds, natural areas,
former orchards or groves, outdoor parking areas, covered and partially
enclosed patios, terraces and courtyards provided such areas have at least one
side open, and are available for public use and enjoyment in conjunction with
commercial use of the premises.
   OREGON ADMINISTRATIVE RULES (OAR). The official compilation of rules and
regulations having the force of law in the state. It is the regulatory and
administrative corollary to Oregon Revised Statutes, and is published pursuant
to O.R.S. 183.360(3).
   OREGON REVISED STATUTES (O.R.S.) or STATE LAW. The codified body of
statutory law governing the state, as enacted by the State Legislative
Assembly, and occasionally by citizen initiative. The statutes are subordinate
to the state Constitution.
   ORNAMENTAL TREE. A tree planted primarily for its ornamental value or for
screening purposes; tends to be smaller at maturity than a shade tree.
   OVERBURDEN. Soil, rock, sand and similar materials that lie above natural
deposits of minerals.
   OVERLAY ZONE. A special zone that is applied “over” or in addition to a base
zone, of which such properties are subject to the requirements of both the base
zone and the overlay zone. Also known as a COMBINING ZONE.
   OWNER/LANDOWNER. A person(s), partnership or corporation possessing fee
title to a tract of land, or shown as owner of record on the latest tax rolls
or deed records of the county, or purchasing a parcel of property under written
contract.
   PARCEL.
      (1)   Includes a unit of land created:
         (a)   By partitioning land, as defined in O.R.S. 92.010(6), in
compliance with all applicable planning, zoning and partitioning ordinances or
regulations; or
         (b)   By deed or land sales contract, if there were no applicable
planning, zoning or partitioning ordinances or regulations.
      (2)   The term PARCEL does not include a unit of land created solely to
establish a separate tax account.
   PARK or PLAYGROUND. A recreation area or park owned or operated by a private
entity, public agency or school district, and available to the general public.
   PARKING AREA. PUBLIC. An open area, other than a street or other public way,
used for the parking of motor vehicles and available to the public whether for
a fee, free or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
   PARKING SPACE. A durable and dustless permanently surfaced and marked area
in a range between seven and one-half feet and nine feet wide and 15 feet and
20 feet long, exclusive of maneuvering and access area, permanently reserved
for the temporary storage of one automobile, and connected with a street by a
surfaced driveway which affords ingress and egress for automobiles.
      (1)   A parking space for a compact vehicle shall be of the dimensions
seven and one-half feet by 15 feet.
      (2)   A parking space for disabled parking shall be of the dimensions 13
feet by 19 feet.
      (3)   A parking space for recreational vehicles shall be of the
dimensions 12 feet by 30 feet.
   PARKING STRIP. The area between the street curb and sidewalk in the public
right-of-way, utilized for landscaping and street tree planting; also known as
planter strip or tree lawn.
   PARTITION. Either an act of partitioning land or an area or tract of land
partitioned, as defined in this section. A PARTITION does not include the
creation of a street.
   PARTITION LAND. To divide land into two or three parcels within a calendar
year, but does not include a division of land that creates a road or results
front a lien foreclosure, foreclosure of a recorded contract for the sale of
real property or the creation of cemetery lots; or an adjustment of a property
line by the relocation of a common boundary where an additional unit of land is
not created and where the existing unit of land reduced in size by the
adjustment complies with any applicable zoning ordinance. Partitioning of a lot
or parcel or a portion thereof into more than three parcels in a calendar year
results in a subdivision.
   PEDDLER. Includes any person, whether a resident of the city or not,
traveling by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle or any other type of conveyance,
from place to place, from house to house or from street to street, carrying,
conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables,
fruits, garden truck farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the
same for sale, or making sales and delivering articles to purchasers; or who,
without traveling from place to place, sells or offers the same for sale from a
wagon, automotive vehicle, railroad car or other vehicle or conveyance; or who
solicits orders and as a separate transaction makes deliveries to purchasers.
   PEDESTRIAN FACILITIES. Improvements and provisions made to accommodate or
encourage walking, including sidewalks, accessways, crosswalks, ramps, paths
and trails.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY or PEDESTRIAN PATHWAY. A right-of-way for pedestrian traffic.
      (1)   REASONABLY DIRECT PATHWAY. A route that does not deviate
unnecessarily from a straight line or a route that does not involve a
significant amount of out-of-direction travel for likely users.
      (2)   SAFE AND CONVENIENT PATHWAYS. Bicycle and pedestrian routes that
are reasonably free from hazards and provide a reasonably direct route of
travel between destinations.
   PERMITTEE. The person who is proposing to use or who is using the land
pursuant to any permit required herein.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   PET SHOP. Facility for the display and sale of small animals, fish and birds
as pets, and accessories, but not involving commercial boarding or treating of
any animal, fish or bird.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY. A structure or place which the public may enter
for such purposes as deliberation, education, worship, shopping, entertainment,
amusement, awaiting transportation or similar activity.
   PLANNED COMMUNITY. A development, as provided for in the city’s zoning
regulations, of residential, commercial, industrial or a mixture of
residential, commercial, industrial and semi-public units grouped in a fashion
not customarily allowed by zoning or subdivision regulations, and providing for
variety and diversification in the relationship between buildings and open
spaces. Planned unit developments should each be planned as an entity, grouping
dwellings units, allowing an area for open space, mixing housing types,
including mobile homes, land uses and should be designed to preserve natural
features.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A development of primarily residential character
which gives special attention to areas not built upon by varying the
orientation of structures for energy and space  conservation, and by allowing
types of structures and uses which otherwise would not be considered under
conventional zoning specifications.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. A commission appointed by the governing body of the
city to be responsible for the administration of planning as provided by O.R.S.
227.020.
   PLANTER STRIP. A landscaped area for street trees and other plantings within
the public right-of-way, usually between the street and sidewalk. See also
PARKING STRIP or TREE LAWN.
   PLAT. A diagram, drawing, replat or other writing concerning a partition or
subdivision:
      (1)   FINAL PLAT. A plat which has been prepared for recordation after
approval of the tentative plat; and
      (2)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A plat submitted prior to actual application and
is intended only for department review or discussion;
      (3)   REPLAT. An alteration of a previously recorded plat. A property
line adjustment is not a replat. A partition of an existing lot is not a
replat.
      (4)   TENTATIVE PLAT. A plat submitted as a part of an application for a
partition or subdivision, also referred to as a tentative plan;
   PLATTED LOT. A lot whose legal boundaries have been established by a legally
created plat which has been duly recorded in the office of the County Clerk.
   PLAZA. A public square or extra wide sidewalk (e.g., as on a street corner)
that allows for special events, outdoor seating, sidewalk sales and similar
pedestrian activities.
   POCKET PARK. A small park, usually less than one-half acre.
   POLLARD. A tree cut back to the trunk to promote the growth of a dense head
of foliage.
   PORCH, COVERED. A covered entrance to a building. This includes an enclosed
patio.
   PORTABLE ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. Any portable, demountable or permanent
structure, including, but not limited to, cabanas, ramadas, storage sheds,
garages, awnings, carports, decks, steps, ramps, piers and pilings, that is:
      (1)   Owned and used solely by a tenant of a manufactured dwelling or
floating home; or
      (2)   Provided pursuant to a written rental agreement for the sole use of
and maintenance by a tenant of a manufactured dwelling or floating home.
   POULTRY FARM. Any premises used for the breeding, raising or maintaining of
poultry for sale of eggs or poultry.
   PRESERVATION, HISTORIC. The act or process of applying measures to sustain
the existing form, integrity and material of an historic building, structure or
object, and the existing form and vegetation cover of a site. It may include
initial stabilization work, where necessary, as well as ongoing maintenance of
the historic building materials.
   PRIMARY REVENUE SOURCE. No less than 75% of gross total principal income
derived from a business.
   PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the
runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the PRIMARY SURFACE extends 200
feet beyond each end of that runway. When the runway has no specially prepared
hard surface, or planned hard surface, the PRIMARY SURFACE ends at each runway.
The width of the PRIMARY SURFACE is 250 feet for utility runways having only
visual approaches and 500 feet for other than utility runways.
   PUBLIC FACILITY. Projects, activities and facilities deemed to be necessary
for the maintenance of other public purposes consistent with Comprehensive Plan
policies. Such public facilities shall include any activity undertaken or
structure held, used or controlled for public or quasi-public purposes,
including, but not limited to, churches; fraternal organizations or clubs;
hospitals; schools; nursing homes; federal, state, county or municipal
facilities; recreation facilities, public recreational uses, including ball
fields (baseball, soccer, football, cricket and the like), golf course, club
house, driving range, putting greens, pro shop, swimming pools, tennis and
basketball courts, walking paths and jogging/bike trails; public utilities; and
utility facilities. Such determination shall be made without reference to the
ownership of the structure or the realty upon which it is situated (O.A.R. 660-
011). A PUBLIC FACILITY includes water, sewer and transportation facilities,
but does not include buildings, structures or equipment incidental to the
direct operation of those facilities.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area commonly shared by pedestrians and vehicles
for right of passage. An easement for public travel or access including street,
alley, walkway, driveway, trail or any other public way; also, the land within
the boundaries of such easement.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any corporation, company, individual, association of
individuals, or its lessees, trustees or receivers, that owns, operates,
manages or controls all or any part of any plant or equipment for the
conveyance of telegraph, telephone messages with or without wires, for the
transportation as common carriers or for the production, transmission, delivery
or furnishing of communication, heat, light, sewer, water or power, directly or
indirectly, to the public, and includes a structure, pipe or transmission line,
which provides the public with electricity, gas, steam, heat, communication,
water, sewage collection or other similar services.
   QUADPLEX. See DWELLING, QUADPLEX.
   QUASI-JUDICIAL. An action or decision that requires substantial discretion
or judgement in applying the standards or criteria of this code, and usually
involves a public hearing.
   RADIO, TELEVISION or MICROWAVE TOWERS. Structures supporting antennae for
transmitting or receiving any portion of the radio spectrum, but excluding
noncommercial installations for home use of radio or television.
   RAMADA. A stationary structure having a roof extending over a mobile home or
trailer which may also extend over a patio or parking space for motor vehicles,
and is used principally for protection from sun and rain.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign indicating that the premises on which the sign is
located, or any portion thereof, is for sale, lease or rent.
   REAR LOT. A lot which at its widest point (measured by a parallel to the
city street of access or a tangent to such street) lies with at least one-half
its width behind another lot, i.e., a perpendicular to the city street of
access which intersects the lot in question at its widest point will pass
through another (front) lot for half or more than half of the width of the lot
in question.
   RECLAMATION. The employment in a mining operation of procedures designed to
provide for rehabilitation of the earth’s surface by plant cover, soil
stability, water resources and other measures appropriate to the subsequent
beneficial use of the reclaimed lands.
   RECLAMATION PLAN. A written and graphic proposal for rehabilitation of the
mined area, further defined as being one of the below:
      (1)   NATURAL RECLAMATION PLAN. A reclamation and/or rehabilitation
process in which the primary purpose is to restore the land to a natural
appearing landscape consistent with surrounding terrain. Rehabilitation to an
agricultural use is considered a natural reclamation plan; and
      (2)   SECOND USE PLAN. A reclamation and/or rehabilitation process that
involves development of the land to a specific use.
   RECREATION CLUB OR AREA, PRIVATE. A building, park or recreation area, the
use of which is restricted to private membership such as by a church,
neighborhood association, fraternal or social organization, and which may
contain the facilities as normally provided in a public park or playground.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITY. Facilities deemed to be necessary for the maintenance
of recreational purposes consistent with Comprehensive Plan policies including
public and private recreational uses, including ball fields (baseball, soccer,
football, cricket and the like), golf course, club house, driving range,
putting greens, pro shop, swimming pools, tennis and basketball courts, walking
paths and jogging/bike trails. Such determination shall be made without
reference to the ownership of the structure or the realty upon which it is
situated.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vacation trailer or other vehicular or portable unit
which is either self-propelled or towed, or is carried by a motor vehicle and
which is intended for human occupancy, and is designed for vacation or
recreational purposes, but not residential use (see CAMPING OR RECREATIONAL
VEHICLE), and is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; or
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK OR CAMPGROUND. An area where facilities are
provided to accommodate temporary recreational trailers, motor homes, campers
and/or tents and self-propelled motorized vehicles are parked and used for the
purpose of supplying to the public a temporary location while traveling,
vacationing or recreating.
   RECTORY. A place of residence for the pastor of a church.
   RECYCLING DROPBOX. An enclosed and covered container for the depositing and
temporary storage of recyclable materials, including, but not limited to,
paper, glass, metal cans or other recoverable material.
   RESIDENTIAL. Any use of land or structure of or relating to a place where
people dwell.
   RESIDENTIAL CARE, TRAINING, OR TREATMENT FACILITY. Any facility which
provides care, training or treatment for six or more physically, mentally,
emotionally or behaviorally disabled individuals, as defined by O.R.S. 443.400.
Facilities that provide for five or less are addressed as ADULT FOSTER HOMES or
FOSTER FAMILY HOMES.
   RESIDENCE HOME FOR AGED. A facility for the care of six or more persons
suffering from infirmities of age or illness where care is provided on a
prolonged or permanent basis.
   RESIDENTIAL HOME. As provided by Oregon Revised Statutes, a residence
licensed by the state for the care of five or fewer physically or mentally
handicapped persons, including staff personnel, is permitted in residential or
commercial zones (excluding resource lands) subject to the normal requirements
for a residence. Residents and staff need not be related to each other or any
other home resident. HANDICAPPED means that a person suffers from a functional
limitation in one or more major life activities.
   RESIDENTIAL OR DAY TREATMENT FACILITY. A facility licensed by the state for
the care of five or more related or unrelated persons who are physically or
emotionally handicapped by functional limitations in one or more major life
activities. The term includes shelter care facility.
   RESOURCE LAND. Any land that has been identified and designated on the
county’s Comprehensive Plan and zoning map(s) as forest resource, woodland
resource, open space reserve, exclusive farm use or aggregate resource is
considered RESOURCE LAND. This definition shall not be construed to exclude
from protection under the provisions of city, state or county law other
identified resources which have not been zoned, such as riparian habitat,
natural areas, critical winter deer and elk range, historic sites, structures,
corridors or scenic areas.
   RESOURCE TREE. All broadleaf trees (except alder and poplar trees) equal or
greater than one feet DBH (for multi-stem trees, if the sum of the areas of all
stems four inches in diameter or larger at DBH is greater than 113 square
inches, it is a heritage tree). All conifers equal or greater than 18 inches
DBH are resource trees.
   RESTORE. Revitalizing, returning or replacing original attributes and
amenities, such as natural biological productivity, aesthetic and cultural
resources, which have been diminished or lost by past alterations, activities
or catastrophic events.
      (1)   Active restoration involves the use of specific positive remedial
actions, such as removing fills, installing water treatment facilities or
rebuilding deteriorated urban waterfront areas.
      (2)   Passive restoration is the use of natural processes, sequences and
timing of which occurs after the removal or reduction of adverse stresses
without other specific positive remedial action.
   RETAIL SALES. The sale or rental of commonly used goods and merchandise for
person or household use. Typical uses include department stores, apparel
stores, furniture stores, hardware stores or florists.
   RETIREMENT HOME. Facility providing living quarters, either owned or rented,
to persons 62 years of age or older. Such facility may be a single structure or
a group of structures, and may include limited medical, recreational and
commercial services if such services are limited to the residents and their
guests. This type of facility should be developed as a planned unit
development.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area between the boundary lines of a street.
   RIPARIAN AREA. The area adjacent to a river, lake or stream, consisting of
the area of transition from an aquatic ecosystem to a terrestrial ecosystem
(according to O.A.R. 660-23-0090(1)).
   RIPARIAN CORRIDOR. A Goal 5 resource that includes the water areas, fish
habitat, adjacent riparian areas and wetlands within the riparian area boundary
(according O.A.R. 660-23-0090(1)).
   RIVER. See STREAM.
   ROAD APPROACH PERMIT. A formal agreement between the developer/land owner
and either the state, county or city concerning the private use of public
right-of-way and facilities for access to adjoining property. The terms ROAD
APPROACH PERMIT and APPROACH ROAD PERMITS are interchangeable in the context of
this chapter, and includes both driveways and intersecting roads.
   ROADSIDE STAND. A temporary structure designed or used for the display or
sale of merchandise and/or produce, or agricultural products produced on the
premises upon which such a stand is located.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street right-of-way developed for vehicular
traffic.
   ROOT ZONE. Any area within the drip line of any tree and any area within 20
feet of any resource tree trunk, whichever is further from the tree trunk.
   ROW HOUSES. A series of individual houses having architectural unity and a
common wall between each unit.
   SCALE. The relationship of a particular project or development, in terms of
size, height, bulk, intensity and aesthetics, to its surroundings.
   SCHOOL. Any institution for learning, whether public or private, meeting
state accreditation standards.
   SCHOOL, BUSINESS. A business enterprise, not a public or private school,
offering instruction and training in a service or art, such as secretary,
barber or commercial artist, but not including commercial trades or crafts.
   SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL, VOCATIONAL, TRADE OR CRAFT. A business enterprise, not a
public, private or business school, offering instruction and training in a
trade such as welding, brick laying, machinery operation and other similar
manual trades.
   SCHOOL, HOME. Education in the children’s home, taught for a period
equivalent to that required of children attending public schools the courses of
study usually taught in grades one through 12 in the public school by a parent,
legal guardian or private teacher.
   SCHOOL, PUBLIC/PRIVATE. An educational institution, licensed or regulated by
the state, which has a curriculum, including kindergarten, elementary,
secondary or higher education; or one that provides special training and/or
care suitable to persons with above average intelligence, or defective,
delinquent or dependent persons such as retarded, dyslexic, autistic or brain
damaged persons, but does not include business, commercial, trade or craft
schools.
   SCREEN. A method of reducing the impact of noise and unsightly visual
intrusions with less offensive or more harmonious elements, such as plants,
berms, fences, walls or any appropriate combination thereof
   SECOND HAND STORE, USED FURNITURE OR RUMMAGE SHOP FACILITY OR PAWNSHOP.
Facility for the sale of second hand or used items.
   SECONDARY USE. A use which is supplementary or subordinate to an allowed
principal use in that it functions to furnish direct aid or support to the use.
   SENIOR HOUSING. Housing designated and/or managed for persons over the age
of 55.
   SENSITIVE FISH AND/OR WILDLIFE HABITAT. Areas important to the survival of a
species, or group of species, and habitats with a limited area.
   SERVICE STATION. Commercial facility which offers petroleum products and
limited accessory sales of products for motor vehicle use, including limited
vehicle repair service to the public.
   SETBACK. The distance from a right-of-way of a public or private road, or
from a lot line to any point of a building.
   SEWAGE. Water-carried wastes from a home, business operation or community.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Facilities for the treatment and disposal of sewage.
   SHADE TREE. Usually a deciduous tree planted primarily for its high crown of
foliage or overhead canopy.
   SHARED DRIVEWAY. When land uses on two or more lots or parcels share one
driveway. An easement or tract (owned in common) may be created for this
purpose.
   SHELTER CARE FACILITY. A home licensed by the state to provide for short
term emergency care for no more than nine children at any one time. See also
HALFWAY HOUSE or RESIDENTIAL/DAY TREATMENT FACILITY.
   SHOPPING CENTER. Three or more commercial retail or service establishments
on a single unit of land.
   SHRUB. A woody plant, smaller than a tree, consisting of several small stems
from the ground or small branches near the ground, may be deciduous or
evergreen.
   SIGN. A presentation or representation, other than a house number, by words,
letters, figures, designs, pictures or colors, publicly displayed so as to give
notice relative to a person, a business, an article of merchandise, a service,
an assemblage, a solicitation or a request for aid or other type of
advertising; any notice or advertisement, pictorial or otherwise, used as an
outdoor display for the purpose of advertising a property or the establishment
or enterprise, including goods and services, upon which the signs are
exhibited. This includes the board, metal or surface upon which the sign is
painted, included or attached; or any material used to support the sign. This
definition shall not include official notices issued by a court or public body
or officer, or directional, warning or information signs or structures required
by or authorized by the law or by federal, state, county or city authority.
      (1)   BLINKING SIGN. A sign which shines with intermittent or momentary
brief beams or flashes of light, flashing on and off.
      (2)   BUILDING REGISTER SIGN. A sign which identifies four or more
businesses contained within a single building structure or complex.
      (3)   FLASHING SIGN. A sign with sequential light source giving off light
suddenly or in transient bursts where the period of time of illumination is
equal to the period of non-illumination, and is used solely to attract
attention in a non-informative way.
      (4)   FLASHING SIGN. A sign incorporating intermittent electrical
impulses to a source of illumination, or revolving in a manner which creates
the illusion of flashing, or which changes color or intensity of illumination.
      (5)   FLUTTERING SIGN. A sign which moves, vibrates, in quick, irregular
motions, with irregular spasms or trembling motions.
      (6)   ROTATING SIGN. A sign which turns/revolves around as on an axis or
center point.
      (7)   WIND SIGN OR DEVICE. Any sign or device in the nature of a series
of one, two or more banners, flags or other objects, fastened in such a manner
as to move upon being subject to pressure by wind or breeze.
   SIGN, AREA OF. In determining whether a sign is within the area limitations
of this title, the area of the total exterior surface shall be measured and
computed in square feet; provided that where the sign has two or more faces,
the area of the total exterior surface shall be measured and divided by the
number of faces; and provided further, that if the interior angle between the
two planes of two faces exceeds 135 degrees, they shall be deemed a single face
for the purposes hereof. Measurement shall be made at the extreme horizontal
and vertical limit of a sign.
   SIDEWALK. A pedestrian walkway.
   SITE. A property (or group of adjacent parcels or lots under the same
ownership) that is subject to a permit application under this code.
   SITE DESIGN REVIEW, DEVELOPMENT REVIEW, PLAN REVIEW. See § 152.070.
   SITE PLAN. A plan, prepared to scale, showing accurately and with complete
dimensioning, all of the uses proposed for a special parcel of land.
   SLOPE. Gradient of a line describing its steepness, incline or grade.
   SLOPE EASEMENT. An area adjoining a road which is affected by the road fill
or cut, but is not within the road easement or right-of-way.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Any device, structure, mechanism or series of
mechanisms which uses solar radiation as a source for heating, cooling or
electrical energy.
   SOLAR ORIENTATION. The layout and design of parcels and siting of a
structure on building lots to take advantage of solar insolation for optimal
utilization of the sun as an energy source.
   SPECIMEN TREE. A particularly impressive or unusual example of a species due
to its size, shade, age or any other trait that epitomizes the character of the
species.
   SPECULATION SUPPORT STRUCTURE. An antenna support structure designed for the
purpose of providing location mounts for wireless communication facilities
without a binding commitment or option to lease a location upon the tower by a
licensed service provider at the time of initial application.
   STANDARDS. Standards are code requirements, such as rules governing the size
or dimensions of a lot or parcel, or the placement of buildings or activities
thereon.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundation or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STEEP SLOPES. Slopes of greater than 25%.
   STEP-BACKWATER ANALYSIS. An option used in a no-rise analysis/certification
to calculate BFEs if more than one cross section is warranted to cover the
extent of the property. Generally, if the property parallels more than 500 feet
of a flooding source, this option is used.
   STOREFRONT CHARACTER. The character expressed by buildings placed close to
the street with ground-floor display windows, weather protection (e.g., awnings
or canopies), corner building entrances or recessed entries and similar
features.
   STORM WATER FACILITY. A detention and/or retention pond, swale or other
surface water feature that provides storage during high rainfall events.
   STORY. Any area that can be reasonably considered habitable and has floor
surface with clear standing head room (six feet, six inches minimum) regardless
of their use.
   STREAM. A channel such as a river or creek that carries flowing surface
water, including perennial streams and intermittent streams with defined
channels, and excluding human-made irrigation and drainage channels (according
O.A.R. 660-23-0090(1)).
      (1)   CLASS I STREAM. Waters which are valuable for domestic use, are
important for angling or other recreation and/or used by significant numbers of
fish for spawning, rearing or migration routes as designated by the state.
Stream flows may be perennial or intermittent.
      (2)   CLASS II STREAM. Any headwater streams or minor drainages that
generally have limited or no direct value for angling or other recreation as
designated by the state. They are used by only a few, if any, fish for spawning
or rearing. Their principal value is their influence on water quality or
quantity downstream in Class I waters. Stream flow may be perennial or
intermittent.
   STREETS FOR ROADS. The following definitions apply to roads (none of these
definitions is intended to supersede O.R.S. 368.001).
      (1)   ROAD. The entire right-of-way of any public or private way that
provides ingress to or egress from property by means of vehicles or other means
or that provides travel between places by mean of vehicles. ROAD includes, but
is not limited to:
         (a)   Ways described as streets, highways, throughways or alleys; and
         (b)   Road related structures that are in the right-of-way such as
tunnels, culverts or similar structures and structures that provide for
continuity of the right-of-way such as bridges.
      (2)   ALLEY. A narrow street, with a 16 to 20 foot right-of-way and the
minimum of a 12 foot travel lane, through a block primarily for vehicular
access to the back or side of properties.
      (3)   ARTERIAL. A road which carries traffic through and between major
centers of activity in urban, suburban and rural areas.
      (4)   COLLECTOR. A road which is used primarily as a connector from local
roads to one or more arterials.
      (5)   COUNTY ROAD. A public road under the jurisdiction of a county that
has been designated as a county road under O.R.S. 368.016.
      (6)   CUL-DE-SAC. A local or limited local road having only one outlet
with a turnaround at the opposite end, and which is not intended to be extended
or continued.
      (7)   DEAD-END STREET. A road or street with no outlet to other roads or
streets.
      (8)   FRONTAGE ROAD. A road which is parallel to and adjacent to an
arterial or other limited access road or a railroad right-of-way, and which
provides access to abutting properties.
      (9)   PUBLIC ROAD. A road over which the public has a right of use that
is a matter of public record.
      (10)   STUBBED ROAD. A road having only one outlet, but which is intended
to be extended or continued.
      (11)   THROUGH STREET. A road or street that connects to another road.
Not all THROUGH STREETS are arterials.
   STREET FRONTAGE. The lineal dimension in feet of the property upon which a
structure is built that fronts the street.
   STREET FURNITURE/FURNISHINGS. Benches, lighting, bicycle racks, drinking
fountains, mailboxes, kiosks and similar pedestrian amenities located within a
street right-of-way.
   STREET LINE. A property line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and an
adjacent street or private way.
   STREET TREE. A tree on land located within a dedicated right-of-way along
either side of a street, avenue or other way within a dedicated utility
easement of the city.
   STREET VENDOR. Any person duly licensed upon a public sidewalk or other
public way or place carrying, conveying or transporting merchandise which is
offered for sale from a mobile type device or as a pedestrian.
   STRUCTURE. Anything, such as a building or other major improvement that is
constructed, built or installed; an edifice or building of any kind; or any
piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in
some definite manner which requires location on the ground or is attached, such
as a structural addition, to something having a location on the ground,
including swimming and wading pools and covered patios. This does not include
outdoor areas such as paved areas, driveways or walks, and other minor
improvements, such as fences, utility poles, flagpoles or irrigation system
components, that are not customarily regulated through zoning ordinances. For
land use regulatory purposes, the term STRUCTURE shall also include gas or
liquid storage tanks but shall exclude fences six feet in height or less and
uncovered patios.
   STRUCTURAL, ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as a bearing wall, column, beam or girder, floor or ceiling joist, roof
rafters, roof diaphragms, foundations, piles or retaining walls or similar
components.
   STUDIO, BROADCASTING AND/OR RECORDING. Facility for broadcasting live or
prerecorded programs by radio and/or television and/or recording on records,
tapes, video tapes or other suitable media. Such facility may perform
activities necessary for recording programming and receiving of radio and/or
television signals.
   SUBDIVIDE LAND. To divide an area or tract of land into four or more lots
(three with a road) within a calendar year when such area or tract of land
exists as a unit or contiguous units of land under a single ownership at the
beginning of such year.
   SUBDIVISION. Either an act of subdividing land or an area or tract of land
subdivided.
   SUBGRADE. The portion of the graded roadbed upon which the base, surfacing
or pavement is to be placed.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement, reconstruction or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being repaired,
reconstructed or improved before the damage occurred. For the purpose of this
definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
   SURFACE MINING. All or any part of the process of removal by extraction of
minerals from the surface of the earth. Removal of overburden or diversion of
water necessary to expose the deposit of minerals is considered part of the
process. Leveling, grading, filling or removing earth materials in conjunction
with farm use, or on-site construction projects are not considered surface
mining.
   SWALE. A type of storm water facility. Usually a SWALE is a broad, shallow
depression with plants that filter and process contaminants.
   SWIMMING POOLS, PRIVATE. A swimming pool, constructed for the exclusive use
of the residents and guests of single-family, duplex, townhouse or apartment
dwellings.
   TAX LOT. A parcel, lot or other unit of land as created by the County
Assessor for the purpose of taxation. A TAX LOT may also be a lot or parcel
when created at a property owner’s request for the purpose of land division
consistent with applicable planning and zoning regulations in effect at that
time.
   TELEPHONE EXCHANGE, SWITCHING AND TRANSMITTING EQUIPMENT. Non-attended
switching or transmitting telephone service, but not including business office
facilities, storage or repair shops or yards.
   TEMPORARY. Twenty-seven days or less in any 12-month period, unless
otherwise specified by a provision of this chapter; a land use that is not
permanent and only allowed for this limited time period.
   TEMPORARY FIELD or CONSTRUCTION OFFICE. Temporary office and temporary
material storage use in connection with the property. This use may be permitted
for a specified period of time in accordance with a permit issued by the
building official.
   TEMPORARY MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which is utilized as an additional
dwelling on the same parcel for an infirm or disabled person who requires 24-
hour care or the person providing that care, according to a certification by a
state licensed medical doctor or responsible state licensed medical agency.
   TENT. A fabric shelter supported by poles or rope, which is designed for
human occupancy and to be used temporarily for recreational or emergency
purposes, but not for permanent or residential purposes.
   TENTATIVE PLANS. The preliminary proposal for a subdivision which includes
the information specified in § 152.052.
   TOP-OF-BANK. A clearly recognizable sharp break in the stream bank. It has
the same meaning as “bankfull stage”; the stage or elevation at which water
overflows the natural banks of streams and begins to inundate the upland. In
the absence of physical evidence, the two-year recurrence interval flood
elevation may be used to approximate the bankfull stage (according O.A.R. 660-
23-0090(1)).
   TOWNHOUSE. See DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE.
   TOWNHOUSE PROJECT. One or more townhouse structures constructed, or proposed
to be constructed, together with the development site where the land has been
divided or is proposed to be divided to reflect the townhouse property lines
and any commonly owned property.
   TOP COURSE. A course of specified aggregate material of planned thickness
placed immediately below the pavement or surface.
   TRACT, PRIVATE/PUBLIC. A piece of land set aside in a separate area for
dedication to the public, a homeowner’s association or other entity (e.g., open
space, recreation facilities, sensitive lands and the like).
   TRANSIENT. An individual who occupies a site for a period of 27 days or
less, counting portions of days as full days, and cannot demonstrate the
intention and legal ability to construct a permanent dwelling upon that site.
   TRANSITIONAL ZONES. An area that extends seven feet outward for each one
foot upward (7:1), beginning on each side of the primary surface which point is
the same elevation as the runway surface, and from the sides of the approach
surfaces thence extending upward to a height of 150 feet above the airport
elevation (horizontal surface).
   TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES AND IMPROVEMENTS. The physical improvements used
to move people and goods from one place to another (e.g., streets, railroad
tracks, sidewalks, pathways, bike lanes, airports, transit stations, bus stops
and the like). TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS include the following:
      (1)   Normal operation, maintenance;
      (2)   Installation of improvements within the existing right-of-way;
      (3)   Projects identified in the adopted Transportation System Plan not
requiring future land use review and approval;
      (4)   Landscaping as part of a transportation facility;
      (5)   Emergency measures;
      (6)   Street or road construction as part of an approved subdivision or
partition;
      (7)   Transportation projects that are not designated improvements in the
Transportation System Plan (conditional use permit for transportation system
facilities and improvements); and
      (8)   Transportation projects that are not designed and constructed as
part of an approved subdivision or partition (conditional use permit for
transportation system facilities and improvements).
   TRANSPORTATION MODE. The method of transportation (e.g., automobile, train,
bus, walking, bicycling and the like).
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   TREE. Any woody plant having a trunk six-caliper inches or larger in
diameter at breast height (DBH). If a tree splits into multiple trunks above
ground, but below four and one-half feet, the trunk is measured at its most
narrow point beneath the split, and is considered one tree if greater than six
inches DBH. Plants commonly planted as shrubs, including, but not limited to,
English Laurel, Photinia, Arborvitae, Poison Oak, English Holly and English Ivy
shall not be considered a TREE. Trees specifically planted and maintained as a
hedge shall additionally not be considered a TREE. Tree types are described
further in Chapter 93. Different classifications of trees include the
following:
      (1)   DEAD TREE. A lifeless tree. Such evidence of lifelessness may
include unseasonable lack of foliage, brittle dry branches or lack of any
growth during the growing season;
      (2)   HERITAGE TREE. A tree listed on the official city heritage tree;
      (3)   PARK TREE. A tree, shrub, bush or other woody vegetation located in
a public park or other area owned by the city having an individual name, and
all other areas owned by the city, or to which the public has free access as a
park;
      (4)   PRIVATE TREE. A tree, shrub, bush or other woody vegetation located
on private property other than a dedicated right-of-way or city utility
easement or public parks and grounds;
      (5)   SIGNIFICANT TREE. A tree having a trunk 18-caliper inches or larger
in diameter; and
      (6)   STREET TREE. A tree, shrub, bush or other woody vegetation on land
lying within a dedicated right-of-way along either side of a street, avenue or
other way within a dedicated utility easement of the city.
   TREE CUT-OUT. The area between the street and a sidewalk in the public
right-of-way, for street tree planting, as described further in Chapter 93;
also known as TREE WELL.
   TREE LAWN. The area between the street curb and sidewalk in the public
right-of-way, utilized for landscaping and street tree planting; also known as
PARKING STRIP or PLANTER STRIP.
   TREE REMOVAL. To cut down a tree, or remove 50% or more of the crown, trunk
or root system of a tree; or to damage a tree so as to cause the tree to
decline and/or die. REMOVAL includes topping. REMOVAL includes, but is not
limited to, damage inflicted upon a root system by application of toxic
substances, operation of equipment and vehicles, storage of materials, change
of natural grade due to unapproved excavation or filling or unapproved
alteration of natural physical conditions. REMOVAL does not include normal
trimming or pruning of trees.
   TREE TOPPING. The severe cutting back of a tree’s limbs to stubs three
inches or larger in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to
remove the natural canopy and disfigure the tree. TOPPING does not include the
practice of “pollarding” when conducted in accordance with the standards
established by the International Society of Arboriculture.
   TREE WELL. The area between the street and a sidewalk in the public right-
of-way, for street tree planting, as described further in Chapter 93. Also
known as TREE CUT-OUT.
   TRIPLEX. See DWELLING, TRIPLEX.
   UNDERLYING ZONE. The base zone district; the parent zone district.
   UNHEALTHFUL CONDITIONS. Conditions and circumstances that are detrimental,
not conducive to good health.
   URBAN GROWTH AREA (UGA). Land that is inside the city’s urban growth
boundary but outside the city limits. Land in the UGA is considered
“urbanizable land”.
   URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY. A site specific line imposed on the official
Comprehensive Plan and zoning map of the city, which identifies and encompasses
urban and urbanizable lands in or adjacent to each incorporated city in the
county.
   URBAN LAND. Those lands which normally have an incorporated city. Such areas
may include lands adjacent to and outside the incorporated city and may also:
      (1)   Have concentrations of persons who generally reside and work in the
area; and
      (2)   Have supporting public facilities and services.
   URBAN SERVICES AREA. The area within the UGB that is served by urban
services and facilities of the city.
   URBANIZED LAND. Land within the urban growth boundary which is identified
and:
      (1)   Determined to be necessary and suitable for future urban land;
      (2)   Can be served by public facilities; and
      (3)   Is needed for the expansion of an urban land area.
   USE. The purpose for which land, roadways or a structure is designed,
arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, whether on a
permanent or temporary basis.
   UTILITY FACILITY. Those necessary appurtenances, including related rights-
of-way for the transmission of electric power, gas, water, sewerage, telephone
and other inline facilities needed for the operation of such facilities, such
as gas regulating stations, pumping stations, power or communication
substations, dams, reservoirs and related power houses. Additionally, a utility
facility means any energy device and/or system that generates energy from
renewable energy resources including solar, hydro, wind, biofuels, wood,
geothermal or similar sources.
   VACATE PLAT/STREET. To abandon a subdivision or street right-of-way. For
example, vacation of a public right-of-way that is not needed or cannot be used
for a street or other public purpose. A plat may be vacated, returning the
property to an undivided condition.
   VARIANCE. A deviation from the requirements of this chapter which may be
granted according to the provisions of § 152.073.
   VEHICULAR STORAGE. A vehicular storage area and area for the storage of
abandoned, impounded, dismantled, obsolete or wrecked vehicles.
   VIOLATION. An act of any person which is prohibited or prevented by the
city’s Comprehensive Plan, Land Development Regulations or other federal, state
or county law, or the failure of any person to act as required by the
Comprehensive Plan, land development regulations or other federal, state or
county law.
   VISION CLEARANCE AREA. A triangular area at the street or highway corner of
a corner lot, or the alley-street intersection of a lot, the space being
defined by a line across the corner, the ends of which are on the edge of the
street or alley right-of-way lines an equal and specified distance from the
corner and containing no planting, wall structures or temporary or permanent
obstruction exceeding three feet in height above the curb level. (See § 152.050
(E).)
   VISUAL OBSTRUCTION. Any fence, hedge, tree, shrub, device, wall or
structure, exceeding three feet in height above the elevation of the top of the
curb, which dangerously limits the visibility of persons in motor vehicles on
said streets or alleys. This does not include trees kept trimmed of branches to
a minimum height of at least six feet. See also § 152.053.
   WALL. An upright structure of masonry, wood, plaster or other building
material serving to enclose, divide or protect an area, especially a vertical
construction forming an inner partition or exterior siding of a building.
   WATER AREA. The area between the banks of a lake, pond, river, perennial or
fish-bearing intermittent stream (according O.A.R. 660-23-0090(1)).
   WETLANDS.
      (1)   Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted to
life in saturated soil conditions. (This definition has been selected from
O.A.R. 660-23-0090(1).) There are two types of wetlands:
         (a)   SIGNIFICANT WETLAND. A wetland that appears on the city’s
wetlands and riparian inventory maps; and
         (b)   NON-SIGNIFICANT WETLAND. A wetland that does not meet the
Department of State Lands (DSL) definition of a locally significant wetland.
NON-SIGNIFICANT WETLANDS are not regulated by the section pertaining to
wetlands in this chapter, but do require DSL notification under O.R.S. 227.350
and 21.1.11.
      (2)   A WETLAND is also defined by the Federal Clean Water Act (§ 404),
being 33 U.S.C. § 1344, and O.A.R. 141-085-0510(110). WETLANDS include land
areas where water is the dominant factor determining the nature of soil
development and the types of plant and animal communities.
   WHOLESALE, STORAGE, AND DISTRIBUTING. Establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in the wholesaling, storage, distribution and handling of
materials and equipment other than live animals and plants.
   WIDTH, OF A BUILDING. The shortest side of elevation dimension measured
horizontally.
   WILDLIFE. Wild mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians.
   WINDOW. All the glass included with one casement.
   WINERY, COMMERCIAL. A facility for the preparation, processing, marketing
and distribution of wines; may include a tasting room and sales area.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES. Includes cell towers, antennae,
monopoles, “coverage” towers and “capacity” towers, and related facilities,
including microfacilities and minifacilities, and equipment used for radio
signal transmission and receiving. A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY is
considered a UTILITY FACILITY.
   WOODLANDS, EXISTING. Existing trees and shrubs of a number, size and species
that accomplish the same general function as new plantings.
   YARD. Any open space on the same lot with a building or a dwelling group,
which open space is unoccupied and unobstructed by any structure from the
ground upward to the sky, except for the projections as permitted in §
152.053(F).
      (1)   YARD, FRONT. A yard between side lot lines, measured horizontally
at right angles from the front lot line, to the nearest point of a building or
other structure. See also LOT LINE, FRONT.
      (2)   YARD, REAR. A yard between side lot lines, measured horizontally at
right angles from the rear lot line, to the nearest point of a main building.
      (3)   YARD, REQUIRED. Open space on a lot, which is unobstructed from the
ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (4)   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the front and rear yards, measured
horizontally at right angles from the rear lot line, to the nearest point of a
main building.
      (5)   YARD, STREET SIDE. The side yard of a corner lot abutting the
street between the front and rear yards, measured horizontally at right angles
from the rear lot line, to the nearest point of a main building.
   ZONE. A section/district of the city in which certain land uses are
permitted and other are prohibited by the chapter.
   ZONE CHANGE. An action to change the type of zoning on one or more pieces of
land. A ZONE CHANGE is considered to be a legislative action initiated by a
Planning Commission decision.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. A set of land use regulations enacted by the city
including districts within which the type, location, density, bulk, height and
lot coverage of land uses are restricted.
(Ord. 1283, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 1335, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 1338, passed 10-
1-2018; Ord. 1349, passed 8-19-2019; Ord. 1352, passed 11-4-2019; Ord. 050252A,
passed 5-19-2025)
§ 152.004 APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND FEE.
   (A)   Application for land use action.
      (1)   Initiation. An application for a land use action may be initiated
by the owner(s) of the property involved or an authorized agent of that owner
(s). It may include the following: conditional use permit, land division, site
plan review, variance, zoning ordinance/Comprehensive Plan amendments and/or
zoning change. An application for a change of zone may also be initiated by the
City Council or the Commission, in accordance with the provisions of division
(B) below. Authorization to act as an agent shall be in writing and filed with
the application. Such applications shall be filed on the appropriate form
provided by the Planning Department. When any such application requires the
submission of a site plan, the site plan shall be submitted in a form as
described within §
152.070.
         (a)   Each land use action’s requirements are listed separately in the
following sections of this chapter:
            1.   Site plan review - §
152.070;
            2.   Conditional use permit - §
152.071;
            3.   Land division - §
152.072;
            4.   Variance - §
152.073;
            5.   Determination or alteration of a non-conforming use or
structure - §
152.074;
            6.   Zone change/amendment - §
152.075.
         (b)   Administrative actions are listed in division (O) below.
         (c)   A land use action does not include the following:
            1.   Single-family detached dwellings;
            2.   Manufactured homes on individual lots;
            3.   A duplex, triplex, quadplex, townhouse or cottage cluster;
            4.   Minor modifications; and
            5.   Home occupations.
      (2)   Consolidated application procedure. If a proposed development
requires more than one application for a permit or other land use request, the
applicant may choose to apply for all necessary applications at once. The
Planning Commission or City Council may consolidate their review of all
necessary applications. This consolidated application procedure shall be
subject to the requirements of division (P) below.
   (B)   Initiation by Planning Commission/City Council. The Planning
Commission and/or City Council may initiate proceedings to rezone land by
motion and conduct a public hearing in accordance with all applicable
provisions of this chapter. If the City Council shall initiate such
proceedings, the matter of the proposed change of zone shall first be referred
to the Planning Commission which shall then conduct proceedings as hereinafter
provided. If the Planning Commission and/or City Council initiate proceedings
for a change of zone, they shall so advise the Planner, who shall set a date
for public hearing before the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Ownership list. The applicant shall file with such applications a list
of the names, addresses and tax lot numbers of all owners of property situated
within the following radii, including public rights-of-way, of the external
boundaries of the property affected by the application:
      (1)   Four hundred feet for annexations, zone changes and UGB/
Comprehensive Plan map amendments;
      (2)   Two hundred fifty feet for all other actions covered by ordinance
unless otherwise proscribed by state law; and
      (3)   Such names, addresses and tax lot numbers shall be those listed on
the last preceding tax roll of the Assessor of the county. The applicant shall
also file with the application an affidavit attesting to the validity of said
ownership list.
   (D)   Hearing date. Upon receipt of a valid and complete application and fee
as required in division (H) below, the Planner shall, within 30 days of
determination of completeness, set a date for public hearing at the next
available Planning Commission hearing, unless the applicant requests a hearing
at a later date, and provide notice as required within division (K) below.
   (E)   Application for vacation.
      (1)   Procedure. Whenever any person desires to vacate all or part of any
public square, or other public place, plat, street or similar area, such person
shall file an application for vacation with city on forms provided by the
Planning Department. Such forms shall conform to the requirements of O.R.S.
271.080(1). Attached to such application shall be forms reflecting the consent
of the owners of all abutting property and of not less than two-thirds in area
of the real property affected thereby as defined in O.R.S. 271.080(2) and
described in division (E)(3)(b) below. Such consent shall be in writing and
duly acknowledged before an officer authorized to take acknowledgments of
deeds.
         (a)   The city shall review, under O.R.S. 271.080 through 271.230,
proposals for the vacation of public easements or rights-of-way which provide
access to or along the estuary. The following requirements shall be met:
               1.   Petitioner first consults with public works and planning;
               2.   Petitioner initiates vacation and submits the required fee
to initiate process and petition (letter) which includes:
                  a.   Description of the ground proposed to be vacated;
                  b.   Map and legal description of ground to be vacated;
                  c.   Reason for the vacation; and
                  d.   Proposed use for vacated property.
               3.   Petitioner will be provided a map delineating the required
200 by 400 foot area required for the consent of property owners. Absolute
consent of all property owners that are adjacent to the property to be vacated
is required. In addition, the consent of the owners of all abutting property
and of not less than two-thirds in area of the real property affected thereby.
The real property affected thereby shall be deemed to be the land lying on
either side of the street or portion thereof proposed to be vacated and
extending laterally to the next street that serves as a parallel street, but in
any case not to exceed 200 feet, and the land for a like lateral distance on
either side of the street for 400 feet along its course beyond each terminus of
the part proposed to be vacated. Where a street is proposed to be vacated to
its termini, the land embraced in an extension of the street for a distance of
400 feet beyond each terminus shall also be counted. In the vacation of any
plat or part thereof, the consent of the owner or owners of two-thirds in are
of the property embraced within such plat or part thereof proposed to be
vacated shall be sufficient, except where such vacation embraces street area,
when, as to such street area, the above requirements shall also apply. The
consent of the owners of the required amount of property shall be in writing.
(Note: the absolute consents can be considered as part of the two-thirds.);
               4.   Petitioner will bring signed consents to vacate to the city
for review;
               5.   A date will be set for petition on City Council agenda for
public hearing;
               6.   City will notify petitioner of date City Council will hear
petition and public hearing;
               7.   City will publish public hearing notice two consecutive
weeks prior to public hearing;
               8.   City will prepare two signs (consisting of public hearing
notice and map) at least 14 days prior to public hearing but not more than five
days after first publication announcing public hearing. Signs to be posted by
city at each end of proposed vacation;
               9.   If City Council does not deny petition at public hearing, a
motion may be made for a first reading of vacation ordinance after public
hearing. The ordinance authorizing vacation shall be prepared for first and
second reading by City Council; and
               10.   Deed of dedication shall be prepared and adopted with the
ordinance authorizing vacation, and the original ordinance (and deed) shall be
sent to County Clerk for recording.
      (2)   Hearing date. Upon receipt of a valid and complete application and
fee, the Planning Department shall set a date for public hearing upon the
application before the City Council.
      (3)   Maintenance of public access to estuaries.
         (a)   Existing public ownerships, rights-of-way and similar public
easements, which provide access to or along the estuary shall be retained or
replaced if sold, exchanged or transferred. Rights-of-way may be vacated to
permit redevelopment of existing developed shoreland areas provided public
access across the affected site is retained.
         (b)   The city shall review, under the provisions of O.R.S. 271.300
through 271.360, proposals for the sale, exchange or transfer of public
ownership, which provide access to or along the estuary. A public hearing shall
be held to review such proposals.
   (F)   Application for annexation.
      (1)   Procedure. Whenever any person seeks to extend the boundaries of
the city through annexation, such person shall file an application for
annexation on forms provided by the Planning Department. The applicant will be
required to meet the land use criteria and submit the appropriate fee, listed
under division (H) below.
      (2)   Consent petition. If the applicant desires to negate the need for
an election as provided in O.R.S. 222.170(1), said application shall contain
the written consent to annexation of more than half of the owners of land in
the territory to be annexed, who also own more than half of the land in such
territory and who own real property therein representing more than half of the
assessed value of the real property in said territory.
      (3)   Initiation by City Council. A proposal to annex unincorporated
territory surrounded by the city may be initiated by the City Council. Such
initiation shall be by resolution subject to referendum.
      (4)   Hearing date. Upon receipt of a valid and complete application and
fee or resolution by the City Council, the City Manager shall set a date for
public hearing upon the application before the appropriate body.
   (G)   Improper application. If it is determined by the Planner that any of
the aforementioned applications do not provide the desired information nor have
attached thereto other pertinent data requested, the application may not be
accepted.
   (H)   Application fees and required submittals. The application fees as set
by resolution of the City Council and application submittals are required to
defray costs incidental to the proceedings and shall accompany each respective
land use request. Such fees shall be paid at the time of the filing of each
application and shall not be refundable. Ten copies of the applicable land use
information shall be submitted on one or more sheets of paper measuring a
minimum of 11 inches by 17 inches and shall be drawn to a minimum scale of one
inch equals ten feet. A copy of the proposed drawing and applicable land use
information shall also be submitted by PDF for electronic circulation.
   (I)   Required submittals. The following information is required, as listed
above, for all land use actions, handled administratively and brought before
the Planning Commission, within the urban growth boundary of the city:
Request Required Land Use Criteria
Request                         Required Land Use Criteria
Site plan review                All (except 16)
Conditional use                 All
Partition                       1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 15
Variance                        1-12
Appeals                         Not applicable
Annexation                      1, 2, 3, 4
Change of zone                  1, 2, 3, 4, 16
Flood hazard permit             1, 2, 3
Planned unit development        All (except 16)
Right-of-way vacation           1, 2, 3, 4, 5
Subdivision                     All (except 16)
Urban growth boundary amendment 1, 2, 3, 4, 16
 
      (1)   A list of the names, addresses and tax lot numbers of all property
owners situated within the distances listed under division (C) above;
      (2)   A drawing of the affected area shall contain the date of
preparation, a north arrow and written and graphic scale;
      (3)   A written statement of the intended use of the property, and a
written response to the standards and criteria listed separately for each of
the land use actions (e.g., for a site plan review, the criteria listed in §
152.070) and include the site plan procedures listed separately for each land
use action;
      (4)   Statement of utility availability;
      (5)   Location, dimensions and names of adjacent streets and proposed
internal streets showing center line radii and curb return radii;
      (6)   The size and location of all existing and proposed public and
private utilities, easements or rights-of-way;
      (7)   The building envelope, size, setback dimensions and height of all
proposed structures which are to be retained on the site;
      (8)   Existing site specific physical features, including drainage ways,
ponding areas and structures, with indication as to which are to be retained.
Adjacent properties and their physical features within 50 feet of the property
line shall be identified, including setback dimensions of adjacent structures;
      (9)   The location of all existing trees and shrubs and those which are
to be retained on the property, the location and dimensions of landscaped
areas, location of proposed plant material and ground cover and other pertinent
landscape features;
      (10)   The proposed layout of the parking lot including location and
dimension of parking spaces, curb islands, internal planter strips, maneuvering
aisles and access driveways with indication of direction of travel;
      (11)   Statement of maintenance responsibility for all improvements shown
on the site plan;
      (12)   Site data including:
         (a)   Total area of the property (square feet);
         (b)   Building coverage (square feet), setback and dimensions;
         (c)   Parking and other impervious surface coverage (square feet);
         (d)   Parking lot landscape area (square feet);
         (e)   All other landscape area coverage (square feet);
         (f)   Number and type of parking stalls provided;
         (g)   Number of residential units as appropriate; and
         (h)   Existing and proposed gross floor area (square feet).
      (13)   Finished floor elevation related to curb, street or other
established grade or bench mark, and drainage pattern. All lots shall show
grading and drainage with existing grades or contours and finished grades or
contours clearly indicated;
      (14)   Location of all fencing used to divide properties;
      (15)   A legal description of the property. If the property is part of a
recorded plat, a reference to the plan may be used;
      (16)   Transportation System Plan compliance:
         (a)   Review of applications for effect on transportation facilities.
When a development application includes a proposed Comprehensive Plan amendment
or land use regulation change, the proposal shall be reviewed to determine
whether it significantly affects a transportation facility, in accordance with
O.A.R. 660-012-0060 (the transportation planning rule -“TPR”). SIGNIFICANT
means the proposal would:
            1.   Change the functional classification of an existing or planned
transportation facility. This would occur, for example, when a proposal causes
future traffic to exceed the capacity of “collector” street classification,
requiring a change in the classification to an “arterial” street, as identified
by the city’s Transportation System Plan (“TSP”);
            2.   Change the standards implementing a functional classification
system;
            3.   Allow types or levels of land use that would result in levels
of travel or access that are inconsistent with the functional classification of
a transportation facility; or
            4.   Reduce the performance standards of the facility below the
minimum acceptable level identified in the TSP.
         (b)   Amendments that affect transportation facilities. Amendments to
the Comprehensive Plan and land use regulations which significantly affect a
transportation facility shall assure that allowed land uses are consistent with
the function, capacity and level of service of the facility identified in the
TSP. This shall be accomplished by one of the following:
            1.   Amending the TSP to ensure that existing, improved or new
transportation facilities arc adequate to support the proposed land uses
consistent with the requirements of the TPR;
            2.   Altering land use designations, densities or design
requirements to reduce demand for automobile travel and meet travel needs
through other modes of transportation; or
            3.   A traffic impact study shall be submitted with a plan
amendment or land use district change application.
      (17)   The location of all pedestrian and bicycle circulation areas and
bicycle racks/storage, including sidewalks, internal pathways, pathway
connections to adjacent properties and any bicycle lanes or trails.
   (J)   Pre-application and post-application meetings.
      (1)   A pre-application meeting shall be scheduled prior to the submittal
of the land use application. The pre-application meeting shall be coordinated
by the City Planner. A Plan Review Committee meeting shall be conducted after
the submittal of the land use application, but prior to public notice and may
include participation by the Planning Department, City Public Works, Fire
District, Police Department and other appropriate agencies (including state and
federal) that need to be involved.
      (2)   A post-application meeting shall follow the submission and approval
of a land use application, but shall be scheduled prior to the construction
and/or submission of a zoning clearance permit.
   (K)   Rehearing. The City Council, Planning Commission or Planning
Department shall not consider any application involving a lot, parcel or
structure which has been the subject of the same application within 12 months
following final action on such application, unless substantial new evidence is
submitted which could not reasonably have been presented at the previous
meeting.
   (L)   Public hearings.
      (1)   Unless otherwise required by this chapter, any hearing before the
Planning Commission or City Council required by any provision of §§
152.070 through
152.077 shall be in a public hearing held in accordance with the notification
and procedure requirements hereinafter provided.
      (2)   Hearings on land use and limited land use actions shall include
findings that describe the applicable substantive criteria listed in the
applicable section(s) of this chapter which will be used to review the land use
action.
         (a)   Testimony at the hearing must be directed towards the criteria,
and other city and state land use standards that apply, which will be used to
review the land use action.
         (b)   Failure to address a criterion precludes an appeal based on that
criterion.
      (3)   The general public has a right to have members free from pre-
hearing or ex-parte contacts on matters heard by them. It is recognized that a
contravening public right is free access to public officials on any matter.
Members of the hearing body shall place on the record the substance of any
written or oral ex-parte communications concerning a decision or action at the
first hearing on the decision or action which occurs after the communication
was made. Parties shall be given the right to rebut the substance of the
communication. If such contacts have impaired the member’s impartiality or
ability to vote on the matter, the member shall so state and shall abstain
therefrom.
   (M)   Notice of hearings. Upon fixing the time of public hearing before the
Planning Commission, the Planner shall cause notice of such hearing to be given
by mail, posting, publication or broadcast as required by the provisions of
divisions (M) and (N) above, in case of public hearing before the City Council,
the City Recorder shall cause such notice to be given in accordance with the
provisions of divisions (K) and (L) above.
      (1)   Notice of a public hearing shall include the following information:
         (a)   The name of the applicant;
         (b)   The date, time and location of the hearing;
         (c)   A description of the location of the property for which a permit
or other land use action is pending, including the street address and the
subdivision lot and block designation, or tax lot number (This information is
required only for quasi-judicial actions.);
         (d)   A concise description of the proposed development action;
         (e)   A general description of the applicable Comprehensive Plan and
Zoning Code criteria which apply to the proposal;
         (f)   A statement that a failure to raise an issue in person or by
letter precludes appeal and that failure to specify to which criterion the
comment is directed precludes appeal based on that criteria; and
         (g)   A statement describing where the complete application, criteria
and other relevant information is available for review, and how written
comments may be submitted.
      (2)   Notice of any hearing shall be given to the applicant and to
property owners required to be notified not less than 20 days prior to the
hearing and as follows: by first class mail to applicant and all property
owners as shown on the ownership list filed with the application. However,
failure to receive such notice shall not invalidate any of the proceedings
involved.
      (3)   Each notice of a public hearing on a zone change for property which
includes all or part of a mobile home park shall be sent by first class mail to
each existing mailing address for tenants of the mobile home park at least 20
days but not more than 40 days before the date of the first hearing on the
application. The city may require the applicant for the zone change to pay the
costs of the notice.
      (4)   Mailed notice to the State Department of Transportation (ODOT) for
all land use requiring a public hearing with the Planning Commission or City
Council of land use applications related to property within 500 feet of a state
highway or that impact state facilities.
      (5)   Mailed notice to the State Department of Transportation (ODOT) for
the following public hearings: subdivisions and partitions and any land use
application affecting private access.
   (N)   Posting notices. The City Planner shall require that affected
applicants post notices of public hearings to be held by the City Council or
Planning Commission for any land use action by posting a sign in a manner
clearly visible on the subject property within ten feet of whatever boundary
line of such land abuts each public road or street. If a public road abuts
thereon, then such sign shall face in such a manner as may be most readily seen
by the public. The template for such signs shall be provided to affected
applicants by the Planner.
   (O)   Administrative review.
      (1)   Types of land use requests eligible for administrative review:
         (a)   Conditional use permits involving one of the following issues:
            1.   Signs according to §§
152.030 and
152.055; and
            2.   Modifications of an existing conditional use permit. (Note: If
the exterior structural addition, extension or relocation of, or to, an
existing structure conditionally approved, or the proposed accessory uses and
buildings customarily appurtenant to a permitted or approved conditional use,
does not equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the
improvement or repair is structured, conditional use approval is not required).
         (b)   Partitions/property line adjustments/flag lot development;
         (c)   Site plan reviews for:
            1.   Conversions of residences to commercial uses;
            2.   Expansion of existing commercial, industrial or public
facility uses and structures if the expansion is less than 50% of the existing
structure or less than 10,000 square feet (whichever is smaller) and exceeds
50% of the market value before improvement or repair is started. (Note: if the
exterior structural addition, extension or relocation of, or to, an existing
structure, or the proposed accessory uses and buildings customarily appurtenant
to a permitted or approved conditional use, does not equal or exceed 50% of the
market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started, site
plan review approval is not required); and
            3.   Previously approved site plan reviews that are null and void
and no changes are proposed.
         (d)   Variances involving one of the following criteria:
            1.   Deviation from the minimum building setback of not more than
20%;
            2.   Deviation from the building height limitation of not more than
10%;
            3.   Deviation from any other zoning requirements of not more than
10% (i.e., required of area, required coverage, required density, sign
requirements, lot requirements, off-street parking requirements);
            4.   Deviation from a residential accessory dwelling living area of
not more than 5%; and
            5.   Expansion of a conditional or non-conforming use by not more
than 20% of the gross building volume.
         (e)   Time extensions on the following land use actions:
            1.   Tentative land partitions;
            2.   Preliminary subdivision/PUD plat approval;
            3.   Conditional use permits;
            4.   Site plan reviews; and
            5.   Variance.
      (2)   A property owner may initiate an administrative land use request by
filing an application with the Planning Department. The Planning Department may
require other drawings or information necessary for a complete understanding of
the proposal and its relationship to surrounding properties. An application
will not be considered complete for purposes of any time limitations until all
requested information is received by the Planning Department. An application
will not be accepted until all fees are paid according to the provisions of
division (H) above.
      (3)   The Planner shall, within 30 days of receipt and acceptance of an
application for a land use request, act administratively according to the
procedure set forth in divisions (O)(1) through (O)(10) or shall refer the
application to the Planning Commission for a public hearing and decision. The
application shall be referred to the Planning Commission if the Planner decides
that the land use request would have significant impacts that extend beyond
areas of notice per division (C) above. If the Planner elects to refer the
application to the Planning Commission, it shall be set for a public hearing at
the next available Planning Commission hearing, unless the applicant requests a
hearing at a later date.
      (4)   At the time the Planner acts administratively based on the requests
set forth in division (N) above, he or she shall cause notice of the
application for a land use request to be mailed by first class mail to the
following persons:
         (a)   The applicant;
         (b)   All owners of adjacent property per division (O)(4)(c) below;
and
         (c)   Such other persons, agencies or departments as the Planner deems
appropriate.
      (5)   No land use request approval shall be invalidated because of
failure to receive the notice provided for in division (O)(4) above hereof.
      (6)   The notice sent pursuant to division (O)(4) above shall be mailed
within ten days of receipt of a complete application. The notice shall state
the general nature of the request and that there is a right to respond with
comments or objections in writing within ten days of mailing. The notice shall
also say that only those persons who respond in writing will receive a copy of
the written decision and have a right to appeal that decision to the Planning
Commission.
      (7)   In addition to the notice by mail provided to the persons listed in
division (O)(4) above, notice of a land use request application shall be posted
on the property within 24 hours from the time the notice is mailed. The posting
shall inform the public of the general nature of the request and announce that
written comments and objections will be accepted by the Planning Department for
ten days from the date of posting. The notice shall also say that only those
persons who respond in writing will receive a copy of the written decision and
have a right to appeal that decision to the Planning Commission.
      (8)   After any written comments or objections are received and the
period of time for public input has passed, the Planner shall have ten days to
prepare a written decision approving, disapproving or approving with conditions
the application for a land use request. The Planner shall consider in making
the decision all written comments, the information in the application and the
applicable criteria of this chapter.
      (9)   The applicant and all persons who submitted written comments in
response to the mailed or published notice shall be considered parties to the
written decision and shall be entitled to written notice of the decision within
ten days of the date of the decision. Any party may appeal the decision of the
Planner to the Planning Commission in accordance with § 152.076. Only those who
are considered to be parties that have standing to make an appeal of an
administrative decision made pursuant to division (N) above may do so.
      (10)   Copies of all written decisions on administrative actions shall be
provided to Planning Commission members for their review.
   (P)   Final action of application for permit or zone change request. The
following section shall apply to all applications for permits or zone change
requests, except those which involve an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan or
zoning codes, or the adoption of a new land use regulation.
      (1)   The city shall take final action on an application for a permit or
zone change requests, including resolution of all local appeals, within 120
days after the application is deemed complete. This 120-day period may be
extended for a reasonable period of time at the request of the applicant.
      (2)   If an application for a permit or zone change land use request is
incomplete, the city shall notify the applicant of the additional information
required within 30 days of the receipt of the application. The applicant shall
be given an opportunity 180 days to submit the additional information. The
application shall be deemed complete upon receipt of the additional information
required. If the applicant refuses to submit the required additional
information, the application shall be forwarded to the Planning Commission
handled administratively for action with the issues related to incompleteness
noted.
      (3)   If the application was complete when first submitted, or the
applicant submits the requested additional information within 180 days of the
date the application was first submitted, the city’s approval or denial of the
application shall be based upon the standards and criteria that were applicable
at the time the application was first submitted.
(Ord. 1283, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 1320, passed 3-20-2017; Ord. 1335, passed 7-
2-2018; Ord. 050525A, passed 5-19-2025)
DISTRICTS
§ 152.015 OPEN SPACE LAND USE (O DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose. To maintain, preserve, conserve and otherwise continue in
existence desirable and appropriate uses of open space lands in the more
undeveloped sections of the city in order to assure continued public health by
counteracting pollutants and to assure the use and enjoyment of natural
resources and scenic beauty for the economic and social well-being of the city
and its citizens.
   (B)   Uses permitted outright. The following uses are permitted in the OS
District:
      (1)   Open space;
      (2)   Signs permitted as per §
152.055;
      (3)   City park facilities, improvements and projects as identified in
the city parks and recreation master plan;
         (a)   Normal operation, maintenance;
         (b)   Installation/replacement of improvements within the existing
city parks; and
         (c)   Landscaping as part of a park facility;
      (4)   Urban farming, gardening, horticulture, field crops, orchards,
berries, nursery or flower stock and other agricultural uses for subsistence or
commercial purposes, as described in §
152.051.
   (C)   Uses permitted through the conditional use permit process. The
following conditional uses may be permitted subject to a conditional use permit
as per the provisions of §
152.071:
      (1)   Commercial facilities incidental to the operation of a use
permitted outright;
      (2)   Indoor recreational facilities: tennis courts, gymnasiums and
swimming pools;
      (3)   Land filling, not including the dumping of garbage, refuse or like
material;
      (4)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to a use
permitted outright; and
      (5)   Park projects and/or recreational uses that are not designated
improvements in the parks and recreation master plan.
   (D)   Height regulations. None.
   (E)   Lot requirements and design. The following lot requirements and design
standards shall be observed.
      (1)   Site and building design.
         (a)   Parking lots are located on the subject property in such a
manner for reduced interrupted pedestrian circulation and safety and site
appearance.
         (b)   Site entrances shall be oriented towards the street for
pedestrian circulation, safety and crime prevention except if conditions such
as lot size, shape, topography or other circumstances apply to the property.
         (c)   Permanent solid waste containers and receptacles shall be
screened away from public view.
         (d)   Address numbers on buildings shall be oriented towards the
street for clear identification of the building.
         (e)   The property is able to be surveilled from the street for
security and safety wherever possible.
      (2)   Landscaped areas. A minimum 50% of each lot shall be maintained as
landscaped area for any type of development
   (F)   Off-street parking. As required in §
152.054.
   (G)   Other required conditions.
      (1)   All conditional use permits are required to be taken through the
site plan review process as listed in §
152.070.
      (2)   New development or substantial remodel is subject to the site
development standards and requirements as listed in §
152.052, the design and landscaping standards as listed in §
152.053 and the site plan review process as listed in §
152.070.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.016 RESIDENTIAL LOW DISTRICT (R-7.5 DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose. To encourage, accommodate, maintain and protect a suitable
environment for residential living. The R-7.5 District is intended to provide
for single-family dwellings and middle housing at urban standards in areas with
community services.
   (B)   Uses permitted outright. The following uses are permitted in the R-7.5
District:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings, including manufactured homes
subject to the applicable requirements of §
152.072;
      (2)   Duplexes;
      (3)   Triplexes subject to the requirements of §
152.053(N);
      (4)   Quadplexes subject to the requirements of §
152.053(N);
      (5)   Townhouses, up to four dwellings attached consecutively, subject to
the requirements of §
152.053(O);
      (6)   Cottage clusters subject to the requirements of §
152.053(P);
      (7)   Accessory uses are permitted as follows:
         (a)   Rooming and boarding of not more than two persons;
         (b)   Guest houses, not rented or otherwise conducted as a business;
         (c)   Other accessory uses and accessory buildings and structures
customarily appurtenant to a permitted use;
         (d)   Signs according to §
152.055; and
         (e)   Home occupations subject to the requirements of §
152.051.
      (8)   Accessory dwelling units, subject to all of the following
standards:
         (a)   Compliance with the State Structural Specialty Code;
         (b)   The accessory dwelling unit does not exceed 800 square feet of
living area;
         (c)   Not more than one accessory dwelling unit per detached single-
family dwelling;
         (d)   Utility connections and metering comply with applicable city
standards and those of utility providers;
         (e)   Accessory dwellings units shall meet all other siting and design
standards (e.g., height, setbacks, lot coverage, etc.) for buildings in the
zoning district, except that:
            1.   Conversion of an existing legal non-conforming structure to an
accessory dwelling unit is allowed, provided that the conversion does not
increase the non-conformity; and
            2.   No off-street parking is required for an accessory dwelling
unit.
      (9)   Residential care home (as required by O.R.S. 197.665); and
      (10)   Residential care homes and facilities, subject to the licensing
requirements under O.R.S. 197.660 through 197.670.
   (C)   Uses permitted through the conditional use permit process. The
following conditional uses may be permitted subject to a conditional use permit
as per the provisions of §
152.071:
      (1)   Any PUBLIC FACILITY, as defined in this chapter, subject to the
requirements of §
152.051 (§
152.051(F), cemetery, crematory, mausoleum, columbarium; §
152.051(G), churches, hospitals or other religious or charitable institutions;
§
152.051(I), community buildings, social halls, lodges, fraternal organizations
and clubs; §
152.051(T), nursery school, kindergarten and child care centers) of this
Development Code;
      (2)   Planned unit developments subject to the provisions of §
152.072(F);
      (3)   Rear lot development subject to site plan approval as provided in §
152.070 and partitioning in §
152.072; and
      (4)   Bed and breakfast establishments consistent with §
152.051.
   (D)   Development standards. The following standards apply to all new
development.
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Standard Requirement Notes
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Standard   Requirement Notes
Maximum    35 feet     See exceptions in §
height                 152.050(C).
Minimum    7,500       See exception in § 152.061(E) below. The minimum lot area standard shall
lot area;  square feet not apply to lots of record, as defined by § 152.003.
all except
                       Provided, the
                       maximum density for a
Townhouses 1,500       townhouse project
           square feet shall not exceed four
                       dwelling units per 7,500
                       square feet.
Minimum                Lot width may be reduced further for rear lot developments in accordance
lot width; 50 feet     with §§
all except             152.052 and
                       152.072(C)(16).
Townhouses 20 feet      
Minimum                May be reduced to 10 feet for a covered porch or enclosed patio. See §
front yard 15 feet     152.053(E) for garage setbacks.
setback
           5 feet for
           portions of
           buildings
           or
           structures
Minimum    that are 18
street     feet high
yard       or less 10   
setback;   ft for
all except portions of
           buildings
           or
           structures
           over 18
           feet high.
           5 feet
           exterior
           wall
           0 feet
Townhouses common wall  
           lot line
           where units
           are
           attached.
           5 feet for
           portions of
           buildings
           or
           structures
           that are 18
Minimum    feet high
rear yard  or less.     
setbacks   10 feet for
           portions of
           buildings
           or
           structures
           over 18
           feet high.
 
   (E)   Minimum lot areas exceptions. An exception to the minimum lot area
standard in the table above may be approved as part of a subdivision or
partition application when all of the following standards are met:
      (1)   The average area of all lots and open space tracts created through
the subject land division, excluding required public park land dedications,
surface water management facilities and similar public use areas, shall be no
less than 7,500 square feet; and
      (2)   As a condition of granting the exception, the city will require the
owner to record a deed restriction with the final plat that prevents the re-
division of over-sized lots (e.g., lots with 7,500 square feet of area and
larger), when such re-division would violate the average lot size provision in
division (E)(1) above.
   (F)   Site and building design.
      (1)   Generally. Site and building design shall meet the requirements
listed in §
152.053 and the following.
         (a)   Address numbers on buildings are oriented towards the street for
clear identification of the building.
         (b)   Each building shall have at least one entry meeting the entry
orientation standards in §
152.053(N)(1).
      (2)   Building sites.
         (a)   Size and shape. The size, shape, width and orientation of
building sites shall be appropriate for the type of development and use
contemplated, and shall be consistent with the residential lot size provisions
of the zoning ordinance.
         (b)   Through lots and parcels. Through lots and parcels shall be
avoided except where they are essential to provide separation of residential
development from major arterial or adjacent non-residential activities or to
overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
         (c)   Large building sites. In dividing tracts into large lots or
parcels which at some future time are likely to be redivided, the Planning
Commission may require that the blocks be of such size and shape, be so divided
into building sites and contain such site restrictions as will provide for
extension and opening of streets at intervals which will permit a subsequent
division of any tract into lots or parcels of smaller size.
   (G)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as required
in §
152.054.
   (H)   Other required conditions.
      (1)   Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to prohibit the use of
vacant property or prohibit the secondary/accessory use of the subject property
for urban farming gardening or fruit raising for subsistence or commercial
purposes.
      (2)   §
152.051 shall apply where applicable.
      (3)   All conditional use permits are required to be taken through the
site plan review process as listed in §
152.070.
      (4)   New development or substantial remodel of the following is subject
to the site development standards and requirements as listed in §
152.052, the design and landscaping standards as listed in § 152.053 and the
site plan review process as listed in §
152.070. Residential care facilities, subject to the licensing requirements
under O.R.S. 197.660 through 197.670.
      (5)   All alterations of non-conforming uses or structures are required
to be taken through the review process as described in §
152.073.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 1335, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 050123, passed 5-
15-2023; Ord. 050525A, passed 5-19-2025) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.017 RESIDENTIAL MEDIUM DISTRICT (R-5.0 DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose. To encourage, accommodate, maintain and protect a suitable
environment for residential living at urban standards in areas with community
services.
   (B)   Uses permitted outright. The following uses are permitted in the R-5.0
District:
      (1)   Any use permitted outright in a Residential Low District, R-7.5
Zone, subject to the standards in this section; and
      (2)   Christmas tree sales lot subject to the requirements of §
152.051.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following may be permitted subject to a
conditional use permit as per §
152.071:
      (1)   Any conditional use permitted in a Residential Low District, R-7.5
Zone, except as otherwise provided under division (B) above; and
      (2)   Housing for the elderly or handicapped subject to the requirements
of §
152.051.
   (D)   Development standards. The following standards apply to all new
development.
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Standard Requirement Notes
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Standard      Requirement   Notes
Maximum       35 feet       See exceptions in §
height                      152.050(C)
                            See exception in §
Minimum lot   5,000 square  152.017(E) below.
area; all     feet          The minimum lot area standard shall not apply to
except                      lots of record, as defined by §
                            152.003.
Quadplexes,   7,000 square
cottage       feet           
clusters
              1,500 square  Provided, the maximum density for a townhouse
Townhouses    feet          project shall not exceed 4 dwelling units per 7,000
                            square feet.
Minimum lot                 Lot width may be reduced further for rear lot
width; all    50 feet       developments, in accordance with §§ 152.07(C)(16)
except
Townhouses    20 feet        
                            May be reduced to 10 feet for a covered porch or
Minimum front 15 feet       enclosed patio.
yard setback                See §
                            152.053(E) for garage setbacks.
Minimum
street side   15 feet        
yard setback
              5 feet for
              portions of
              buildings or
              structures
              that are 18
Minimum side  feet high or
yard setback; less.          
all except    10 feet for
              portions of
              buildings or
              structures
              over 18 feet
              high.
              5 feet
              exterior wall
Townhouses    0 feet common  
              wall lot line
              where units
              are attached
              5 feet for
              portions of
              buildings or
              structures
              that are 18
Minimum rear  feet high or
yard setback  less.          
              10 feet for
              portions of
              building or
              structures
              over 18 feet
              high.
 
   (E)   Minimum lot area exceptions. An exception to the minimum lot area
standard in the table above may be approved as part of a subdivision or
partition application when all of the following standards are met.
      (1)   The average area of all lots and open space tracts created through
the subject land division, including public park land dedications and similar
public use areas, shall be no less than 5,000 square feet. The average lot area
does not include stormwater facilities and similar utilities. (Note: This
provision provides an incentive for building on smaller lots when developments
include open space.)
      (2)   As a condition of granting the exception, the city will require the
owner to record a deed restriction with the final plat that prevents the re-
division of open space tracts and oversized lots, when such re-division would
violate the average lot size provision in division (E)(1) above.
      (3)   Site and building design.
         (a)   Site and building design shall meet the requirements listed in §
152.053 and the following.
            1.   Address numbers on buildings are oriented towards the street
for clear identification of the building.
            2.   Buildings and their entrances shall be oriented towards the
street for pedestrian circulation, safety and crime prevention except if
conditions such as lot size, shape, topography or other circumstances over
which the applicant has no control apply to the property. Each building shall
have at least one entry meeting the entry orientation standards in §
152.053(N)(1).
            1.   Size and shape. The size, shape, width and orientation of
building sites shall be appropriate for the type of development and use
contemplated, and shall be consistent with the residential lot size provisions
of this section.
            2.   Through lots and parcels. Through lots and parcels shall be
avoided except where they are essential to provide separation of residential
development from major arterial or adjacent non-residential activities or to
overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
            3.   Large building sites. In dividing tracts into large lots or
parcels which at some future time are likely to be redivided, the Planning
Commission may require that the blocks be of such size and shape, be so divided
into building sites and contain such site restrictions as will provide for
extension and opening of streets at intervals which will permit a subsequent
division of any tract into lots or parcels of smaller size.
      (4)   Exceptions. For exceptions to lot requirements, see §
152.050.
   (F)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as required
in §
152.054.
   (G)   Other required conditions.
      (1)   Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to prohibit the use of
vacant property or prohibit the secondary/accessory use of the subject property
for gardening or fruit raising for subsistence or commercial purposes.
      (2)   §
152.051 shall apply where applicable.
      (3)   All conditional use permits are required to be taken through the
site plan review process as listed in §
152.070.
      (4)   New development or substantial remodel of the following is subject
to the site development standards and requirements as listed in §
152.052, the design and landscaping standards as listed in § 152.053 and the
site plan review process as listed in §
152.070:
         (a)   Residential care facilities, subject to the licensing
requirements under O.R.S. 197.660 through 197.670.
      (5)   All alterations of non-conforming uses or structures are required
to be taken through the review process as described in §
152.070.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 1335, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 050525A, passed
5-19-2025) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.018 MULTIPLE USE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-O DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose. This district is intended to provide for a variety of high
density residential developments in locations close to shopping and services,
transportation or public open space, and in appropriate locations to provide a
transitional use area between residential areas and other less restrictive
districts. The allowance of small-scale commercial services and retail is
intended to encourage compatible mixed use development that is transportation-
efficient, and enhances the function of this district.
   (B)   Uses permitted outright. The following uses are permitted in the R-
O District:
      (1)   Any use permitted outright in a Residential Medium District, R-5.0
Zone, subject to the standards in this R-O Zone;
      (2)   Accessory uses and structures are permitted as follows:
         (a)   Off-street parking lots when appurtenant to a permitted use,
subject to the provisions of §
152.054; and
         (b)   Necessary and incidental services such as a dining room,
barbershop, beauty shop, hobby shop and the like, included within apartment
buildings provided that the facilities are used by the services rendered to
only tenants of the building and their guests.
      (3)   Rooming and boarding houses, including bed and breakfast
establishments, that are consistent with §
152.051;
      (4)   Multiple-family dwellings, and accessory uses such as a recreation
room, employees’ washroom, manager’s office and laundry facilities for tenants
only; and
      (5)   Residential care facilities, and the licensing requirement in
O.R.S. 197.660 through 197.670.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses may be permitted
subject to a conditional use permit as per §
152.071:
      (1)   Any conditional use permitted in a Residential Medium District, R-
5.0 Zone, except as otherwise provided by division (B) above;
      (2)   Commercial retail, not exceeding 3,000 square feet per use. All
activities and uses shall be fully enclosed within a building, except that
limited outdoor display along the sidewalk shall be permitted provided that
such display does not exceed 50% of the front building facade and the display
does not conflict with Americans With Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§
12101 et seq., requirements;
      (3)   Commercial services, not to exceed 3,000 square feet per use. All
activities and uses shall be fully enclosed within a building;
      (4)   Residential uses in conjunction with another permitted or
conditional use;
      (5)   Nursing homes/housing for the elderly or handicapped subject to the
requirements of §
152.051;
      (6)   Hospital, laboratory, orthopedic supply house, sanitarium, except
animal hospital and clinic;
      (7)   Pharmacy within 400 feet of a hospital or clinic and containing
less than 5,000 square feet of floor area;
      (8)   Club, lodge and fraternal organizations except those carried on as
a business for profit;
      (9)   Manufactured dwelling parks subject to the requirements of §
152.051;
      (10)   Recreational vehicle parks subject to the requirements of §
152.051 and the following:
         (a)   Public recreational and accessory uses intermingled with the
development; and
         (b)   Recreational vehicle storage for use by residents of a
recreational vehicle park development within which the storage facility is
located.
      (11)   Mortuaries;
      (12)   Recreational and accessory commercial uses intermingled with a
residential development (including, but not limited to, ball fields, golf
courses, other recreational uses and uses accessory to such uses, including,
but not limited to, restaurants associated with such recreational use or uses,
club house, driving range, putting greens, pro shop, meeting facilities,
swimming pools, tennis and basketball courts, snack shop, walking paths and
jogging/bike trails); and
      (13)   All conditional use permits are required to be taken through the
site plan review process as listed in §
152.070.
   (D)   Development standards. The following standards apply to all new
development.
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Standard Requirement Notes
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Standard     Requirement  Notes
             8 dwellings  Density is calculated by dividing the number of
Minimum      units per    dwelling units by the property area in acres (minus
density      acre         area required for street right-of-way). Decimals are
                          rounded to the nearest whole number.
Maximum      60 dwelling  Maximum density does not apply to duplexes,
density      units per    triplexes, quadplexes, townhouses or cottage
             acre         clusters.
Maximum      45 feet      See exceptions in § 152.050(C).
height
Minimum lot  1,452 square
area; all    feet          
except
Triplexes    2,200 square  
             feet
Quadplexes,  2,900 square
cottage      feet          
clusters
Minimum lot               Lot width may be reduced further for rear lot
width; all   30 feet      developments, in accordance with §§ 152.072(C)(16).
except
Townhouses   20 feet       
Minimum
front yard   10 feet 1    See § 152.053(E) for garage setbacks.
setback
Minimum
street side  10 feet 1     
yard setback
Minimum side
yard         5 feet 1      
setback; all
except
             5 feet
             exterior
             wall 1
Townhouses   0 feet        
             common wall
             lot line
             where units
             are attached
Minimum rear
yard         5 feet 1      
setbacks
Note 1: No minimum setbacks shall apply to properties located within 500 feet
of Central Commercial zoned property.
 
   (E)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as required
in §
152.054, unless the subject property is located within 500 feet of Central
Commercial zoned property and on-street parking exists or can be made available
on its frontage, in which case, no on-site parking shall be required.
   (F)   Other required conditions.
      (1)   See §
152.051 where applicable.
      (2)   All activities and uses within the R-O District must be conducted
wholly within an enclosed building, except as provided in division (C)(2)
above.
      (3)   Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to prohibit the use of
vacant property or prohibit the secondary/accessory use of the subject property
for gardening or fruit raising for subsistence or commercial purposes.
      (4)   All conditional use permits are required to be taken through the
site plan review process as listed in §
152.071.
      (5)   New development or substantial remodel of the following is subject
to the site development standards and requirements as listed in §
152.052, the design and landscaping standards as listed in §
152.053 and the site plan review process as listed in §
152.070:
         (a)   Multiple-family dwellings; and
         (b)   Residential care facilities, and the licensing requirement in
O.R.S. 197.660 through 197.670.
      (6)   All alterations of non-conforming uses or structures are required
to be taken through the review process as described in §
152.073.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 1335, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 050525A, passed
5-19-2025) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.019 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (N-C DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose. This district is intended to provide for the location of
small businesses and services in residential sections of the city for the
convenience of nearby residents; also to recognize existing uses of this type
within the city. New N-C Districts have a maximum area of 40,000 square feet of
contiguous land. The businesses are intended to fit into the residential
pattern of development and not create either land use, architectural or traffic
conflicts. The above site sizes for new N-C Districts and the following
regulations are intended to protect the residential environment.
   (B)   Uses permitted outright. The following uses are permitted in the N-
C District:
      (1)   Any commercial enterprise, provided the floor area of every such
use does not exceed 7,000 square feet, except grocery stores which shall not
exceed 10,000 square feet;
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings, triplexes, and quadplexes;
      (3)   Residential care homes and facilities, and the licensing
requirement in O.R.S. 197.660 through 197.670;
      (4)   Residential uses in conjunction with another permitted use;
      (5)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily appurtenant to a permitted
use, such as incidental storage facilities, are permitted; and
      (6)   Bed and breakfast establishments which are consistent with §
152.051.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses may be permitted
subject to a conditional use permit:
      (1)   Any public facility as defined in the development code;
      (2)   Planned unit developments subject to the provisions of §
152.072;
      (3)   Rear lot development subject to §
152.072;
      (4)   Nursing homes subject to §
152.051; and
      (5)   Recreational and accessory uses (including, but not limited to,
ball fields, golf courses, other recreational uses and uses accessory to such
uses including, but not limited to, restaurants associated with such
recreational use or uses, club house, driving range, putting greens, pro shop,
meeting facilities, swimming pools, tennis and basketball courts, snack shop,
walking paths and jogging/bike trails).
   (D)   Height regulations. No building or structure shall be hereafter
erected, enlarged or structurally altered to exceed 45 feet in height. For
exceptions, see §
152.050.
   (E)   Lot requirements and design. The following lot requirements and design
standards shall be observed and apply to all new development. (Note:
Residential uses are required to comply with all lot requirements of the R-
O Zoning District.)
      (1)   Lot area. No minimum requirements. Maximum of 40,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width.
         (a)   Each lot for an attached dwelling or business shall have a
minimum width of 20 feet.
         (b)   Each lot for a detached dwelling or business shall have a
minimum width of 50 feet.
         (c)   The lot width may be reduced further for rear lot development.
      (3)   Lot depth. No requirements.
      (4)   Front yard. The front yard setback shall be a minimum of 20 feet.
Corner lot front yard setbacks, one side must have a minimum of ten feet. Front
yard setbacks may be reduced to ten feet for an enclosed porch, portico or
other architectural feature that is connected directly to a building entrance.
      (5)   Side yard. None, except when a side lot line is abutting a lot in
an R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District, then the side yard shall be a minimum of ten
feet. The portions of buildings or structures along a required side yard which
are above the 20 foot height must be inset an additional one-half foot for each
foot of height exceeding 20 feet.
      (6)   Rear yard. None, except when a rear lot line is abutting a lot in
an R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District, then the rear yard shall be a minimum of ten
feet. The portions of buildings or structures along a required side yard which
are above the 20 foot height must be inset an additional one-half foot for each
foot of height exceeding 20 feet.
      (7)   Site and building design. Site and building design shall meet the
requirements listed in §
152.052 and §
152.053, and the following.
         (a)   Address numbers on buildings are oriented towards the street for
clear identification of the building.
         (b)   Buildings and their entrances shall be oriented towards the
street for pedestrian circulation, safety and crime prevention except if
conditions such as lot size, shape, topography or other circumstances over
which the applicant has no control apply to the property.
         (c)   Vehicle/pathway separation for residential buildings larger than
a duplex, and commercial buildings. Where pathways are parallel and adjacent to
a driveway or street (public or private), they shall be raised six inches and
curbed, or separated from the driveway/street by a five-foot minimum strip with
bollards, a landscape berm or other physical barrier. If a raised path is used,
the ends of the raised portions must be equipped with curb ramps.
         (d)   Parking lots, for residential buildings larger than a duplex and
commercial buildings, are located at the side or rear of (or under) buildings
for reduced interrupted pedestrian circulation and safety and site appearance.
         (e)   Garages accessed by the alley may be provided for residential
uses to reduce the dominance of the garage and automobile presence on the
property, and improve attractive and pedestrian-friendly streetscapes.
         (f)   Alleys are encouraged in new development. Alleys may be provided
under recorded access easements and do not count against required minimum lot
area.
         (g)   Permanent solid waste containers and receptacles shall be
screened away from public view.
         (h)   Address numbers on buildings are oriented towards the street for
clear identification of the building.
         (i)   Pedestrian and bicycle access and circulation:
            1.   Continuous pathways. The pathway system shall extend
throughout the development site, and connect to all future phases of
development, adjacent trails, public parks and open space areas whenever
possible. The developer may also be required to connect or stub pathway(s) to
adjacent streets and private property, in accordance with the provisions of
this Development Code.
            2.   Safe, direct and convenient pathways. Pathways within
developments shall provide safe, reasonably direct and convenient connections
between primary building entrances, and all adjacent streets.
            3.   Pathway connectivity. Pathways (for pedestrians and bicycles)
shall be provided at or near mid-block where the block length exceeds the
length required by street standard of §
152.052. Pathways shall also be provided where cul-de-sacs or dead-end streets
are planned, to connect the ends of the streets together, to other streets and/
or to other developments as per cul-de-sac standards of §
152.051. Pathways used to comply with these standards shall conform to all of
the following criteria:
               a.   Multi-use pathways (i.e., for pedestrians and bicyclists)
are no less than six-feet wide and located within a ten-foot right-of-way or
easement that allows access for emergency vehicles; and
               b.   If surrounding streets are lighted, pathways shall also be
adequately lit.
   (F)   Signs. As per §
152.055.
   (G)   Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading space
shall be provided as required in §
152.054.
   (H)   Other required conditions.
      (1)   No single business shall have a floor area exceeding 7,000 square
feet, except grocery stores.
      (2)   All uses shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building,
except for off-street parking and loading facilities.
      (3)   In any N-C District directly across the street or abutting any R-
7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District, the parking and loading area shall be set back at
least ten feet from the street right-of-way. These areas shall be appropriately
landscaped either along the residential street frontage, side yard or rear yard
to protect the character of adjoining and adjacent residential property. Such
landscaping shall be maintained.
      (4)   See §
152.051, applying to special uses where applicable.
      (5)   Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to prohibit the use of
vacant property or prohibit the secondary/accessory use of the subject property
for urban farming gardening or fruit raising for subsistence or commercial
purposes.
      (6)   All conditional use permits are required to be taken through the
site plan review process as listed in §
152.070.
      (7)   New development or substantial remodel is subject to the site
development standards and requirements as listed in §
152.052, the design and landscaping standards as listed in §
152.053 and the site plan review process as listed in §
152.070.
      (8)   All alterations of non-conforming uses or structures are required
to be taken through the review process as described in §
152.073.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 1335, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 050525A, passed
5-19-2025) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.020 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (H-C DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose. This district is intended to provide for those commercial
uses which are appropriate to major thoroughfare or highway locations, and are
dependent upon thoroughfare travel, and for those establishments that require
large land areas.
   (B)   Uses permitted outright. The following uses are permitted in the H-
C District:
      (1)   Any commercial enterprise conducted in accordance with the
provisions of this section;
      (2)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily appurtenant to a permitted
use, or approved conditional use, such as incidental storage are permitted;
      (3)   Government facilities;
      (4)   Rest stops or waysides; and
      (5)   Urban farming, gardening, horticulture, field crops, orchards,
berries, nursery or flower stock and other agricultural uses for subsistence or
commercial purposes, as described in §
152.051;
   (C)   Conditional use. The following conditional uses may be permitted
subject to a conditional use permit as per §
152.071:
      (1)   Multiple-family dwellings;
      (2)   A caretaker’s dwelling, accessory or incidental to a use on the
subject property;
      (3)   Manufactured dwelling parks subject to the requirements of §
152.051; and
      (4)   Recreational vehicle parks subject to the requirements of §
152.051.
   (D)   Height regulations. No building or structure shall be hereafter
erected, enlarged or structurally altered to exceed a height of 45 feet. For
exceptions, see §
152.050(C).
   (E)   Lot, site development and building design requirements. The following
lot requirements and design standards shall be observed and apply to all new
development.
      (1)   Building sites.
         (a)   Size and shape. The size, shape, width and orientation of
building sites shall be appropriate for the type of development and use
contemplated, and shall be consistent with the lot size provisions as per site
plan review.
         (b)   Lot and parcel side lines. The lines of lots and parcels, as far
as practicable, shall run at right angles to the street upon which they face,
except that on curved streets they shall run radial to the curve.
      (2)   Site and building design. The following site and building design
standards are required.
         (a)   Buildings and their entrances shall be oriented towards the
street for pedestrian circulation, safety and crime prevention except if
conditions such as lot size, shape, topography or other circumstances over
which the applicant has no control apply to the property.
         (b)   Unless otherwise provided, required parking and loading spaces
may be located in a required front yard where parking and loading may occur in
all but the first ten feet of yard area from any public right-of-way. Parking
spaces may be located within a required side or rear yard.
         (c)   Alleys are encouraged in new development. Alleys may be provided
under recorded access easements and do not count against required minimum lot
area.
         (d)   Permanent solid waste containers and receptacles shall be
screened away from public view.
         (e)   Address numbers on buildings are oriented towards the street for
clear identification of the building.
         (f)   Pedestrian and bicycle access and circulation:
            1.   Continuous pathways. The pathway system shall extend
throughout the development site, and connect to all future phases of
development, adjacent trails, public parks and open space areas whenever
possible. The developer may also be required to connect or stub pathway(s) to
adjacent streets and private property, in accordance with the provisions of
this Development Code.
            2.   Safe, direct and convenient pathways. Pathways within
developments shall provide safe, reasonably direct and convenient connections
between primary building entrances, and all adjacent streets.
            3.   Pathway connectivity. Pathways (for pedestrians and bicycles)
shall be provided at or near mid-block where the block length exceeds the
length required by street standard of §
152.052. Pathways shall also be provided where cul-de-sacs or dead-end streets
are planned, to connect the ends of the streets together, to other streets and/
or to other developments as per cul-de-sac standards of §
152.051. Pathways used to comply with these standards shall conform to all of
the following criteria:
               a.   Multi-use pathways (i.e., for pedestrians and bicyclists)
are no less than six feet wide and located within a ten foot right-of-way or
easement that allows access for emergency vehicles; and
               b.   If surrounding streets are lighted, pathways shall also be
adequately lit.
   (F)   Signs. As per §
152.055.
   (G)   Access requirements. Access requirements will be determined on the
basis of the traffic capacity analysis as per §
152.052, and the city’s Transportation System Plan.
   (H)   Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading space
shall be provided as required in §
152.054.
   (I)   Other required conditions.
      (1)   All business, service, repair, processing, storage or merchandise
display on property abutting or across the street from a lot in an R-7.5, R-5.0
or R-O District shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building unless
screened from the “R” District by a sight-obscuring fence or wall not less than
six feet nor more than eight feet in height. Said fence or wall shall not
extend into a required front yard area.
      (2)   Motor vehicle, boat or trailer rental, sales or storage lot shall
be drained and surfaced with rock or pavement, except in those portions of the
lot maintained as landscaped areas.
      (3)   Solid waste containers and receptacles shall be screened and away
from public view.
      (4)   Separate stores, shops, businesses, offices or establishments owned
and/or operated separately which are parts of shopping mall or shopping center
concept or complex may only contain permitted uses as defined in this section.
      (5)   The emission of disturbing vibrations or of unpleasant odorous
gases or matter in such quantity or at such amplitude as to be readily
detectable at any point beyond the property line of the use creating the
vibrations or odors is prohibited.
      (6)   All uses in the H-C District shall be carried on in such a manner
that they do not create smoke, gas, odor, dust, sound, vibration, soot, heat,
glare or lighting to a degree which might be obnoxious or offensive to persons
residing in or conducting business in this or any other district.
      (7)   All conditional use permits are required to be taken through the
site plan review process as listed in §
152.071.
      (8)   New development or substantial remodel is subject to the site
development standards and requirements as listed in §
152.052, the design and landscaping standards as listed in §
152.053 and the site plan review process as listed in § 152.070.
      (9)   All alterations of non-conforming uses or structures are required
to be taken through the review process as described in §
152.073.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 1335, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 050525A, passed
5-19-2025) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.021 CENTRAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-C DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose. This district is intended to serve as the central trading
area for the city and surrounding urbanized areas.
   (B)   Uses permitted outright. The following uses are permitted in the C-
C District:
      (1)   Any commercial enterprise conducted in accordance with the
provisions of this section;
      (2)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily appurtenant to a permitted
or approved conditional use, such as incidental storage, are permitted;
      (3)   Single-family and multiple-family residential uses that are located
on the upper story or occupy less than 25% of the ground floor of commercial
buildings, provided that commercial storefronts are maintained on the street
front; and
      (4)   Light fabrication and assembly processing businesses that have a
retail component and that follow the uses permitted outright in §
152.022(B)(1) and (B)(2) which do not generate noise, odor, vibration, dust or
hazard outside of the property.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses may be permitted
subject to a conditional use permit:
      (1)   Any public facility;
      (2)   Housing for the elderly or handicapped person subject to §
152.051(N);
      (3)   Circuses, carnivals, animal rides, animal displays, amusement
rides, flea markets or Christmas tree lots subject to §
152.051(H);
      (4)   Cemetery, crematory, mausoleum or columbarium subject to §
152.051(F); and
      (5)   Bed and breakfast establishments which are consistent with §
152.051(E).
   (D)   Height regulations. No building or structure shall be hereafter
erected, enlarged or structurally altered to exceed a height of 100 feet. For
exceptions, see §
152.050.
   (E)   Lot, site development and building design requirements. The following
lot requirements and design standards shall be observed and apply to all new
development.
      (1)   Lot area. No requirements.
      (2)   Lot width. No requirements.
      (3)   Lot depth. No requirements.
      (4)   Front yard. None, except on corners where the setback shall be ten
feet.
      (5)   Side yard. None, except when a side lot line is abutting a R-7.5,
R-5.0 or R-O District. Then the side yard shall be a minimum of ten feet. The
required side yard shall be increased by one-half foot for each foot exceeding
35 feet of building height.
      (6)   Rear yard. None, except when a rear lot line is abutting a R-7.5,
R-5.0 or R-O District. Then the side yard shall be a minimum of ten feet. The
required rear yard shall be increased by one-half foot for each foot exceeding
35 feet of building height.
      (7)   Site and building design. The following site and building design
standards are required.
         (a)   Buildings and their entrances shall be oriented towards the
street for pedestrian circulation, safety and crime prevention, except if
conditions such as lot size, shape, topography or other circumstances over
which the applicant has no control apply to the property.
         (b)   Parking lots are located at the side or rear of (or under)
buildings for reduced interrupted pedestrian circulation and safety and site
appearance.
         (c)   Alleys are encouraged in new development. Alleys may be provided
under recorded access easements and do not count against required minimum lot
area.
         (d)   Permanent solid waste containers and receptacles shall be
screened away from public view.
         (e)   Address numbers on buildings are oriented towards the street for
clear identification of the building.
         (f)   Building sites.
            1.   Size and shape. The size, shape, width and orientation of
building sites shall be appropriate for the type of development and use
contemplated, and shall be consistent with the residential lot size provisions
of the zoning ordinance.
            2.   Lot and parcel side lines. The lines of lots and parcels, as
far as practicable, shall run at right angles to the street upon which they
face, except that on curved streets they shall radial to the curve.
            3.   Large building sites. In dividing tracts into large lots or
parcels which at some future time are likely to be redivided, the Planning
Commission may require that the blocks be of such size and shape, be so divided
into building sites and contain such site restrictions as will provide for
extension and opening of streets at intervals which will permit a subsequent
division of any tract into lots or parcels of smaller size.
         (g)   Pedestrian and bicycle access and circulation.
            1.   Continuous pathways. The pathway system shall extend
throughout the development site, and connect to all future phases of
development, adjacent trails, public parks and open space areas whenever
possible. The developer may also be required to connect or stub pathway(s) to
adjacent streets and private property, in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
            2.   Safe, direct and convenient pathways. Pathways within
developments shall provide safe, reasonably direct and convenient connections
between primary building entrances, and all adjacent streets.
            3.   Pathway connectivity. Pathways (for pedestrians and bicycles)
shall be provided at or near mid-block where the block length exceeds the
length required by street standard of §
152.052. Pathways shall also be provided where cul-de-sacs or dead-end streets
are planned, to connect the ends of the streets together, to other streets and/
or to other developments as per cul-de-sac standards of §
152.052. Pathways used to comply with these standards shall conform to all of
the following criteria.
               a.   Multi-use pathways (i.e., for pedestrians and bicyclists)
are no less than six-feet wide and located within a ten-foot right-of-way or
easement that allows access for emergency vehicles.
               b.   If surrounding streets are lighted, pathways shall also be
adequately lit.
      (8)   Lot coverage. No requirements, only that all other lot and parking
requirements are met.
   (F)   Signs. Permitted as per §
152.055.
   (G)    Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading spaces
or an equivalent as accepted by the Planning Commission shall be provided as
required in §
152.054. Exception: the parking and loading requirements shall be exempted from
the area contained by the C-4 District, as shown on the map below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1517.png]
 
   (H)   Other required conditions.
      (1)   All uses, excepting automobile, truck, trailer and boat sales, car
washes, automobile service stations and drive-up windows shall be conducted
wholly within an enclosed building.
      (2)   In any C-C district directly across the street or abutting any R-
7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District, the parking and loading area shall be set back at
least ten feet from the street right-of-way. These areas shall be appropriately
landscaped either along the residential street frontage, side yard or rear yard
to protect the character of adjoining and adjacent residential property. Such
landscaping shall be maintained.
      (3)   Site plan review as per §
152.070.
      (4)   The emission of disturbing vibrations or of unpleasant odorous
gases or matter in such quantity or at such amplitude as to be readily
detectable at any point beyond the property line of the use creating the
vibrations or odors is prohibited.
      (5)   All uses in the C-C District shall be carried on in such a manner
that they do not create smoke, gas, odor, dust, sound, vibration, soot, heat,
glare or lighting to a degree which might be obnoxious or offensive to persons
residing in or conducting business in this or any other district.
      (6)   Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to prohibit the use of
vacant property or secondary/accessory use of the subject property for urban
farming for subsistence or commercial uses. Also see §
152.051, applying to special uses where applicable.
      (7)   All conditional use permits are required to be taken through the
site plan review process as listed in §
152.071.
      (8)   New development or substantial remodel is subject to the site
development standards and requirements as listed in §
152.052, the design and landscaping standards as listed in §
152.053 and the site plan review process as listed in §
152.070.
      (9)   All alterations of non-conforming uses or structures are required
to be taken through the review process as described in §
152.073.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 1335, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 1349, passed 8-
19-2019; Ord. 050525A, passed 5-19-2025) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.022 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (L-I DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose. This district is intended to provide for those heavier
commercial and light industrial uses, high tech processing and assembly,
warehousing, related office and research facilities as well as small scale
cottage industries located in existing built-up areas of the city.
   (B)   Uses permitted outright. The following uses are permitted in the L-
I District:
      (1)   Commercial activities (as listed below):
         (a)   Building/landscaping material sales and supplies including
lumberyards, nurseries and greenhouses;
         (b)   Special trade contractor facilities for plumbing, roofing, sheet
metal, electrical, heating and air conditioning, tents and awnings, cabinet and
carpentry and similar construction and construction related activities. This
includes the establishment of a sales office, storage of equipment and
materials and fabrication and repair for the special trade;
         (c)   Automobile sales and service station, including towing services
and vehicle washing and polishing facilities;
         (d)   New and used automobile, truck, motorcycle, trailer,
recreational vehicle, agricultural vehicle, mobile home, industrial equipment
and boat sales, services and storage;
         (e)   Retail tire sales and tire recapping, service and repair,
painting and body shop;
         (f)   Bulk cleaning and laundry plants and services;
         (g)   Feed and seed stores, and wholesale distribution facilities;
         (h)   Welding shop and blacksmith; and
         (i)   Mini-storage with a maximum storage unit size of 1,000 square
feet.
      (2)   Any light industrial use conducted in accordance with the
provisions of this section. These uses include:
         (a)   Cabinet shops;
         (b)   Custom manufacturing - ceramic studios, candle-making shops or
custom jewelry manufacture;
         (c)   Machine shops;
         (d)   Manufacturing, assembly, testing, research and repair of
components, devices, equipment and systems of an electronic or
electromechanical nature and precision equipment;
         (e)   Manufacturing, compounding, bottling, processing packaging or
treatment of food and beverage products;
         (f)   Manufacturing, compounding, processing, printing, assembling,
packaging, treatment or fabrication, or such facilities to include cosmetics,
drugs, glass, leather, paint, ceramics, paper, perfume, plaster, plastics,
stone, textiles, rubber, wood, metal products and chemicals;
         (g)   Freight terminals, including moving and storage, warehouse for
short term storage, including mini-warehouse and cold storage; and
         (h)   Wholesaling, storage and distribution such as RV storage,
household storage and personal storage.
      (3)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily appurtenant to a permitted
or conditional use, such as:
         (a)   Incidental storage, garages, sheds for storage;
         (b)   Dwelling units for caretakers and night watchmen are permitted
as accessory uses when incidental to a permitted use; and
         (c)   Single-family (attached or detached) dwellings, multi-family
dwellings, for permanent live/work conditions, with either a use permitted
through a site plan review or a use permitted as a conditional use.
      (4)   Urban farming, gardening, horticulture, field crops, orchards,
berries, nursery or flower stock and other agricultural uses for subsistence or
commercial purposes, as described in §
152.051.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses may be permitted
subject to a conditional use permit:
      (1)   Any public facility, as defined in this chapter, subject to the
requirements of §
152.051 (including §
152.051(F), cemetery, crematory, mausoleum, columbarium; §
152.051(H), circuses, carnivals, animal rides, animal displays, amusement
rides, flea markets, Christmas tree lots; §
152.051(T), nursery school, kindergarten and child care centers);
      (2)   Communication services and facilities including wireless
communication facilities (as listed in §
152.051);
      (3)   Professional or business service establishment; and
      (4)   Retail sales establishment.
   (D)   Height regulations. No building or structure shall be hereafter
erected, enlarged or structurally altered to exceed a height of 45 feet. For
exceptions, see §
152.050.
   (E)   Lot requirements. The following lot requirements shall be observed:
      (1)   Minimum lot area. 5,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width. 50 feet;
      (3)   Lot depth. Each lot shall have a minimum depth of 100 feet;
      (4)   Front yard. None, except when a side lot line is abutting a lot in
an R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District, then the front yard shall be the front yard
required in the abutting “R” District;
      (5)   Side yard. None, except when a side lot line is abutting a R-7.5,
R-5.0 or R-O District, then the side yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet. The
portions of buildings or structures along a required side yard which are above
the 20 foot height must be inset an additional one-half foot for each foot of
height exceeding 20 feet;
      (6)   Rear yard. None, except when a rear lot line is abutting a R-7.5,
R-5.0 or R-O District, then the rear yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet. The
portions of buildings or structures along a required rear yard which are above
the 20 foot height must be inset an additional one-half foot for each foot of
height exceeding 20 feet;
      (7)   Lot coverage. No requirements; and
      (8)   Site and building design. The following site and building design
standards are required.
         (a)   Buildings and their entrances shall be oriented towards the
street for pedestrian circulation, safety and crime prevention except if the
entrance and opening to structures on sides adjacent to or across the street
from an R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District cause glare, excessive noise or similar
conditions and have an adverse effect on property in the R- 7.5, R-5.0 or R-
O District.
         (b)   Garages accessed by the alley may be provided to reduce the
dominance of the garage and automobile presence on the property, and improve
attractive and pedestrian-friendly streetscapes.
         (c)   Alleys are encouraged in new development. Alleys may be provided
under recorded access easements and do not count against required minimum lot
area.
         (d)   Permanent solid waste containers and receptacles shall be
screened away from public view.
         (e)   Address numbers on buildings are oriented towards the street for
clear identification of the building.
         (f)   Building sites.
            1.   Size and shape. The size, shape, width and orientation of
building sites shall be appropriate for the type of development and use
contemplated, and shall be consistent with the lot size provisions as per site
plan review.
            2.   Lot and parcel side lines. The lines of lots and parcels, as
far as practicable, shall run at right angles to the street upon which they
face, except that on curved streets they shall radial to the curve.
   (F)   Signs. Permitted as per §
152.055.
   (G)   Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading space
shall be provided as required in §
152.054.
   (H)   Other required conditions.
      (1)   All business, service, repair, processing, manufacturing,
compounding, assembling, packaging, treatment, fabrication, bottling,
packaging, storage or merchandise display on property abutting or across the
street from a lot in a R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District shall be conducted wholly
within an enclosed building unless screened from the “R” District by a sight-
obscuring fence or wall.
      (2)   Opening to structures on sides abutting to or across the street
from a lot in a R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District shall be prohibited if such access
or openings will cause glare, excessive noise or similar conditions so as to
have an adverse effect on property in the R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District.
      (3)   Motor vehicle, boat or trailer rental, sales or storage lot shall
be drained and surfaced with rock or pavement except in those portions of the
lot maintained as landscaped areas.
      (4)   In an L-I District directly across the street from a lot in a R-
7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District, the parking and loading area and outdoor display or
storage areas shall be set back at least ten feet from the right-of-way, and
said areas shall be appropriately landscaped along the residential street
frontage to protect the character of the adjoining residential property. Such
landscaping shall be maintained.
      (5)   Access point from a public road to properties in an L-I District
shall be so located as to minimize traffic congestion and to avoid directing
traffic onto local access streets of a primarily residential character.
      (6)   All materials, including wastes, shall be stored and all grounds
shall be maintained in a manner which will not attract or aid the propagation
of insects or rodents or create health or fire hazards.
      (7)   The emission of disturbing vibrations or of unpleasant odorous
gases or matter in such quantity or at such amplitude as to be readily
detectable at any point beyond the property line of the use creating the
vibrations or odors is prohibited.
      (8)   All uses in the L-I District shall be carried on in such a manner
that they do not create smoke, gas, odor, dust, sound, vibration, soot, heat,
glare or lighting to a degree which might be obnoxious or offensive to persons
residing in or conducting business in this or any other district.
      (9)   See §
152.051 applying to special uses where applicable.
      (10)   All conditional use permits are required to be taken through the
site plan review process as listed in §
152.071.
      (11)   New development or substantial remodel is subject to the site
development standards and requirements as listed in §
152.052, the design and landscaping standards as listed in §
152.053 and the site plan review process as listed in §
152.070.
      (12)   All alterations of non-conforming uses or structures are required
to be taken through the review process as described in §
152.073.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 1335, passed 7-2-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.023 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (G-I DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose. This district is intended to provide for the establishment of
light and heavier industrial uses essential to the development of a balanced
economic base in an industrial environment with a minimum conflict between
industrial uses and residential and light commercial uses.
   (B)   Uses permitted outright. The following uses are permitted in the G-
I District:
      (1)   Any outright permitted use in a Light Industrial, L-I Zone and
conducted in accordance with the provisions of this section;
      (2)   Any accessory use permitted in a Light Industrial Zone is permitted
when accessory to a permitted use or an approved conditional use;
      (3)   Automotive and equipment: automotive wrecking yard;
      (4)   Automotive and equipment: repairs, heavy equipment - truck
transmission shops, body shops or motor freight maintenance groups;
      (5)   Automotive and equipment: sales/rentals, heavy equipment - aircraft
dealers, boat dealers or heavy construction equipment dealers;
      (6)   General industrial - manufacturing, compounding, processing,
publishing, assembling, packaging, treatment or fabrication of materials and
property, cabinet shops, textiles and metal fabrication;
      (7)   Heavy industrial - processing of raw materials and tannery;
      (8)   Scrap operations - junk yards, paper salvage yards, auto salvage
yards or appliance salvage yards;
      (9)   Solid waste transfer facility or recycling depots;
      (10)   Wholesaling, storage and distribution: heavy - monument or stone
yards, grain elevators, open storage yards or petroleum storage facilities; and
      (11)   Wholesaling, storage and distribution: storage in association with
an authorized manufacturing operation.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses may be permitted
subject to a conditional use permit as per §
152.071:
      (1)   Any public facility, including those listed in §
152.033;
      (2)   Any commercial service or commercial retail use not exceeding 3,000
square feet of gross floor area that is part of a mixed use with any other
permitted or conditional use identified in this section provided that the uses
are demonstrated to meet both of the following conditions and the criteria
listed in §
152.071:
         (a)   Compatible with other uses on the proposed site; and
         (b)   Compatible with other existing or planned adjacent uses.
      (3)   Communication services and facilities including wireless
communication facilities (as listed in §
152.051).
   (D)   Height regulations. No building or structure shall be hereafter
erected, enlarged or structurally altered to exceed a height of 100 feet. For
exceptions, see §§
152.022,
152.050 and
152.070.
   (E)   Lot requirements. The following lot requirements shall be observed:
      (1)   Minimum lot area. 5,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width. 50 feet;
      (3)   Lot depth. Each lot shall have a minimum depth of 100 feet;
      (4)   Front yard. None, except when a front lot line is abutting a lot in
an R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District, then the front yard shall be the front yard
required in the abutting “R” District;
      (5)   Side yard. None, except when a side lot line is abutting a lot in
an R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District, then the side yard shall be a minimum of 20
feet. The portions of buildings or structures along a required side yard which
are above the 20 foot height must be inset an additional one-half foot for each
foot of height exceeding 20 feet;
      (6)   Rear yard. None, except when a rear lot line is abutting a lot in
an R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District, then the rear yard shall be a minimum of 20
feet. The portions of buildings or structures along a required rear yard which
are above the 20 foot height must be inset an additional one-half foot for each
foot of height exceeding 20 feet;
      (7)   Lot coverage. No requirements; and
      (8)   Site and building design. The following site and building design
standards are required.
         (a)   Buildings and their entrances shall be oriented towards the
street for pedestrian circulation, safety and crime prevention except if the
entrance and opening to structures on sides adjacent to or across the street
from an R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District if such access or openings cause glare,
excessive noise or similar conditions and have an adverse effect on property in
the R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District.
         (b)   Alleys are encouraged in new development. Alleys may be provided
under recorded access easements and do not count against required minimum lot
area.
         (c)   Permanent solid waste containers and receptacles shall be
screened away from public view.
         (d)   Address numbers on buildings are oriented towards the street for
clear identification of the building.
         (e)   Building sites.
            1.   Size and shape. The size, shape, width and orientation of
building sites shall be appropriate for the type of development and use
contemplated, and shall be consistent with the lot size provisions as per site
plan review.
            2.   Lot and parcel side lines. The lines of lots and parcels, as
far as practicable, shall run at right angles to the street upon which they
face, except that on curved streets they shall radial to the curve.
   (F)   Signs. Permitted as per §
152.055.
   (G)   Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading space
shall be provided as required in §
152.054.
   (H)   Other required conditions.
      (1)   All business, service, repair, processing, storage or merchandise
display on property abutting or across the street from a lot in a R-7.5, R-5.0
or R-O District shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building unless
screened from the R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District by a sight-obscuring fence or
wall.
      (2)   Opening to structures on sides adjacent to or across the street
from an R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District shall be prohibited if such access or
openings will cause glare, excessive noise or similar conditions so as to have
an adverse effect on property in the R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District.
      (3)   Motor vehicle, boat or trailer rental, sales or storage lot shall
be drained and surfaced with rock or pavement except in those portions of the
lot maintained as landscaped areas. The above listed along the frontage, side
and rear yard (rear yard where applicable) shall use landscaping to protect and
maintain the character of the adjoining property and frontage area. Such
landscaping shall be maintained.
      (4)   In any G-I District directly across the street from or abutting a
R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District, the parking and loading area and outdoor display
or storage areas shall be set back at least ten feet from the right-of-way, and
said areas shall be appropriately landscaped along the residential street
frontage and side yards, to protect the character of the adjoining residential
property. Such landscaping shall be maintained.
      (5)   Access point from a public road to properties in an G-I District
shall be located as to minimize traffic congestion and to avoid directing
traffic onto local access streets of a primarily residential character. See
site plan criteria as per §
152.070.
      (6)   All materials, including wastes, shall be stored and all grounds
shall be maintained in a manner which will not attract or aid the propagation
of insects or rodents or create health or fire hazards.
      (7)   Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to prohibit the use of
vacant property or prohibit the secondary/accessory use of the subject property
for urban farming for subsistence or commercial purposes.
      (8)   See §
152.051 applying to special uses where applicable.
      (9)   All conditional use permits are required to be taken through the
site plan review process as listed in §
152.070.
      (10)   New development or substantial remodel is subject to the site
development standards and requirements as listed in §
152.052, the design and landscaping standards as listed in §
152.053 and the site plan review process as listed in §
152.070.
      (11)   All alterations of non-conforming uses or structures are required
to be taken through the review process as described in §
152.073.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 1335, passed 7-2-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.024 PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC DISTRICT (P & S-P DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose. To recognize existing public facility land use and areas for
those uses which generate large public gatherings, and to provide for the
development of public facility services and other public-oriented uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses listed below are allowed permitted
in the P & S-P District:
      (1)   Fairgrounds;
      (2)   Granges and fraternal organizations’ meeting halls;
      (3)   Public/semi-public schools (including colleges);
      (4)   Churches;
      (5)   Parks;
      (6)   City, county and state school offices;
      (7)   Public/semi-public convention centers;
      (8)   Maintenance and operation of existing structures;
      (9)   Accessory uses/accessory structure customarily appurtenant to a
permitted or approved conditional use; and
      (10)   Urban farming, gardening, horticulture, field crops, orchards,
berries, nursery or flower stock and other agricultural uses for subsistence or
commercial purposes, as described in §
152.051.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses may be permitted
subject to a conditional use permit:
      (1)   Public offices, including outdoor storage and maintenance
facilities;
      (2)   Motor and non-motorized race track and/or events, and similar uses;
      (3)   Utility substations;
      (4)   Water and sewer pumping facilities;
      (5)   Golf courses, including miniature golf; and
      (6)   Public facilities (as defined in §
152.003).
   (D)   Dimensional standards.
      (1)   Height regulations: none.
      (2)   Lot requirements: none.
   (E)   Development standards.
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking in the P & S-
P District shall conform to the standards and criteria as set in §
152.054. Surfaced parking areas shall not be required for short-term uses that
generate large parking requirements and shall meet the standards set in
division (E)(4) below.
      (2)   Signs. Signs in the P & S-P District shall conform to the standards
and criteria as per set in §
152.055.
      (3)   Design review, site and general development. All new development or
expansion of an existing structure or use in the P & S-P shall be subject to
the standards and criteria as set in §
152.052 and §
152.053.
      (4)   Site and building design. The following site and building design
standards are required.
         (a)   Buildings and their entrances shall be oriented towards the
street for pedestrian circulation, safety and crime prevention except if
conditions such as lot size, shape, topography or other circumstances over
which the applicant has no control apply to the property.
         (b)   Parking lots are located at the side or rear of (or under)
buildings for reduced interrupted pedestrian circulation and safety and site
appearance.
         (c)   Garages accessed by the alley may be provided to reduce the
dominance of the garage and automobile presence on the property, and improve
attractive and pedestrian-friendly streetscapes.
         (d)   Alleys are encouraged in new development. Alleys may be provided
under recorded access easements and do not count against required minimum lot
area.
         (e)   Permanent solid waste containers and receptacles shall be
screened away from public view.
         (f)   Address numbers on buildings are oriented towards the street for
clear identification of the building.
         (g)   Building sites.
            (1)   Size and shape. The size, shape, width and orientation of
building sites shall be appropriate for the type of development and use
contemplated, and shall be consistent with the lot size provisions as per site
plan review.
            (2)   Lot and parcel side lines. The lines of lots and parcels, as
far as practicable, shall run at right angles to the street upon which they
face, except that on curved streets they shall radial to the curve.
         (h)   Pedestrian and bicycle access and circulation.
            1.   Continuous pathways. The pathway system shall extend
throughout the development site, and connect to all future phases of
development, adjacent trails, public parks and open space areas whenever
possible. The developer may also be required to connect or stub pathway(s) to
adjacent streets and private property, in accordance with the provisions of
this Development Code.
            2.   Safe, direct and convenient pathways. Pathways within
developments shall provide safe, reasonably direct and convenient connections
between primary building entrances, and all adjacent streets.
            3.   Pathway connectivity. Pathways (for pedestrians and bicycles)
shall be provided at or near mid-block where the block length exceeds the
length required by street standard of §
152.052. Pathways shall also be provided where cul-de-sacs or dead-end streets
are planned, to connect the ends of the streets together, to other streets and/
or to other developments as per cul-de-sac standards of §
152.052. Pathways used to comply with these standards shall conform to all of
the following criteria:
               a.   Multi-use pathways (i.e.,for pedestrians and bicyclists)
are no less than six-feet wide and located within a ten-foot right-of-way or
easement that allows access for emergency vehicles; and
               b.   If surrounding streets are lighted, pathways shall also be
adequately lit.
      (5)   Access requirements and management. Access requirements and
management will be determined on the basis of the traffic capacity analysis, as
per §
152.070(H)(1); access management standards, as per §
152.052(I); and the city’s Transportation System Plan.
      (6)   Land divisions. All partitioning, subdividing and planned unit
development shall be subject to the procedures, standards and criteria as set
in §
152.072.
         (a)   Large building sites. In dividing tracts into large lots or
parcels which at some future time are likely to be redivided, the Planning
Commission may require that the blocks be of such size and shape, be so divided
into building sites and contain such site restrictions as will provide for
extension and opening of streets at intervals which will permit a subsequent
division of any tract into lots or parcels of smaller size.
   (F)   Other required conditions.
      (1)   All business, service, repair, processing, storage or merchandise
display on property abutting or across the street from a lot in a R-7.5, R-5.0
or R-O District shall be conducted behind appropriate sight screening.
      (2)   Motor vehicle, boat or trailer storage lots shall be drained and
surfaced with rock or pavement except in those portions of the lot maintained
as landscaped areas.
      (3)   All uses in the Public and Semi-Public District shall be carried on
in such a manner that they do not create smoke, gas, odor, dust, sound,
vibration, soot, heat, glare or lighting to a degree which might be obnoxious
or offensive.
      (4)   All conditional use permits are required to be taken through the
site plan review process as listed in §
152.070.
      (5)   New development or substantial remodel is subject to the site
development standards and requirements as listed in §
152.052, the design and landscaping standards as listed in §
152.053 and the site plan review process as listed in §
152.070.
      (6)   All alterations of non-conforming uses or structures are required
to be taken through the review process as described in §
152.073.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 1335, passed 7-2-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.025 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (PUD DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose. To encourage development of the Planned Unit Development
(PUD) District as planned building groups by making possible greater variety,
functionality, and diversification in the location and orientation of buildings
and open spaces. It is further the purpose of planned unit developments to
serve at least three of the following purposes listed in §
152.072(F)(1).
   (B)   Application requirements. The application for planned unit development
approval are listed in §
152.072(F)(2).
   (C)   PUD application.
      (1)   Applicability of planned unit development regulations. The
requirements for a planned unit development set forth in this section are in
addition to the conditional use procedures and standards of §
152.071.
      (2)   PUD review procedures/approval process. Planned developments will
be reviewed in two phases: a preliminary development plan phase and a final
development plan phase. §
152.072(F)(3)(b) describes the review and approval process. Pre-application
review of the project before these phases is required. No building or other
permit shall be issued for such development or part thereof until the Planning
Commission has approved said development.
      (3)   Findings for project approval. The Planning Commission shall
approve a planned unit development only if it finds that the planned unit
development will satisfy the criteria of §
152.072(F)(3)(c).
      (4)   Potential uses allowed in the PUD District. The following uses are
allowed in the PUD District if the Planning Commission considers them
appropriate for the particular development being proposed and if other
applicable standards are satisfied:
         (a)   The following are uses permitted in the Planned Unit Development
District:
Land Use Comments and References
Land Use                                Comments and References
Accessory dwelling                       
Accessory structure                     Includes shed, storage buildings,
                                        residential garages
Apartments                              Called “multi-family dwellings/
                                        complexes”
Appliance and computer repair           Includes stereo, electronic equipments,
                                        residential appliances
Beauty/barber shops and salons           
Bed and breakfast                        
Bicycle sales and service                
Café, restaurant (sit-down), diner      
Caretaker, watchperson living on-site    
Child care and day nursery               
Church, religious institution            
Complex, multi-family (over 4           30% parking reduction for senior
dwellings)                              facilities
Condominium                             State regulated
Driving range                            
Drug store, pharmacy                     
Dwelling, duplex                         
Dwelling, multi-family (including 3 and  
4 plex)
Dwelling, single-family                  
Equestrian facilities                   Subject to §
                                        152.051
Feed store, agriculture supplies         
Florist                                  
Gallery, studio                          
General retail                           
Gift/card shop                           
Golf course                              
Greenhouse                               
Grocery store, deli, market              
Gymnasium, fitness center, spa           
Hardware                                 
Indoor commercial recreation             
Lodge, club, non-profit/fraternal        
organization
Miniature golf, “Pitch and Putt”     
Novelty, specialty, variety             Including music/art, electronic
                                        equipment, sporting goods
Office                                   
Outdoor commercial recreation            
Park (public or private)                Playgrounds, recreation centers, pools
                                        and the like
Parking garage (private)                Private only: common area maintained by
                                        HOA
Pet shop                                 
Plant nursery                            
Printing/copying shop                    
Public transportation station            
Residential use other than ground floor  
Residential care facility               Only permitted where multi-family
                                        residents are allowed
Residential care home                   Only permitted where single-family
                                        residents are allowed
RV park (public or private)              
RV storage                              For residential use only; HOA
                                        maintenance required
Schools (public or private)              
Single-family manufactured home          
Stable (public or private)               
Townhouse                                
Utility facility                         
 
         (b)   Industrial uses such as small-scale live-work industries
supported mainly by residents of the planned development when such industrial
uses are contained in a structure on-site and require an area no larger than 5%
of the area devoted to residential uses;
         (c)   Residential/commercial mixed use developments;
         (d)   Urban farming, gardening, animal husbandry (meeting the
requirements listed in §
152.051); and
         (e)   In addition to the accessory uses typical of the primary uses
authorized, accessory uses approved as a part of the Planned Unit Development
District may include the following uses:
            1.   Golf courses;
            2.   Private park, lake or waterway;
            3.   Recreation area (including trails);
            4.   Recreation building, club house or social hall; and
            5.   Other accessory structures which the Planning Commission finds
are designed to serve primarily the tenants of the planned unit development and
are compatible to the design of the planned unit development.
      (5)   Density. Generally, the density shall be 35 units per acre. The
gross area of the PUD shall be used (total area including street dedications)
to calculate the density of the PUD District. Areas of common use may be
included in calculating allowable density.
      (6)   Deviations to be authorized. The Planning Commission may authorize
the design and approval of PUD’s which deviate from the strict standards of
this code. The deviations shall be limited to the limitations, restrictions and
design standards listed in §
152.072(F)(3)(g).
      (7)   Dimensional and bulk standards. Dimensional and bulk standards
apply as listed in §
152.072(F)(3)(h).
      (8)   Common areas. In the PUD District, 25% of the total land area shall
be devoted to open space, in the form of yards, buffers, setbacks, common open
areas or recreational facilities. A portion of this area shall be common or
shared open space. The open space requirements are listed in §
152.072(F)(3)(i). The Planning Commission may increase or decrease the open
space requirements depending on the particular site and the needs of the
development.
      (9)   Transportation. The requirements for transportation listed in §
152.072(F)(3)(j) shall apply in the PUD District.
      (10)   Signs. All signs larger than eight square feet within a planned
development are subject to approval of the Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission shall consider each such sign on its merits based on the aesthetic
impact on the area, potential traffic hazards and the need for the sign.
      (11)   Compatibility with adjacent development. If topographical or other
barriers near the perimeter of the development do not provide reasonable
privacy for existing uses adjacent to the development, the Planning Commission
shall require buildings in the planned development to be setback an adequate
distance, as determined by the Planning Commission, from the perimeter and/or
require an attractively designed and maintained buffer in the form of
vegetation, fencing, walls and/or berms.
      (12)   Utility easements. Easements necessary for the orderly extension
and maintenance of public utilities may be required as a condition of approval.
      (13)   Control of the development after completion. The final development
plan shall continue to control the planned unit development after it is
finished, as required by §
152.072(F)(3)(p).
(Ord. 1312, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 1338, passed 10-1-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
OVERLAY DISTRICTS
§ 152.030 TOWN CENTER OVERLAY DISTRICT (TC DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose. This district implements the city’s Town Center plan. The
district is intended to create a pedestrian-oriented, mixed-use downtown core
and preserve and enhance the historic buildings and character of the key
historic period of the Town Center which is dated prior to 1950. Existing
buildings in the downtown core reflect architectural styles that were popular
as late as the 1940s. The most recognized features from this timeframe are:
      (1)   Buildings with no setback from the sidewalk;
      (2)   Uniform architectural rhythm of alternating columns and bays;
      (3)   Large storefront display windows at street level suitable for
commercial use;
      (4)   Upper stories with “punched” masonry openings and double-hung
windows;
      (5)   Articulated parapets and cornices that vary from building to
building;
      (6)   Masonry as the predominant building material;
      (7)   Signs featuring neon, large blade signs above the canopies;
      (8)   Signs in windows oriented towards pedestrians set at eye level;
      (9)   Existing buildings should be restored with the historic design
guidelines identified in this section; and
      (10)   All new structures, additions and uses must be compatible with
historic forms described in this section, and the prevailing character of the
surrounding area to create harmony between the existing architectural character
and new elements introduced into the Town Center.
   (B)   Relationship to base zoning. In cases of conflict, this overlay
district supersedes the standards of the underlying zone.
   (C)   Uses permitted outright. The following uses are permitted outright in
the TC District:
      (1)   Uses and structures lawfully existing on the effective date of the
original adoption of the Town Center Overlay District which are non-conforming
shall be deemed legal non-conforming and may be altered and/or expanded
consistent with §
152.073.
      (2)   Residential uses:
         (a)   Upper floor residential (single-family and multi-family);
         (b)   Housing for the elderly or disabled; and
         (c)   Ground floor residential uses (single-family and multi-family)
occupying less than 25% of the ground floor of commercial buildings, provided
that commercial storefronts are maintained on the street front.
      (3)   Commercial, educational and professional uses, operations and
activities:
         (a)   Commercial retail;
         (b)   Commercial services, financial services and professional
services;
         (c)   Cultural facilities;
         (d)   Day care;
         (e)   Galleries or studios for dance, art and photography;
         (f)   Hotels;
         (g)   Medical, dental and veterinary clinics;
         (h)   Pharmacy;
         (i)   Restaurants;
         (j)   Theaters; and
         (k)   Upper floor clubs or lodges.
      (4)   Public facilities including:
         (a)   Governmental offices;
         (b)   Libraries;
         (c)   Museums;
         (d)   Parks;
         (e)   Plazas;
         (f)   Open space; and
         (g)   Postal services.
      (5)   Any uses in buildings incidental/secondary/accessory to a permitted
use, such as incidental storage; and
      (6)   The Historic Retail Overlay District located on Main Avenue,
between First Street and Fourth Street, is limited to the following uses with
both located on the ground floor spaces facing the street.
         (a)   Commercial retail; and
         (b)   Commercial services, described in division (C)(3) above.
   (D)   Uses permitted through the conditional use permit process. The
following conditional uses may be permitted subject to a conditional use permit
as per the provisions of §
152.071.
      (1)   Indoor recreation facilities;
      (2)   Other public facilities (not listed above);
      (3)   Manufacturing, as described in §
152.022; and
      (4)   Urban farming/agriculture.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. The following uses are prohibited in the Town Center
Overlay District: commercial marijuana production. Marijuana facilities where
marijuana is produced and registered with the State Health Authority (OHA) or
the State Liquor Control Commission (OLCC).
   (F)   Review requirements. Site plan review is required for development in
the Town Center consistent with §
152.070, and in addition to the review process (identified in division (F)(9)
below), the applicant shall submit a development proposal for the following
elements, as applicable to the proposal as determined by the City Planner.
      (1)   Pedestrian plan. A pedestrian circulation plan that provides
adequate pedestrian access in the vicinity and within the project. The plan
must provide compacted, safely lighted walkways and entrances suitable for use
by the handicapped.
      (2)   Traffic plan. A traffic plan that provides adequate vehicle
circulation in the vicinity of and within the project. The traffic plan must
coordinate internal and external transportation networks, including bikeways
and mass transit to extent possible. Traffic noise must be minimized.
      (3)   Loading plan. A plan for loading dock or space that provides
adequate room for safe truck backing and turning movements.
      (4)   Open space plan. A plan assuring that alterations and additions to
existing buildings, and new construction, are compatible with neighboring
properties in terms of the relative proportion of impervious/covered area to
open space. Any landscape alterations for commercial, fabrication, educational
or professional uses shall be made in accordance with the standards contained
in §
152.015.
      (5)   Parking plan. A parking plan describing the impacts upon the city’s
parking program for both automobiles and bicycles, unless adequate on-site
parking can be provided without damaging the integrity of the property.
      (6)   Public safety plan. A plan for minimizing the likelihood of
criminal activity by eliminating areas that are neither clearly private nor
clearly public and by using landscaping that allows maximum observation while
providing desired aesthetics.
      (7)   Perimeter plan. A plan for the perimeter of the project to protect
adjacent properties from noise, visual incompatibility, light glare, heat
pumps, fans or other potential nuisances. This may be accomplished through
screening, setbacks, siting or other means.
      (8)   Projects not requiring public hearing. Projects that are limited in
scope or minor alterations (as defined in §
152.070) can be handled administratively and shall not require a public hearing
before the City Planning Commission, but will require a public notice and the
opportunity for appeal in accordance with §
152.076.
      (9)   Review process. Site plan review within the TC Overlay District
shall be conducted before the City Planning Commission, as specified below:
         (a)   For a new structure;
         (b)   For an exterior structural addition, exterior extension,
exterior remodeling or other exterior development that does not increase the
useable mass of the building, site plan review is not required and compliance
with the standards in this section shall be processed as an administrative
action;
         (c)   For an exterior structural addition, exterior extension,
exterior remodeling or other exterior development which increases the useable
mass of the building; and
         (d)   In processing administrative requests, the City Planner may
waive selected submittal requirements if they are not necessary to determining
compliance with this section. In addition, the City Planner may forward any
request to the Planning Commission for review if the scale or nature of the
proposal merits broader review.
      (10)   All reviews shall meet the requirements listed in division (G)
below.
   (G)   General provisions. All development in the Town Center Overlay
District shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Height regulations. No building or structure (including signage)
shall hereafter be erected, enlarged or structurally altered to exceed a height
of 50 feet. For exceptions, see §
152.050.
      (2)   Density. For properties on Main Avenue between First Street and
Fourth Street and Second Street between Ivy Avenue and Pacific Avenue,
buildings shall be a minimum of two stories and a maximum of four stories, with
a zero foot setback for all floors. Continuous storefronts shall occupy one
hundred 100% of the parcel width at the front setback line.
      (3)   Lot requirements.
         (a)   Lot area. No maximum lot area.
         (b)   Lot width/depth. Building width:
            1.   The width should not exceed that which was traditional for the
building styles of the Town Center dated prior to 1950; and
            2.   The width should maintain the traditional scale and proportion
of the building style and be visually compatible with historic design as
described in division (H) below and illustrated in division (H)(3). Where
building sizes will not be equivalent or comparable, larger building facades
shall be broken down into units that resemble the size of existing storefront
facades.
         (c)   Front yard setback. Minimum of zero feet and a maximum of ten
feet. The ten-foot maximum applies to the first 15 feet of building height
only. Upper stories may step back for balconies or other outdoor space. For
exceptions, see division (I) below. The ten-foot maximum setback area may be
used only for plazas, outdoor seating or other useable pedestrian space related
to the adjacent business. See division (G)(4)(b) below for building frontage
requirements.
         (d)   Side yard setback. No requirements.
         (e)   Rear yard setback. No requirements.
      (4)   Site building design standards. The following standards are
intended to promote a desired level of future development quality that will
stimulate investment and strengthen economic vitality in the Town Center, and
renew a positive physical image of the downtown core.
         (a)   Building orientation. All new buildings shall be oriented to
public streets. Building orientation is demonstrated by placing buildings and
their public entrances close to streets so that pedestrians have a direct and
convenient route from the street sidewalk to building entrances. Off-street
parking or vehicular circulation shall not be placed between buildings and
streets used to comply with this standard.
         (b)   Building frontage. On sites with 100 feet or more of public
street frontage, at least 80% of the site width shall be occupied by buildings
placed within the maximum setback. For sites with less than 100 feet of public
or private street frontage, at least 60% of the site width shall be occupied by
buildings placed within the maximum setback.
         (c)   Differentiation between spaces. Differentiation shall be
provided between ground-level spaces and upper stories. For example, bays or
balconies for upper levels, and awnings, canopies or other similar treatments
for lower levels can provide differentiation. Variation in building materials,
trim, paint, ornamentation, windows or other features such as public art may
also be used.
         (d)   Ground floor windows and openings in the surface of a structure.
Ground floor windows and openings in the structure surface shall be provided on
the first floor building facade that faces a street. The main front elevation
(s) of buildings shall provide 60% to 80% windows, transparencies or other
openings at the pedestrian level (on corner lots, this provision applies to two
elevations).
         (e)   Commercial storefront. The continuous commercial fronts of the
Town Center make for a consistent, pedestrian friendly streetscape for a wide
variety of businesses. The storefront is predominately made up of glazing with
only structure and decoration revealed. The upper stories consist mostly of
walls with “punched” window openings. New construction and rehabilitation
should maintain the continuity of the multi-story buildings and the clear
distinction between street level storefront and upper floor offices or
residences through facade treatment and articulation.
            1.   Entrances.
               a.   Primary entrances should be recessed, glazed and oriented
to the street rather than to a rear or interior alley.
               b.   Tiled floors should be used as they are highly effective in
marking the recessed entrance.
            2.   Windows.
               a.   Changing the location or size of windows or other openings
that alter the architectural rhythm, alignment or character of the original
building is prohibited.
               b.   Except for transom windows, windows should not break the
plane of the facade.
               c.   Clear plate glass should be used for display windows, and
they should be incorporated with transom windows.
               d.   Storefront windows shall be no closer than 18 inches from
the ground (bulkhead height). The maximum bulkhead height for new construction
should be 36 inches.
               e.   Vertical, double-hung windows, either singly or in groups,
should be used on the upper levels.
               f.   When considering new window fenestration (window size, size
of window panes, mullion type window materials), it is important that the new
design be sympathetic and compatible with the facade theme of the whole block.
               g.   Obstructing or covering mezzanine windows is discouraged.
            3.   Storefront facades.
               a.   Vertical structural lines (columns, piers, window patterns)
should be carried down to the ground. If the lower storefront materials are
different, use similar colors and forms to integrate the building facade.
               b.   Non-historic materials above or below storefront windows
(such as small areas of decorative stone) should be replaced with material of
craftsmanship, color and texture that distinguishes historic from other
buildings.
               c.   Street level columns and bays for display windows should be
preserved or used. They should provide a clear visual division at the property
line.
               d.   Doors should be accentuated with simple details such as a
handsome brass door pull, brass kickplate or an attractive painted sign.
         (f)   Roof form.
            1.   Roof forms contribute to the identity of the Town Center
because historically they were flat with parapets, false fronts or gables
concealed by a parapet or false front, in contrast to the pitched roofs in the
residential neighborhoods. New construction and rehabilitation should maintain
the traditional storefront architecture of the downtown in articulation of its
roof forms along the street edge.
               a.   Roof forms should be consistent with those commercial
buildings of the key historic period of the Town Center which is dated prior to
1950.
               b.   Parapet and flat roofs are recommended. Pitched roof forms
associated with residential structures are not recommended, unless concealed by
a parapet.
               c.   Detailing of the parapets with patterned or relief cornices
and stepping is recommended.
               d.   Tile, shake shingle and thick composition roofs are
strongly encouraged. Standing seam metal, corrugated metal, fiberglass, high
contrast or brightly colored glazed tile, and crushed rock roofs are
prohibited.
            2.   Roof-mounted equipment (e.g., HVAC) shall be screened from
view from the street by providing a parapet or cornice at least equal in height
to the equipment and by painting the equipment to match the roof. For flat
roofs, the parapet shall surround the perimeter of the building. Screening
shall be compatible with rooflines and materials so that the rooflines are
harmonious.
         (g)   Cornices and architectural detail. Cornices are important
architectural elements. They give interest to the roofline, breaking up the
flat lines of a straight parapet wall; they give a building its own
individuality.
            1.   Repair existing cornices if they have been covered up, remove
the applied materials and restore; if they have been removed, consider
replacing.
            2.   Sheet metal cap flashing should be kept to a minimum unless
the building has a flat parapet wall.
            3.   If a building has decorative architectural details, clean them
to restore their original character or paint them in contrasting colors to
accentuate them.
         (h)   Marquees. Marquees provide a “ceiling” for pedestrian traffic,
which helps to give a sense of enclosure to the street and protection from the
elements. All new or replacement awnings/overhangs must be marquee style.
            1.   Marquees should fit within window bays so as not to detract
from architectural features of the building or obscure transom windows above
display windows.
            2.   Marquees may pass over vertical columns or pilasters.
            3.   The color of the awning should be compatible with the
building.
            4.   The marquees shall be flat, horizontal metal canopies
suspended by chains or rods, if original, should be used as they provide cover
for pedestrians and shade within the store.
            5.   The use of internally illuminated, plastic and/or barrel
awnings are prohibited as they detract from architectural features with
incompatible materials that are out of scale.
         (i)   Color. Color can dramatically affect the appearance of buildings
and should be kept clean and in good repair and carefully considered in
relation to the overall design of the building. Color can also affect the
apparent scale and proportion of buildings by highlighting architectural
elements such as doors and windows.
            1.   Historic masonry facades should not be painted.
            2.   Minimize the number of colors on the building’s exterior in
order to maintain a cohesive appearance with minimum visual distraction.
Commercial buildings shall use no more than four colors.
            3.   The color palette chosen for a building should be compatible
with the colors of adjacent buildings in the Town Center.
            4.   Colors must be selected from the color chart approved by City
Council resolution. Bright neon paint colors and large areas of intense white
colors shall be avoided.
         (j)   Rear entrances.
            1.   Signs should be modestly scaled to fit the casual visual
character of the alley or rear parking area.
            2.   An awning can soften rear facades and provide a pleasant
protected space.
            3.   The rear entry door should be wood and glass similar to the
front door.
            4.   Security lighting should be modest and should focus on the
rear entry door.
            5.   Selective use of tree plantings, potted plants and other
landscaping can subtly improve a rear facade.
            6.   Refuse containers and service facilities should be screened
from view by solid masonry walls and landscaping to screen walls and help deter
graffiti.
      (5)   Landscaping and screening. Landscaping and screening shall be
required, in accordance with the following standards. (These standards apply in
the TC District and supersede the landscape standards in other sections of this
chapter.):
         (a)   All areas not occupied by structures, parking lots or pedestrian
plazas that are visible from public right-of-ways shall provide landscaping.
Landscaping shall include a mix of vertical and horizontal elements.
         (b)   Street trees shall be required on at least one side of all
streets except Main and Pacific Avenues between First and Fourth Streets.
Species should be compatible with the design features provided below, and shall
provide continuity with nearby landscaping. Street tree species to be planted
and minimum tree planting dimensions are described in §
152.053. A reduction to the number of required street trees may be granted when
a development preserves healthy, mature tree(s) adjacent to the sidewalk.
            1.   Tree canopies shall be a minimum of ten feet diameter.
            2.   Trunk setback from curb shall be a minimum distance of two and
one-half feet, maximum distance of three feet.
         (c)   Screening of parking areas, drives, mechanical equipment and
solid waste receptacles with screening elements is required and shall be
installed prior to building occupancy. Screening options include landscape
plants, planters, ornamental walls, trellises, fences or other features
approved by the City Planner.
         (d)   Drought-resistant vegetation is strongly encouraged. Irrigation
systems shall be installed to support landscaping that is not drought-
resistant.
         (e)   Streetscape:
            1.   The Town Center is a pedestrian friendly environment with a
combination of features: storefronts, sidewalks, streetlights and other
amenities. New construction and rehabilitation should contribute to making it
an inhabitable place pleasant for walking, providing a buffer zone of parked
cars between automobile traffic and pedestrians, reinforcing the rhythm of the
street in accordance with the Town Center Master Plan and Resolution 1625.
            2.   The following items can be included as landscaping as required
in §
152.053.
               a.   Places for public activities. Informational kiosks,
historical markers and flagpoles are encouraged;
               b.   Drinking water fountains, places to sit and rest, places to
stand out of the rain or sun with accessible benches out of pedestrian flow;
               c.   Removal of unsightly signs and unused sign supports; signs
better relating to the pedestrian installed;
               d.   Streetlights and sidewalk elements not obscuring line of
vision from automobiles;
               e.   Historically appropriate streetlights installed;
               f.   Trash receptacles attractive, serviceable, durable and
easily maintained; and
               g.   Street trees on all streets in the Town Center Overlay
District.
      (6)   Signs.
         (a)   Signs should not be the dominant feature of a building or site,
yet they are a key component in identifying businesses and contributing to the
livelihood of the street with their individuality. Standards in this section do
not apply to window signs or signs in the right-of-way. Signs should allow for
pedestrian and automobile traffic to identify businesses without detracting
from the architecture or overpowering the streetscape. (Note: Signs that extend
into the right-of-way (ROW) but are attached to the building and signs on the
property require a sign permit for approval. Other signs not attached to
buildings on property but located in the ROW require a ROW use permit for
approval.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1519.png]
 
         (b)   Signs in the Town Center Overlay shall be allowed subject to the
following conditions.
            1.   On-building wall signs, canopy signs and blade signs attached
to buildings shall be allowed subject to the following requirements.
               a.   A maximum of three such signs shall be allowed per street
frontage building side.
               b.   On-building signs shall be incorporated into the design of
the building, shall be compatible in scale and shall not be placed in locations
which interrupt, detract from or change the architectural character and
features of the building.
            2.   Marquee signs shall be allowed subject to the following
requirements:
               a.   A maximum of three such signs shall be allowed per building
side;
               b.   Must be located within one inch of the top and bottom of
the marquee with no more than three businesses indicated per marquee; and
               c.   Marquee signs shall be incorporated into the design of the
building, shall be compatible in scale and shall not be placed in locations
which interrupt, detract from or change the architectural character and
features of the building.
            3.   Lit and illuminated signs:
               a.   A maximum of one such signs shall be allowed per business.
               b.   All signs, if lighted, must be by indirect illumination or
lit.
               c.   All lighted signs must be in a manner as to not disturb
neighboring property.
            4.   The following provisions apply to all signs, except those
exempt signs (listed in (G)(6)(b)5. below).
               a.   Signs shall be of rigid material, except for noncommercial
flags or banners or single event signs.
               b.   Sign graphics, including borders, must be carved, molded,
applied, cast, painted.
               c.   Projecting signs shall give a minimum vertical clearance
from the ground or sidewalk of eight feet, from a driveway of 15 feet.
               d.   All signs will be securely anchored and maintained to
ensure public safety.
               e.   Signs shall be maintained in a neat and clean manner.
               f.   Neon signs are to be located above the marquee/canopy.
               g.   All molded plastic or acrylic signs must conform to the
style of the era from the 1940s to 1950s.
               h.   Signs at the rear side of the buildings should be modestly
scaled to fit the casual visual character of the alley or rear parking area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1521.png]
 
            5.   Signs in the Town Center exempt to these requirements and are
not included in the required sign face area:
               a.   Portable signs;
               b.   Window signs;
               c.   Incidental signs;
               d.   Temporary signs advertising the sale, rental or lease of
commercial or industrial premises, or identifying a property developer, lease
agent or builder;
               e.   Real estate signs and shall meet the requirements listed in
§
152.055; and
               f.   Political signs and shall meet the requirements listed in §
152.055.
      (7)   Off-street parking, loading and circulation requirements.
         (a)   For commercial uses in the Town Center Overlay District, off-
street parking is not required. For residential uses, parking shall be provided
at a minimum of one space per dwelling unit and a maximum of one space per
bedroom. Exceptions to the minimum requirement may be approved by the city when
it is demonstrated that the type of housing proposed does not require parking,
and/or when it is shown that use of on-street spaces during off-peak hours will
provide adequate parking for the area. Civic uses shall provide parking
consistent with the requirements of §
152.054.
         (b)   Off-street parking lots shall be placed to the side or rear of
buildings in accordance with the building orientation standards as described
in. All vehicular driveway entries shall be patterned to differentiate them
from sidewalks.
         (c)   For corner lots, parking areas shall not be located within 20
feet of an intersection, as measured from the midpoint of the curb return arc
to the edge of the parking area (curb or wheel stop) on corner lots.
         (d)   Loading and service areas (e.g., trash enclosures) shall be
located in such a manner to minimize conflicts with public pedestrian areas,
and shall be screened with plantings, shall provide convenient access for
trucks and minimize noise and other impacts with adjoining uses. Loading and
service areas shall be located to the rear or sides of buildings, or in alleys
when available. Loading dock doors are encouraged to be placed in recessed
areas or between buildings to minimize impacts to the pedestrian and human-
scale aspects of the development.
         (e)   1.   Off-street parking areas shall be separated from buildings
by either a raised concrete walkway or landscaped strip with a minimum width of
six feet.
            2.   Situations where parking stalls directly abut buildings shall
be avoided except where wheel stops are provided.
         (f)   Off-street parking areas shall be screened from the street by a
street wall or arcade between six feet and 15 feet in height, and extending a
maximum width to screen the view of parked vehicles and allow for safe
circulation at the minimum driveway widths required according to §
152.054.
         (g)   Rear parking lots shall be designed and located contiguous to
each other to the greatest extent practicable so that vehicles can travel from
one private parking lot to the other (reciprocal access) without having to
enter the street. Shared parking and circulation aisles coordinated between
adjacent businesses and/or developments are strongly encouraged.
   (H)   Graphics. The following graphics shall be used as a guide to comply
with the standards in this section:
      (1)   Right-of-way location:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1523.png]
 
      (2)   Site design:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1525.png]
 
      (3)   Building design and signage:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1527.png]
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1529.png]
   (I)   Special provisions.
      (1)   Outdoor entertainment or dancing unless approved by the City
Council.
      (2)   Peddlers or mobile sales stands and pushcarts unless approved by
the City Manager.
      (3)   All special provisions shall meet the requirements listed in the
general provisions.
   (J)   Other required provisions.
      (1)   No uses and/or development identified in this division (J) shall be
permitted and no process, equipment or materials for such uses shall be used
which are found to be harmful or a public nuisance to persons living or working
in the vicinity by reason of fumes, dust, smoke, cinders, dirt refuse, water-
carried waste, noise, vibration, illumination, glare or unsightliness, or to
involve any hazard of fire or explosion.
      (2)   Adequate fire access routes and clearances must be demonstrated and
maintained. Adequacy shall be determined by the Fire Marshal. Adequate vision
clearance for traffic safety shall also be provided.
      (3)   All activities on-site shall be conducted entirely within a
completely enclosed structure, except for off-street parking and loading areas;
gasoline service stations; outdoor dining, entertainment or recreation areas;
nurseries; garden shops; Christmas tree sales lots; and bus stations.
      (4)   The relevant aspects of the Town Center Master Plan and a clear
connection to the city’s applicable Comprehensive Plan goals, objectives and
policies shall prevail.
      (5)   The proposed uses and/or development and site design shall be
consistent with the following:
         (a)   Accessibility of the subject property to appropriate public
facilities and services;
         (b)   Available capacity of necessary public facilities and services;
and
         (c)   Spatial patterns of the land use element and the current and
future uses of adjacent properties.
      (6)   All commercial operations, activities and enterprises shall
emphasize pedestrian or bicycle access.
      (7)   Other conditions found necessary to protect the best interests of
the surrounding property, or the city as a whole, may be imposed. These
conditions may include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Development of a preservation plan for historic sites and
structures;
         (b)   Requiring fences, walls or landscape screening and/or buffering
where necessary to reduce noise, glare and maintain the property in a character
in keeping with the surrounding area;
         (c)   Requiring landscaping and maintenance thereof;
         (d)   Increasing street widths, controlling the location and number of
vehicular access points to the property for ingress/egress;
         (e)   Requiring means of pedestrian/bicycle access pathways to serve
the property;
         (f)   Increasing or limiting the number of off-street parking and
loading spaces required; surfacing and proper drainage of parking areas;
         (g)   Limiting size, location and number of signs;
         (h)   Limiting the location, coverage or height of buildings because
of obstructions to view and reduction of light and air to adjacent property;
         (i)   Increasing, limiting or prohibiting openings in sides of
buildings or structures;
         (j)   Enclosure of storage areas and limitation of outside display
and/or storage of merchandise;
         (k)   Requiring maintenance of grounds;
         (l)   Regulating noise, vibration, fumes and the like;
         (m)   Regulating time for certain activities;
         (n)   Establishing a time period within which the proposed use shall
be developed;
         (o)   The requirement of a bond for removal of such use within a
specified period of time;
         (p)   Requiring any future enlargement or alteration of the use be
reviewed by the Planning Commission and new conditions imposed;
         (q)   Requiring specific lot size, yard dimensions, open spaces or
buffer areas; and
         (r)   And such other conditions as will make possible the development
of the city in an orderly and efficient manner and in conformity with the
intent and purposes set forth in this section.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 1320, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.031 HEALTH CARE OVERLAY (HCO DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of the Health Care Overlay District is to allow areas
for the concentration of medical facilities and related uses in a campus like
setting to enable the provision of a wide range of medical services to enhance
the public’s health, safety and general welfare and allow for the continuation
and flexible expansion of the hospital, medical clinics and associated uses in
a planned and coordinated manner so existing and future uses can respond and
adapt to changes in technology, the medical profession and society as a whole.
      (2)   The overlay zone standards will:
         (a)   Strengthen the roles currently played by:
            1.   The County Hospital Area around Third Street and Ash Avenue;
and
            2.   The County Health Department area around Ninth Street and
Pacific Avenue as regional centers for health care and related services.
         (b)   Provide flexibility within the underlying zones to allow health
care related uses; and
         (c)   Allow small-scale supportive commercial/retail uses to
supplement health care.
   (B)   Applicability. The standards and procedures, permitted and conditional
uses, set forth in this section:
      (1)   Apply to all health care related development proposed on a lot or
parcel located within, or partially within, the HCO District;
      (2)   Are in addition to the standards of the underlying zone for the
uses listed in this section; and
      (3)   Nothing contained in the proposed Health Care Overlay (HCO)
district shall limit the uses permitted outright or conditionally within the
underlying zone districts.
   (C)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted within a Health
Care Overlay District:
      (1)   Medical and health care uses including hospitals, outpatient
clinics, continuing/long-term care services, hospice services, laboratories,
medical research facilities, urgent or emergency medical services, offices of
doctors, physical therapists, dentists and other health care providers (both
public and private);
      (2)   Medical staff facilities and similar uses, including, but not
limited to, administrative offices, educational and meeting facilities and
staff sleeping quarters;
      (3)   Childcare and adult care services, including respite care;
      (4)   Short term residential uses dependent upon or directly related to
medical care, including convalescent care facilities, skilled nursing
facilities, group homes for the disabled and overnight accommodations;
      (5)   Health care related retail (i.e., pharmacy, medical supplies and
equipment);
      (6)   Social service providers, including counseling centers and alcohol
and drug treatment facilities;
      (7)   Accessory parking; and
      (8)   Utilities and public facilities.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following uses require an additional conditional
use permit for approval:
      (1)   Medical helicopter landing pad on the following conditions:
         (a)   The landing pad meets the recommendations of the State
Department of Transportation Aviation Division and the Federal Aviation
Administration; and
         (b)   Use shall be limited to emergency medical use only.
      (2)   Facilities for the treatment and/or temporary storage of
biomedical, radioactive and hazardous waste generated within the overlay
district; provided, however, that no materials may be transported to the site
from other facilities for storage or treatment purposes; and
      (3)   A building exceeding 45 feet in height.
   (E)   Site development standards. Except as otherwise noted, the site
development restrictions shall be as follows:
      (1)   Front yard setback: the minimum front yard setback shall be ten
feet except on corner lots where the vision clearance area requirements shall
apply and, except when adjacent to a lot outside of the Health Care Overlay
District, the front yard setback shall be same as the front yard setback
required in the adjacent zone;
      (2)   Side yard setback: the minimum side yard setback shall be five
feet. The side yards shall be increased by one-half foot for each foot by which
the building exceeds 15 feet in height. The side yard setback distance for one
or both sides may be waived for an approved zero lot line development;
      (3)   Rear yard setback: the minimum rear yard setback shall be five feet
except when adjacent to a lot outside of the Health Care Overlay District and
then the rear yard setback shall be a minimum of 20 feet. The required rear
yard setback shall be increased by one-half foot for each foot by which the
building exceeds 15 feet in height;
      (4)   Minimum distance between buildings: ten feet;
      (5)   Maximum building height: 45 feet; and
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage: 60%.
   (F)   Site plan requirements. All development within the Health Care Overlay
District shall be governed by a site plan, constituted as a binding site plan
and shall be reviewed and approved administratively. In addition to the
requirements listed in §
152.052 and §
152.053, the site plan shall include the following.
      (1)   Pedestrian connectivity. The campus should have accessible
pedestrian connections beyond standard sidewalks along the street and between
buildings. Special attention should be paid to crosswalks, connections between
parking lots serving adjacent uses and interior walkway connections.
      (2)   Landscaping. Minimum landscaping shall be as required in §
152.053; provided, however, that additional landscaping may be required by the
City Planner at the time of zoning clearance permit to achieve the following
effects:
         (a)   Effective screening of off-street parking areas and eliminating
monotony of parking areas;
         (b)   Effective buffering of adjacent residential uses;
         (c)   Enhance the building architecture and on-site landscaping;
         (d)   Streetscape plantings are required as part of the site plan;
including street trees; and
         (e)   Additional landscaping within setback areas to mitigate adverse
noise, light, glare and aesthetic impacts to adjacent residential properties
from new development may be required.
      (3)   Lighting. Lighting shall be provided throughout the site and along
all pedestrian paths and building entrances to promote safety.
      (4)   Building design. There should be continuity of character and
building materials throughout the development and with adjacent development in
the Health Care Overlay to enhance a campus setting.
      (5)   Building design requirements. Building design should provide
articulation to avoid long blank walls and a scale appropriate to the setting.
Building entries shall be recessed. Decorative patterns on exterior finish
(e.g., scales/shingles, wainscoting, board and batt, masonry) are required.
Where possible, buildings should be designed to screen parking and provide
useful courtyard settings for users of the facilities.
      (6)   Entrances. Every building adjacent to a street shall have an
entrance on the street side; except if the building design cannot provide an
entrance due to the internal function of the building space (e.g., mechanical
equipment, areas where the public or employees are not received and the like)
and, therefore, may not be required to meet this standard. Pathways shall
connect all entrances to the street right-of-way.
(Ord. 1312, passed 5-16-2016) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.032 HOQUARTON WATERFRONT OVERLAY (HWO DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   This district implements the Hoquarton Waterfront Plan. The
district is intended to create a mix of industrial, commercial and residential
uses that captures the recreational and visual amenities of the Hoquarton
Waterfront. Development should build on the industrial heritage of the area
while providing new opportunities for employment and services.
      (2)   The district shall:
         (a)   Provide access to and enjoyment of the Hoquarton Waterfront;
         (b)   Maintain and celebrate the area’s unique native and industrial
heritage;
         (c)   Cultivate a diverse mix of businesses and shops to serve
residents and visitors;
         (d)   Encourage a variety of housing options to support a diverse
population and local workforce; and
         (e)   Design sites to connect to transportation infrastructure for
pedestrians, bicycles, automobiles and trucks and provide appropriate on-site
facilities to support multimodal transportation.
   (B)   Relationship to base zoning. This overlay district supplements the use
and development standards in the base C-C, H-C, L-I and R-O Zones. In the case
of conflict, this overlay district supersedes the standards of the underlying
zone. This overlay does not alter or replace any standards in the Hazard
Overlay (H-O), Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) or Water Resource Protection Overlay
(WRPO) districts.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ARTISAN MANUFACTURING. Small-scale businesses that manufacture artisan
goods, materials or specialty foods. Small manufacturing production primarily
focuses on direct sales rather than the wholesale market. This small-scale
manufacturing use is intended to be compatible with surrounding commercial
development. An allowance for public viewing or customer service space is
required with artisan and specialty goods production. This use category
includes the following uses: sugar and confectionary, fruit and vegetable
preserving, tea and coffee, specialty foods, and bakeries; artisan leather,
wood products, glass, cutlery, hand tools, wood, paper, ceramic, textile and
yarn products; microbreweries, microdistilleries and wineries; and similar uses
determined by the Director.
      INCUBATOR SPACE. A multi-use facility providing start-up and early stage
businesses with shared office, industrial, manufacturing, food preparation or
similar facilities.
      LIVE/WORK UNIT. A building or space within a building used jointly for a
commercial or manufacturing activity allowed in the zone and a residential
living space for the owner of the commercial or manufacturing business, or the
owner’s employee, and that person’s household, where the residential use of the
space is secondary or accessory to the primary use as a place of work.
   (D)   Uses permitted outright. The following uses are permitted in addition
to the uses allowed in the base zone.
      (1)   Existing uses.
         (a)   Single-family residential uses in existence on the effective
date of the original adoption of the Waterfront Hoquarton Overlay District are
a permitted use within the district.
         (b)   All other uses and structures lawfully existing on the effective
date of the original adoption of the Waterfront Hoquarton Overlay District
which are non-conforming as defined by §
152.073 shall be deemed legal non-conforming and may be altered, and/or
expanded consistent with §
152.073.
      (2)   In the C-C Base Zone, the following uses are permitted in addition
to those allowed in the Base Zone:
         (a)   Artisan manufacturing:
            1.   Structures shall not encompass more than 10,000 square feet of
area. The 10,000 square foot total shall include all storage areas associated
with the manufacturing operation. These types of uses are limited in size to
assure that they will not dominate the commercial area and to limit the
potential impacts on residential and commercial uses.
            2.   All activities except loading and outdoor product displays
shall occur within buildings; outdoor storage/repair is prohibited.
            3.   All artisan manufacturing uses are required to accommodate
public viewing or a customer service space:
               a.   Public viewing shall be accomplished with windows or glass
doors covering at least 25% of the front of the building face abutting the
street or indoor lobby wall, allowing direct views of manufacturing, openings
between the display or lobby area and manufacturing/work space may be reduced
below 25% where fire-rated separation requirements restrict opening size as
determined by the planning official; or
               b.   A customer service space includes a showroom, tasting room,
restaurant or retail space.
            4.   All uses shall be carried on in such a manner that they do not
create smoke, gas, odor, dust, sound, vibration, soot, heat, glare or lighting
to a degree that is readily detectable at any point beyond the property line of
the use.
         (b)   Upper floor residential (single-family and multi-family);
         (c)   Ground floor residential uses (single-family and multi-family)
occupying less than 25% of the ground floor of commercial buildings, provided
that commercial storefronts are maintained on the street front;
         (d)   Live/work units:
            1.   A minimum of 75% of a structure’s street front facade at
street level shall be occupied by nonresidential uses.
            2.   The minimum floor-to-floor height of the first floor shall be
13 feet.
            3.   Off-street parking for live/work units is prohibited between
the structure’s street front facade and the street.
            4.   Live/work units that exceed 2,000 square feet gross floor area
must have separate entrances for the business and residential portions of the
use.
            5.   Within each live/work unit, the living area shall not exceed
one-half of the total floor area of the unit.
         (e)   Public facilities and other public uses.
      (3)   In the L-I Base Zone, the following uses are permitted in addition
to those allowed in the Base Zone:
         (a)   Commercial retail limited to 50% of the gross floor area;
         (b)   Commercial services limited to 50% of the gross floor area;
         (c)   Eating and drinking establishments limited to 50% of the gross
floor area;
         (d)   Incubator space: all uses shall be carried on in such a manner
that they do not create smoke, gas, odor, dust, sound, vibration, soot, heat,
glare or lighting to a degree that is readily detectable at any point beyond
the property line of the use;
         (e)   Live/work units:
            1.   A minimum of 75% of a structure’s street front facade at
street level shall be occupied by nonresidential uses.
            2.   The minimum floor-to-floor height of the first floor shall be
13 feet.
            3.   Off-street parking for live/work units is prohibited between
the structure’s street front facade and the street.
            4.   Live/work units that exceed 2,000 square feet gross floor area
must have separate entrances for the business and residential portions of the
use.
            5.   Within each live/work unit, the living area shall not exceed
one-half of the total floor area of the unit.
         (f)   Warehouse and storage are permitted as accessory uses to a
primary commercial or manufacturing use for goods produced or sold on the
premises; and
         (g)   Public facilities and other public uses.
      (4)   In the R-O Base Zone, the following uses are permitted outright in
addition to those allowed in the Base Zone:
         (a)   Commercial retail limited to 50% of the gross floor area;
         (b)   Commercial services limited to 50% of the gross floor area;
         (c)   Eating and drinking establishments limited to 50% of the gross
floor area; and
         (d)   Artisan manufacturing:
            1.   Structures shall not encompass more than 6,000 square feet of
area. The 6,000-square-foot total shall include all storage areas associated
with the manufacturing operation. These types of uses are limited in size to
assure that they will not dominate the mixed use area and to limit the
potential impacts on residential and commercial uses.
            2.   All activities, except loading and outdoor product displays,
shall occur within buildings; outdoor storage/repair is prohibited.
            3.   All artisan manufacturing uses are required to accommodate
public viewing or a customer service space.
               a.   Public viewing shall be accomplished with windows or glass
doors covering at least 25% of the front of the building face abutting the
street or indoor lobby wall, allowing direct views of manufacturing, openings
between the display or lobby area and manufacturing/work space may be reduced
below 25% where fire-rated separation requirements restrict opening size as
determined by the planning official; or
               b.   A customer service space includes a showroom, tasting room,
restaurant or retail space.
            4.   All uses shall be carried on in such a manner that they do not
create smoke, gas, odor, dust, sound, vibration, soot, heat, glare or lighting
to a degree that is readily detectable at any point beyond the property line of
the use.
      (5)   In the H-C Base Zone, the following uses are permitted in addition
to those allowed in the Base Zone: artisan manufacturing.
         (a)   Structures shall not encompass more than 6,000 square feet of
area. The 6,000-square-foot total shall include all storage areas associated
with the manufacturing operation. These types of uses are limited in size to
assure that they will not dominate the mixed use area and to limit the
potential impacts on residential and commercial uses.
         (b)   All activities except loading and outdoor product displays shall
occur within buildings; outdoor storage/repair is prohibited.
         (c)   All artisan manufacturing uses are required to accommodate
public viewing or a customer service space:
            1.   Public viewing shall be accomplished with windows or glass
doors covering at least 25% of the front of the building face abutting the
street or indoor lobby wall, allowing direct views of manufacturing, openings
between the display or lobby area and manufacturing/work space may be reduced
below 25% where fire-rated separation requirements restrict opening size as
determined by the planning official; or
            2.   A customer service space includes a showroom, tasting room,
restaurant or retail space.
         (d)   All uses shall be carried on in such a manner that they do not
create smoke, gas, odor, dust, sound, vibration, soot, heat, glare or lighting
to a degree that is readily detectable at any point beyond the property line of
the use.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. The following uses are prohibited, superseding uses
allowed in the base C-C, H-C, L-I and R-O Zones:
      (1)   Mini-warehouse/storage units as a primary use, excluding warehouse
and storage permitted accessory to a permitted use;
      (2)   Automobile sales and service station, including towing services and
vehicle washing and polishing facilities;
      (3)   New and use automobile, truck, motorcycle, trailer, recreational
vehicle, agricultural vehicle, mobile home and industrial equipment sales,
services and storage;
      (4)   Freight terminals, including moving and storage, warehouse for
short-term storage and cold storage;
      (5)   Wholesaling, storage and distribution such as RV storage, household
storage and personal storage;
      (6)   Marijuana facility where marijuana is produced and registered with
the State Health Authority (OHA) or the State Liquor Control Commission (OLCC);
and
      (7)   Drive-through facilities.
   (F)   Height requirements. The height requirements of the underlying zone
shall apply with the following exceptions.
      (1)   In the C-C, H-C, L-I and R-O Base Zone, no building or structure
shall hereafter be erected, enlarged or structurally altered to exceed a height
of 50 feet.
      (2)   Historic resources constructed prior to 1950 or recreations of said
resources shall be exempt from the height limit in the overlay zone and the
Base Zone.
   (G)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Lot area: no minimum or maximum lot area.
      (2)   Lot width/depth: no minimum or maximum lot width or depth.
      (3)   The front, side and rear yard setbacks of the underlying zone shall
apply with the following exceptions:
         (a)   In the C-C, H-C and L-I and Base Zones, the maximum front
setback shall be ten feet. The ten-foot maximum applies to the first 15 feet of
building height only and upper stories may step back; and
         (b)   In the R-O Base Zone:
            1.   Front yard setback. The minimum front yard setback shall be
ten feet. Corner lot front yard setbacks, one side must have a minimum of five
feet. Front yard setbacks may be reduced to five feet for an enclosed porch,
portico, or other architectural feature that is connected directly to a
building entrance.
            2.   Side and rear yard setbacks. No requirements.
   (H)   Site design. The following standards are intended to promote a desired
level of future development quality that will stimulate investment and
strengthen economic vitality in the Hoquarton Area, renew a positive physical
image of the area and require compatibility with nearby uses.
      (1)   Building orientation. All new buildings shall be oriented to public
streets. Building orientation is demonstrated by placing buildings and their
public entrances close to streets so that pedestrians have a direct and
convenient route from the street sidewalk to building entrances. Off-street
parking or vehicular circulation shall not be placed between buildings and
streets used to comply with this standard.
      (2)   Building frontage. On sites with 100 feet or more of public street
frontage, at least of the site width shall be occupied by buildings placed
within the maximum setback. For sites with less than 100 feet of public street
frontage, at least 60% of the site width shall be occupied by buildings placed
within the maximum setback.
      (3)   Differentiation between stories. Differentiation shall be provided
between ground-level spaces and upper stories. For example, bays or balconies
for upper levels, and awnings, canopies or other similar treatments for lower
levels can provide differentiation. Variation in building materials, trim,
paint, ornamentation, windows or other features such as public art may also be
used.
   (I)   Design standards. The following standards apply to residential
development in the C-C or R-O Base Zones within the overlay district and are
intended to provide visual interest, distinct design qualities, appropriate
massing and a pleasing transition between uses to promote compatibility through
architectural detailing and the use of sustainable and high-quality materials
that are contextually appropriate for the state coast.
      (1)   Materials. Use building materials of high durability and high
quality.
         (a)   Painted or natural stain wood, stone, brick, rusticated concrete
block and wood-textured, cementitious fiberboard products are allowed.
         (b)   Areas greater than 25% of the facade surfaced with rough-cut
wood, wide rough-cut lap siding, T-111, plywood, corrugated metal, foam/
synthetic stucco or similar materials are prohibited.
         (c)   Vinyl siding is prohibited on the ground floor.
      (2)   Window coverage. At least 15% of the area of each street-facing
facade shall consist of windows and/or doors. If a front and side facade are
street-facing, the two facades may be combined for the purpose of this
calculation.
      (3)   Architectural expression.
         (a)   The street-facing facade of a townhouse, rowhouse and other
individual unit, excluding apartments, shall provide architectural detail or
composition to visually identify each individual unit as seen from the street.
         (b)   Each unit shall include a minimum of two of the following
features total, one each from two separate categories on the following list:
            1.   Roof:
               a.   Dormers;
               b.   Gables;
               c.   Cupolas; and
               d.   Eaves (minimum six-inch projection).
            2.   Entry:
               a.   Recessed entries; and
               b.   Covered porch entries.
            3.   Windows: bay or bow windows; and
            4.   Other:
               a.   Pillars or posts; and
               b.   Off-sets on building face or roof (minimum 16 inches).
      (4)   Rooflines.
         (a)   Roof forms. Roof designs shall conform predominately to one of
the following: flat with stepped parapet, gabled or hipped. Secondary roof
forms may include towers, dormers, turrets or other features with rounded
(e.g., split-barrel), shed (e.g., dormer), pyramidal or crossing elevations.
Gambrel, dual-pitched (e.g., hipped “mansard”), deck (flat-topped, hipped), A-
frame and similar roof forms are prohibited. Where roofs are pitched, a minimum
pitch of at least 30 degrees should be maintained.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1531.png]
 
         (b)   The width of any continuous flat roofline should not extend more
than 100 feet without modulation. Modulation should consist of either one or a
combination of the following treatments:
            1.   For flat roofs or facades with a horizontal eave, fascia or
parapet with at least an eight-foot return, the minimum vertical dimension of
roofline modulation is the greater of four feet or 0.1 multiplied by the wall
height (finish grade to top of the wall); and
            2.   A sloped or gabled roofline segment of at least 20 feet in
width and no less than three feet vertical in 12 feet horizontal.
      (5)   Facade modulation. Building facades visible from public streets and
public spaces shall be stepped back or projected forward at intervals to
provide a minimum of 40% facade modulation unless the applicant demonstrates
that an alternate design solution provides an equal or greater level of
achieving the intent of the section. The minimum depth of modulation shall be
one foot and the minimum width shall be five feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1533.png]
 
      (6)   Pedestrian entry. Each individual unit such as a townhouse or
rowhouse, or each apartment structure, shall have a pedestrian entry on the
street-facing facade that is designed to be visually prominent through the use
of covered stoops, porches or other architectural entry features. For units on
corner lots, a visually prominent pedestrian entry is required on only one of
the street-facing facades.
      (7)   Front setback. Design elements to provide a transition between the
street and the building entrance, such as landscaping, trees, fences or other
similar features, are required in the front setback.
   (J)   Off-street parking, loading and circulation.
      (1)   For commercial or industrial uses outside of the C-4 parking
district, parking shall be provided at a minimum of one space per employee plus
one space per 700 square feet of commercial area.
         (a)   Commercial or industrial uses may locate parking facilities off-
site consistent with §
152.054(C)(1).
         (b)   Commercial or industrial uses may use the on-street parking
credit in §
152.054(F) to satisfy the minimum requirements in part or in full. On-street
parking credit will be reviewed through site plan review consistent with §
152.070(L) and will not require Planning Commission approval as stated in §
152.054(F).
         (c)   Commercial or industrial uses may also develop a joint use of
facilities as described in §
152.054(D) to satisfy the minimum requirements in part or in full.
      (2)   For residential uses outside of the C-4 parking district, parking
shall be provided at a minimum of one space per dwelling unit and a maximum of
one space per bedroom. Exceptions to the minimum requirements may be approved
by the city when it is demonstrated that the type of housing proposed does not
require parking and/or when it is shown that use of on-street spaces during
off-peak hours will provide adequate parking for the area.
         (a)   Residential uses may use the on-street parking credit in §
152.054(F) to satisfy the minimum requirements in part or in full. On-street
parking credit will be reviewed through site plan review consistent with §
152.070(L) and will not require Planning Commission approval, as stated in §
152.054(F).
         (b)   Residential uses may also develop a joint use of facilities as
described in §
152.054(D) to satisfy the minimum requirements in part or in full.
      (3)   Off-street parking lots shall be placed to the side or rear of
buildings in accordance with the Building Orientation Standards, as described
in division (H)(1) and §
152.052. Access from alleys is encouraged. All vehicular driveway entries shall
be patterned to differentiate them from sidewalks.
      (4)   For corner lots, parking areas shall not be located within 20 feet
of an intersection, as measured from the midpoint of the curb return arc to the
edge of the parking area (curb or wheel stop) on corner lots.
      (5)   Loading and service areas (e.g., trash enclosures and drive-
throughs) shall be located in such a manner to minimize conflicts with public
pedestrian areas, and shall be screened with plantings, shall provide
convenient access for trucks and minimize noise and other impacts with
adjoining uses. Loading and service areas shall be located to the rear or sides
of buildings, or in alleys when available. Loading dock doors are encouraged to
be placed in recessed areas or between buildings to minimize impacts to the
pedestrian and human-scale aspects of the development.
      (6)   Off-street parking areas shall be separated from buildings by
either a raised concrete walkway or landscaped strip with a minimum width of
six feet. Situations where parking stalls directly abut buildings shall be
avoided except where wheel stops are provided.
      (7)   (a)   Off-street parking areas shall be screened from the street by
a street wall or arcade, between six feet and 15 feet in height, and extending
a maximum width to screen the view of parked vehicles and allow for safe
circulation at the minimum driveway widths required according to §
152.054.
         (b)   Alternately, parking areas shall be screened from the street by
a minimum six-foot wide landscaping buffer with plants with a mature height of
six to 15 feet and 50% opacity year-round.
      (8)   Rear parking lots shall be designed and located contiguous to each
other to the greatest extent practicable so that vehicles can travel from one
private parking lot to the other (reciprocal access) without having to enter
the street. Shared parking and circulation aisles coordinated between adjacent
businesses and/or developments are strongly encouraged.
      (9)   Parking areas on lots with historic resources constructed prior to
1950 are exempt from the off-street parking, loading and circulation provisions
of this section.
   (K)   Landscaping.
      (1)   New development or substantial remodel is subject to the design and
landscaping standards as listed in §
152.053 for the base zone in which the development is located.
      (2)   All areas not occupied by structures, parking lots or pedestrian
plazas that are visible from public right-of-ways shall provide landscaping.
Landscaping shall include a mix of vertical and horizontal elements.
      (3)   Street trees shall be required on at least one side of all streets
except Front Street between Main and Cedar Avenues, or as specified in the
Hoquarton Waterfront Plan. Species should be compatible with the standards
provided below, and shall provide continuity with nearby landscaping. Street
tree species to be planted and minimum tree planting dimensions are described
in §
152.053. A reduction to the number of required street trees may be granted when
a development preserves healthy, mature tree(s) adjacent to the sidewalk.
         (a)   Tree canopies shall be a minimum of ten feet diameter.
         (b)   Trunk setback from curb shall be a minimum distance of two and
one-half feet, maximum distance of three feet.
   (L)   Review required. Site plan review is required consistent with §
152.070. In addition, the applicant shall submit a development proposal for the
following elements, as applicable to the proposal as determined by the City
Planner.
      (1)   Pedestrian plan. A pedestrian circulation plan that provides
adequate pedestrian access in the vicinity and within the project. The plan
must provide compacted, safely lighted walkways and entrances suitable for use
by the handicapped.
      (2)   Traffic plan. A traffic plan that provides adequate vehicle
circulation in the vicinity of and within the project. The traffic plan must
coordinate internal and external transportation networks, including bikeways
and mass transit to extent possible. Traffic noise must be minimized.
      (3)   Loading plan. A plan for loading dock or space that provides
adequate room for safe truck backing and turning movements.
      (4)   Open space plan. A plan assuring that alterations and additions to
existing buildings, and new construction, are compatible with neighboring
properties in terms of the relative proportion of impervious/covered area to
open space. Any landscape alterations for commercial, fabrication, educational
or professional uses shall be made in accordance with the standards contained
in §
152.052.
      (5)   Parking plan. A parking plan describing the impacts upon the city’s
parking program for both automobiles and bicycles, unless adequate on-site
parking can be provided without damaging the integrity of the property.
      (6)   Public safety plan. A plan for minimizing the likelihood of
criminal activity by eliminating areas that are neither clearly private nor
clearly public and by using landscaping that allows maximum observation while
providing desired aesthetics.
      (7)   Perimeter plan. A plan for the perimeter of the project to protect
adjacent properties from noise, visual incompatibility, light, glare, heat
pumps, fans or other potential nuisances. This may be accomplished through
screening, setbacks, siting or other means.
(Ord. 1316, passed 7-5-2016) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.033 LIMITED USE OVERLAY DISTRICT (LU DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose. To allow permitted uses in the underlying zone to only those
that were justified in the Averill mediation agreement, subject to those
findings and conditions detailed in that agreement.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Uses permitted in the underlying zone shall be limited to those
uses specifically referenced in the Comprehensive Plan amendment/zone change
and any accompanying conditions set forth.
      (2)   The limited use overlay shall not be used to authorize uses not
expressly provided for in the underlying zone.
      (3)   The limited use overlay shall apply to the property until it is
specifically removed as the result of the parties not maintaining a majority
ownership in the subject property (as per mediation agreement).
      (4)   The following limitations shall apply to application of the limited
use overlay.
         (a)   Sound barriers. Averill shall erect a sound barrier of evergreen
trees of a type to be specified by the city along the north river bank of said
property, immediately upon the appeal period to LUBA running and the order
becoming final. In the event that all or portions of the sound barrier do not
thrive, they shall be replaced with new sound barrier vegetation until the
vegetation, as needed, is well established.
         (b)   Noise reduction. The operation of Averill’s trucks as they
travel over the means of ingress and egress from Highway 101 North shall be at
a slow speed and in a manner so as not to cause unreasonable vibrations and/or
noise which interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of the occupants of
neighboring property.
         (c)   Gravel. Averill shall maintain the gravel portion of Werner Road
to his westerly property line in good passable condition by passenger cars.
         (d)   Sewer. Averill, at his sole expense, will connect the subject
property to city water and sewer within 45 days after the appeal period has
expired from the order described in Paragraph 1 of the mediation agreement.
         (e)   ODOT. Within 45 days after the appeal period for the Board of
County Commissioners’ order described in division (B)(1) above having run,
Averill will apply for a temporary permit from the State Department of
Transportation subject to the following conditions.
            1.   Averill shall construct and/or install, at his sole expense,
physical barriers at the Werner Road-Highway 101 junction to prevent left turns
from Werner Road northbound onto Highway 101. The barrier system and
appropriate signage shall be State Department of Transportation approved. Said
temporary permit shall remain in force only until such time as permanent access
is constructed in conjunction with the highway improvement project for this
portion of Highway 101.
            2.   Any permit would be conditioned upon Averill’s use of the
subject parcel being substantially similar to the current use. So long as the
truck trips are within 10% of the current use as described in division (B)(4)
(f) below, it shall be deemed a substantially similar use.
            3.   The provisions of this section shall be added as a condition
of the land use overlay described in division (B)(4)(i) below.
         (f)   Current use.
            1.   For purposes of this overlay zone, the following definitions
shall be used:
                  SITE. The six and one-half acres;
                  TRUCK TRIP. Equals not more than four vehicle movements; and
                  VEHICLE MOVEMENT. Two vehicle axles passing over a vehicle
counter so calibrated.
            2.   Averill’s current use is comprised of the average daily trips
entering or exiting the site in any 24-hour period, the existing surfaced
working maneuvering, parking and storage area, including trucking and access.
            3.   The parties have agreed that traffic on Werner Road averages
490 vehicular movements per day and that truck movements from Averill’s
trucking business account for 80% of those movements which was agreed to equal
100 truck trips per day.
            4.   Averill shall be deemed in compliance with the terms of this
overlay zone so long as the truck trips from Averill’s business do not exceed
110 truck trips per day averaged over any 30 consecutive day period.
         (g)   Use. The use of the subject property shall be limited to the
existing trucking facility. The use shall be those uses allowed by law and
reviewed at each subsequent review of the city pursuant to O.A.R. 660, Division
25.
         (h)   Improvements. Averill shall not add any further site
improvements or additional structures not set forth herein, or otherwise change
the character or increase the intensity of use. Potential improvements/
additions which are contemplated by Averill and which are specifically exempt
from this provision are the addition of a 1,000 gallon lubricating oil tank;
and a 35 by 100 foot washing structure with slab foundation and gutters for the
purpose of containing potential hazardous waste runoff to the surrounding
properties, said structure to be located and attached to the south end of the
existing structure on the existing fill. In addition, nothing in this provision
shall prohibit Averill from making any changes, improvements or additions which
are required by state, federal or local laws or ordinances.
         (i)   Limited land use overlay. Within six months of the expiration of
the appeal period from the Board of County Commissioners’ final action on the
order described in Paragraph 1 of said mediation agreement, the city shall add
a provision to its zoning ordinance allowing for a “limited land use overlay
zone” and apply it to the six and one-half acre Averill site. The plan
amendment and zone amendment and their application to the Averill site shall be
subject to public review pursuant to the post acknowledgment review process for
plan and zone amendments. The limited land use overlay zone shall not contain
more restrictive conditions than exist in this settlement agreement. The
conditions of this agreement shall be applied to the limited land use overlay
zone specifically for the Averill property. Any change in ownership of the
property which would result in Donald G. Averill and Jo L. Averill not having a
majority ownership interest in the property is a basis for the city to review
the continued application of a limited land use overlay zone. Specifically
excluded from this provision is any incorporation of the trucking business in
which Donald G. Averill and Jo L. Averill would retain a majority ownership
interest.
         (j)   Laws and regulations. Averill will abide by all laws and
regulations which may apply to this property, including, but not limited to,
its floodplain designation or any wetlands designation.
   (C)   Procedure. The application of the limited use overlay is consistent
with policies of the Comprehensive Plan.
   (D)   Official plan/zoning map. The official plan/zoning map shall be
amended to note the application of the limited use overlay to the applicable
parcels.
   (E)   Site plan requirements.
      (1)   In addition to limiting the uses permitted through the
Comprehensive Plan amendment, the trucking facility was determined to be an
outright use in the underlying H-C Zone.
      (2)   All other requirements of the underlying zone remain in effect. The
trucking facility shall not add any further site improvements except those
stated in division (B)(4)(h) above.
(Prior Code, § 153.065) (Ord. 1150, passed 12-16-1996) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.034 AIRPORT APPROACH OVERLAY ZONE (AAO DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose. In order to carry out the provisions of this overlay zone,
there is hereby created and established an Airport Approach Overlay District
which includes all of the land lying beneath the airport imaginary surfaces, as
they apply to the Tillamook County Airport in the county at the Port of
Tillamook Bay. The Airport Approach Overlay District (AAO District) is shown on
the current airspace and approach zones plan maps, adopted by the Port of
Tillamook Bay and the city.
   (B)   Scope. To prevent the establishment of air space obstructions in
airport approaches and surrounding areas including the horizontal surface and
conical surface, through height restrictions and other land use controls as
deemed essential to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people of the
city.
   (C)   Authorization. In addition to complying with the provisions of the
underlying zoning district, uses and activities shall comply with the
provisions of this overlay zone, as required by the city, the Port of Tillamook
Bay and the FAA. In the event of any conflict between any provisions of this
overlay zone and the underlying zoning districts, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
   (D)   Permitted uses within the airport approach safety zone. This area
extends for a horizontal distance for 5,000 feet at a slope of 20 feet outward
for each foot upward (20:1) for all utility and visual runways.
      (1)   Farm use, excluding the raising and feeding of animals which would
be adversely affected by aircraft passing overhead;
      (2)   Landscape nursery, cemetery or recreation areas which do not
include buildings or structures;
      (3)   Roadway, parking areas and storage yards located in such a manner
that vehicle lights will not make it difficult for pilots to distinguish
between landing lights and vehicle lights or result in glare, or in any way
impair visibility in the vicinity of the landing approach. Approach surfaces
must clear these by a minimum of 15 feet;
      (4)   Pipeline;
      (5)   Underground utility wire;
      (6)   Single-family dwellings, mobile homes, duplexes and multi-family
dwellings, and structures accessory to a permitted use when authorized in the
underlying zoning district;
      (7)   Structures that meet the height restrictions listed in §
152.016; and
      (8)   Transportation facilities and improvements:
         (a)   Normal operation and maintenance;
         (b)   Installation of improvements within the existing right-of-way;
         (c)   Projects identified in the adopted Transportation System Plan
not requiring future land use review and approval;
         (d)   Landscaping as part of a transportation facility;
         (e)   Emergency measures; and
         (f)   Street or road construction as part of an approved subdivision
or partition;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1535.png]
 
   (E)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Commercial and industrial uses, and buildings and uses of a public
works, public service or public utility nature when authorized in the
underlying zoning district, provided the use does not result in the following:
         (a)   Creating electrical interference with navigational signals or
radio communication between the airport and aircraft;
         (b)   Making it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport
lights or others;
         (c)   Impairing visibility;
         (d)   Creating bird strike hazards;
         (e)   Endangering or interfering with the landing, taking off or
maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport; and
         (f)   Attracting large numbers of people.
      (2)   Places of public assembly.
   (F)   Procedures for a conditional use permit. An applicant seeking a
conditional use shall follow procedures set forth in §
152.071 and shall also include the following information accompanying the
application:
      (1)   Property boundary lines as they relate to the airport imaginary
surfaces;
      (2)   Location and height of all existing and proposed buildings,
structures, utility lines and roads; and
      (3)   A statement from the State Aeronautics Division indicating that the
proposed use will not interfere with operation of the landing facility.
   (G)   Restrictions for development in the AAO District.
      (1)   To meet the standards and reporting requirements established in FAA
Regulations, Part 77, being 14 C.F.R. part 77, no structure shall penetrate
into the airport imaginary surfaces as defined above.
         (a)   No structure in the horizontal surface shall extend a height
greater than 150 feet.
         (b)   No structure in the conical surface shall extend a height
greater than 200 feet.
      (2)   No structure or building shall be allowed within the clear zone.
      (3)   Whenever there is a conflict in height limitations prescribed by
this overlay district and the underlying zoning district, the lowest height
limitation fixed shall govern; provided, however, that the height limitations
here imposed shall not apply to such structures customarily employed for
aeronautical purposes.
      (4)   No glare producing materials shall be used on the exterior of any
structure located within the airport approach safety zone.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.035 HAZARD OVERLAY ZONE (HO DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this overlay zone is to avoid development
hazards in the areas of the city and the urban growth boundary, which have been
mapped as inundation zones (limit construction of new essential facilities and
special occupancy structures as defined in O.R.S. 455.447 in tsunami inundation
zones). The following special regulations apply to all properties, which lie
wholly or partially within one or more of these areas (refer to tsunami hazard
map of the city quadrangle).
   (B)   Scope.
      (1)   Protect life and property from natural disasters and hazards.
      (2)   Provide appropriate safeguards to protect development from natural
hazards.
   (C)   Authorization. In addition to complying with the provisions of the
underlying zoning district, uses and activities shall comply with the
provisions of this overlay zone, as required by O.R.S. 455.447.
   (D)   Hazard Overlay Zone boundaries. The boundaries of the HO District Zone
shall be the same as the boundaries of the Cascadia Subduction Zone Tsunami
Inundation Zone map for the city. These areas shall be part of the zoning
ordinance. The underlying zoning district regulations shall remain in effect
and all development shall be subject to the requirements of both the underlying
zone district and the Hazards Overlay Zone.
   (E)   Site investigation required.
      (1)   A site investigation shall be required by the city for subdivision,
partitioning, conditional use or other site development approved by the City
Planning Commission in the Hazards Overlay Zone. The city planning official
shall require the site investigation in all land use applications handled
administratively in which City Planning Commission approval is not required.
Site investigation reports shall be performed by an especially qualified
engineer or engineering geologist registered by the state to practice as such,
in areas requiring specialized knowledge, such as Tsunami Inundation Zones, the
city may require that a person with experience or training in such areas be
employed.
      (2)   Essential facilities and new special occupancy structures shall not
be constructed in Tsunami Inundation Zones established by Department of Geology
and Minerals Industries (DOGAMI), unless specifically exempted by O.R.S.
455.446 or given an exception by the DOGAMI governing board.
      (3)   New “essential facilities”, special occupancy structures and all
new hazardous facilities and major structures defined in O.R.S. 455.447 that
are constructed in a Tsunami Inundation Zone are mandated to seek advice from
DOGAMI.
   (F)   Method for minimizing Inundation Zone hazards.
      (1)   The owner or developer will have a new site investigation report
made for the site prepared to determine the nature and extent of inundation
area on the site, unless the Planning Commission determines that an adequate
site investigation report has already been undertaken.
      (2)   The method used to conduct the site investigation report must be
acceptable to a qualified engineering geologist and acknowledged by DOGAMI.
         (a)   The report shall be based on historical inundation information.
         (b)   In situations where similar source, tectonic and coastal
environments exist and modeled inundation has been done elsewhere, interpolate
inundation based on maximum modeled inundation in nearby/bounding areas.
            1.   If available, use low resolution, regional simulations to
estimate the relative amplification of tsunamis by offshore bathymetric
effects.
            2.   Interpolation should take into account the behavior of
tsunamis of similar size for terrain analogous to that of the target area.
         (c)   The report should extrapolate lower-resolution model data on
land to estimate inundation and add a safety factor for both inundation and
elevation. Extrapolation should take into account the behavior of tsunamis of
similar size for terrain analogous to that of the target area, even for
tsunamis from other parts of the world.
         (d)   In the absence of other tsunami hazard information, consultation
with your NTHMP scientific representative, for tsunami evacuation planning.
      (3)   If the detailed site investigation report indicates that
significant amounts of inundation area are in locations required for
development, the developer or owner shall have a report prepared by a qualified
engineering geologist, which indicates suitable techniques to minimize
potential hazards to facilities on the parcel, adjacent and nearby property.
      (4)   Buildings identified for vertical evacuation should have the
following characteristics:
         (a)   Designed and built using modern structural engineering;
         (b)   Constructed of reinforced concrete or steel; and
         (c)   Well maintained with buildings materials in good condition.
   (G)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses may be permitted
subject to a conditional use permit: transportation facilities and
improvements:
      (1)   Transportation projects that are not designated improvements in the
Transportation System Plan; and
      (2)   Transportation projects that are not designated and constructed as
part of an approved subdivision or partition.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 1320, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.036 WATER RESOURCES PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT (WRPO DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Water Resources Protection Overlay (WRPO)
District is to implement the city significant wetland and riparian policies of
the city’s Comprehensive Plan and to guide development and conservation of
significant wetlands, streams and riparian corridors identified in the city
significant riparian/wetlands inventory (Local Riparian/Wetlands Inventory) and
on the city significant wetlands and riparian corridor map (significant
wetlands and riparian corridor map).
   (B)   Scope.
      (1)   To allow use of properties while establishing clear and objective
standards to protect and restore water bodies and their associated riparian
areas, thereby protecting and restoring the hydrologic, ecological and land
conservation functions these areas provide;
      (2)   To protect habitat for fish and other aquatic life, protect habitat
for wildlife, protect water quality for human uses and for aquatic life,
control erosion and limit sedimentation, limit development in significant
riparian corridors and reduce the effects of flooding; and
      (3)   To exclude structures from areas adjacent to fish bearing lakes and
streams, and their associated wetlands, and restrict native vegetation removal
or other alterations in those areas.
   (C)   Applicability and generalized mapping.
      (1)   (a)   The WRPO Overlay District applies to all wetlands, streams
and riparian corridors, identified as significant in the city wetlands and
stream corridors map contained in the city’s Comprehensive Plan. This
generalized map is based on the city wetlands and riparian inventory. The
significant wetlands and riparian corridor map shows the general location of
significant resources. However, the edge of the wetlands area cannot be
determined, until a wetland delineation is completed by a qualified person.
         (b)   The standards and procedures of this section:
            1.   Apply to all development proposed on a lot or parcel located
within, or partially within, the WRPO District;
            2.   Are in addition to the standards of the underlying zone; and
            3.   In cases of conflict, this WRPO District supersedes the
standards of the underlying zone.
      (2)   The city wetlands and stream corridors map identifies the
significant water resources designated in division (A) above.
      (3)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing a map of the
precise location of the top of the streambank, the wetland edge and/or the
riparian setback at the time of application submittal.
      (4)   (a)   The inventory of significant wetlands and riparian corridors
contained in the Comprehensive Plan identifies all significant wetlands,
identifies which streams are fish-bearing and specifies the stream-size
category.
         (b)   Based on the classification contained in this inventory, the
following significant wetlands and riparian corridor setbacks shall be
established:
            1.   a.   Along all streams identified in the Local Riparian/
Wetlands Inventory, the riparian corridor boundary shall be 50 feet from the
top of bank; and
               b.   This includes the following water bodies:
                  i.   Colby Creek;
                  ii.   Dougherty Slough;
                  iii.   Hall Slough;
                  iv.   Holden Creek;
                  v.   Hoquarton Slough;
                  vi.   Jack Creek;
                  vii.   Trask River; and
                  ix.   Wilson River.
            2.   Along all significant wetlands as designated in the Local
Riparian/Wetlands Inventory, the wetlands boundary shall be measured
horizontally 50 feet from the line of non-aquatic vegetation.
            3.   Where the riparian corridor includes all or portions of a
significant wetland identified in the Local Riparian/Wetlands Inventory, the
distance to the riparian corridor boundary shall be measured from the upland
edge of the wetland.
            4.   The measurement of distance to the riparian corridor boundary
shall be from the top of bank. In areas where the top of the bank cannot be
clearly determined, the riparian corridor boundary shall be measured from the
ordinary high water level, or the line of non-aquatic vegetation, whichever is
most landward.
   (D)   Activities permitted and prohibited within the riparian/wetlands area.
This section outlines the uses and conditions associated with development in
the WRPO District as required by O.A.R. 660-023-0090(8)(a) through (c).
      (1)   The permanent alteration of the riparian corridor/wetlands area by
grading or by the placement of structures or impervious surfaces is prohibited,
except for the following uses, provided they are designed to minimize intrusion
into the riparian and wetland area, and no other options or locations are
feasible:
         (a)   Streets, roads and paths;
         (b)   Drainage facilities, utilities and irrigation pumps;
         (c)   Water-related and water-dependent uses;
         (d)   Replacement of existing structures with structures in the same
location that do not disturb additional riparian and wetland surface area;
         (e)   Non-conforming uses existing fully or partially within the
riparian corridor and wetland area may be expanded, provided the expansion does
not occur within the riparian corridor. Substantial improvement of a non-
conforming structure in the riparian corridor/wetland area shall comply with
the standards of this chapter;
         (f)   Existing lawn within the riparian corridor/wetland area may be
maintained, but not expanded to further intrude into the riparian corridor; and
         (g)   Shoreline stabilization and flood control structures that
legally existed on the effective date of this chapter may be maintained. Any
expansion of existing structures or development of new structures shall be
evaluated by the city and appropriate state natural resource agency staff. Such
alteration of the riparian corridor shall be approved only if less invasive or
non-structural methods will not adequately meet the stabilization or flood
control needs.
      (2)   Removal of riparian/wetland vegetation is prohibited, except for:
         (a)   Removal of non-native vegetation and replacement with native
plant species. The replacement vegetation shall cover, at a minimum, the area
from which vegetation was removed, and shall maintain or exceed the density of
the removed vegetation;
         (b)   Removal of vegetation necessary for the development of approved
water-related or water-dependents uses shall be kept to the minimum necessary
to allow the water-dependent or water-related use;
         (c)   Trees in danger of falling and thereby posing a hazard to life
or property may be felled, following consultation and approval from the Public
Works Director. The Public Works Director may require these trees, once felled,
to be left in place in the riparian corridor; and
         (d)   Existing landscaping, established prior to the effective date of
this chapter may be maintained. However, no new encroachment into the riparian
corridor/wetland area shall be allowed. Consultation with the State Department
of Fish and Wildlife (ODFW) is required prior to trimming/pruning of riparian/
wetland vegetation in order to minimize the adverse effect of the trimming on
water quality and aquatic habitat.
      (3)   Exceptions: the following activities are not required to meet the
standards of this section:
         (a)   Commercial forest practices regulated by the State Forest
Practices Act, being O.R.S. 527.610 et seq.; and
         (b)   Normal and accepted farming practices other than buildings or
structures, existing in the riparian area prior to the date of adoption of this
chapter.
      (4)   Development proposed within any wetland or stream, in addition to
meeting the standards of this section, shall also be approved by Department of
State Lands (DSL) and Army Corps of Engineers (CoE);
      (5)   Exemptions:
         (a)   When performed under the direction of the city, and in
compliance with the provisions of the city public works improvement standards
and specifications, as well as riparian/wetland setbacks in this chapter, the
following shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
            1.   Emergency repairs to public facilities; and
            2.   Routine maintenance or replacement of existing facilities.
         (b)   When performed under consultation with ODFW and other
authorities as appropriate, the following shall be exempt from the provisions
of this chapter:
            1.   Stream and wetlands restoration and enhancement programs,
authorized by appropriate permits;
            2.   Non-native vegetation removal; and
            3.   Planting of native plant species.
      (6)   Any permitted crossings of significant riparian corridor/wetland
area waterways shall be conducted in consultation with the ODFW, DSL and CoE.
   (E)   Application requirements. All development applications on lots within,
or partially within, the WRPO District shall submit the following information,
in addition to other information required by this Development Code.
      (1)   Underlying zone district permitted uses. The applicant shall
prepare a plan that demonstrates that the use will be constructed and located
so as to minimize grading, native vegetation removal and the area necessary for
the use. The city may require additional information where necessary to
determine WRPO District boundaries or to mitigate identified impacts from a
proposed development, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Site survey as prescribed in applicable zoning clearance permit
application;
         (b)   A map showing the name and location of streams including
streambanks and significant riparian corridors including adjacent wetlands;
         (c)   A map showing the location of any wetlands; and
         (d)   A map showing the riparian setback area.
      (2)   Underlying zone district conditional uses and land division
developments. The applicant shall prepare a required site specific survey. If
any conditional use permit or planned unit development activity is proposed
within significant water resource site setbacks, the applicant shall provide a
survey of the entire site that precisely maps and delineates the following:
         (a)   The location of streams and significant riparian corridors,
including adjacent wetlands, and the tops of their respective stream banks or
wetland boundaries;
         (b)   Significant wetlands;
         (c)   The area enclosed by the riparian setback;
         (d)   Property lines and easements, existing public rights-of-way,
structures, roads and utilities;
         (e)   Vegetation, including trees or tree clusters and under-story
vegetation; and
         (f)   Existing and proposed contours at two-foot intervals.
   (F)   Development standards. The following shall apply to all development,
including native vegetation removal and excavation, in the WRPO District. No
application for uses identified in this section shall be deemed complete until
the applicant has addressed each of these standards in writing.
      (1)   Alternatives considered. In general, land development is expected
to occur outside the WRPO District significant water resource setback areas.
Therefore, development applications must carefully examine upland alternatives
for the proposed use and explain the reasons why the proposed development
cannot reasonably occur outside of the water resource or riparian/wetland
setback area.
      (2)   Minimize siting impacts. The proposed use shall be designed,
located and constructed to minimize excavation, loss of native vegetation,
erosion and adverse hydrological impacts on significant water resources. Site
analysis shall be provided to the city.
         (a)   For land divisions, the applicants must certify that any adverse
water quality impacts of the development proposal will be minimized consistent
with best management practices.
         (b)   The development shall intrude into water resource or riparian
setbacks as little as possible, recognizing the operational needs of the
proposed development.
      (3)   Construction materials and methods. Where development within the
riparian area is unavoidable, construction materials or methods used within the
riparian setback area shall minimize damage to water quality and native
vegetation.
      (4)   Alteration requiring mitigation. If a use is proposed within a
significant resource site or riparian and wetland setback area, a mitigation
plan shall be prepared and implemented.
         (a)   Permanent alteration of the riparian/wetland area by placement
of structures or impervious surfaces is allowable under the following
procedures, subject to the mitigation requirements of division (E) above.
            1.   Unless permitted under division (D)(1) above, a variance to
the riparian/wetland setback approved through the procedures of division (G)
below.
            2.   Proposals for development activities within the riparian/
wetland area shall be reviewed by ODFW under its fish and wildlife habitat
mitigation policy. Mitigation recommendations by ODFW may become conditions for
approval of a proposed alteration of a wetland or riparian corridor.
         (b)   Conditional uses in the underlying zoning districts, with the
criteria listed in §
152.071, may be approved in the WRPO District where the applicant can
demonstrate, through site analysis, that there are no reasonable alternatives
and that the proposed use(s) are designed and constructed to minimize intrusion
into the significant resource.
      (5)   Erosion and vegetation plan implementation.
         (a)   A schedule of planned erosion control and re-vegetation measures
shall be provided, which sets forth the progress of construction activities and
mitigating erosion control measures.
         (b)   The approved erosion control or re-vegetation plan shall be
implemented and maintained as follows.
            1.   Erosion control measures shall be installed prior to any
stripping or excavation work.
            2.   The applicant shall implement the measures and construct
facilities contained in the approved erosion control plan in a timely manner.
During active construction, the applicant shall inspect erosion control
measures daily, and maintain, adjust, repair or replace erosion control
measures to ensure that they are functioning properly.
            3.   Eroded sediment shall be removed immediately from pavement
surfaces, off-site areas and from the surface water management system,
including storm drainage inlets, ditches and culverts.
            4.   Water containing sediment shall not be flushed into the
surface water management system, wetlands or streams without first passing
through an approved sediment filtering facility or device.
            5.   In addition, prior to fencing placement and excavation, the
applicant shall call for inspection. Prior to the foundation inspection for any
building, the applicant shall call for inspection to certify that erosion
control measures are installed in accordance with the erosion control plan.
   (G)   Variances. In cases where the riparian corridor unduly restricts the
development of a lot or parcel legally created before the effective date of
this chapter, a property owner may request a variance to the riparian setback.
As a replacement to §
152.073, granting of a variance requires findings that:
      (1)   The proposed development represents a reasonable and legal use of
the lot or parcel considering the zoning district requirements;
      (2)   Strict adherence to the riparian/wetland area setback and other
applicable standards would effectively preclude a use of the parcel that could
be reasonably expected to occur in similarly zoned parcels;
      (3)   The property owner would be precluded a substantial property right
enjoyed by the majority of landowners in the vicinity and has exhausted all
other options available under this chapter to relieve the hardship;
      (4)   The variance is the minimum necessary to retain a use of the
property and to afford relief, considering the potential for increased flood
and erosion hazard, and potential adverse impacts on native vegetation, fish
and wildlife habitat, and water quality;
      (5)   Granting the variance will not be materially detrimental to the
public welfare or be injurious to property or improvements in the neighborhood
of the premises and no significant adverse impacts on water quality, erosion or
slope stability will result from approval of the variance, or these impacts
have been mitigated to the greatest extent possible; and
      (6)   The variance will be in general harmony with the intent and purpose
of this chapter, and will not adversely affect any officially adopted
Comprehensive Plan provision.
   (H)   Mandatory notification of permitting agencies.
      (1)   A riparian corridor and isolated wetlands not designated as
significant resources, and wetlands that do not qualify as significant in city
local wetland inventory may be subject to permitting requirements of the
Department of State Lands and the Army Corps of Engineers. To effectively
coordinate permitting responsibilities, the city will notify the Department of
State Lands of all development applications that may impact wetland resources
in the city. The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining any applicable
development permits from state and federal agencies.
      (2)   The notification procedure is as follows.
         (a)   The city shall require written application for all wetland
modifications at the time of local permit application.
         (b)   The city shall record the application and forward a copy of the
application to the Department of State Lands.
         (c)   The city shall not allow review or approval of any application
for permit that includes the intent to modify a wetland or riparian resource
until such time as the permitting agencies have approved a modification permit.
         (d)   The city shall report, in writing, a record of modification of
the riparian and wetland resources not included on the significant riparian
corridor and wetland list to all permitting agencies with a jurisdictional
interest.
   (I)   Changes to inventory maps.
      (1)   Claims of an error in the mapped location of a wetland or riparian
corridor on the significant wetlands and riparian corridor map may be
considered as part of an application for a subdivision, partition, lot line
adjustment, site plan review, conditional use permit or variance.
      (2)   Claims that an identified significant wetland or riparian corridor
should be deleted from, or added to, the significant wetlands and riparian
corridor map shall be considered through the plan amendment process.
      (3)   All claims of map errors shall be supported by adequate inventory
information and analysis to justify the claim, and shall be verified by the
State Department of State Lands.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 1320, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.037 FLOOD HAZARD OVERLAY ZONE (FHO DISTRICT).
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section of the Development Code
from the city to promote the public health, safety and general welfare, and to
minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by
provisions designed:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains; electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets; and bridges
located in areas of special flood hazard;
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
      (7)   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
      (8)   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
   (B)   Findings of fact. The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to
periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards; disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief; and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
      (1)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses
that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss.
      (2)   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods
and provisions for:
         (a)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in
damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
         (b)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
         (c)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream
channels and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel
flood waters;
         (d)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development
which may increase flood damage; and
         (e)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers
which will unnaturally divert flood waters or may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
   (C)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has in O.R.S.
Chapter 227 delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
of its citizenry.
   (D)   Definitions. Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used
in this section shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have
in common usage and to give this section its most reasonable application. Many
of these definitions also appear in §
152.003. All the definitions listed below apply to this section.
      APPEAL. A request for a review of the City Manager’s interpretation of
any provision of this section of the Development Code.
      AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH or VO Zone on
a community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and
where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding
or sheet flow.
      AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Designation on maps always includes the letters A or V.
      BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year. Also referred to as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. Designation on maps
always includes the letters A or V.
      BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.
      BELOW GRADE. Crawlspace means an enclosed area below the base flood
elevation in which the interior grade does not exceed two feet below the lowest
adjacent exterior grade and the height, measured from the interior grade of the
crawlspace to the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the
lowest floor does not exceed four feet at any point.
      CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
      ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which
has its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls,
sheer walls, post piers, pilings or columns.
      FLOOD or FLOODING.
         (a)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
            1.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
            2.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source; and
            3.   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are approximately caused by
flooding as defined in this division (D) and are akin to a river of liquid and
flowing mud on the surface of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried
by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
         (b)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves
exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high
water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by a
unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flooding or an abnormal tidal
surge, or by some similarly unusually and unforeseeable event which results in
flooding as defined in this division (D).
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
      FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. Can also mean flood elevation study, which means
an examination, evaluation and determination of flood hazards and, if
appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an examination,
evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related
erosion hazards.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
      FOUNDATION (PERMANENT). Primary support for a structure through which the
imposed load is transmitted to the footing or earth.
      LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter found in division
(G)(2)(a)2. below.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For insurance
purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels)
of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, new construction means structures for which the
start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
      START OF CONSTRUCTION. (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348),
being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501 et seq.), includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
      STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured dwelling, a
modular or temporary building or a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to Its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
         (a)   The market value of the structure is:
            1.   The real market value of the structure prior to the start of
the initial repair or improvement; or
            2.   In the case of damage, the real market value of the structure
prior to the damage occurring.
         (b)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT does not include either:
            1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications,
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
            2.   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
      VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
   (E)   General provisions.
      (1)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to
all areas of special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of the city.
      (2)   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard. The areas
of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance Administration in a
scientific and engineering report entitled “The Flood Insurance Study for
Tillamook County, Oregon and incorporated areas”, dated September 28, 2018, and
as amended with accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRM), as subsequently
amended by FEMA, are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this chapter. The flood insurance study is on file at City Hall, 210 Laurel
Avenue in Tillamook, Oregon.
      (3)   Penalties for noncompliance. No structure or land shall hereafter
be constructed, located, extended, converted or altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. Unless
otherwise indicated, non-compliance with the provisions of this chapter
(including violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection
with conditions) is classified as a violation punishable by a fine set by
resolution.
      (4)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended
to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
      (5)   In the interpretation. In the interpretation and application of
this chapter, all provisions shall be:
         (a)   Considered as minimum requirements;
         (b)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
         (c)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under state statutes.
      (6)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by human-made or
natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the city, any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Insurance
Administration, for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter
or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
   (F)   Administration.
      (1)   Establishment of development permit.
         (a)   Development permit required. A development permit, such as the
city zoning clearance permit, city flood hazard development permit, the county
construction permit, shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area of special flood hazard established in division (D)
above. The permit shall be for all structures including manufactured homes, as
set forth in division (D) above, and for all development including fill and
other activities, also as set forth in division (D) above.
         (b)   Application for development permit. Application for a
development permit shall be made on forms furnished by the City Manager and may
include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the
nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing
or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities and the
location of the foregoing. Specifically, all of the following information is
required:
            1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
            2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure
has been floodproofed;
            3.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet
the floodproofing criteria in division (G)(2)(b); and
            4.   Description of the extent to which a watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Designation of the local administration. The City Manager is hereby
appointed to administer and implement this subchapter by granting or denying
development permit applications in accordance with its provisions. The City
Manager may delegate to appropriately trained staff.
      (3)   Duties and responsibilities of the City Manager. Duties of the City
Manager shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Permit review.
            1.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
            2.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required; and
            3.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of division (G)(3) below are met.
         (b)   Use of other base flood data. When base flood elevation data has
not been provided in accordance with division (E)(2) above, the City Manager
may obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway
data available from a federal, State or other source, in order to administer
divisions (G)(2) and (G)(3) below; and
         (c)   Information to be obtained and maintained.
            1.   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the flood
insurance study or required as in division (F)(3)(b) above, obtain and record
the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, and
whether or not the structure contains a basement.
            2.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
               a.   Verify, record and maintain the actual elevation and
elevation certification (in relation to mean sea level); and
               b.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in
division (G)(2)(b) below.
            3.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
            4.   For manufactured homes, maintain the anchoring certifications
required in division (G)(1)(a)3. below.
         (d)   Alteration of watercourses.
            1.   Notify adjacent communities and the Department of Land
Conservation and Development prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration.
            2.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished.
         (e)   Interpretation of FIRM boundaries. Make interpretations, where
needed, as to exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood
hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of
the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation, as provided in division (F)(4) below.
      (4)   Variance procedure.
         (a)   Appeal Board.
            1.   The City Planning Commission as established by the city shall
hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of
this chapter.
            2.   The City Planning Commission shall hear and decide appeals
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or
determination made by the City Manager in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
            3.   In reviewing upon such applications, the City Planning
Commission shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
standards specified in other sections of this chapter and:
               a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to
the injury of others;
               b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
               c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its
contents to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
               d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community;
               e.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location,
where applicable;
               f.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed
use which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
               g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
               h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive
Plan and floodplain management program for that area;
               i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
               j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
               k.   The costs of providing governmental services during and
after flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities
and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets
and bridges.
            4.   The City Planning Commission may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
            5.   The city shall maintain the records of all appeal actions and
report any variances to the Federal Insurance Administration upon request.
         (b)   Conditions for variances.
            1.   Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the
elevation standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing division (G)(5)(b)1. below has been fully considered. As
the lot size increases, the technical justification required for issuing the
variance increases.
            2.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation
or restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places
or the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in this section.
            3.   Variances shall not be issued within a designated floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
            4.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
            5.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
               a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
               b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
               c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
            6.   Variances as interpreted in the national flood insurance
program are based on the general zoning law principle that they pertain to the
structure, its inhabitants, economic or financial circumstances. They primarily
address small lots in densely populated residential neighborhoods. As such,
variances from the flood elevations should be quite rare.
            7.   Variances may be issued for nonresidential buildings in very
limited circumstances to allow a lesser degree of floodproofing than water
tight or dry floodproofing, where it can be determined that such action will
have low damage potential, complies with all other variance criteria except (F)
(4)(b)3., and otherwise complies with divisions (G)(1)(a) and (G)(1)(b) below.
   (G)   Provisions for flood hazard reduction.
      (1)   General standards. In all areas of special flood hazards, the
following standards are required.
         (a)   Anchoring.
            1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
            2.   All manufactured homes must likewise be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors
(reference FEMA’s “Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Hazard Areas”
guidebook for additional techniques).
            3.   A registered architect or engineer shall certify that the
anchoring system is in conformance with divisions (G)(1)(a)1. and (G)(1)(a)2.
above prior to final inspection.
         (b)   Construction materials and methods.
            1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
            2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
            3.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air-
conditioning equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or
otherwise elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or
accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
            4.   An elevation certificate for all new construction and
substantial improvements shall be provided to the city for both pre-
construction (part 1) and the final lowest floor certification (part 2) by the
property owner.
         (c)   Utilities.
            1.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
            2.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
            3.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
         (d)   Subdivision proposals.
            1.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
            2.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
            3.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage
provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
            4.   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is
not available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least 50
lots or five acres (whichever is less).
         (e)   Review of building permits. Where elevation data is not
available either through the flood insurance study or from another
authoritative source (division (F)(3)(b) above), applications for building
permits shall be reviewed to assure that proposed construction will be
reasonably safe from flooding. The test of reasonableness is a local judgment
and includes use of historical data, high water marks, photographs of past
flooding and the like, where available. Failure to elevate at least two feet
above grade in these zones may result in higher insurance rates.
      (2)   Specific standards. In all areas of special flood hazards where
base flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in division (E)(2)
above or division (F)(3)(b) above, the following provisions are required.
         (a)   Residential construction.
            1.   New construction and substantial improvement of any
residential structure shall have the lowest flood, including basement, elevated
to two feet above base flood elevation as determined with an elevation
certificate; and
            2.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject
to flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exist
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
               a.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided;
               b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
               c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
         (b)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to two feet
above the base flood elevation as determined with an elevation certificate; or,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall:
            1.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the
structure is water tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
            2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
            3.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
accepted standards of practice for meeting provisions of this division (G)(2)
(b)3. based on their development and/or review of the structural design,
specifications and plans. Such certifications shall be provided to the official
as set forth in division (F)(3)(c)2. above.
            4.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed,
must meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
division (G)(2)(a)2. above.
            5.   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall be
notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot
below the floodproofed level (e.g., a building constructed to the base flood
level will be rated as one foot below that level).
         (c)   Manufactured homes.
            1.   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved
within Zones A1 through 30, AH and AE shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is two feet
above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (G)(1)
(a) above.
            2.   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved
on sites shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the bottom of
the longitudinal chassis frame beam shall be at or above the base flood
elevation (BFE) and be securely anchored to an adequately designed foundation
system to resist floatation, collapse and lateral movement. Electrical
crossover connections shall be a minimum of 12 inches above the BFE. Crossover
ducts are allowed below the BFE, but shall be constructed to prevent
floodwaters from entering or accumulating within system components. This may
require an engineer’s certification.
            3.   If the manufactured dwelling is supported on solid foundation
walls, the ground area reserved for the placement of a manufactured dwelling
shall be a minimum of two feet above BFE unless the foundation walls are
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic forces by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum criteria:
               a.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided;
               b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
               c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
         (d)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles may occupy a site
in a special flood hazard area for periods of 180 consecutive days or greater
providing they are fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or a
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices and has no permanently attached additions. Recreational
vehicles that do not meet these criteria become manufactured homes and must be
anchored and elevated pursuant to division (G)(1)(a)2. above.
         (e)   Floodways. Floodways are designated within areas of special
flood hazard established in division (E)(2) above. Since the floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters that carry debris,
potential projectiles and erosion potential the following provisions apply:
            1.   a.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development unless through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
by a registered professional civil engineer is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
               b.   The supporting technical data for “no-rise” certification
shall be based upon a step-back water analysis and conveyance compensation
analysis as required by FEMA and the procedures for “no-rise” certification for
proposed developments in the regulatory floodway.
            2.   If division (G)(2)(e)1. above is satisfied, all new
construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable
flood hazard reduction provision of this division (G).
      (3)   Encroachments. The cumulative effect of any proposed development,
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, shall not
increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at
any point within the flood zone.
      (4)   Zones with base flood elevations but no regulatory floodway.
            1.   In areas within Zones A1 through 30 and AE on the community’s
FIRM with a base flood elevation but where no regulatory floodway has been
designated, new construction, substantial improvements or other development
(including fill) shall be prohibited, unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
            2.   Applicants of proposed projects that increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot shall obtain from FEMA a conditional letter of map
revision (CLOMR) before the project may be permitted. As soon as possible, but
no later than six months after project completion, an application for a letter
of map revision (LOMR) shall be submitted by the applicant to FEMA. The
applicant is responsible for paying any costs associated with the CLOMR and
LOMR process.
      (5)   Standards for shallow flooding areas (AO Zones).
         (a)   Shallow flooding areas appear on FIRM’S as AO Zones with depth
designations. The base flood depths in these zones range from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, or where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident.
         (b)   Such flooding is usually characterized as sheet flow. In these
areas, the following provisions apply.
            1.   New construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures with AO Zones shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated above the highest adjacent grade of the building site, to or above the
depth number specified on the FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is
specified).
            2.   New construction and substantial improvements of
nonresidential structures within AO Zones shall either:
               a.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above
the highest adjacent grade of the building site, to or above the depth number
specified on the FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified);
               b.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
completely floodproofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is water tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. If this method is
used, compliance shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect as in division (G)(2)(b)3. above; and
               c.   Require adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
      (6)   Critical facility. Construction of new critical facilities shall
be, to the extent possible, located outside the limits of the special flood
hazard area (SFHA) (100-year floodplain). Construction of new critical
facilities shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site
is available. Critical facility construction within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated three feet above BFE or to the height of the 500-year
flood, whichever is higher. Access to and from the critical facility should
also be protected to the height utilized above the BFE. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the level of the BFE shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent
possible.
   (H)   Restrictions.
      (1)   Restrictions. Restrictions regarding height, rear yards, side
yards, front yard setbacks, minimum lot area, signs, vision clearance and
parking space shall be the same as set forth in each specific zone located
within the flood hazard overlay zone area.
      (2)   Prohibited uses. It shall be unlawful to erect, alter, maintain or
establish in a flood hazard overlay zone any building, use or occupancy not
permitted or allowed in the foregoing provisions, except existing non-
conforming uses, which may continue as provided in §
152.073.
   (I)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   Within six months of project completion, an applicant who obtains a
conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) from FEMA, or whose development
alters a watercourse, modifies floodplain boundaries or base flood elevations
shall obtain from FEMA a letter of map revision (LOMR) reflecting the as-built
changes to the FIS and/or FIRM.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to hove technical data
prepared in a format required for a CLOMR or LOMR and to submit such data to
FEMA on the appropriate FEMA Form MT-2 application forms. Submittal and
processing fees for these map revisions shall be the responsibility of the
applicant.
      (3)   Applicants shall be responsible for all costs associated with
obtaining a CLOMR or LOMR from FEMA.
      (4)   The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign
the community acknowledgment form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application,
until the applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met all
applicable requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 1335, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 1338, passed 10-
1-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.038 ESTUARY STANDARDS, REQUIREMENTS AND SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Estuary Standards and Requirements and
Shorelands Overlay District is to bring under special review those projects
involving development within designated estuaries in an effort to recognize;
protect; maintain; and, where appropriate, restore the unique environmental,
economic and social values of said estuaries.
   (B)   Scope.
      (1)   Recognition, protection, maintenance and restoration, where
appropriate, of the unique environmental, economic and social values of the
designated estuaries in the city.
      (2)   Estuary standards shall be applied to all estuarine waters,
intertidal areas, submerged and submersible lands and tidal wetlands up to the
line of non-aquatic vegetation or the mean higher high water (MHHW) line,
whichever is most landward.
   (C)   Standards. For all areas designated as estuary, § 3.1 of the County
Development Code shall apply by reference and shall be made a part of this
chapter.
      (1)   The conditional use provisions of §
152.071 shall be applied under this chapter.
      (2)   Tillamook Bay Estuary Management Unit Designation Maps and
Tillamook Bay Estuary Zoning Maps H, I and J of Tillamook County Ordinance No.
33.
   (D)   Shoreland Overlay Zone (SHO).
      (1)   For all areas designated as shorelands, § 3.090 of the County
Development Code shall apply by reference and shall be made a part of this
Development Code.
      (2)   The city incorporates by reference the county Shoreland Overlay
Zone into its proposed appended county coastal ordinances in order to fully
address the coastal ordinances.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014) Penalty, see §
152.999
INTERPRETATION, STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS
§ 152.050 INTERPRETATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   General exceptions to lot size requirements. If, at the time of
passage of the original zoning ordinance dated July 28, 1980, or annexation to
the city, a legally created lot or the aggregate of contiguous lots or land
parcels held in a single ownership has an area or dimension less than required
for the zoning district in which the property is located, the lot or aggregate
holdings may be occupied by any permitted use in the district subject to
compliance with all other requirements of the district; provided, however, that
the use of a lot in an R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O Zone District which has an area
deficiency shall be limited to a single-family dwelling or duplex.
   (B)   Accessory structures and uses.
      (1)   A greenhouse or hot house may be maintained accessory to a dwelling
provided there are no sales.
      (2)   A guest house may be maintained accessory to a dwelling provided
there are no cooking facilities in the guest house.
      (3)   Sight obscuring fences, as per §
152.003, may be located in a required front yard or in a vision clearance area
provided that they shall not exceed three feet in height measured from the top
of the curb.
   (C)   Exception to height regulations. Height limitations set forth
elsewhere in this chapter shall not apply to: barns, silos or other farm
buildings and structures; water towers and tanks, provided they are not less
than 50 feet from every lot line; chimneys; church spires; belfries; cupolas;
domes; smokestacks; flagpoles; grain elevators; cooling towers; monuments; fire
hose towers; masts; aerials; elevator shafts and other similar projections; and
outdoor theater screens, provided said screens contain no advertising matter
other than the name of the theater.
   (D)   Access. Except as permitted by other provisions of this chapter, no
lot shall contain any building used in whole or in part for residential
purposes unless said lot abuts a street or an alley for a distance of at least
40 feet.
   (E)   Vision clearance area. Vision clearance area shall be provided within
the triangular corner, two sides of which are the intersecting right-of-way
lines, and the third side, the connection of points on those right-of-way lines
the following distance from the point of intersection of those two lines. (See
divisions (K)(1) and (K)(2) below.)
      (1)   In a residential district, the minimum distance shall be 20 feet at
street intersections or, at intersections including an alley, ten feet,
measured from the property line.
      (2)   (a)   In all other districts where yards are required, the minimum
distance shall be 15 feet or, at intersections including an alley, ten feet,
except that when the angle of intersection between streets other than an alley
is less than 30 degrees, the distance shall be 25 feet, measured from the
property line.
         (b)   In districts where no yards are required, the minimum distance
shall be ten feet, measured from the property line.
      (3)   Vision clearance area shall contain no plantings, fences, walls,
structures or temporary or permanent obstructions exceeding three feet in
height measured from the top of the curb, except that street trees exceeding
this height may be located in this area, provided all branches and foliage are
removed to a height of ten feet above the grade, and a maximum of two sign
support posts not exceeding eight inches in diameter may be located in this
area provided that no portion of the sign or signboard may extend below six
feet above the grade.
      (4)   In the public right-of-way, for objects located in the sidewalk
area, the minimum distance shall be 30 feet at street intersections measured
from the curb tangent point where the arc and ray, or straight curb meet.
      (5)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to permit a sight
obstruction within any required yard area at a street or alley intersection
interfering with the view of operators of motor vehicles on the streets or
alleys to such an extent as to constitute a traffic hazard. If the Planning
Commission finds that this is the case, it shall have the authority to order
the removal or modification of any such obstruction within any such required
yard area.
      (6)   The order shall be effective upon delivery of written notice to the
owner of the property giving the owner ten days after delivery of the notice in
which to remove or modify the obstruction; provided that said notice may be
given by certified letter addressed to the owner at the address indicated in
the records of the County Department of Assessment and Taxation, and the ten-
day period shall run from the date of mailing of such notice. Any decision of
the Planning Commission may be appealed in writing to the City Council, if
written notice of appeal is filed with the City Recorder within ten days after
the giving of the notice to remove or modify.
   (F)   Exception to yard requirements.
      (1)   Projects into required yards. Certain architectural features may
project into required yards or courts as follows:
         (a)   Cornices, canopies, eaves, belt courses, sills or other similar
architectural features, or fireplaces, but they may not, in any case, extend
more than 18 inches into any required yard areas; and
         (b)   Fire escapes, open uncovered porches, balconies, landing places
or outside stairways may not, in any case, extend more than 18 inches into any
required side or rear yards, and not exceeding six feet into any required front
yard. This is not to be construed as prohibiting open porches or stoops not
exceeding 18 inches in height and not approaching closer than 18 inches to any
lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1537.png]
 
      (2)   Residential use in commercial or industrial zoning districts. Any
structure in a “C” or “I” District designed and used for residential purposes
shall comply with the requirements of the R-O District. Structures in any “C”
or “I” District which contain dwelling units not on the ground floor need not
comply with residential district yard requirements; provided such structures
comply with other applicable codes or regulations as may exist concerning the
health and safety aspects of the dwelling units.
      (3)   Front yard exceptions. The following exceptions to the front yard
requirements are authorized for a lot in any zone district.
         (a)   If there are dwellings on both abutting lots with front yards of
less than the required depth for the zone district, the front yard of the lot
may equal the average front yard of the abutting lots.
         (b)   If there is a dwelling on one abutting lot with a front yard of
less depth than the required depth for the zone district, the front yard for
the lot may equal a depth halfway between the depth of the abutting lot and the
required front yard depth.
      (4)   Structures within yards. Decks, walkways or uncovered porches, 12
inches or less in height above grade, may be located within a required yard no
closer than five feet from the property line.
      (5)   Portable accessory structure or object. Portable accessory
structures or objects may be located in a rear yard or street-side yard setback
provided all of the following are met:
         (1)   Such structures or objects, with the exception of basketball
hoops, shall be less than ten feet in height. Basketball hoops shall be less
than 20 feet in height;
         (2)   Shall have structural walls located no closer than five feet
from the property line; and
         (3)   Shall have a footprint of less than 200 square feet.
   (G)   Authorization for similar uses. The Planning Commission may rule by
resolution that a use, not specifically named in the allowed uses of a
district, shall be included among the allowed uses, if the use is of the same
general type and is similar to the allowed uses.
   (H)   Existing uses. Except as hereinafter specified, any use, building or
structure lawfully existing at the time of the enactment of this chapter, may
be continued even though such use, building or structure may not conform to the
provisions of the original zoning ordinance, dated July 28, 1980, for the
district in which it is located; provided, however, that this section does not
apply to any use, building or structure established in violation of any zoning
ordinance previously in effect. Any change of use shall be subject to the
applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Pending building permits. Nothing herein shall require any change in
the location, site plans, building plans, construction, size or designated use
of any development, building, structure or part thereof, for which the required
official approval has been granted prior to the adoption of this the original
zoning ordinance dated July 28, 1980, or which was lawfully permitted within an
area prior to annexation thereof to the city. Unless construction on such
building or structure within the city begins within one year after the adoption
of this the original zoning ordinance dated July 28, 1980, no such existing
permit shall be deemed to allow any building or use which would not conform to
the requirements of this chapter.
   (J)   Existing land restrictions. It is not intended by this chapter to
interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other
agreements between parties; provided, however, that where this chapter imposed
a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or upon height of
buildings, or requires larger open spaces than are imposed or required by other
ordinances, rules, regulations or by easements, covenants or agreements, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern.
   (K)   The following illustrations are provided for further description.
      (1)   Clear vision area:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1539.png]
 
      (2)   Yards:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1541.png]
 
      (3)   Lots:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1543.png]
 
      (4)   Block:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1545.png]
 
(Ord. 1283, passed 12-2- 2013; Ord. 1352, passed 11-4- 2019; Ord. 050525A,
passed 5-19- 2025) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.051 PROVISIONS APPLYING TO SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish limitations for
special land uses which have been identified because of particular
characteristics. These characteristics for special uses must be carefully
regulated in terms of all development proposals. The standards in this section
relate to the special characteristics of the uses identified in this section
and, unless otherwise specified, are to be applied in addition to all other
applicable standards prescribed in this Development Code. In the event that the
standards contained in this section differ from other applicable standards of
this Development Code, the more stringent standards shall prevail.
   (B)   Automobile service stations. In addition to other standards of this
Development Code, automobile service stations, where permitted outright or as a
conditional use, shall comply with the provisions of this section. Service
stations shall be exempted from applicable district regulations only insofar as
the provisions in this section conflict with the appropriate district
regulations.
      (1)   A sight-obscuring fence or wall not less than five feet nor more
than six feet in height shall be provided between the service station and
abutting property in an R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District. Said wall or fence shall
be reduced to a three foot maximum in any required front yard setback.
      (2)   All lighting shall be of such illumination, direction and color as
not to create a nuisance on adjoining property or a traffic hazard.
      (3)   Vision clearance area as per §
152.050(E) shall be required at all access points.
   (C)   Animal hospitals, kennels, breeding grounds and veterinary clinics. A
veterinary clinic, kennel, breeding ground or animal hospital shall not be
located within 100 feet of a lot in any R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District, and the
applicant shall show that adequate measures and controls shall be taken to
prevent offensive noise and odor. No incineration of refuse shall be permitted
on the premises.
   (D)   Barns, coops, corrals and hutches, paddocks, pens for farm animals,
livestock and poultry farms and eggeries.
      (1)   Any building housing poultry or other smaller farm animals, such as
coops, hutches, pens shall be located not less than 25 feet from every lot
line. Odor, dust, noise, flies or drainage shall not be permitted to create or
become a nuisance to surrounding property.
      (2)   All barns, corrals, stables and paddocks housing livestock and
larger farm animals shall be located on the rear half of a lot and not closer
than 50 feet to any property line. Odor, dust, noise, flies or drainage shall
not be permitted to create or become a nuisance to surrounding property.
      (3)   The keeping of any farm animals shall be in buildings that fully
comply with building and sanitary codes.
      (4)   The keeping of any farm animals shall follow best animal husbandry
practices as determined by OSU extension services.
      (5)   Barns, coops, corrals and hutches, paddocks, pens for farm animals,
livestock and poultry farms and eggeries farm and animal husbandry is allowed
in the following zone districts: OS, R-7.5, R-5.0, R-O, N-C, H-C, C-C, L-I and
G-I.
   (E)   Bed and breakfast establishments. A structure designed for a single-
family residence where one or more rooms are available for transient lodging
and where a morning meal is provided to guests, staff and owners only. In
addition to required parking per § 152.054, the additional parking spaces shall
not be located in the front yard and must be asphalted. Signing shall be per §
152.055. All necessary state and county permits, certifications or requirements
shall be obtained as a condition of approval of a bed and breakfast service,
including compliance with O.A.R. Chapter 333, Division 170. Minimal outward
modification of the structure or grounds may be made only if such changes are
compatible with the character of the neighborhood and the intent of the zoning
district in which it is located, and with appropriate city approval where
required. Such establishments shall be owner-operated and occupied.
   (F)   Cemetery, crematory, mausoleum or columbarium. A cemetery, crematory,
mausoleum or columbarium shall have its principal access on a major street or
road with ingress and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion and
shall provide required off-street parking space. Cemeteries located within any
R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District or abutting such “R” District shall establish and
maintain appropriate landscaping and screening to minimize the conflict with
abutting residential use.
   (G)   Churches, hospitals or other religious or charitable institutions. In
any R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District, all buildings shall be set back a minimum of
15 feet from a side or rear lot line and all off-street parking facilities
shall be adequately screened from abutting property, and no sign shall exceed
six square feet in area or be internally illuminated.
   (H)   Circuses, carnivals, animal rides, animal displays, amusement rides,
flea markets or Christmas tree lots. A circus, carnival, animal ride, animal
display or amusement ride or flea market may be permitted for a term not to
exceed 30 days in a “C” or “I” District, except a N-C District, with the
written approval of the City Manager and an approved zoning clearance permit.
Christmas tree sales lots may be permitted in an R-5.0 or R-O Zoning District
after receiving permission in writing from the City Manager and an approved
zoning clearance permit. The City Manager may require suitable guarantees that
any property used for said purposes shall be restored to a neat and orderly
condition after termination of said uses. The City Manager’s decision may be
appealed to the Planning Commission through the general appeals procedure set
forth in §
152.076.
   (I)   Community building, social halls, lodges, fraternal organizations and
clubs in an R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District. All buildings shall be set back a
minimum of 15 feet from a side or rear lot line; there shall be no external
evidence of any incidental commercial activities taking place within the
building. All off-street parking facilities shall be adequately screened from
abutting property, and no sign shall exceed six square feet in area or be
internally illuminated.
   (J)   Drive-in theaters. Drive-in theaters shall be located only on an
arterial street and shall provide ingress and egress so designed as to minimize
traffic congestions, shall be so screened from an R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District
or dwelling that any noise shall not disturb neighboring residents, shall
maintain signs and other lights only in such a way as not to disturb
neighboring residents and shall be so designed that the screen will be set back
from and shall not be clearly visible from any highway.
   (K)   Electric car charging station. Electric car charging station shall
meet parking stall standards listed in §
152.054.
   (L)   Gardening, horticulture and animal husbandry. Gardening (such as a
community or allotment garden)/horticulture (such as field crops, orchards,
berries, nursery or flower stock and other agricultural uses)/animal husbandry
is allowed for non-commercial purposes subject to the requirements of division
(W) below. For small scale enterprises located in the R-O, R-7.5 or R-5.0 Zone
District, temporary harvest time display and sale of agricultural products,
primarily based on products raised or grown on the premises shall be subject to
an application process with administrative approval. Limitation on commercial
use may be required. For urban farming, see division (W) below.
   (M)   Home occupation.
      (1)   A lawful commercial activity or occupation conducted within a
dwelling and/or accessory building provided there is a dwelling on the
property.
      (2)   Home occupations shall be a secondary/accessory use of the
premises, permitted by right in all residential units, subject to the following
standards.
         (a)   Appearance of residence.
            1.   The home occupation shall maintain the residential character
of the building by assuring that the occupation is conducted in such a manner
as not to give an outward appearance nor manifest any characteristic of a
business in the ordinary meaning of the term nor infringe upon the right of
neighboring residents to enjoy the peaceful occupancy of their homes.
            2.   The home occupation shall not result in any structural
alterations or additions to a structure that will change its primary use or
building code occupancy classification.
            3.   The home occupation shall not violate any conditions of
development approval (i.e., prior development permit approval).
            4.   No products and/or equipment produced or used by the home
occupation may be displayed to be visible from outside any structure.
            5.   The home occupation shall not exceed 25% of the ground floor
of the dwelling; or occupy no more than 500 square feet of a garage, either
attached or detached; or occupy no more than 500 square feet of any other
outbuilding.
            6.   Baby sitting/day care facilities with 12 or fewer children
shall be considered a home occupation.
         (b)   Storage.
            1.   Outside storage and use of yard areas for storage of tools,
equipment and materials, visible from the public right-of-way or from inside a
residence located on adjacent properties, is prohibited.
            2.   On-site storage of hazardous materials (including toxic,
explosive, noxious, combustible or flammable) beyond those normally incidental
to residential use is prohibited.
            3.   Storage of inventory products and all other equipment,
fixtures and activities associated with the home occupation shall be allowed in
any structure.
            4.   Outside yard areas may be used for playground equipment for
home occupations involving the care of children by a baby sitter or day care
facility.
         (c)   Employees.
            1.   The home occupation shall be operated by members of the family
residing within the dwelling with no more than one full-time, non-family
equivalent employee at the home occupation site at any given time.
            2.   Additional individuals may be employed by or associated with
the home occupation, so long as they do not report to the home occupation site
or pick-up at/deliver to the home.
            3.   The home occupation site shall not be routinely used as a
headquarters for the assembly of employees for instruction or other purposes,
including dispatch to other locations.
         (d)   Advertising and signs.
            1.   One sign, according to §
152.055, shall be allowed for the home occupation. In no case shall the sign
exceed the size of three square feet if inside or flush against the dwelling,
or two square feet if located elsewhere.
            2.   No visual advertisement signs specifically indicating the home
occupation is anything more than a residential occurrence or advertising other
products shall be allowed.
            3.   No stock in trade shall be displayed upon the home occupation
site.
         (e)   Vehicles, parking and traffic.
            1.   One commercially licensed vehicle associated with the home
occupation is allowed at the home occupation site. It shall be of a size that
would not overhang into the public right-of-way when parked in the driveway or
another location on the home occupation site.
            2.   There shall be no more than three commercial vehicle
deliveries to or from the home occupation site daily. There shall be no
commercial vehicle deliveries during the hours of 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
            3.   There shall be no more than one client or customer’s vehicle
at any one time and no more than eight per day at the home occupation site.
            4.   Parking for the business is to be the same as for the normal
residential occupancy, with no additional parking for the establishment, either
on or off street. Traffic created by the business or customers of the business
shall not be of a volume or frequency that will cause disturbance or
inconvenience to nearby land uses.
         (f)   Business hours. There shall be no restrictions on business
hours, except that clients or customers are permitted at the home occupation
from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. only, subject to divisions (M)(2)(a) and (M)(2)(e)
above and §
152.054.
         (g)   Prohibited home occupation uses.
            1.   Any activity that produces radio or television interference,
noise, glare, vibration, smoke or odor beyond allowable levels as determined by
local, state or federal standards, or that can be detected beyond the property
line is prohibited.
            2.   Any activity involving on-site retail is prohibited, except
the sale of items via telecommunications and mail, of that are incidental to a
permitted home occupation is allowed. For example, the sale of lesson books or
sheet music from music teachers, art or craft supplies from arts or crafts
instructors, computer software from computer consultants and similar incidental
items for sale by the home business are allowed subject to divisions (M)(2)(a)
through (M)(2)(f) above.
            3.   Any uses described in this section or uses with similar
objectionable impacts because of motor vehicle traffic, noise, glare, odor,
dust, smoke or vibration is prohibited, such as:
               a.   Ambulance service;
               b.   Animal hospital, veterinary services, kennels or animal
boarding;
               c.   Auto and other vehicle repair, including auto painting;
               d.   Beauty shops;
               e.   Barber shops; and
               f.   Repair, reconditioning or storage of motorized vehicles,
boats, recreational vehicles, airplanes or large equipment on-site;
         (h)   Enforcement.
            1.   Any home occupation, which does not comply with the
requirements of this section and the provisions of the underlying district,
shall be considered a violation of this Development Code and shall be subject
to the penalties and remedies of §
152.077.
            2.   All uses conducted on the subject property shall comply with
all requirements of the Uniform Building Code, the Environmental Health
Division and any other applicable state or federal laws.
         (i)   Revocation. The permit for a home occupation may be revoked by
the City Planner for a violation of any conditions above imposed or authorized,
but the City Planner, before revoking a permit, shall give the permittee
reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard.
   (N)   Housing for the elderly or handicapped. The purpose of this section is
to establish standards for housing, developments for the elderly within the R-
5.0, R-O and C-C Districts. Housing developments for the elderly shall be
exempted from applicable district regulations only insofar as the provisions in
this section conflict with appropriate regulations.
      (1)   The minimum lot area for single- and two-family dwellings shall be
5,000 square feet. For each additional dwelling unit, the lot area shall be
increased by 500 square feet.
      (2)   (a)   Off-street parking area = 0.75 space per dwelling unit.
         (b)   Improved off-street parking = 0.33 space per dwelling unit.
         (c)   As long as the multiple family development serves as housing for
the elderly in terms of the original intent for the development, the smaller
parking requirement shall apply. Any applicant must provide a site plan showing
the total off-street parking area including access and parking spaces in the
event the development ceases to serve as housing for the elderly or requires
additional parking. In the event that the development ceases to serve as
housing for the elderly in terms of the original intent of the development, the
larger off-street parking area required in this section shall apply and shall
be immediately improved and developed. In the event that the improved off-
street parking area does not meet the parking needs of the development, the
Planning Commission may require development of the total or larger off-street
parking area.
      (3)   Site plan approval is required subject to the requirements of §
152.052.
      (4)   Proof is required that the development qualified for housing
assistance under a governmental housing program for elderly or handicapped
persons.
   (O)   Landing strips for aircraft, heliports. All landing strips for
aircraft or heliports shall be so designed and the runways and facilities so
oriented, that the incidents of aircraft passing directly over dwellings during
their landing or taking off patterns is minimized. They shall be located so
that traffic, both land and air, shall not constitute a nuisance to neighboring
uses. The proponents shall show that adequate controls or measures will be
taken to prevent offensive noise, vibrations, dust or bright lights. New
landing strips and heliports shall not be construed to be a permitted use in
any district established by this Development Code unless and until a
conditional use permit shall first have been secured.
   (P)   Manufactured home standards on individual lots.
      (1)   A manufactured home permitted as a dwelling on an individual lot
shall be in compliance with the following standards and regulations as a
minimum.
      (2)   In such cases where the standards set forth in a specific zone are
more restrictive, the more restrictive standards shall govern. In all zones
where permitted on individual lots, manufactured homes shall meet the following
special standards:
         (a)   Be multi-sectional and enclose a space of not less than 1,000
square feet;
         (b)   Have a roof with at least a pitch of 2 in 12;
         (c)   Shall have exterior siding and roofing which in color, material
and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing material commonly
used on residential dwellings within the community or which is comparable to
the predominant materials used on surrounding dwellings as determined by the
local permit approval authority;
         (d)   The manufactured home shall have a garage or carport constructed
of like materials. A jurisdiction may require an attached or detached garage in
lieu of a carport where such is consistent with the predominant construction of
immediately surrounding dwellings;
         (e)   The owner of the manufactured home shall be the owner of the lot
on which the manufactured home is located, except as approved by the Planning
Commission;
         (f)   The manufactured home shall be provided with a bathroom, toilet
and bathtub or shower which are connected to running water and to the city
sewage disposal system, and which are located in a room or rooms which afford
privacy to the occupant;
         (g)   The manufactured home unit shall have the state “insignia of
compliance” as provided for by state law. All pre-owned and pre-occupied units
(i.e., used) shall be inspected by the building official prior to installation
and occupancy to insure compliance with applicable standards required for the
“insignia of compliance” and to ensure that such units are in such a condition
as to not be detrimental to the public health, safety and general welfare to
adjoining properties;
         (h)   Each habitable room in the unit shall have an average ceiling
height of not less than seven feet, and no portion of the ceiling height in a
habitable room shall be less than six feet, ten inches;
         (i)   The manufactured home shall be placed upon and securely anchored
to a foundation having permanence and strength equal to that provided by a
concrete or masonry block foundation, and such foundation shall be installed
according to manufacturers’ instructions approved by the State Department of
Commerce, and all road and transient lights, wheels and the hitch shall be
removed;
         (j)   The manufactured home shall have a continuous perimeter of
skirting that shall be composed of the same material and finished as the
exterior of the manufactured home or of brick, concrete or masonry block within
30 days of placement of manufactured home. Such skirting shall be secure
against the entrance of animals, but there shall be provisions for ventilation
and access to the space under the unit;
         (k)   All plumbing, electric and gas service connections shall be made
according to instructions approved by the State Department of Commerce;
         (l)   All manufactured home accessory building and structures shall
comply with State Department of Commerce and City Construction and installation
standards. Manufactured home accessory structures include porches and steps,
awnings, cabanas, carports or any other structure or addition that depends in
part on the manufactured home for its structural support, or in any manner is
immediately adjacent to or attached to the manufactured home. Such structures
or additions shall not total more than 30% of the total living space of the
manufactured home and such structures or additions combined. Roofing and siding
materials shall be of similar material and color and complimentary to the
existing manufactured home unit. Ramadas and cabanas are permitted; and
         (m)   The owner of the property shall remove the foundation and all
accessory structures and additions to the manufactured home and permanently
disconnect sewer, water and other utilities if the manufactured home is removed
from its foundation unless otherwise authorized by the city. In the event the
owner fails to accomplish said work within 30 days from the date on which the
manufactured home is moved from its foundation, the city may perform such work
and place a lien against the property for the cost of such work. This condition
shall not apply in the event that the manufactured home is replaced on the
original foundation or on the original foundation as modified, or by another
approved manufactured home within 30 days of the original unit’s removal. Said
lien may be initiated by the City Manager.
   (Q)   Manufactured home subdivisions.
      (1)   A manufactured home subdivision shall be a subdivision created by
sale of lots for the placement of manufactured homes in conjunction with
traditional residences. A manufactured home subdivision shall be created to the
standards of the city’s Land Division Standards Development Code and all lots
shall conform to the requirements of the applicable zoning district, in no case
shall any manufactured home subdivision be of lesser standards than those
specified for manufactured home parks (see division (R) below). Lots created in
a manufactured home subdivision which do not meet the standard lot area for
traditional dwellings in a particular zoning district may be used only for a
manufactured home and not for any other form of dwelling.
      (2)   There shall be no outdoor storage of furniture, tools, equipment,
building materials or supplies belonging to the occupants of a manufactured
home or any other person in a manufactured home subdivision.
      (3)   All streets in a manufactured home subdivision shall conform to the
standards specified in the city street standards ordinance.
   (R)   Manufactured dwelling parks. A manufactured dwelling park shall be for
the rental of spaces for the siting of manufactured dwellings containing at
least 500 square feet of space. A manufactured dwelling park shall be built to
state standards in effect at the time of construction, the following provisions
and any additional conditions set forth in the Planning Commission’s approval
prior to occupancy.
      (1)   Evidence shall be provided showing that the park will be eligible
for a certificate of sanitation as required by state law.
      (2)   (a)   The space provided for each manufactured dwelling shall be
provided with piped potable water and electrical and sewerage connections.
         (b)   The number of spaces for manufactured dwellings shall not exceed
12 for each acre of the total area in the manufactured dwelling park, except
that the Planning Commission may vary this density as follows.
            1.   If dedicated open space equals 50% or more of the total area
of the park, a maximum 10% increase in units per acre may be granted.
            2.   If, in addition to division (R)(2)(b)1. above, a maintained
playground area with approved equipment, such as goal posts, swings, slides and
the like, is provided, the maximum increase in units per acre may be increased
an additional 5%.
            3.   If, in addition to divisions (R)(2)(b)1. and (R)(2)(b)2.
above, an approved recreation/community building is provided, an additional 10%
increase of units/acre may be allowed (maximum total increase possible equals
25%).
      (3)   A manufactured dwelling shall occupy not more than 40% of the
contiguous space provided for the exclusive use of the occupants of the
manufactured dwellings and exclusive use of space provided for the common use
of tenants, such as roadways, general use structures, parking spaces, walkways
and areas for recreation and landscaping.
      (4)   No manufactured dwelling in the park shall be located closer than
12 feet from another manufactured dwelling or from a general use building in
the park. No manufactured dwelling accessory building or other building or
structure on a manufactured dwelling space shall be closer than ten feet from a
manufactured dwelling accessory building or other building or structure on
another manufactured dwelling space. No manufactured dwelling or other building
or structure shall be within 20 feet of a public street, property boundary or
ten feet of another property boundary.
      (5)   A manufactured dwelling permitted in the park shall be by the
following standards as determined by an inspection by the building official.
         (a)   It shall have a state insignia indicating compliance with state
manufactured dwelling construction standards in effect at the time of
manufacture, and including compliance for reconstruction or equipment
installation made after manufacture.
         (b)   Notwithstanding deterioration which may have occurred due to
misuse, neglect, accident or other cause, the manufactured dwelling shall meet
the state standards for manufactured dwelling construction evidenced by the
insignia.
         (c)   It shall contain not less than 225 square feet of space as
determined by measurement of the exterior of the unit exclusive of any trailer
hitch device.
         (d)   It shall contain a bathroom, toilet, shower or tub, and sink in
a kitchen or other food preparation space.
      (6)   A manufactured dwelling permitted in the park shall be provided
with a continuous skirting, and, if a single-wide unit, shall be tied down with
devices that meet state standards for tie down devices.
      (7)   There shall be no outdoor storage of furniture, tools, equipment,
building materials or supplies belonging to the occupants or management of the
park.
      (8)   If the park provides spaces for 50 or more manufactured dwelling
units, each vehicular way into the park shall be named and marked with signs
which are similar in appearance to those used to identify public streets. A map
of the named vehicular ways shall be provided to the Fire Department and 9-1-1.
      (9)   If a manufactured dwelling space or permanent structure in a park
within the urban growth boundary is more than 500 feet from a public fire
hydrant, the park shall have water supply mains designed to serve fire hydrants
and hydrants shall be provided with 500 feet of such space or structure. Each
hydrant within the park shall be located on a vehicular way and shall conform
in design and capacity to the public hydrants in the city.
      (10)   Open space.
         (a)   A minimum of at least 2,500 square feet plus 100 square feet per
manufactured dwelling space shall be provided for a recreational play area
group or community activities. (No play area is required if the individual
manufactured dwelling spaces contain in excess of 4,000 square feet.) The
Planning Commission may require this area to be protected from streets, parking
areas or the like, by a fence or the equivalent, that conforms to fence
regulations, but at least 30 inches in height where allowed by fence standards.
Unless otherwise approved, no required open space area shall contain less than
2,500 square feet. Recreation areas shall be improved with grass, plantings,
surfacing or buildings suitable for recreational use.
         (b)   No recreation facility created within a manufactured dwelling
park wholly to satisfy the requirements of this section shall be open to, or
offered in itself to, the general public.
      (11)   A parking space shall be provided for each manufactured dwelling
space on the site. In addition, guest parking spaces shall also be provided in
every manufactured dwelling park within 200 feet of the manufactured dwelling
spaces served and at a ratio of one parking space for each two manufactured
dwelling spaces.
      (12)   All manufactured dwelling parks over ten acres in size shall be
located so as to have access on a street designated as a minor collector or
higher order street.
      (13)   All manufactured dwelling parks containing a total site area of 20
acres or more shall provide a secondary access to the trailer park. Such
secondary access shall enter the public street system at least 150 feet from
the primary access.
      (14)   Lighting shall be installed along the access ways of the trailer
park and the recreation area with lights 100 feet apart. Wire for service to
light poles and manufactured dwelling spaces shall be underground, except in
the Flood Hazard Overlay Zone where wires for service may be above ground as
approved by the Commission.
      (15)   Roadways within the park shall be paved and shall be not less than
30 feet in width if parking is permitted on the margin of the roadway, or less
than 20 feet in width if parking is not permitted on the edge of the roadway,
and an adequate designated area is provided and improved for guest parking
tenant recreational vehicles (such area shall be designed and improved to
provide not less than one parking space per each two spaces in the park).
      (16)   No manufactured home park shall be created on a site less than one
acre.
   (S)   Mobile unit food and beverage cart standards.
      (1)   Mobile unit food and beverage carts shall be on a paved surface
such as, but not limited to concrete, asphalt, pavers and other surfaces as
approved by the City Planner. If new paved surface is added to a site to
accommodate a cart, the property shall still be required to comply with
applicable lot coverage, impervious surface, and parking lot standards.
      (2)   Carts shall not occupy pedestrian walkways or required landscape
areas.
      (3)   Carts shall not occupy parking needed to meet the minimum bicycle
or automobile parking requirement for another use. Blocking automobile access
to parking spaces shall be considered occupying the spaces.
      (4)   If a site where a cart is located abuts a lot with a residential
use, the cart use shall meet all buffer widths required for a proposed
commercial use. Buffer widths shall be allowed to overlap with setback
requirements.
      (5)   The use shall provide adequate vision clearance as required in the
underlying zone, by city standards.
      (6)   Ingress and egress shall be safe and adequate when combined with
the other uses of the property as required.
      (7)   Signage for carts:
         (a)   Shall comply with applicable zoning requirements with no more
than seven signs aggregate per property; and
         (b)   Users shall be required to post city mobile unit food and
beverage cart permits; city business licenses; and Tillamook County Health
Department food service licenses in a location visible to customers.
      (8)   Unless otherwise specified in this section, mobile unit food and
beverage carts shall be exempt from a finding of adequate public facilities
unless it is determined that the proposed use exceeds the capacity of existing
public facilities or causes unsafe conditions.
      (9)   The City Planner may impose any approval conditions intended to
minimize adverse impacts created by the use on surrounding property and uses.
      (10)   Carts are exempt from land-use district density, floor-area ratio
and design guidelines and standards.
      (11)   Carts shall meet the following dimensional setback requirements as
required by Oregon Health Authority and Fire and Life Safety Code requirements:
         (a)   Land-use district minimum setbacks shall be met for the site
perimeter;
         (b)   Carts shall not be located within 25 feet of an active driveway
entrance as measured in all directions from where the driveway enters the site
at the edge of the street right-of-way;
         (c)   Carts shall be located at least three feet from the right-of-way
or back of sidewalk, whichever provides the greater distance from the right-of-
way;
         (d)   Carts shall provide at least six feet between service windows or
other customer service points and an active drive aisle. The distance shall be
measured perpendicular to the service window/point; and
         (e)   Carts shall remain at least six feet away from other mobile unit
food and beverage carts or commercial stands.
      (12)   Carts shall not occupy fire lanes or drive aisles necessary for
vehicular circulation or fire/emergency vehicle access as determined by the
City Planner.
      (13)   Carts shall limit the visual effect of accessory items not used by
customers, including but not limited to tanks, barrels and miscellaneous items,
by using screening or storing them in containers to substantially limit views
of such items from the street. Screening could be temporary fencing or
landscaping (such as landscaping in pots or planters). Storage containers could
be small sheds or storage units. Screening shall be approved by the Police
Department in order to ensure surveillance of the site remains possible for
crime prevention purposes.
      (14)   For drive-through carts, the following standards apply.
         (a)   To ensure adequate distance for at least three vehicles to line
up behind the vehicle ordering at the drive-through, drive-through mobile unit
food and beverage carts shall have at least 85 feet in queuing distance behind
each drive-through window where sales occur. Required queuing distance may be
increased as determined by the City Planner if a change in distance will
promote traffic and pedestrian safety. Queuing distance shall be measured from
the initial edge of the service window or point of service, along the queuing
path, to where the driveway from the street crosses from the right of way into
the property. The measurement method can be adjusted by the City Planner for
unusual circumstances or if needed to meet the Intent of this standard.
         (b)   Drive-through stacking lanes and service areas shall not be
located between the street and the mobile unit food and beverage cart.
      (15)   The applicant shall provide a parking plan that includes an
estimate of the parking demand on the site and provide information about how
parking demand will be accommodated, such as through off-street parking or on-
street parking on adjacent blocks. That analysis shall consider parking needs
of other uses on the site. Off-street parking may be required by the City
Planner if the applicant cannot demonstrate adequate parking is available to
meet demand or it has been determined that a renewing mobile unit food and
beverage cart has experienced parking or related traffic issues on the site or
on adjacent blocks. Should the applicant disagree with the Planner's decision,
the applicant may request a Planning Commission interpretation.
      (16)   Carts shall have lighting to ensure a safe environment for
customers, if permanent lighting, such as parking lot lighting, already exists
on the site, the City Planner may determine that the lighting satisfies this
requirement. Otherwise, lighting (such as temporary lighting), shall be added
that complies with the following:
         (a)   At a minimum, areas intended to be occupied by customers, such
as areas near mobile unit food and beverage cart service windows and customer
seating, shall be illuminated when carts are in operation during hours of
darkness;
         (b)   No direct light source shall be visible at the property line
adjacent to residential at three feet above ground level;
         (c)   Lighting fixtures shall be oriented and/or shielded so as not to
create glare on abutting properties: and
         (d)   The Planner may modify lighting standards if such modifications
are deemed necessary and appropriate for the use and surrounding area and help
meet the intent of the standard.
      (17)   Carts and their accessory items visible from the street shall be
kept in good repair and be maintained in a safe and clean condition in
compliance with the following.
         (a)   Carts shall not have missing siding, skirting, or roofing.
         (b)   Carts shall not have more than 10% of any side experiencing
rust, peeling paint, corrosion or other deterioration.
         (c)   Carts shall not have components or attachments In disrepair in a
manner that causes an unsafe condition.
         (d)   Tents and canopies associated with the carts shall not have:
            1.   Tears in the tent/canopy material that exceed six inches;
            2.   Mold on the material;
            3.   A lack of anchoring; and
            4.   Broken or non-functioning supports.
   (T)   Murals and public artwork.
      (1)   A mural and public artwork may be located anywhere in the city
provided it is first approved by the City Council and then a city zoning
clearance permit is issued by the City Planner in accordance with the
procedures and criteria listed in this section.
      (2)   An application for a mural and/or public artwork shall be filed
with the City Planning Department and shall include:
         (a)   The name of the artist and work samples;
         (b)   Description of the materials to comprise the mural and/or public
artwork and manner of application;
         (c)   A statement regarding the durability of the materials and safety
concerns of any elements considering the location and positioning of the mural
and/or public artwork;
         (d)   Plans and/or specification for the proposed mural and/or public
artwork including a picture, graphic or other description; and
         (e)   Notice of administrative action shall be given to all property
owners within 200 feet of the external boundaries of the location of the mural
or public art. Said notice shall include a summary of the nature and substance
of the proposal, a brief description of the property involved and a
solicitation of oral or written comments to be submitted within ten days prior
to the City Planner’s final action on the proposal.
      (3)   Not less than 15 or more than 45 days after submittal of a complete
application, the City Council shall meet and review the application. The City
Council shall recommend to the City Planner that a mural and/or public artwork
be issued a zoning clearance permit upon a finding that:
         (a)   The mural and/or public artwork will conform within the thematic
program established by city resolution of the area of its proposed location;
         (b)   The information regarding durability and expected maintenance
requirements is accurate; and
         (c)   The materials to be used and the manner of application will not
require excessive maintenance by its owner, and a plan to assure maintenance
and safety is provided.
      (4)   In making its determination, the City Council will consider
evidence that the proposal will conform within the thematic program established
by city resolution, and may consider the opinions of the owners and occupants
of affected properties. Absent favorable findings as required hereby, the City
Council shall recommend that a zoning clearance permit for a mural and/or
public artwork not be issued by the City Planner.
      (5)   Upon a favorable recommendation of the City Council, the City
Planner shall review the application materials and the information received by
the Committee and shall, upon a determination that the application materials
are complete and accurate and the findings of the City Council reasonable,
issue a zoning clearance permit for a mural and/or public artwork. Absent such
a determination, the City Planner shall deny the application. Upon an
unfavorable recommendation of the City Council, the City Planner shall not
issue a zoning clearance permit.
      (6)   Within 15 days of the meeting of the City Council, the City Planner
shall decide whether or not a zoning clearance permit for a mural and/or public
artwork shall be issued. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City
Planner may appeal such decision within 15 days thereof to the City Council
which shall apply the standards set forth in this section in reviewing the
decision of the City Planner. The City Council may affirm, reverse or reverse
with modifications the decision of the City Planner. The decision of the City
Council shall be final.
   (U)   Nursery schools, kindergartens, child care centers and family child
care homes. Nursery schools, kindergartens and child care centers and family
child care homes serving more than six children shall provide and thereafter
maintain outdoor play areas with a minimum area of 75 square feet per child and
provide and maintain an indoor activity area with a minimum of 35 square feet
per child, in any R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O, or “C” or “I” District, a site-obscuring
fence of at least four feet but not more than six feet in height shall be
provided separating the play area from abutting lots. A child care center shall
meet the requirements listed in O.A.R. 414-300-0000 through 414-300-0415. A
family child care home shall meet the requirements listed in O.A.R. 414-350-
0000 through 414-350-0405.
   (V)   Recreation vehicle parks.
      (1)   A recreation vehicle park shall be for the rental of spaces for the
temporary sitting of “recreational vehicles” or mobile homes containing less
than 500 square feet of space.
      (2)   A recreation vehicle park shall be built to state standards in
effect at the time of construction, with the following provisions and any
additional conditions set forth in the Planning Commission’s approval prior to
occupancy.
         (a)   The space provided for each recreation vehicle shall be not less
than 700 square feet, exclusive of any space used for common areas, such as
roadways, general use structures, walkways, parking spaces for vehicles other
than recreation vehicles and landscaped areas.
         (b)   Roadways shall not be less than 30 feet in width if parking is
permitted on the margin of the roadway, or less than 20 feet in width if
parking is not permitted on the edge of the roadway. Roadway shall be paved
with asphalt, concrete, paver or similar impervious gravel surface and designed
to permit easy access to each recreation vehicle space.
         (c)   A space provided for a recreation vehicle shall be covered with
crushed gravel or paved with asphalt, concrete or similar material and be
designed to provide runoff of surface water. The part of the space which is not
occupied by the recreation vehicle, not intended as an access way to the
recreation vehicle or part of an outdoor patio, need not be paved or covered
with gravel, provided the area is landscaped or otherwise treated to prevent
dust and mud.
         (d)   A recreation vehicle space shall be provided with piped potable
water and sewage disposal service. A recreation vehicle staying in the park
shall be connected to the water and sewage service provided by the park if the
vehicle has equipment needing such service.
         (e)   A recreation vehicle space shall be provided with electrical
service.
         (f)   Trash receptacles for the disposal of solid waste materials
shall be provided in convenient locations for the use of guests of the park,
and located in such number and be of such capacity that there is no uncovered
accumulation of trash at any time.
         (g)   The total number of parking spaces in the park, exclusive of
parking provided for the exclusive use of the manager or employees of the park,
shall be equal to one space per recreation vehicle space. Parking spaces shall
be covered with crushed gravel or paved with asphalt, concrete or similar
material.
         (h)   The park shall provide toilets, lavatories and showers for each
sex in the following ratios; for each 15 recreation vehicle spaces or any
fraction thereof: one toilet, one urinal, one lavatory and one shower for men;
and two toilets, one lavatory and one shower for women. The toilets and showers
shall afford privacy and the showers shall be provided with private dressing
rooms. Facilities for each sex shall be located in separate buildings, or, if
in the same building, shall be separated by a soundproof wall.
         (i)   The park shall provide 15 square feet of space for clothes
drying lines for each ten recreation vehicle spaces or any fraction thereof.
         (j)   Building spaces required by this division and divisions (U)(2)
(h) and (U)(2)(i) above shall be lighted at all times of night and day; shall
be ventilated; shall be provided with heating facilities; shall have floors of
waterproof material; shall have sanitary ceiling, floor and wall surfaces; and
shall be provided with adequate floor drains to permit easy cleaning.
         (k)   The park shall be maintained in a neat appearance at all times.
Except for vehicles, there shall be no outdoor storage of materials or
equipment belonging to the park or to any guest of the park.
         (l)   Evidence shall be provided that the park will be eligible for a
certificate of sanitation as required by state law.
         (m)   A recreational vehicle park is allowed in the following zone
districts:
            1.   R-O (Multiple Use Residential);
            2.   N-C (Neighborhood Commercial); and
            3.   H-C (Highway Commercial).
   (W)   Temporary permits.
      (1)   Authorization. The City Planner may, in writing and in a manner
consistent with the provisions of divisions (V)(1) through (V)(7) below,
authorize temporary structures, including mobile homes, which are incidental to
construction on the same property or which are to be used as temporary offices
on the same property during construction. In either case, such authorization
shall not exceed a period of 12 months.
      (2)   Application/notice. The applicant shall submit an application for a
temporary permit on the appropriate forms provided by the Planning Department.
Notice of administrative action shall be given to all property owners within
200 feet of the external boundaries of lots or parcels affected by a temporary
permit of pending administrative action on said application. Said notice shall
include a summary of the nature and substance of the proposal, a brief
description of the property involved and a solicitation of oral or written
comments to be submitted within ten days prior to the City Planner’s final
action on the proposal.
      (3)   Standards. Applicants for temporary permits shall submit evidence
as may be required to enable the City Planner to make a finding that one or
more of the following conditions exist.
         (a)   The need of the temporary structure authorization is the direct
result of a casualty loss such as fire, windstorm, flood or other severe damage
by the elements to a pre-existing structure previously occupied by the
applicant on the premises for which the permit is sought.
         (b)   The applicant has been evicted within 60 days of the date of the
application from a pre-existing occupancy of the lot or parcel for which the
permit is sought as a result of:
            1.   Condemnation proceedings by a public authority;
            2.   Eviction by abatement of nuisance proceedings; or
            3.   By determination of a public body or court having jurisdiction
that the continued occupancy of facilities previously occupied constitutes a
nuisance or is unsafe.
         (c)   The temporary occupancy required is limited in duration by the
purposes for which the permit is sought, such as Christmas tree sales,
temporary banking or office facilities, parade stands, circuses, fairs or other
exhibitions and other obviously temporary needs.
         (d)   The purpose for which the temporary structure authorization is
sought is incidental to the basic purpose for which the lot or parcel is being
developed, and the duration of such structure is limited by the period of
development, such as construction site offices or temporary real estate
offices.
      (4)   Required findings. Prior to granting approval of a temporary
permit, the City Planner shall analyze the following criteria and incorporate
such analysis in his or her decision.
         (a)   The location, size, design and operating characteristics of the
proposed temporary structure, if applicable, will be compatible with and will
not adversely affect the livability or appropriate development of abutting
properties and the surrounding vicinity.
         (b)   The proposed temporary structures will not adversely affect the
capacity, circulation or generation of traffic on streets or other public ways
in the vicinity.
         (c)   The use of the proposed temporary structure is consistent with
the spirit and intent of the zone where the structure is to be located and does
not create a substantial property right not enjoyed by others within the same
zone.
      (5)   Temporary permit conditions.
         (a)   Reasonable, clear and objective conditions may be imposed by the
City Planner in connection with the temporary permit as necessary to meet the
purposes of divisions (V)(1) through (7) herein. Guarantees and evidence may be
required that such conditions will be or are being complied with.
         (b)   Such clear and objective conditions shall be quantifiable
whenever possible, and may include, but are not limited to, requiring:
            1.   Special yards and spaces;
            2.   Fences and walls;
            3.   Control of points of vehicular ingress and egress;
            4.   Special provisions for signs;
            5.   Landscaping and maintenance of such landscaping;
            6.   Maintenance of the grounds;
            7.   Control of noise, vibration and odors;
            8.   Limitation of operational hours for certain activities;
            9.   A time period within which the proposed use shall be
developed;
            10.   A time limit on total duration of temporary use; and
            11.   Bond or other security for returning the affected area to
equal or better condition as previously existed upon termination of temporary
use.
      (6)   Duration of temporary permit. The duration of such temporary permit
and attendant structure shall not exceed the period prior to the completion and
occupancy of a permanent structure of 12 months, whichever comes first.
      (7)   Voiding of a temporary permit. When a temporary permit is approved,
such approval shall become void six months from the date of such approval if
the City Planner determines substantial progress, such as substantial
excavation or substantial construction, toward the desired use has not been
made. The holder of such permit may apply for an extension of such approval as
may be granted by the City Planner.
   (X)   Urban farming.
      (1)   The use of property in the O, N-C, H-C, C-C, L-I, G-I and PUD
Districts for urban farming for commercial or non-profit purposes or sustenance
is permitted administratively within the urban growth boundary.
      (2)   Produce that can be grown on these farms include fruits, vegetables
and livestock.
      (3)   Animal keeping of commonly domesticated animals, on these farms,
including pastureland is allowed with the following requirements.
         (a)   Sanitation. Proper sanitation shall be maintained for all
animals, at all times, to prevent any condition which may be dangerous or
detrimental to the health of the public or animals, or constitute a nuisance.
         (b)   Fencing. Fencing is required and shall be designed and
constructed to confine all animals to the site on which the animal is kept.
         (c)   Enclosures. An enclosure is required and shall be designed and
constructed to provide shelter from the weather for all animals kept outdoors
on the development site. The requirements are listed in division (D) above.
      (4)   Lot area minimum: 5,000 square feet.
      (5)   Minimum setbacks:
         (a)   Front yard: ten feet; and
         (b)   Side and rear yard: ten feet.
      (6)   Minimum parcel dimensions for animal husbandry, livestock shall be
determined by best management practices available at the OSU extension office.
      (7)   An urban farm used for commercial or non-profit purposes shall meet
the state requirements listed in O.R.S. 568.900, and provide the city with a
copy of the approved permits from the State Department of Agriculture for water
quality and the use of herbicides, pesticides and fungicides.
      (8)   Sustainable and/or organic practices are encouraged for all urban
farms.
   (Y)   Utilities. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utility or municipal or other governmental agencies of underground;
overhead electrical, gas, steam or water transmission or distribution systems,
collection, communication, supply or disposal system including poles, towers,
wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police
call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and other similar equipment and
accessories in connection therewith, but not including buildings, shall be
permitted in any district in accordance with their franchise agreement. Utility
transmission and distribution lines, poles and towers may exceed the height
limits otherwise provided for in this Development Code.
   (Z)   Wireless communication facilities (WCF).
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this division is to establish standards
that regulate the placement, appearance and impact of wireless communication
facilities, while providing residents and the business community with the
ability to access and adequately utilize the services of these facilities
support. The characteristics of wireless communications facilities are such
that they have the potential to impact not only the area immediately
surrounding the facility, but also the community as a whole. Because of these
potential impacts, the standards are intended to ensure that the visual and
aesthetic impacts of wireless communication facilities are minimized to the
greatest extent possible.
      (2)   Application requirements. The following items shall be provided as
part of an application for the placement and construction of a wireless
communication facility. These items are in addition to other information that
may be required for the appropriate use permit. The City Planner may waive the
requirement for submittal of any information described herein when determined
that it is inapplicable based on project specific factors:
         (a)   A site plan drawn to scale indicating the location of the
proposed antenna(s), support structure and equipment facility and relevant
dimensions;
         (b)   A photograph of the proposed antenna(s), support structure and
equipment facility at a site similar to the proposal;
         (c)   The materials being proposed, including the colors of the
exterior materials;
         (d)   Photographs of the existing site condition taken from key lines
of sight and a photo simulation of the proposed facility at the proposed
location from each of the lines of sight;
         (e)   A map showing all existing wireless communication facility sites
operated by the applicant within and adjacent to the city, including a
description of the wireless communication facility at each location;
         (f)   A co-location feasibility study that indicates that co-location
efforts were made and states the reasons co-location can or cannot occur. All
antenna support structures shall be designed so as not to preclude co-location;
         (g)   A description of alternatives considered for providing wireless
communication service in the city. The alternatives evaluated should include
alternative sites, facility heights, number of facilities and equipment
utilized. Where less preferred locations or designs are proposed, the reasons
why higher priority locations or designs were not selected;
         (h)   A peer review study, if required by the City Planner; and
         (i)   The city will deny the permitting of a wireless communication
facility if it has not been demonstrated that co-location on an existing
wireless communication facility is not a viable solution.
      (3)   Location/design standards.
         (a)   Wireless communication facilities are allowed outright in the
following locations: co-location or shared location on an existing wireless
communication facility.
         (b)   Wireless communication facilities are allowed under a zoning
clearance permit and building permit if of the following design(s) and in the
following location(s):
            1.   Microfacility or minifacility attached to an existing
structure;
            2.   Minifacility attached to an existing public facility such as a
water tower or public building; and
            3.   Minifacility attached to an existing utility pole located in a
street right-of-way.
         (c)   Wireless communication facilities are allowed under a
conditional use permit if of the following design and in the following location
(s):
            1.   Facility is attached to an existing structure where the height
or dimensions of the antenna exceed those of a minifacility;
            2.   Facility is in the shape of a new utility pole within the
street right-of-way with a maximum height of 60 feet; and
            3.   Facility is on a monopole not located in a street right-of-way
with a maximum height of 60 feet measured from grade level.
         (d)   Wireless communication facilities are prohibited, if in the
following design(s) and in the following location(s):
            1.   Lattice towers and support structures;
            2.   Guyed wire towers and support structures;
            3.   Speculation support structures; and
            4.   Locations in the following zone districts:
               a.   O (Open Space District);
               b.   R-7.5 (Residential Low);
               c.   R-5.0 (Residential Medium);
               d.   R-O (Multiple Use Residential); and
               e.   N-C (Neighborhood Commercial).
      (4)   Development standards.
         (a)   Generally. All wireless communication facilities shall be
located, designed, constructed, treated and maintained in accordance with the
following standards.
         (b)   General standards.
            1.   All facilities shall be installed and maintained in compliance
with the requirements of the building codes.
            2.   All wireless communication facilities shall be designed to
minimize their visual impact to the greatest extent feasible.
            3.   The smallest and least visible antennas to accomplish the
coverage objectives shall be utilized.
            4.   Antenna(s) attached to an existing structure shall be placed
so as to integrate, as much as possible, with the building’s design features
and materials. The maximum height for antennas shall be 15 feet from the base
elevation. Roof-mounted antennas and associated equipment should be located as
far back from the edge of the roof as possible to minimize visibility from
street level locations. Where appropriate, construction from screening to
obscure the facility shall be required. Wall- mounted antennas shall be
integrated architecturally with the style and character of the structure, or
otherwise made as unobtrusive as possible. If possible, antennas should be
located entirely within an existing or newly created architectural feature so
as to be completely screened from view. To the extent feasible, wall-mounted
antennas should not be located on the front, or most prominent facade of a
structure, and should be located above the pedestrian line-of-sight.
            5.   Colors and materials for wireless communication facilities
shall be chosen to minimize their visibility. Wireless communication facilities
shall be painted or textured using colors to match or blend with the primary
background of the facility, including the skyline or horizon.
            6.   Equipment facilities shall be placed in underground vaults
wherever feasible. Above ground equipment facilities shall be reviewed through
the design review process of § 152.052 to ensure that they are designed, sited
and landscaped to minimize the visual impact on the surrounding environment.
            7.   Exterior lighting for a wireless communication facility is
permitted only when required by a federal or state authority.
            8.   A wireless communication facility placed pursuant to this
section is exempt from the height requirements of the zoning district in which
it is located; however, may not exceed the heights listed in division (P)(3)
above.
      (5)   Peer review. If determined appropriate, the City Planner may
require a peer review study of the technical information developed by the
applicant to select the proposed facilities. The purpose of a peer review is to
evaluate the feasibility of alternative facility designs and locations not
selected by the applicant but which have a higher design priority as described
in division (Y)(8) below. The applicant shall pay all costs associated with a
peer review.
      (6)   Abandonment and obsolescence. Any wireless communication facility
that is not operated for a continuous period of 12 months shall be considered
abandoned, and the owner of such facility shall remove such facility within 90
days of receipt of notice from the city notifying the owner of such
abandonment. If such wireless communication facility is not removed within said
90 days, the city may remove the wireless communication facility at the owner’s
expense. If there are two or more users of a single wireless communication
facility, then this provision shall not become effective until all users cease
using the wireless communication facility.
      (7)   Antennas to which this section has no application. The provisions
of this chapter do not apply to radio or television reception antennas,
satellite or microwave parabolic antenna not used by wireless communication
service providers, and antennas owned and operated by federally-licensed
amateur radio operators.
      (8)   Wireless communication facilities siting issues.
         (a)   Location:
            1.   Preferences:
               a.   Co-location/shared facilities; and
               b.   On existing structures.
            2.   By zone.
         (b)   Design issues:
            1.   Type of pole;
            2.   Height of pole and/or antennae;
            3.   Setbacks and other placement issues;
            4.   Screening/landscaping;
            5.   Abandonment and obsolescence;
            6.   Lighting/security;
            7.   Color and materials; and
            8.   Equipment cabinets.
         (c)   Review procedure:
            1.   Key review procedure to the proposed location - provide simply
process for preferred locations, i.e. outright use; and
            2.   Site plan review - some or all antenna/pole types and
locations.
         (d)   Application requirements:
            1.   Mapping of all proposed locations in city;
            2.   Technical data to support locations, particularly if preferred
site types are not used; and
            3.   Visual impact analysis.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 1312, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 050525A, passed
5-19-2025) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.052 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of the development standards is to
bring those projects involving building design and the development of land
under special review where development impacts that may cause a conflict
between uses in the same adjoining district are be minimized, and to promote
the general welfare by directing attention to site planning, and giving regard
to the natural environment and the elements of creative design to assist in
conserving and enhancing the appearance of the city, and to support the
promotion and maintenance of healthful and safe conditions upon surrounding
properties and neighborhoods, thereby affecting the public health, safety and
general welfare. Review of site plans is intended to promote functional, safe
and attractive developments, which maximize compatibility with surrounding
developments and uses and with the natural environment. Review of site plans
mitigates potential land use conflicts resulting from proposed development
through specific conditions attached by the review body. Review of site plans
focuses on the layout of a proposed development, including building placement,
setbacks, location of parking areas, pedestrian access, external storage areas,
external lighting (including LED), open areas and landscaping.
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall be applicable to:
      (1)   The creation, dedication or construction of all new public or
private streets in all subdivisions, partitions or other developments in the
city;
      (2)   The extension or widening of existing public or private street
rights-of-way, easements or street improvements including those which may be
proposed by an individual, or which may be required by the city in association
with other development approvals;
      (3)   The construction or modification of any utilities or sidewalks or
private street easements with the provision of an adequate area for sidewalks,
sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water lines, natural gas lines, power lines and
other utilities commonly and appropriately placed in such rights-of-way and for
the drainage of surface water from all residential, commercial and industrial
development; to minimize erosion; to reduce degradation of water quality due to
sediments and pollutants in storm water runoff; and
      (4)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all land partitions
and subdivisions, planned unit developments, conditional use permits, multi-
family dwelling developments, multiple use structures and development,
commercial developments and industrial development; and to the reconstruction
or expansion of such developments.
   (C)   Modification of these site development standards. The application of
these standards to a particular development shall be modified as follows:
      (1)   Development standards, which are unique to a particular use, or
special use, shall be set forth within the district or in that section
governing the use; and
      (2)   Those development standards which are unique to a particular
district shall be set forth in the section governing that district.
   (D)   Public works design standards.
      (1)   Compliance. All developments will comply with any applicable
portions of the most current city design and public facilities standards.
      (2)   Application of public works design standards. Standards for the
provision and utilization of public facilities or services available within the
city shall apply to all land developments in accordance with the following
table of reference. No development permit shall be approved unless the
following improvements are provided prior to occupancy or operation.
Public Facilities Improvement Requirements Table
              Street                              Storm Drainag
 Fire Hydrant Improveme Water Hookup Sewer Hookup e             Street Lights
              nts
Public Facilities Improvement Requirements Table
                           Street                              Storm     Street
              Fire Hydrant Improveme Water Hookup Sewer Hookup Drainag e Lights
                           nts
Single-family
dwelling and  No           C-2       Yes          Yes          Yes       No
duplex
New triplex,
quadplex,
townhouse,    No           C-4       Yes          Yes          Yes       No
cottage
cluster
Multiple-
family        Yes          Yes       Yes          Yes          Yes       Yes
dwelling
New
commercial    Yes          Yes       Yes          Yes          Yes       Yes
building
Commercial    C-1          C-3       Yes          Yes          Yes       Yes
expansion
New
industrial    Yes          Yes       Yes          Yes          Yes       Yes
building
Industrial    C-1          C-3       Yes          Yes          Yes       Yes
expansion
Partition     Yes          Yes       Yes          Yes          Yes       Yes
Subdivisions,
PUD, and                   Yes       Yes          Yes          Yes       Yes
manufactured
home park
Legend:
No = not required
Yes = required
C = conditional, as noted
C-1 = fire hydrants for commercial or industrial expansions. One or more fire
hydrants are required when the total floor area of a new or expanded building
exceeds 2,500 square feet or the proposed use is classified as hazardous (H) in
the Uniform Building Code or Uniform Fire Code
C-2 = street improvements for single family dwellings and duplexes. New single
family dwellings and duplexes, which require a street extension, must provide
street improvements to city street standards.
C-3 = street improvements for commercial or industrial expansions. Lots
fronting on county roads must obtain access permits from the Tillamook County
Public Works Department. The city will require improvement to full city
standards when the use meets any of the following criteria:
   a. The use generates an average of 100+ trips per day per 1,000 gross square
feet of a building, as documented in the most recent Trip Generation Manual of
the Institute of Transportation Engineers or other qualified source; or
   b. The use includes daily shipping and delivery trips by vehicles over
20,000 pounds gross vehicle weight.
C-4 = street improvements for triplexes, quadplexes, townhouses and cottage
clusters. New middle housing must provide public or private street
improvements, where needed, to meet adopted emergency vehicle access standards.
Middle housing created through conversion of an existing single-family dwelling
are subject to the improvement requirements for single-family dwellings.
 
   (E)   Standards for improvements. In addition to other requirements, all
improvements shall conform to the requirements of this chapter and any other
improvement standards or specifications adopted by the city, and shall be
installed in accordance with the following procedure.
      (1)   Improvement work including excavation, clearing of trees or other
work shall not be commenced until plans have been checked for adequacy and
approved by the city. To the extent necessary for evaluation of the proposal,
the plans may be required before approval of the tentative plan of a
subdivision or partition. All plans shall be prepared in accordance with
requirements of the city.
      (2)   Improvement work shall not be commenced until the city has been
notified in advance, and if work has been discontinued for any reason, it shall
not be resumed until the city has been notified.
      (3)   All required improvements shall be constructed under the
inspection, and to the satisfaction, of the city. The city may require changes
in typical section and details if unusual conditions arise during construction,
which warrant such change in the interests of the city.
      (4)   All underground utilities, sanitary sewers and storm drains
installed in streets shall be constructed prior to the surfacing of such
streets. Stubs for service connections for all underground utilities and
sanitary sewers shall be placed to such length as will obviate the necessity
for disturbing the street improvements when service connections are made.
      (5)   Fire hydrant standards:
         (a)   The maximum distance between a new primary building and the
nearest fire hydrant shall be 250 feet for residential development and 150 feet
for commercial development. If the above standards cannot be met, the
installation of an additional hydrant that would satisfy the applicable
standard shall be required of the applicant; and
         (b)   Hydrants shall have a 250 foot maximum spacing between hydrants.
Any such new fire hydrant shall have a minimum flow of 1,000 gallons per minute
and shall be on a minimum eight-inch waterline. All other specifications not
listed must be engineered to meet American Insurance Association (A.I.A.) or
N.F.P.A. standards.
      (6)   Utility standards:
         (a)   All new electric, telephone and cable connections are subject to
approval by the City Public Works Supervisor and shall be placed underground.
         (b)   Utilities shall be restricted to one side of the street in new
developments, or the closest side of the utility must be at least ten feet from
where trees are to be planted. Utilities should be in areas of compacted soils,
such as under roadbeds or sidewalks, to discourage roots in the utility zone.
Where underground utilities cannot avoid being placed within the drip line of
resource trees, tunneling, a minimum of two feet in depth, or hand digging
trenches with all roots one inch or larger left intact and smaller roots
cleanly cut on the tree side of the trench, shall be the means of installing
these utility lines.
         (c)   Service lines from the right-of-way shall be located as far as
possible from all trees or designated tree planting locations. If utilities
must be placed within drip lines of significant or heritage trees, lines shall
be tunneled at a minimum of two feet in depth (keeping as far from the tree
trunk as possible, but in no circumstance within five feet of the tree trunk).
         (d)   For a period of five years after the overlay or reconstruction
of a city street, there shall be no cutting of the pavement for the
installation of utilities lines without the approval of the City Public Works
Director.
      (7)   The grading of the street right-of-way and lot constructed at the
time of the subdivision or development construction shall be under the
supervision of an engineer, geologist or landscape architect who is
knowledgeable and skilled in the treatment of soils, soil stabilization and
soil erosion. Due consideration shall be given to the existing terrain, cross
slope and vegetation. Excessive grading of the right-of-way or the lot areas or
removal of large amounts of vegetation will not be permitted. Approval of the
grading plan by the city engineer and the Planning Commission shall be given
prior to any construction.
   (F)   Improvement requirements. Improvements to be installed at the expense
of the applicant or land owner and at the time of development, subdivision or
partition:
      (1)   Streets. Public streets, including alleys, within the subdivision
and public streets adjacent but only partially within the subdivision shall be
improved. Upon completion of the street improvement, monuments shall be re-
established and protected in monument boxes at every public street intersection
and all points of curvature and points of tangency on their center lines.
      (2)   Drainage system. If any portion of any land proposed for
development is subject to flood hazard, poor drainage or geologic hazards an
adequate system of drainage must be provided, and may include storm drains,
retention ponds, dikes or pumps.
      (3)   Structures. Structures specified as necessary by the city for
drainage, access and public safety shall be installed.
      (4)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be installed to conform to city
standards unless a variance has been granted by the City Council.
      (5)   Sewers. Sanitary sewer facilities connecting with the existing city
sewer system and storm water sewers, of design, layout and location approved by
the city public works design standards, shall be installed.
      (6)   Water. Water mains and fire hydrants of design, layout and location
approved by the city shall be installed.
      (7)   Street lighting. Street lighting of an approved type (including
LED) shall be installed on all streets at locations approved by the city.
      (8)   Street name signs. All streets shall be legibly marked with street
names signs not less than two in number at each intersection, according to
specifications furnished by the city.
      (9)   Improvements of easements. Whenever the safety of adjoining
property may demand, any easement for drainage or flood control purposes shall
be improved in a manner approved by the city.
      (10)   Underground utilities. All utilities shall be installed
underground, unless determined to be economically infeasible upon review by the
Planning Commission.
   (G)   Storm drainage.
      (1)   Plan for storm drainage and erosion control. No construction of any
facilities in a development shall be permitted until a storm drainage and
erosion control plan for the project is prepared by an engineer registered in
the state approved by the city. Due to its percolation and absorption
properties which help to slow and dissipate storm runoff, open space is hereby
regarded as a public facility and a valuable aspect of the city’s
infrastructure. This plan shall contain at a minimum:
         (a)   The methods to be used to minimize the amount of runoff,
filtration and pollution created from the development both during and after
construction;
         (b)   Plans for the construction of storm sewers, open drainage
channels and other facilities which depict line sizes, profiles, construction
specifications and other such information as is necessary for the city to
review the adequacy of the storm drainage plans; and
         (c)   Calculations used by the engineer in sizing storm drainage
facilities.
      (2)   General standards. All development shall be planned, designed,
constructed and maintained to conform to the standards described in the city’s
stormwater master plan and the city public works standards to:
         (a)   Protect and preserve existing natural drainage channels
identified on the city’s stormwater master plan. Protection shall be assured by
not altering existing channels and providing a 20 foot setback from the banks
of the existing channel. Exceptions include the continuation of existing
practices and development already within the 20 foot setback, emergency repairs
to the drainage channel and routine maintenance or replacement of existing
facilities as approved by the City Public Works Director;
         (b)   Protect development from flood hazards as required in § 152.037;
         (c)   Provide a system by which water within the development will be
controlled without causing damage or harm to the natural environment, or to
property or persons within the drainage basin;
         (d)   Assure that waters drained from the development are
substantially free of pollutants, through such construction and drainage
techniques as sedimentation ponds, reseeding, pleasing of grading;
         (e)   Assure that waters are drained from the development in such a
manner that will not cause erosion to any greater extent than would occur in
the absence of development;
         (f)   Provide dry wells, French drains or similar methods, as
necessary to supplement storm drainage systems; and
         (g)   Avoid placement of surface detention or retention facilities in
road rights-of-way. In order to prevent degradation of a natural watercourse,
the city may require the watercourse to be bridged or spanned.
      (3)   In the event a development or any part thereof is traversed by any
watercourse, channel, stream or creek, gulch or other natural drainage channel,
adequate easements for storm drainage purposes shall be provided to the city.
This does not imply maintenance by the city.
      (4)   Channel obstructions are not allowed, except as approved for the
creation of detention or retention facilities approved under the provisions of
this chapter. Fences with swing gates may be utilized.
      (5)   Prior to acceptance of a storm sewer system by the city, the storm
sewers shall be flushed and inspected by the city. All costs shall be born by
the developer.
   (H)   Utility lines and facilities.
      (1)   Standards.
         (a)   The location, design, installation and maintenance of all
utility lines and facilities shall be carried out with minimum feasible
disturbances of soil and site.
         (b)   All development, which has a need for water service, shall
install water facilities and grant necessary easements pursuant to the
requirements of the city.
         (c)   All development, which has a need for electricity, gas and
communications services shall install them pursuant to the requirements of the
district or company serving the development. Except where otherwise prohibited
by the utility district or company, all such facilities shall be underground.
         (d)   All development, which has a need for public/private sanitary
sewers, shall install the facilities pursuant to the requirements of the city.
Installation of such facilities shall be coordinated with the extension of
necessary water services and storm drainage facilities. No storm drainage
conveyances shall be outlet or connected to the city’s sanitary sewer system.
         (e)   All land divisions or other development requiring subsurface
disposal systems shall be prohibited except for:
            1.   Development of land divisions shall conform to the
requirements of that district; and
            2.   Parcels which have unique topographic or other natural
features, which make sewer extension impractical, as determined on a case-by
case basis by the City Public Works Director.
         (f)   All developments proposing sub-surface sewage disposal shall
receive approval for the system from the city. Said systems shall be installed
pursuant to O.R.S. 454.605 and 454.745 and the O.A.R. 340, Divisions 71 and 73.
      (2)   Utility easements. Easements for sewers, drainage, water mains,
public utility installations, including overhead or underground systems, and
other like public purposes, shall be dedicated, reserved or granted by the land
developer in widths not less than five feet on each side of rear lots or parcel
lines, alongside lot or parcel lines and in planting strips wherever necessary,
of lesser width as approved by the city.
   (I)   Access management. Access shall be managed to maintain an adequate
“level of service” and to maintain the “functional classification” of roadways
as required by the City Transportation System Plan (TSP).
      (1)   The city or other agency with access permit jurisdiction may
require the closing or consolidation of existing curb cuts or other vehicle
access points, recording of reciprocal access easements (i.e., for shared
driveways), development of a frontage street, installation of traffic control
devices and/or other mitigation as a condition of granting an access permit, to
ensure the safe and efficient operation of the street and highway system.
Access to and from off-street parking areas shall not permit backing onto a
public street.
      (2)   When vehicle access is required for development (i.e., for off-
street parking, delivery, service, drive-through facilities and the like),
access shall be provided by one of the following methods (a minimum of ten feet
per lane is required). These methods are “options” to the developer/subdivider.
         (a)   Option 1. Access is from an existing or proposed alley or mid-
block lane. If a property has access to an alley or lane, alley access is
preferred.
         (b)   Option 2. Access is from a private street or driveway connected
to an adjoining property that has direct access to a public street (i.e.,
“shared driveway”). A public access easement covering the driveway shall be
recorded in this case to assure access to the closest public street for all
users of the private street/drive.
         (c)   Option 3. Access is from a public street adjacent to the
development parcel. If practicable, the owner/developer may be required to
close or consolidate an existing access point as a condition of approving a new
access. Street accesses shall comply with the access spacing standards in
division (I)(5) below.
      (3)   Subdivisions fronting onto an arterial street. New residential land
divisions fronting onto an arterial street shall be required to provide alleys
or secondary (local or collector) streets for access to individual lots. When
alleys or secondary streets cannot be constructed due to topographic or other
physical constraints, access may be provided by consolidating driveways for
clusters of two or more lots (e.g., includes flag lots and mid-block lanes).
      (4)   Through lots and parcels.
         (a)   When a lot has frontage onto two or more streets, access shall
be provided first from the street with the lowest classification. For example,
access shall be provided from a local street before a collector or arterial
street.
         (b)   Except for corner lots, the creation of new double-frontage lots
shall be prohibited in the Open Space Land Use District (O District);
Residential Low and Medium (R-7.5 and R-5.0); Multiple Use Residential (R-O);
Neighborhood Commercial District (N-C); Highway Commercial District (H-C);
Central Commercial District (C-C District); Town Center District (TC); Light
Industrial (L-I); General Industrial (G-I) unless topographic or physical
constraints require the formation of such lots.
         (c)   When double-frontage lots are permitted in these zones, a
landscape buffer with trees and/or shrubs and ground cover not less than 20
feet wide shall be provided between the back yard fence/wall and the sidewalk
or street; maintenance shall be assured by the owner (i.e., through homeowner’s
association and the like).
      (5)   Access spacing. Driveway accesses shall be separated from other
driveways and street intersections in accordance with the following standards
and procedures.
         (a)   Local streets. A minimum of ten feet separation (as measured
from the sides of the driveway/street) shall be required on local streets
(i.e., streets not designated as collectors or arterials), provided, at least
one access is permitted on each lot or parcel located to provide as much
separation as possible even if the minimum cannot be met.
         (b)   Collector streets. Access spacing on collector and at controlled
intersections (i.e., with four-way stop sign or traffic signal) shall be 50
feet for a collector.
         (c)   Arterials. Access spacing on arterial streets, and at controlled
intersections (i.e., with four-way stop sign or traffic signal) shall be 100
feet. Access to Highway 101 shall be subject to the applicable standards and
policies contained in the state’s highway plan.
         (d)   Number of access points.
            1.   For single-family dwellings, duplexes, triplexes, quadplexes,
townhouses and cottage clusters, one street access point is permitted per lot,
when alley access cannot otherwise be provided; except that two access points
may be permitted for duplexes, triplexes, quadplexes, and cottage clusters on
corner lots (i.e., no more than one access per street), or with lot widths
greater than 50 feet, subject to the access spacing standards in this division
(I)(5).
            2.   The number of street access points for multiple family,
commercial, industrial and public/institutional developments shall be minimized
to protect the function, safety and operation of the street(s) and sidewalk(s)
for all users.
            3.   Shared access may be required, in conformance with division
(Q) below, in order to maintain the required access spacing, and minimize the
number of access points.
   (J)   Land for public purposes.
      (1)   The City Planning Commission or City Manager designate may require
the reservation for public acquisition, at a cost not to exceed acreage values
in the area prior to subdivision, or appropriate areas within the subdivision
for a period not to exceed one year providing the city has an interest or has
been advised of interest on the part of the State Highway Commission, school
district or other public agency to acquire a portion of the area within the
proposed subdivision for a public purpose, including substantial assurance that
positive steps will be taken in the reasonable future for the acquisition.
      (2)   The City Planning Commission may require the dedication of suitable
areas for parks, playgrounds and transportation rights-of-way, subject to rough
proportionality with the impacts being created.
   (K)   Minimum street standards for the creation of roads, easements and
rights-of-way. Please refer to the most recently adopted city design standards.
All streets shall be graded for the appropriate development standard. The
developer shall improve the extension of all streets to the centerline of
existing streets with which subdivision or development streets intersect.
      (1)   General. The location, width and grade of streets shall be
considered in relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical
conditions, to public convenience and safety, to the proposed use of the land
to be served by the streets and to the Comprehensive Plan adopted by the city.
The street system shall assure an adequate traffic circulation system.
Intersection angles, grades, tangents and curves shall be appropriate for the
traffic to be carried and to the terrain. The arrangement of streets in a
subdivision shall either:
         (a)   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of
existing principal streets in surrounding areas; or
         (b)   Conform to the city’s Comprehensive Plan to meet a particular
situation where topographical or other conditions make continuance or
conformance to existing streets impractical.
      (2)   Minimum right-of-way.
         (a)   Unless otherwise indicated in the Comprehensive Plan, the widths
of the streets, alleys and other public ways, in feet, shall comply with the
requirements of the standard drawings in the city’s Transportation Systems Plan
(TSP).
         (b)   Where existing conditions of topography or the size and shape of
land parcels, or other like physical conditions, make it otherwise impractical
to provide buildable lots, the Planning Commission may accept a narrower right-
of-way with suitable allowance for increased width at strategic locations for
turning lanes, parking bays or similar special design features.
      (3)   Reserve strips. Reserve strips or street plugs controlling the
access to streets shall be required for the protection of the public welfare
and for substantial property rights. The control and disposal of the land
composing such strips or street plugs shall be placed within the jurisdiction
of the city, by deed, under conditions approved by the Planning Commission or
City Council.
      (4)   Alignment. All streets, as far as practicable, shall be in
alignment with existing streets by continuations of the centerlines thereof.
The staggering of street alignment resulting in “T” intersections shall,
wherever practical, leave a minimum distance of 200 feet between the
centerlines of the streets.
      (5)   Future extension of streets. Where necessary to give access to or
permit a satisfactory future subdivision of adjoining land, streets shall be
extended to the boundary of the subdivision or development. Reserve strips and
street plugs shall be required to preserve the objectives of street extension.
The Planning Commission may require the improvement of a suitable turnaround at
the temporary dead end.
      (6)   Intersection angles. Streets shall be laid out to intersect at 90
degrees, except where topography requires a lesser angle, but in no case less
than 60 degrees. Streets shall have at least 30 feet of tangent adjacent to the
intersection unless the topography justifies a lesser distance.
      (7)   Intersection corner rounding. The property line at each block
corner shall be rounded with a curve adequate to allow a radius of not less
than 25 feet at the edge of road surface and provide utility and sidewalk
space. A greater radius at the edge and corresponding block corner radius may
be required if the streets intersect at other than right angles.
      (8)   Curve radius. Centerline radii of curves shall be not less than 300
feet on arterial streets, 200 feet on collector streets or 100 feet on all
other streets and shall be to an even ten feet.
      (9)   Grades. No street or highway shall have a grade of more than 12%
unless, because of topographical conditions, the Planning Commission determines
that a grade in excess of 12% is necessary.
      (10)   Half-streets. Half-streets, while generally not acceptable, may be
approved when essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision, when
in conformity with the other requirements of these regulations, and when the
Planning Commission finds it will be practical to require the development of
the other half when the adjoining property is subdivided. Whenever a half-
street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street
shall be platted within such tract. Reserve strips and street plugs shall be
required to preserve the objectives of the half-streets.
      (11)   Cul-de-sac. A cul-de-sac, while generally not acceptable, may be
approved when essential to the reasonable development of the project, when in
conformity with the other requirements of these regulations, and shall be as
short as possible.
         (a)   Cul-de-sacs shall only be allowed when one or more of the
following conditions exist:
            1.   Physical or topographic conditions make a street connection
impracticable. Such conditions, include, but are not limited to, freeways,
railroads, steep slopes (greater than 20% grade) wetlands or other bodies or
water where a connection could not reasonably be provided;
            2.   Buildings or other existing development on adjacent lands
physically preclude a connection now or in the future considering the potential
for redevelopment; and
            3.   Where streets would violate provisions of leases, easements,
covenants, restrictions or other agreements existing as of the date of adoption
of the city’s Transportation System Plan, which precluded a required street
connection.
         (b)   Cul-de-sacs shall have maximum lengths of 600 feet. All cul-de-
sacs shall terminate with circular turnarounds.
         (c)   Cul-de-sacs or dead end hammerhead streets shall be connected
with walking or bicycle paths in accordance with division (P) below.
      (12)   Existing streets. Whenever existing streets adjacent to or within
a proposed development area are of inadequate width, additional right-of-way
shall be provided at the time of development. No street with pavement less than
two years old shall be cut to install any utilities unless approval is given by
the City Public Works Director.
      (13)   Street names. No street name shall be used which will duplicate or
be confused with the names of existing streets in the city and vicinity except
for extensions of existing streets. Streets which are an extension of, or are
in alignment with, existing streets shall have the same name as the existing
street. Street names and numbers shall conform to the established pattern in
the city and shall be subject to the approval of the Planning Commission.
      (14)   Marginal access streets. Where a subdivision or development abuts
or contains an existing or proposed arterial street, the Planning Commission
may require marginal access streets, reverse frontage lots with suitable depth,
screen planting contained in a non-access reservation along the front,
rear or side property line or such other treatment as may be necessary for
adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of
through and local traffic.
      (15)   Alleys. Alleys are encouraged where feasible.
      (16)    Cross- secti ons. The follow ing cross- secti on draw ings show
the stand ards for each type of road way in the city
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1573.png]
 
   (L)    Appro val of streets and ways.
      (1)    Creation of streets :
         (a)   The creation of a street shall be in conformance with the
requirements for the development, except that the Planning Commission may
approve the creation of a street to be established by deed without full
compliance with the regulations applicable to a development when the Planning
Commission has sufficient assurance that the proposed street or enlargement
thereof shall be improved to city standards and when the City Planning
Commission finds any of the following conditions exist.
            1.   The establishment of the street, or the extension or widening
thereof, is initiated by the City Council and declared essential for the
purpose of general traffic circulation and the partitioning of land is of
incidental effect rather than the primary objective of the street.
            2.   The tract in which the street is to be dedicated is an
isolated township of one acre or less.
         (b)   In those cases where approval of a street may be given without
full compliance with the regulations applicable to developments, a copy of the
proposed deed shall be submitted to the city at least five days prior to the
Planning Commission meeting at which consideration is requested. The deed and
such information as may be submitted shall be reviewed by the City Planning
Commission and if, not in conflict with the standards of these regulations,
shall be approved with conditions necessary to preserve these standards. Upon
approval, the City Planning Commission shall forward the said deed to the City
Council with recommendations that the same be accepted, and with further
recommendations as to the improvement requirements and assurance thereof which
the Planning Commission recommends as a condition to acceptance of this street.
      (2)   Before finalization and acceptance of any site plan approval,
conditional use permit, planned unit development, final plat of a subdivision,
final map of a partition, commercial and industrial site development, multi-
family dwellings and multiple use structure development, the applicant shall
install required street and sidewalk improvements and repair existing streets
and other existing public facilities damaged in the development of the
property.
   (M)   Blocks.
      (1)   General. The length, width and shape of blocks shall be designed
with due regard to providing building sites for the use contemplated,
consideration of needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety
of street traffic, and recognition of the limitations and opportunities of
topography.
      (2)   Maximum block size. In commercial - Neighborhood Commercial (N-C),
Town Center (TC) and Central Commercial (C-C)) - the maximum block length along
local and collector streets shall be 500 feet. In all other zones, block length
along local and collector streets shall not exceed 600 feet between street
corner lines of rectilinear developments unless it is adjacent to an arterial
street or unless the topography of the location of adjoining streets justified
as exception. Along an arterial street, the maximum block length shall be 1,800
feet.
      (3)   Minimum block size along arterial streets. The recommended minimum
length of blocks along an arterial street is 1,000 feet. A block shall have
sufficient width to provide for two tiers of building sites unless topography
or the location of adjoining streets justifies an exception.
   (N)   Lots.
      (1)   Size and shape. Lot size, shape, width and orientation shall be
appropriate for the location of the subdivision or development, solar
orientation and for the type of use contemplated. The width of every lot shall
comply with the requirements of the zoning ordinance. Lots shall have an
average depth of not less than 100 feet unless existing conditions or
topographic conditions make it mandatory that lots be reduced in depth, in
which case the lot depth may not be less than 80 feet. These minimum standards
shall apply with the following exceptions.
         (a)   In areas that will not be served by a public sewer, minimum lot
size-shall be increased to conform with the requirements of the County Health
Department and shall take into consideration problems of water supply and
sewage disposal.
         (b)   Where property is zoned and planned for industrial or commercial
use, other standards may be permitted at the discretion of the Planning
Commission. Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for commercial
and industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-street service
and parking facilities required by the type of use and development
contemplated.
         (c)   The lot layout shall be in agreement with the area designations
shown on the adopted Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   Lot side lines. The side lines of lots, as far as practicable,
shall run at right angles to the street upon which the lot faces.
   (O)   Site and building design. The site and building design standards as
listed in each of the city zone districts are required.
      (1)   Siting standards. All new buildings should face the street except
if conditions such as lot size, shape, topography or other circumstances over
which the applicant has no control apply to the property. Primary ground floor
entrances must orient to streets and/or the pedestrian entrance shall be the
visually predominant entrance. The original topography and grade of building
sites should be maintained.
      (2)   Signs. As per § 152.055.
      (3)   Historic resources.
         (a)   Sites currently listed on the Statewide Inventory of historic
sites and buildings, as well as any future sites of historic importance, shall
be subject to additional site review criteria.
         (b)   In addition to the requirements of this section, any demolition,
interior remodeling or alterations to an historic building, or development of
an historic site shall be subject to an additional public hearing. At the time
of mailing of the public notice, the city shall give a 45-day notice to the
state’s historical preservation office and local historic interest groups of
the proposed development in order to determine an appropriate course of action.
The testimony of these groups shall be included in the staff report to the
Planning Commission.
      (4)   Utility service.
         (a)   It shall be required that electric, telephone and other utility
lines shall be located underground, except if conditions such as topography or
other circumstances over which the applicant has no control apply to the
property.
         (b)   Utility lines and installations remaining above the ground shall
be located to the rear of the site so as to have a harmonious relationship to
adjacent and abutting properties and the site.
         (c)   Solid waste disposal containers shall be screened and placed
away from public view in areas as indicated in the site plan (as per division
(F) above).
      (5)   Agricultural buffering.
         (a)   All rear lot lines abutting the county F-1 Zone shall be fenced.
         (b)   A 20 foot setback and additional landscaping shall be required
to avoid conflicting uses for agricultural protection except if conditions such
as lot size, shape, topography or other circumstances over which the applicant
has no control apply to the property.
         (c)   In conjunction with the abutting or adjacent county F-1 Zone, as
part of the requirements for development, the following declaratory statement
be entered into the building permit and chain of title.
            “The subject property is located adjacent to or abutting an area
designated by the county and recognized by the city for agricultural uses.
Accepted farm practices in these adjacent or abutting areas may create
inconvenience for the owners of adjacent properties. However, the city does not
consider it the agricultural operator’s responsibility to modify farm practices
to accommodate owners or occupants of surrounding property, with the exception
of such operator’s violation of existing federal and state or local laws.”
      (6)   Wetlands planning area.
         (a)   The intent of this division (O)(6) is to provide adequate
protection for environmentally sensitive areas in all zones within the UGB.
Areas of concern include perennial streams, sloughs, rivers and wetlands with
their associated fish and wildlife species and riparian wetland vegetation. The
location of these areas is shown in the “Wetland Planning Map for the City of
Tillamook”, adopted herein by this reference.
         (b)   In the event of a proposed development within a wetland or
setback area, a copy of the proposed development as per § 152.070(F)(1) through
(F)(7) will be submitted to the O.D.F.W. for review.
         (c)   O.D.F.W. shall have a 30-day review period from the date of
application in which to provide written comments and recommendations on the
proposed development. During this review period, no site alteration shall be
allowed to take place. The recommendations issued by the O.D.F.W. will be
presented as part of the staff recommendation and shall be followed by the
appropriate reviewing body in determining the appropriate development action.
   (P)   Pedestrian and bicycle access and circulation.
      (1)   Purpose. The primary pedestrian and bicycle circulation plan is
addressed in the city’s adopted Transportation System Plan (TSP). The TSP
provides for a Pedestrian System Plan and a Bicycle System Plan to ensure safe,
direct and convenient pedestrian and bicycle circulation. New streets should be
constructed to the standards specified in the TSP to allow for pedestrian and
bicycle access. New development, as stated in § 152.004, shall provide a
continuous pedestrian and/or multi-use pathway system. The placement of a
sidewalk or pathway along the frontage(s) of a subject property is required.
(Pathways only provide for pedestrian circulation. Multi-use pathways
accommodate pedestrians and bicycles.) The system of pathways shall be designed
based on the standards in divisions (P)(2) and (P)(3) below:
      (2)   Continuous pathways. The pathway system shall extend throughout the
development site, and connect to all future phases of development, adjacent
trails, public parks and open space areas whenever possible. The developer may
also be required to connect or stub pathway(s) to adjacent streets and private
property, in accordance with the provisions of city ordinances, streets and the
standards and specifications document for the city.
      (3)   Safe, direct and convenient pathways. Pathways within developments
shall provide safe, reasonably direct and convenient connections between
primary building entrances and all adjacent streets.
      (4)   Pathway connectivity. Pathways (for pedestrians and bicycles) shall
be provided at or near mid-block where the block length exceeds the length
required by the street standards of this section. Pathways shall also be
provided where cul-de-sacs or dead-end streets are planned, to connect the ends
of the streets together, to other streets and/or to other developments as per
cul-de-sac standards of this section. Pathways used to comply with these
standards shall conform to the criteria listed in each zone.
      (5)   Design and construction. Pathways shall conform to with the city’s
most current design standards and all of the standards in divisions (P)(5)(a)
and (P)(5)(b) below:
         (a)   Vehicle/pathway separation. Where pathways are parallel and
adjacent to a driveway or street (public or private), they shall be raised six
inches and curbed, or separated from the driveway/street by a five-foot minimum
strip with bollards, a landscape berm or other physical barrier. If a raised
path is used, the ends of the raised portions must be equipped with curb ramps.
         (b)   Pathway surface.
            1.   Pedestrian pathway surfaces shall be concrete, asphalt, brick/
masonry pavers or other durable surface, at least five feet wide, and shall
conform to ADA requirements.
            2.   Multi-use paths (i.e., for bicycles and pedestrians) shall be
the same materials as listed in division (P)(5)(b)1. above, at least six feet
wide and shall conform to ADA requirements. (See also City of Tillamook Public
Works Design Standards § 2.14, “Ancillary Facilities”.) No matter which surface
is utilized, grading and compaction shall be sufficient to allow the unimpeded
passage of wheeled vehicles such as bicycles, wheelchairs and perambulators.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1575.png]
 
            3.   Unless the pathway is shared between adjacent property owners,
a minimum of five feet between the pathway surface and the property line is
required.
            4.   All pathways shall be completed as part of development, not
delayed to coincide with individual building/housing construction.
   (Q)   Agreements, bonding and assurances.
      (1)   Construction plans. Construction drawings certified by a licensed
civil engineer prepared on 24 inches by 36 inches base material showing in
detail all improvements required to be constructed, including, but not limited
to, streets, curbs and gutters, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, water
distribution system, street tree locations, street lights and monuments, shall
be submitted to the City Engineer who shall examine the same prior to
conditional approval of the final map by the Planner. Upon finding that the
drawings conform with applicable city codes and other construction requirements
for such improvements and are in accord with sound engineering principles and
practices, the Engineer shall submit the said plans to the Planner for
approval. No alteration or change of the construction drawings shall be made by
the developer or the city without the express mutual consent of both parties.
No construction shall be started prior to approval of said plans and
specifications by the Planner. On completion of the construction the developer
shall submit to the city engineer a complete set of “as built” drawings, in the
manner prescribed by law.
      (2)   Improvement procedures. In addition to other requirements,
subdivision or development improvements installed by the developer shall
conform to the requirements of this section and improvements standards and
specifications adopted by the city, and where there is no requirement or
specification expressly set forth in this code or adopted by the city relating
to any such improvement or part thereof, the developer shall have the right to
employ the standards and specifications prepared by the American Public Works
Association. The improvements shall be installed in accordance with the
following procedures.
         (a)   Work shall not begin until plans have been checked for adequacy
and approved by the city. To the extent necessary for evaluation of the
subdivision or development proposal, the plans shall be required before the
approval of the final plat.
         (b)   Work shall not begin until the city has been notified in
advance. If work has been discontinued for any reason for a period of one year,
it shall not be resumed until the city has been notified.
         (c)   1.   Improvements shall be constructed under the inspection and
to the satisfaction of the city. The city may require changes in typical
sections and details if unusual conditions arise during the construction to
warrant the change in the public interest.
            2.   The city reserves the right to:
               a.   Require the developer to provide supervision of the
improvements by a qualified engineer; or
               b.   Require the developer to deposit 3% of the anticipated
construction costs to be applied to the retention of a supervising engineer.
Said deposit shall be applied to the cost of the supervising engineer; if the
cost exceeds 3%, the developer shall pay the additional; if it is less than the
3% a refund will be made to the developer. When the developer’s engineer
performs the inspection, a certification of construction inspection shall be
issued with the “as built” drawings.
         (d)   All underground utilities, sanitary sewers and storm drains
installed in streets shall be constructed prior to the surfacing of such
streets. Stubs for service connections for all underground utilities and
sanitary sewers shall be placed to such length as will obviate the necessity
for disturbing the street improvements when service connections are made. Storm
sewers that are required as a result of a drainage study prepared by a
registered professional engineer shall be installed by the developer.
         (e)   A reproducible map showing all public improvements as built
shall be filed with the city upon completion of said improvements.
         (f)   “As built” drawings of all improvements constructed within the
development. Said drawings shall define the exact location of all underground
utilities and surface drainage as they were constructed. The location of such
utilities shall be determined by the developer at the time of construction and
independent of the utility company’s records. When utilities cross permanent
structures, such as sidewalks or curbs, the location of the utility shall be
indicated on the permanent structure.
      (3)   Projects where public improvements required. On all projects where
public improvements are required:
         (a)   To assure full and faithful performance of the improvement
agreement, the developer shall file with the said agreement a personal
undertaking signed by all persons having a beneficial interest in the subject
property, which undertaking shall be approved in form by the City Attorney and
shall be one of the following:
            1.   Co-signed by at least one additional person who shall not be
related to the developer by blood or consanguinity. The developer and co-signer
shall submit evidence of financial responsibility in affidavit form which
satisfies the city that the financial resources of the surety signing the bond
provide reasonable assurance of the ability of the developer to proceed in
accordance with the agreement;
            2.   Co-signed by a surety company authorized to transact business
in the state;
            3.   Secured by the deposit of cash or cashier’s check,
governmental bearer bonds or other like cash security available to the city in
case of default in the undertaking, the deposit to be in the penal amount of
the bond; or
            4.   A letter of assignment from an authorized financial
institution. Letter of assignment shall be held in force by the city until
improvements are deemed complete by the city. The city shall have access to
funds guaranteed by the letter of assignment in case of default in the
undertaking and said letter of assignment shall only be terminated with
approval of the city.
         (b)   Approve and release such bonds upon the completion of the
project. A portion of a bond may be released as components of the project are
completed;
         (c)   Require a development agreement containing the conditions of
approval to be signed by the developer and recorded with the county; and
         (d)   Require the applicant execute and file with the City Manager an
agreement between himself or herself and the city specifying the period within
which required improvements and repairs shall be completed and providing that,
if the work is not completed within that period specified, the city may
complete the work and recover the full cost and expense, together with court
costs and attorney fees necessary to collect said amount from the land
developer.
            1.   The agreement shall also provide the reimbursement of the city
for the cost of inspection by the city of the improvements to be installed.
            2.   The agreement may also provide for the construction and
improvements to be completed in units and for an extension of time under the
conditions therein specified
      (4)   Performance bond. The bond shall be released when the city finds
the completed project conforms to the approved site development plan and all
conditions of approval are satisfied. In the event the developer shall fail to
complete all improvement work in accordance with the provisions of this code
and the city shall have completed same, or if the developer shall fail to
reimburse the city for the cost of inspection, engineering and incidental
expenses, and to cover cost of replacement and repair of existing streets or
other improvements damaged in the development of the project, the city shall
call on the surety for reimbursement, or shall appropriate from any cash
deposit funds for reimbursement. In any such case, if the amount of surety bond
or cash deposit shall exceed all costs and expenses incurred by the city, it
shall release the remainder of such bond or cash deposit, and if the amount of
the surety bond or cash deposit shall be less than the cost and expense
incurred by the city, the developer shall be liable to the city for such
difference.
      (5)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be installed within six months of
issuance of occupancy permits, unless security equal to the cost of the
landscaping as determined by the planner is filed with the city, assuring such
installation within six months after occupancy.
         (a)   Security may consist of a faithful performance bond payable to
the city, cash, certified check or such other assurance of completion approved
by the city; and
         (b)   If the installation of the landscaping is not completed within
the six-month period, the security may be used by the city to complete the
installation.
      (6)   The applicant shall ensure that all occupants of the completed
project, whether permanent or temporary, shall apply for and receive a city
business license prior to initiating business.
      (7)   Guarantee. The developer shall guarantee all materials and
equipment furnished and work performed against any defect in materials and
workmanship which becomes evident within three years after the acceptance of
the work by the city. A warranty bond shall be submitted to the city shall in
the amount of 20% of total project cost and remain in full force and effect
during the guaranty period and correction of any faulty work shall be promptly
executed by the developer, or, if corrected by the city, shall be the
responsibility of the surety. In the case of a cash deposit, the City Council
may determine, upon completion of the improvement, whether all or a reasonable
part of the deposit should be retained as a reasonable security for such
guarantee.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 1320, passed 3-20-2017; Ord. 1335, passed 7-
2-2018; Ord. 1349, passed 8-19-2019; Ord. 050525A, passed 5-19-2025) Penalty,
see §
152.999
§ 152.053 DESIGN AND LANDSCAPING STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to encourage originality,
flexibility and innovation in site planning and development, including the
architecture, landscaping and design of private properties; to discourage
monotonous, drab, unsightly, dreary and inharmonious design; to conserve the
city’s natural beauty and visual character and charm by ensuring structures,
signs and other improvements are properly related to their sites, and to
surrounding sites and structures, with due regard to the aesthetic qualities of
the natural terrain and landscaping, and that proper attention is given to
exterior appearances of structures, signs and other improvements; to prevent
physical harm to the citizens of the city; to promote harmony between adjacent
property owners; and to protect each property’s right of access to sunlight,
air and open spaces.
   (B)   Fence and wall standards.
      (1)   Front yard. A front yard fence or wall must not be more than:
         (a)   Three feet in height if the fence is within ten feet of the
front lot line;
         (b)   Six feet in height if the fence is set back more than ten feet
from the front lot line; or
         (c)   Vision clearance area as per §
152.050(E) shall be required for corner lots.
      (2)   Rear yard. A rear yard fence or wall must not be more than six feet
in height.
      (3)   Interior side yard. A side yard fence or wall, on a side not
abutting a street, must not be more than six feet tall.
      (4)   Street side yard. A side yard fence or wall, on a side abutting a
street, must not be more than:
         (a)   Three feet in height if the fence is within ten feet of the lot
line;
         (b)   Six feet in height if the fence is set back more than ten feet
from the lot line; or
         (c)   Vision clearance area as per §
152.050(E) shall be required for comer lots.
      (5)   Height measurement. Fence or wall height is measured from the
ground to the top of the fence. If the ground on which the fence is located has
been bermed or raised above the level of the surrounding land, the fence is
measured from the level of the unraised ground.
      (6)   Materials. Wood, brick, rockwork, split-face block, vinyl or low
post and wire and hedgerows are encouraged. Concrete block walls are
prohibited. Cyclone or chain-link fencing is prohibited within any front yard
or street side yard setback area unless coated with a non-metallic material,
but is allowed in side and rear yards.
      (7)   Retaining wall. The above standards do not apply to a device used
to buttress earth, such as a retaining wall or riprap.
      (8)   Corner lots. For purposes of this section only, if a lot abuts more
than one street, only the frontage on one of the streets shall be deemed a
front lot line, and the height restrictions shall apply only to one front yard.
The person in possession and control of the premises may elect which is the
front yard and restrict the height of the fence or wall accordingly. Such
person may change his or her election to any of the other streets abutting his
or her premises by first abating any non-conforming fence or wall in the front
yard to be thus defined.
      (9)   Screening. In a zone district other than residential,
notwithstanding the yard requirements, a fence, wall, hedge or other like
screening device may be required by the Planning Commission as a condition to
the approval of a proposed commercial or industrial improvement on a lot
abutting, or across the street or alley from, an adjacent property in a
residential district, if the Planning Commission finds that such screening is
necessary to prevent an unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of
the residential lot.
      (10)   Interference and hazard to the public.
         (a)   No owner or person in charge of property shall construct or
maintain a barbed-wire fence thereon, or permit barbed wire to remain as part
of a fence along a sidewalk or public way or along the adjoining property line
of another person unless placed at least three feet behind an initial fence.
         (b)   No owner or person in charge of property shall construct,
maintain or operate an electric fence along a sidewalk or public way or along
the adjoining property line of another person unless placed at least three feet
behind an initial fence.
      (11)   Relation to adjoining property. Fences shall not be installed on
or across a property line unless jointly owned by adjoining property owners; in
which case they may be on the property line. Determination of where the
property line is located shall not be the responsibility of the city or its
officials.
      (12)   Building permit and setback requirements for fences. Any fence
greater than six feet in height shall require a building permit and, hence,
shall be required to abide by the front yard setback and height requirements of
the applicable zoning district.
      (13)   Fences in industrial zones. A fence six feet in height shall be
required to separate any new or substantially improved industrial operation
from abutting property which is located in any residential or commercial zoning
district. Such fence shall be subject to the requirements of division (B)(5)
above.
   (C)   Exterior lighting (including LED) requirements. All exterior outdoor
lighting installed in any and all zones in the city shall conform to the
following requirements unless otherwise exempted.
      (1)   Area lights. All area lights, including street lights and parking
area lighting, shall be full cutoff fixtures and are encouraged to be 85 degree
full cut-off type fixtures. Street lights shall be high pressure sodium, low-
pressure sodium or metal halide, unless otherwise determined by the city that
another type is more efficient. Street lights along residential streets shall
be limited to 70-watt high-pressure sodium (hps) light. If the city permits a
light type other than high-pressure sodium, the equivalent output shall be the
limit for the other light type. Outdoor mercury vapor and quartz lights are
prohibited; preference should be given to low impact lighting.
      (2)   Canopy lights. All lighting shall be recessed sufficiently so as to
ensure that no light source is visible from or causes glare on public rights-
of-way or adjacent property.
      (3)   Illumination levels. Illumination levels and uniformity shall
consider current recommended practices of the Illuminating Engineering Society.
Recommended standards for the Illuminating Engineering Society shall not be
exceeded. Lighting shall be compatible with the character of the neighborhood
within which it is located, and light trespass impacts on surrounding
properties shall be minimized. Fixture mounting height and light intensity
shall be considered in determining the extent of light trespass impacts. Up
lighting shields shall be required except in the Town Center.
      (4)   Temporary lighting. Temporary lighting that conforms to the
requirements of this chapter shall be allowed. Non-conforming temporary
exterior lighting may be permitted by the Public Works Director only after
considering:
         (a)   The public and private benefits which will result from the
temporary lighting;
         (b)   Any annoyance or safety problems that may result from the use of
the temporary lighting; and
         (c)   The duration of the temporary non-conforming lighting. The
applicant shall submit a detailed description of the proposed temporary non-
conforming lighting to the Public Works Director.
      (5)   Towers. All radio, communication and navigation towers that require
lights shall have dual lighting capabilities. Lights may only be used in
accordance with FAA requirements.
      (6)   Wattage ratings. For the purpose of this section, wattage ratings
for lamp types will be for either a single lamp source or multiple lamp sources
when installed in a cluster.
      (7)   Streetlight design standards. The streetlight illustrations in the
city’s most current design standards shall be used by property owners in a
subdivision or other development. Lamp types not listed in the table may be
approved for use by the Planner, provided installation of these lamps conforms
to the lumen limits established in this section.
      (8)   Shielding. Glass tubes filled with argon, neon or krypton do not
require shielding.
      (9)   Exterior lighting exemptions and exceptions. Exterior lighting
exemptions and exceptions include the following:
         (a)   Residential fixtures consisting of lamp types with 2,050 lumens
or less. Examples include:
            1.   One hundred watt standard incandescent and less;
            2.   One hundred watt mid break tungsten-halogen (quartz) and less;
            3.   Twenty-five watt T-12 cool white fluorescent and less; and
            4.   Eighteen watt low pressure sodium and less.
         (b)   Federally funded and state funded roadway construction projects
to the extent necessary to comply with federal and state requirements;
         (c)   Fossil fuel light produced directly or indirectly by the
combustion of natural gas or other utility-type fossil fuels;
         (d)   Full cutoff street lighting, which is part of a federal, state
or municipal installation;
         (e)   Holiday lighting;
         (f)   Lighting of sports facilities or stadiums;
         (g)   Specialized lighting necessary for the safety, such as
navigation or runway lighting of airports, or temporary lighting associated
with emergency operations, road hazard warnings and the like; and
         (h)   Traffic control signals and devices.
      (10)   Prohibited lighting. Prohibited lighting includes the following:
         (a)   Newly installed fixtures, which are not full cutoff fixtures;
         (b)   Lighting which presents a clear hazard to motorists, cyclists or
pedestrians; and
         (c)   The use of laser source light or any similar high intensity
light for outdoor advertising or entertainment is prohibited.
   (D)   Sidewalk and pathway standards. The placement of a sidewalk or pathway
along the frontage(s) of a subject property is required and shall be
constructed in accordance with the city’s most current design standards.
Reconstruction or maintenance of an existing sidewalk or pathway may replicate
its original design. No matter which surface is utilized, grading and
compaction shall be sufficient to allow the unimpeded passage of wheeled
vehicles such as bicycles, wheelchairs and perambulators.
   (E)   Driveway and garage standards.
      (1)   Detached garages shall be encouraged to be located to the rear of
the residence. If an alley is available, paved and improved to a minimum width
of five feet, it shall service the garage. Attached garages are required to be
located at least ten feet behind the front wall of the house.
      (2)   Driveways shall be placed alongside of a residence leading to a
detached garage, unless an alley paved and improved to a minimum width of ten
feet is available, then the alley shall be utilized. Exceptions to the location
of the driveway include conditions such as lot size, shape, topography or other
circumstances over which the applicant has no control apply to the property
which force the driveway to be located elsewhere. Shared driveways are
encouraged to reduce the impact of the automobile on the appearance of small
lot residential neighborhoods. Separated driveway wheel tracks of concrete,
gravel or pavers are encouraged, except in circumstances where an extended
driveway is a critical component of fire protection access. Impermeable
surfacing shall be minimized.
   (F)   Other outbuilding and accessory standards.
      (1)   Front yard. No barn, deck, shed, outbuilding (except garages) or
hot tub is allowed in a front yard. Porches, patios and gazebos are permitted
in front yards, but not within the required setback area.
      (2)   Rear yard. Barns, decks, gazebos, sheds, outbuildings and hot tubs
are allowed in a rear yard, but must meet setback requirements. They shall not
overhang or drain onto an adjoining property, obstruct fire access or be placed
on a right-of-way or recorded easement.
      (3)   Materials. Wood or brickwork is encouraged. Wrought metalwork and
sheet metal are discouraged. All exterior lighting (including LED) must
minimize light trespass impacts.
   (G)   Swimming pool standards.
      (1)   Front yard. No swimming pool is allowed in a front yard.
      (2)   Rear yard additional setbacks. A swimming pool is allowed in a rear
yard. The minimum setback for a swimming pool is:
         (a)   Fifteen feet from rear lot line;
         (b)   Fifteen feet from a side lot line, on a side not abutting a
street;
         (c)   Twenty feet from a side lot line, on a side abutting a street;
and
         (d)   Ten feet from any dwelling on the lot.
      (3)   Fencing. If appropriate, a solid noise dampening fence or wall, six
feet tall, should enclose the rear yard, including the swimming pool, to
protect neighboring lots from excessive noise. A vinyl coated chain link fence
not less than four feet tall, nor more than five feet tall, may also be
installed in close proximity to the pool as a safety precaution.
      (4)   Materials. Materials exposed to neighbors or public way shall be
those allowed by “Fence and Wall Standards”.
      (5)   Child proofing. Any gate leading to the pool must be self-closing
and self-latching. The latch must be openable only by key or combination lock.
The pool enclosing fence must have no openings larger than four inches in any
dimension.
      (6)   Overhead utility lines. Overhead electric, telephone, cable TV or
other utility lines must not cross over a swimming pool. For safety reasons, a
minimum ten foot horizontal clearance must be maintained between the pool and
any overhead lines. (A pool cleaning tool, attached to a metal pole, can cause
electrocution if it contacts a live wire.)
      (7)   Measurements. Setbacks are measured from the edge of the water at
the design water line.
   (H)   Satellite dish and telecommunication equipment standards.
      (1)   Ground dishes or piece of equipment under 24 inches:
         (a)   Shall be located based on technical need with the rear yard
given first priority, side yard second priority and front yard third priority.
Written verification of technical need may be requested from a qualified dealer
prior to siting in a front yard;
         (b)   A ground dish shall abide by the setback requirements of the
zone district in which it is located. Zone districts without an established
setback area shall, at a minimum, provide a five foot side and rear yard
setback and a minimum of ten feet shall be required for a front yard setback;
         (c)   Any portion of a ground dish which is above a height of ten feet
must be inset and additional one-half foot for each foot of height exceeding
ten feet; and
         (d)   All ground dishes located in a front or side yard shall be
screened by sight-obscuring fences and/or dense landscape buffers. Such buffers
shall, at a minimum, screen 50% of a ground dish based on the total vertical
height with a maximum buffer height of six feet. Dishes may be painted to blend
with the existing surroundings.
      (2)   Roof dishes or piece of equipment under 24 inches may be mounted on
roofs, porches or project from a wall of the dwelling.
      (3)   Any satellite dish or piece of equipment larger than 24 inches
shall be confined to rear or side yards, and shall be screened from any
viewpoint four feet above and along the centerline of a city street.
   (I)   Drop box and newsrack standards. Drop boxes and newsracks are not
permitted in any R-7.5 or R-5.0 Residential Zones. In zones where permitted,
they shall be screened or placed in such a way as to not obstruct pedestrian or
vehicular traffic.
   (J)   Dumpster standards. All proposed dumpsters shall be screened and
located in the rear or side access areas but not in the front of the subject
property. Design of the dumpster screen shall be constructed in accordance with
the guidelines provided to the city by the affected waste disposal provider.
   (K)   Temporary structure standards.
      (1)   Tents, tarps and other temporary structures lacking foundations
which are left in place longer than seven consecutive days shall not be visible
from any viewpoint four feet above and along the centerline of a city street.
      (2)   In all residential zones, all off-street parking of automobiles,
trucks, trailers and recreational vehicles in the front yard shall be limited
to a contiguous area which is no more than 25% of the area of the front yard.
      (3)   Such structures, vehicles or devices shall not be used as a
dwelling, either permanently or for more than seven days temporarily.
   (L)   Development standards for multi-family, multiple use, commercial and
industrial projects and projects which will create or alter a street or
roadway, and development for multi-family, multiple use, commercial and
industrial projects.
      (1)   Landscape planning requirements.
         (a)   Prior to site alterations, a thorough inventory and mapping of
the location, type and quality of trees on the property will be prepared. The
map must be to the same scale as the site plan for the development proposal. In
the instances where the property contains large volumes of woodlands, the
inventory can take the form of a description of type, location and general
volumes of tree groupings.
         (b)   During site alterations, the retention of resource trees is
strongly encouraged. Construction of natural buffers using native vegetation
between sensitive natural environments and transportation systems is
encouraged. Methods and details for protecting existing vegetation during
construction must be submitted for City Planner approval.
         (c)   A project wide landscape plan (with installation timelines and
maintenance requirements) prepared by a qualified landscape professional must
be submitted for City Planner approval prior to the issuance of a certificate
of occupancy by the building official, unless otherwise specified by the City
Planner or conditioned in a final order for approval. All street and common
areas must be landscaped within a reasonable amount of time after the
completion of the improvements in those areas; however, a secured agreement to
provide individualized landscape plans and timelines for the front yard (at a
minimum) of each lot of a subdivision within one and one-half years from final
platting of the affected phase may be permitted.
         (d)   The predominant use of ground covers, such as bark, mulch and
rock, as a permanent landscape feature is discouraged. The location and
description of landscape improvements, such as earth berms, walls, fences,
screens, sculptures, fountains, street furniture, lights and courts or paved
areas must be graphically indicated on the landscape plan.
      (2)   Landscape standards for multi-family, multiple use, commercial and
industrial projects.
         (a)   Preservation of landscape. The existing landscape shall be
preserved in natural state, in so far as practicable, by minimizing tree and
soil removal, and any other grade changes shall be in keeping with the
appearance of developed areas. Preservation includes the preservation of any
woody plant having a trunk six-caliper inches or larger in diameter at breast
height (DBH), a bush at least four feet in height, an area on-site designated
as wetlands and a drainage ditch located on-site. For all landscaping, live
material shall be predominantly used.
         (b)   Landscaping requirement.
            1.   New construction.
               a.   Commercial and industrial development shall provide an
amount of landscaping which equals 10% of buildable area in landscaping. Public
and semi-public developments shall provide an amount of landscaping which
equals 15% of buildable area. Development within the
C-C Zone and TC and HW overlays have the option of employing a two square foot
per one linear foot of street frontage providing the landscaping is adjacent to
the frontage. Placement of required landscaping shall not be restricted to
within the buildable area, but may be located within the required setback
areas.
               b.   Multi-family and mobile park development shall provide an
amount of landscaping which equals 10% of buildable area in landscaping in
addition to open space requirements. Placement of required landscaping shall
not be restricted to within the buildable area, but may be located within the
required setback area.
            2.   Existing buildings and structures. Existing buildings which
expand into an undeveloped area, including the building upwards of a structure,
shall devote the same percentage of landscaping as is listed for new
construction above. Exceptions may be made in the case where a structure covers
the entire lot area, or when expansion of a structure does not exceed 10% of
the square footage of the existing building’s ground floor area.
            3.   Height and size.
               a.   Height and screening may be emphasized through the planting
of deciduous trees. If deciduous trees are used, they should have straight
trunks, be fully branched, have a minimum caliper of one and one-fourth inches
and a minimum height of eight feet at the time of planting. Deciduous trees can
be supplied bare root provided the roots are protected against damage.
               b.   Evergreen trees and shrubs must be balled and burlapped or
in suitable containers in which the tree or shrub has grown for one year. If
balled and burlapped, the ball of each tree or shrub shall be firm and the
burlap sound; no loose ball or made ball will be acceptable. Each tree shall be
a minimum of six feet in height, fully branched and adequately staked at the
time of planting.
               c.   Ground cover shall be supplied in a minimum four-inch size
container. Ground cover plantings shall be planted on a maximum of 30 inches on
center and 30 inches between rows. Rows of plants are to be staggered for a
more effective covering. If a two and one-fourth inch container is used,
planting 18 inches on center may apply within the above guidelines.
               d.   Shrubs shall be supplied in one-gallon containers or nine
to ten inch burlap balls with a minimum spread of 12 inches to 15 inches.
            4.   Off-street parking areas. Landscaping shall be used to define,
soften and screen, reducing the visual intrusions of vehicles using less
offensive or more harmonious elements, such as plants, berms, fences, walls or
any appropriate combination thereof, the appearance of off-street parking areas
from public rights-of-ways. Landscaping requirements are identified in division
(M) below.
               a.   Evergreen and/or deciduous plant material shall have a
minimum height at the time of planting of 18 inches to 24 inches.
               b.   Parking lot plants and/or berms shall be designed to allow
surveillance of the lot from the street at several points.
               c.   In all zones, except the R-7.5 or R-5.0 Residential Zones,
all parking facilities shall include landscaping to cover not less than 12% of
the area devoted to outdoor parking facilities, including any landscaping
required in division (M) below. Said landscaping shall be uniformly distributed
throughout the parking area, be provided with irrigation facilities and be
protective curbs or raised wood headers. It may consist of trees, plus shrubs,
groundcover or related plant material.
            5.   Special features. Exposed storage areas, trash receptacles,
service areas, truck loading areas, utility buildings and similar accessory
areas and structures shall be subject to a minimum ten foot setback from the
public ROW and pedestrian pathways, to reduce the impact of unsightly visual
intrusions. Screen plantings and other screening methods such as fences, walls
or any appropriate combination thereof shall be used to be congruent with
existing surrounding properties.
            6.   Live material, compatibility and maintenance. All live
material used for landscaping must be compatible with climate and soil
conditions prevalent to the coastal areas; thus reducing the risk of costly
replacement. All landscaping required and approved through site review shall be
continually maintained, including necessary watering, weeding, pruning and
replacement.
            7.   Alternatives. Occasionally strict adherence to the above
landscaping specifications may be unduly harsh or found to be in conflict with
a particular development plan. A developer may therefore propose alternatives
for Planning Commission consideration. Deviations from specified requirements
must be shown to the Panning Commission’s satisfaction that they are not in
conflict with the overall intent of this section, which is to promote adequate
and pleasing landscaping for development.
            8.   Landscaping credit for street tree planting.
               a.   The retention of trees shall be considered in the design of
partitions, site plans, subdivisions or planned developments and the placement
of roads and utilities shall preserve trees wherever possible. The need to
remove trees shall be considered in the review process for partitions, site
plans, subdivisions or planned developments.
               b.   The preservation of trees, as mentioned in division (L)(2)
(a) below, shall provide a basis for consideration of a landscaping credit,
which can reduce the landscaping requirements on the subject property by 10%
(10% of 10% landscaping = 1%).
               c.   The planting and maintenance of street trees in the public
right-of-way shall provide a basis for consideration of a landscaping credit,
which can reduce the landscaping requirements on the subject property by 10%
per street tree (10% of 10% landscaping = 1%).
            9.   Street tree species. The list of street tree species to be
planted and minimum tree planting dimensions are listed in detail in Chapter
93.
      (3)   Special tree protection standards.
         (a)   Preservation. A tree that has been singled out for preservation
in the conditions of approval must not be removed or damaged during
construction.
         (b)   Root protection. When construction encroaches into the drip line
area of a protected tree, special construction techniques must be used to
protect the roots. The existing ground surface within four feet of the base of
a protected tree must not be cut, filled, compacted or paved. No more than 12
inches of fill or cut can occur within the remainder of the drip line of a
protected tree. A tree well may be used if approved by the City Planner.
         (c)   Excavation. Prohibited excavation adjacent to a protected tree
is not allowed if it will damage the root system. In questionable situations,
the applicant must provide substantiating documentation prepared by a certified
arborist showing that the trees will be protected.
      (4)   Street tree standards.
         (a)   Shade trees are required along all streets, except in the
downtown Town Center. The city approved street tree list governs street tree
selection and replacement on each street. Species designated in the list should
be consistent with the character, height, canopy and spacing of a
neighborhood’s original plantings, and the scale and function of the street
within the city. The approved street tree list shall be used in order to
determine whether a small, medium or large tree is selected. A limited number
of the same species should be planted along any single street.
         (b)   Street trees shall be sized, spaced and planted in accordance
with the standards provided below and shall be located in the center of five
foot wide planter strips between streets and pathways (minimum ten foot in
length) or between two and one-half to four feet from street edge pathways or
impervious surfaces. Plant the largest tree that space allows for each planting
location.
         (c)   1.   If utilities exist in the planting strip, large trees shall
be planted on the side of the road without utilities and medium and small trees
on the utility side of the road. It is recommended that in these situations,
rather than having equal sized planting areas, that the planting areas on the
side opposite the utilities be larger than the utility side planting areas.
            2.   In general, the side of the street without overhead electric
lines should be planted with trees with potential to attain a large size, if
there are no obvious constraints to trees attaining mature size, such as small
planting areas. On the sides of streets with overhead electrical lines directly
above the planting areas, only trees from the recommended street tree list
designated “small” may be planted, unless there is a minimum of ten feet of
horizontal clearance between the bases of the street trees and electrical
facilities.
            3.   Columnar shaped trees should only be used where there are
obstructions like buildings, signs and overhead electrical lines that preclude
broader canopied trees. Medium sized trees may be planted if the horizontal
clearance is ten feet or greater, and large trees may be planted if the
horizontal clearance is 20 feet or greater.
         (d)   At street corners, no tree shall be planted which branches below
eight feet to ensure vision clearance.
         (e)   Appropriate pruning, watering, nutrient feeding and tree
protection devices are required after planting, staking only when necessary. No
metal stakes may be used for tree stakes. Tree protection devices shall remain
in place until the trees reach four inch DBH or until the trees have been in
place for two years, whichever is longer.
         (f)   A secured agreement shall be provided that ensures that if
planted trees are not alive and viable two years after planting, replacements
will be required.
      (5)   Standards for plant measurements, installation and maintenance.
         (a)   Developers shall install and/or dig, ball, burlap and transplant
all plant materials listed on landscape plan. Bareroot is typically not
permitted for any tree.
         (b)   Plant materials shall conform to the requirements described in
the latest edition of American Standard for Nursery Stock, which is published
by the American Association of Nurserymen. Plants shall be nursery grown.
Neither heeled-in plants nor plants from cold storage shall be acceptable.
         (c)   Plants shall conform to the measurements specified in the
landscape plan.
            1.   Diameter at breast height (DBH) shall be measured by taking
the circumference of the tree’s trunk(s) at four feet above grade/ground level
and dividing by 3.14.
            2.   Minimum branching height for all shade trees shall be six
feet.
            3.   Minimum size for shade trees shall be two inches at DBH; seven
to nine feet in height.
            4.   Minimum size for evergreen trees shall be six to eight feet in
height.
            5.   The minimum planting area by tree size shall be:
               a.   Small trees (under 25 feet in height at maturity): 40
square feet;
               b.   Medium trees (between 25 to 50 feet in height at maturity)
60 square feet; and
               c.   Large trees (over 50 feet in height at maturity) 96 square
feet.
            6.   The maximum spacing between trees shall be:
               a.   Small trees: 20 feet;
               b.   Medium and large trees: 30 feet; and
         (d)   A professional horticulturist/nurseryman shall be consulted to
determine the proper time to move and install plant material so that stress to
the plant is minimized.
         (e)   1.   Planting areas for trees must be in an uncompacted state to
a depth of at least two feet. Areas to be ripped or excavated to that depth,
unless within the drip line of a resource tree or if roots from other trees
larger than one inch diameter are encountered. If these occur, obtain and
follow the recommendation of a certified arborist.
            2.   Use existing soil for tree planting. Avoid adding topsoil.
Soil amendments like aged sawdust (minimum of ten years of aging) may be used.
Avoid working the soil when it is saturated with water, frozen or dry. Use two
to three inches of bark mulch around all newly planted trees.
   (M)   Landscaping standards. All landscaping in any zone district in the
city shall conform to the following requirements unless otherwise exempted.
      (1)   General height limitation for hedges and other landscaping used for
screening. Hedges and other landscaping used for screening and privacy shall
not be permitted to grow higher than eight feet.
      (2)   Relation to adjoining property.
         (a)   Hedges, shrubs and other landscaping used for screening and
privacy shall not be installed or planted on or across a property line unless
jointly owned by adjoining property owners, in which case they may be on the
property line. Hedges and shrubs shall not extend beyond the property line
unless jointly agreed to by adjoining landowners.
         (b)   All landscaping or portions thereof shall be located in such a
way as to not be detrimental to abutting property. No landscaping shall
obstruct or threaten to obstruct the access of neighboring property to adequate
and sufficient sunlight.
      (3)   Interference and hazard to the public.
         (a)   No owner or person in charge of property that abuts upon a
street or public sidewalk shall permit trees, bushes, hedges or shrubs on the
property to interfere with street or sidewalk traffic. It shall be the duty of
an owner or person in charge of the property that abuts upon a street or public
sidewalk to keep all trees on the premises, including the adjoining parking
strip, trimmed at a height of not less than ten feet above the sidewalk and not
less than 14 feet above the roadway.
         (b)   No owner or person in charge of property shall allow a dead or
decaying tree to stand that is a hazard to the public or to persons or property
on or near the property.
      (4)   Enforcement. The city shall be empowered to perform any necessary
work in order to bring such hedges into conformance and, after so doing, may
assess to the property the cost of any such work, plus an additional fee for
administration.
   (N)   Planting in the city rights-of-way. Abutting property owners may be
granted permission to plant in the city right-of-way by the city according to
Chapter 93 if the following information is provided:
      (1)   A request in writing is provided in the form of a letter to the
City Council and a city public works permit application for street trees
proposed in a new subdivision or newly created road right-of-ways, or a city
public works permit application for administrative permission for street tree
(s) proposed on an existing tree lawn and an established road right-of-way with
curb;
      (2)   A plot plan of area referencing water and sewer lines, power lines,
driveways and intersecting streets is provided; and
      (3)   Approval, if granted by the city, shall be required in the form of
an approved city public works permit prior to planting of the tree or trees.
Fees for such permit shall be paid prior to approval by the abutting property
owner.
   (O)   Triplex and quadplex design standards.
      (1)   Entry orientation. At least one main entrance for each triplex or
quadplex structure must meet the standards below. Any detached structure for
which more than 50% of its street-facing facade is separated from the street
property line by a dwelling is exempt from meeting these standards.
         (a)   The entrance must be within eight feet of the longest street-
facing wall of the dwelling unit; and
         (b)   The entrance must either:
            1.   Face the street (see Figure
152.053(O)-1);
            2.   Be at an angle of up to 45 degrees from the street (see Figure
152.053(O)-2);
            3.   Face a common open space that is adjacent to the street and is
abutted by dwellings on at least two sides (see Figure
152.053(O)-3); or
            4.   Open onto a porch that is at least 25 square feet in area, and
that must have at least one entrance facing the street or have a roof (see
Figure
152.053(O)-4).
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to encourage originality,
flexibility and innovation in site planning and development, including the
architecture, landscaping and design of private properties; to discourage
monotonous, drab, unsightly, dreary and inharmonious design; to conserve the
city’s natural beauty and visual character and charm by ensuring structures,
signs and other improvements are properly related to their sites, and to
surrounding sites and structures, with due regard to the aesthetic qualities of
the natural terrain and landscaping, and that proper attention is given to
exterior appearances of structures, signs and other improvements; to prevent
physical harm to the citizens of the city; to promote harmony between adjacent
property owners; and to protect each property’s right of access to sunlight,
air and open spaces.
   (B)   Fence and wall standards.
      (1)   Front yard. A front yard fence or wall must not be more than:
         (a)   Three feet in height if the fence is within ten feet of the
front lot line;
         (b)   Six feet in height if the fence is set back more than ten feet
from the front lot line; or
         (c)   Vision clearance area as per §
152.050(E) shall be required for corner lots.
      (2)   Rear yard. A rear yard fence or wall must not be more than six feet
in height.
      (3)   Interior side yard. A side yard fence or wall, on a side not
abutting a street, must not be more than six feet tall.
      (4)   Street side yard. A side yard fence or wall, on a side abutting a
street, must not be more than:
         (a)   Three feet in height if the fence is within ten feet of the lot
line;
         (b)   Six feet in height if the fence is set back more than ten feet
from the lot line; or
         (c)   Vision clearance area as per §
152.050(E) shall be required for comer lots.
      (5)   Height measurement. Fence or wall height is measured from the
ground to the top of the fence. If the ground on which the fence is located has
been bermed or raised above the level of the surrounding land, the fence is
measured from the level of the unraised ground.
      (6)   Materials. Wood, brick, rockwork, split-face block, vinyl or low
post and wire and hedgerows are encouraged. Concrete block walls are
prohibited. Cyclone or chain-link fencing is prohibited within any front yard
or street side yard setback area unless coated with a non-metallic material,
but is allowed in side and rear yards.
      (7)   Retaining wall. The above standards do not apply to a device used
to buttress earth, such as a retaining wall or riprap.
      (8)   Corner lots. For purposes of this section only, if a lot abuts more
than one street, only the frontage on one of the streets shall be deemed a
front lot line, and the height restrictions shall apply only to one front yard.
The person in possession and control of the premises may elect which is the
front yard and restrict the height of the fence or wall accordingly. Such
person may change his or her election to any of the other streets abutting his
or her premises by first abating any non-conforming fence or wall in the front
yard to be thus defined.
      (9)   Screening. In a zone district other than residential,
notwithstanding the yard requirements, a fence, wall, hedge or other like
screening device may be required by the Planning Commission as a condition to
the approval of a proposed commercial or industrial improvement on a lot
abutting, or across the street or alley from, an adjacent property in a
residential district, if the Planning Commission finds that such screening is
necessary to prevent an unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of
the residential lot.
      (10)   Interference and hazard to the public.
         (a)   No owner or person in charge of property shall construct or
maintain a barbed-wire fence thereon, or permit barbed wire to remain as part
of a fence along a sidewalk or public way or along the adjoining property line
of another person unless placed at least three feet behind an initial fence.
         (b)   No owner or person in charge of property shall construct,
maintain or operate an electric fence along a sidewalk or public way or along
the adjoining property line of another person unless placed at least three feet
behind an initial fence.
      (11)   Relation to adjoining property. Fences shall not be installed on
or across a property line unless jointly owned by adjoining property owners; in
which case they may be on the property line. Determination of where the
property line is located shall not be the responsibility of the city or its
officials.
      (12)   Building permit and setback requirements for fences. Any fence
greater than six feet in height shall require a building permit and, hence,
shall be required to abide by the front yard setback and height requirements of
the applicable zoning district.
      (13)   Fences in industrial zones. A fence six feet in height shall be
required to separate any new or substantially improved industrial operation
from abutting property which is located in any residential or commercial zoning
district. Such fence shall be subject to the requirements of division (B)(5)
above.
   (C)   Exterior lighting (including LED) requirements. All exterior outdoor
lighting installed in any and all zones in the city shall conform to the
following requirements unless otherwise exempted.
      (1)   Area lights. All area lights, including street lights and parking
area lighting, shall be full cutoff fixtures and are encouraged to be 85 degree
full cut-off type fixtures. Street lights shall be high pressure sodium, low-
pressure sodium or metal halide, unless otherwise determined by the city that
another type is more efficient. Street lights along residential streets shall
be limited to 70-watt high-pressure sodium (hps) light. If the city permits a
light type other than high-pressure sodium, the equivalent output shall be the
limit for the other light type. Outdoor mercury vapor and quartz lights are
prohibited; preference should be given to low impact lighting.
      (2)   Canopy lights. All lighting shall be recessed sufficiently so as to
ensure that no light source is visible from or causes glare on public rights-
of-way or adjacent property.
      (3)   Illumination levels. Illumination levels and uniformity shall
consider current recommended practices of the Illuminating Engineering Society.
Recommended standards for the Illuminating Engineering Society shall not be
exceeded. Lighting shall be compatible with the character of the neighborhood
within which it is located, and light trespass impacts on surrounding
properties shall be minimized. Fixture mounting height and light intensity
shall be considered in determining the extent of light trespass impacts. Up
lighting shields shall be required except in the Town Center.
      (4)   Temporary lighting. Temporary lighting that conforms to the
requirements of this chapter shall be allowed. Non-conforming temporary
exterior lighting may be permitted by the Public Works Director only after
considering:
         (a)   The public and private benefits which will result from the
temporary lighting;
         (b)   Any annoyance or safety problems that may result from the use of
the temporary lighting; and
         (c)   The duration of the temporary non-conforming lighting. The
applicant shall submit a detailed description of the proposed temporary non-
conforming lighting to the Public Works Director.
      (5)   Towers. All radio, communication and navigation towers that require
lights shall have dual lighting capabilities. Lights may only be used in
accordance with FAA requirements.
      (6)   Wattage ratings. For the purpose of this section, wattage ratings
for lamp types will be for either a single lamp source or multiple lamp sources
when installed in a cluster.
      (7)   Streetlight design standards. The streetlight illustrations in the
city’s most current design standards shall be used by property owners in a
subdivision or other development. Lamp types not listed in the table may be
approved for use by the Planner, provided installation of these lamps conforms
to the lumen limits established in this section.
      (8)   Shielding. Glass tubes filled with argon, neon or krypton do not
require shielding.
      (9)   Exterior lighting exemptions and exceptions. Exterior lighting
exemptions and exceptions include the following:
         (a)   Residential fixtures consisting of lamp types with 2,050 lumens
or less. Examples include:
            1.   One hundred watt standard incandescent and less;
            2.   One hundred watt mid break tungsten-halogen (quartz) and less;
            3.   Twenty-five watt T-12 cool white fluorescent and less; and
            4.   Eighteen watt low pressure sodium and less.
         (b)   Federally funded and state funded roadway construction projects
to the extent necessary to comply with federal and state requirements;
         (c)   Fossil fuel light produced directly or indirectly by the
combustion of natural gas or other utility-type fossil fuels;
         (d)   Full cutoff street lighting, which is part of a federal, state
or municipal installation;
         (e)   Holiday lighting;
         (f)   Lighting of sports facilities or stadiums;
         (g)   Specialized lighting necessary for the safety, such as
navigation or runway lighting of airports, or temporary lighting associated
with emergency operations, road hazard warnings and the like; and
         (h)   Traffic control signals and devices.
      (10)   Prohibited lighting. Prohibited lighting includes the following:
         (a)   Newly installed fixtures, which are not full cutoff fixtures;
         (b)   Lighting which presents a clear hazard to motorists, cyclists or
pedestrians; and
         (c)   The use of laser source light or any similar high intensity
light for outdoor advertising or entertainment is prohibited.
   (D)   Sidewalk and pathway standards. The placement of a sidewalk or pathway
along the frontage(s) of a subject property is required and shall be
constructed in accordance with the city’s most current design standards.
Reconstruction or maintenance of an existing sidewalk or pathway may replicate
its original design. No matter which surface is utilized, grading and
compaction shall be sufficient to allow the unimpeded passage of wheeled
vehicles such as bicycles, wheelchairs and perambulators.
   (E)   Driveway and garage standards.
      (1)   Detached garages shall be encouraged to be located to the rear of
the residence. If an alley is available, paved and improved to a minimum width
of five feet, it shall service the garage. Attached garages are required to be
located at least ten feet behind the front wall of the house.
      (2)   Driveways shall be placed alongside of a residence leading to a
detached garage, unless an alley paved and improved to a minimum width of ten
feet is available, then the alley shall be utilized. Exceptions to the location
of the driveway include conditions such as lot size, shape, topography or other
circumstances over which the applicant has no control apply to the property
which force the driveway to be located elsewhere. Shared driveways are
encouraged to reduce the impact of the automobile on the appearance of small
lot residential neighborhoods. Separated driveway wheel tracks of concrete,
gravel or pavers are encouraged, except in circumstances where an extended
driveway is a critical component of fire protection access. Impermeable
surfacing shall be minimized.
   (F)   Other outbuilding and accessory standards.
      (1)   Front yard. No barn, deck, shed, outbuilding (except garages) or
hot tub is allowed in a front yard. Porches, patios and gazebos are permitted
in front yards, but not within the required setback area.
      (2)   Rear yard. Barns, decks, gazebos, sheds, outbuildings and hot tubs
are allowed in a rear yard, but must meet setback requirements. They shall not
overhang or drain onto an adjoining property, obstruct fire access or be placed
on a right-of-way or recorded easement.
      (3)   Materials. Wood or brickwork is encouraged. Wrought metalwork and
sheet metal are discouraged. All exterior lighting (including LED) must
minimize light trespass impacts.
   (G)   Swimming pool standards.
      (1)   Front yard. No swimming pool is allowed in a front yard.
      (2)   Rear yard additional setbacks. A swimming pool is allowed in a rear
yard. The minimum setback for a swimming pool is:
         (a)   Fifteen feet from rear lot line;
         (b)   Fifteen feet from a side lot line, on a side not abutting a
street;
         (c)   Twenty feet from a side lot line, on a side abutting a street;
and
         (d)   Ten feet from any dwelling on the lot.
      (3)   Fencing. If appropriate, a solid noise dampening fence or wall, six
feet tall, should enclose the rear yard, including the swimming pool, to
protect neighboring lots from excessive noise. A vinyl coated chain link fence
not less than four feet tall, nor more than five feet tall, may also be
installed in close proximity to the pool as a safety precaution.
      (4)   Materials. Materials exposed to neighbors or public way shall be
those allowed by “Fence and Wall Standards”.
      (5)   Child proofing. Any gate leading to the pool must be self-closing
and self-latching. The latch must be openable only by key or combination lock.
The pool enclosing fence must have no openings larger than four inches in any
dimension.
      (6)   Overhead utility lines. Overhead electric, telephone, cable TV or
other utility lines must not cross over a swimming pool. For safety reasons, a
minimum ten foot horizontal clearance must be maintained between the pool and
any overhead lines. (A pool cleaning tool, attached to a metal pole, can cause
electrocution if it contacts a live wire.)
      (7)   Measurements. Setbacks are measured from the edge of the water at
the design water line.
   (H)   Satellite dish and telecommunication equipment standards.
      (1)   Ground dishes or piece of equipment under 24 inches:
         (a)   Shall be located based on technical need with the rear yard
given first priority, side yard second priority and front yard third priority.
Written verification of technical need may be requested from a qualified dealer
prior to siting in a front yard;
         (b)   A ground dish shall abide by the setback requirements of the
zone district in which it is located. Zone districts without an established
setback area shall, at a minimum, provide a five foot side and rear yard
setback and a minimum of ten feet shall be required for a front yard setback;
         (c)   Any portion of a ground dish which is above a height of ten feet
must be inset and additional one-half foot for each foot of height exceeding
ten feet; and
         (d)   All ground dishes located in a front or side yard shall be
screened by sight-obscuring fences and/or dense landscape buffers. Such buffers
shall, at a minimum, screen 50% of a ground dish based on the total vertical
height with a maximum buffer height of six feet. Dishes may be painted to blend
with the existing surroundings.
      (2)   Roof dishes or piece of equipment under 24 inches may be mounted on
roofs, porches or project from a wall of the dwelling.
      (3)   Any satellite dish or piece of equipment larger than 24 inches
shall be confined to rear or side yards, and shall be screened from any
viewpoint four feet above and along the centerline of a city street.
   (I)   Drop box and newsrack standards. Drop boxes and newsracks are not
permitted in any R-7.5 or R-5.0 Residential Zones. In zones where permitted,
they shall be screened or placed in such a way as to not obstruct pedestrian or
vehicular traffic.
   (J)   Dumpster standards. All proposed dumpsters shall be screened and
located in the rear or side access areas but not in the front of the subject
property. Design of the dumpster screen shall be constructed in accordance with
the guidelines provided to the city by the affected waste disposal provider.
   (K)   Temporary structure standards.
      (1)   Tents, tarps and other temporary structures lacking foundations
which are left in place longer than seven consecutive days shall not be visible
from any viewpoint four feet above and along the centerline of a city street.
      (2)   In all residential zones, all off-street parking of automobiles,
trucks, trailers and recreational vehicles in the front yard shall be limited
to a contiguous area which is no more than 25% of the area of the front yard.
      (3)   Such structures, vehicles or devices shall not be used as a
dwelling, either permanently or for more than seven days temporarily.
   (L)   Development standards for multi-family, multiple use, commercial and
industrial projects and projects which will create or alter a street or
roadway, and development for multi-family, multiple use, commercial and
industrial projects.
      (1)   Landscape planning requirements.
         (a)   Prior to site alterations, a thorough inventory and mapping of
the location, type and quality of trees on the property will be prepared. The
map must be to the same scale as the site plan for the development proposal. In
the instances where the property contains large volumes of woodlands, the
inventory can take the form of a description of type, location and general
volumes of tree groupings.
         (b)   During site alterations, the retention of resource trees is
strongly encouraged. Construction of natural buffers using native vegetation
between sensitive natural environments and transportation systems is
encouraged. Methods and details for protecting existing vegetation during
construction must be submitted for City Planner approval.
         (c)   A project wide landscape plan (with installation timelines and
maintenance requirements) prepared by a qualified landscape professional must
be submitted for City Planner approval prior to the issuance of a certificate
of occupancy by the building official, unless otherwise specified by the City
Planner or conditioned in a final order for approval. All street and common
areas must be landscaped within a reasonable amount of time after the
completion of the improvements in those areas; however, a secured agreement to
provide individualized landscape plans and timelines for the front yard (at a
minimum) of each lot of a subdivision within one and one-half years from final
platting of the affected phase may be permitted.
         (d)   The predominant use of ground covers, such as bark, mulch and
rock, as a permanent landscape feature is discouraged. The location and
description of landscape improvements, such as earth berms, walls, fences,
screens, sculptures, fountains, street furniture, lights and courts or paved
areas must be graphically indicated on the landscape plan.
      (2)   Landscape standards for multi-family, multiple use, commercial and
industrial projects.
         (a)   Preservation of landscape. The existing landscape shall be
preserved in natural state, in so far as practicable, by minimizing tree and
soil removal, and any other grade changes shall be in keeping with the
appearance of developed areas. Preservation includes the preservation of any
woody plant having a trunk six-caliper inches or larger in diameter at breast
height (DBH), a bush at least four feet in height, an area on-site designated
as wetlands and a drainage ditch located on-site. For all landscaping, live
material shall be predominantly used.
         (b)   Landscaping requirement.
            1.   New construction.
               a.   Commercial and industrial development shall provide an
amount of landscaping which equals 10% of buildable area in landscaping. Public
and semi-public developments shall provide an amount of landscaping which
equals 15% of buildable area. Development within the
C-C Zone and TC and HW overlays have the option of employing a two square foot
per one linear foot of street frontage providing the landscaping is adjacent to
the frontage. Placement of required landscaping shall not be restricted to
within the buildable area, but may be located within the required setback
areas.
               b.   Multi-family and mobile park development shall provide an
amount of landscaping which equals 10% of buildable area in landscaping in
addition to open space requirements. Placement of required landscaping shall
not be restricted to within the buildable area, but may be located within the
required setback area.
            2.   Existing buildings and structures. Existing buildings which
expand into an undeveloped area, including the building upwards of a structure,
shall devote the same percentage of landscaping as is listed for new
construction above. Exceptions may be made in the case where a structure covers
the entire lot area, or when expansion of a structure does not exceed 10% of
the square footage of the existing building’s ground floor area.
            3.   Height and size.
               a.   Height and screening may be emphasized through the planting
of deciduous trees. If deciduous trees are used, they should have straight
trunks, be fully branched, have a minimum caliper of one and one-fourth inches
and a minimum height of eight feet at the time of planting. Deciduous trees can
be supplied bare root provided the roots are protected against damage.
               b.   Evergreen trees and shrubs must be balled and burlapped or
in suitable containers in which the tree or shrub has grown for one year. If
balled and burlapped, the ball of each tree or shrub shall be firm and the
burlap sound; no loose ball or made ball will be acceptable. Each tree shall be
a minimum of six feet in height, fully branched and adequately staked at the
time of planting.
               c.   Ground cover shall be supplied in a minimum four-inch size
container. Ground cover plantings shall be planted on a maximum of 30 inches on
center and 30 inches between rows. Rows of plants are to be staggered for a
more effective covering. If a two and one-fourth inch container is used,
planting 18 inches on center may apply within the above guidelines.
               d.   Shrubs shall be supplied in one-gallon containers or nine
to ten inch burlap balls with a minimum spread of 12 inches to 15 inches.
            4.   Off-street parking areas. Landscaping shall be used to define,
soften and screen, reducing the visual intrusions of vehicles using less
offensive or more harmonious elements, such as plants, berms, fences, walls or
any appropriate combination thereof, the appearance of off-street parking areas
from public rights-of-ways. Landscaping requirements are identified in division
(M) below.
               a.   Evergreen and/or deciduous plant material shall have a
minimum height at the time of planting of 18 inches to 24 inches.
               b.   Parking lot plants and/or berms shall be designed to allow
surveillance of the lot from the street at several points.
               c.   In all zones, except the R-7.5 or R-5.0 Residential Zones,
all parking facilities shall include landscaping to cover not less than 12% of
the area devoted to outdoor parking facilities, including any landscaping
required in division (M) below. Said landscaping shall be uniformly distributed
throughout the parking area, be provided with irrigation facilities and be
protective curbs or raised wood headers. It may consist of trees, plus shrubs,
groundcover or related plant material.
            5.   Special features. Exposed storage areas, trash receptacles,
service areas, truck loading areas, utility buildings and similar accessory
areas and structures shall be subject to a minimum ten foot setback from the
public ROW and pedestrian pathways, to reduce the impact of unsightly visual
intrusions. Screen plantings and other screening methods such as fences, walls
or any appropriate combination thereof shall be used to be congruent with
existing surrounding properties.
            6.   Live material, compatibility and maintenance. All live
material used for landscaping must be compatible with climate and soil
conditions prevalent to the coastal areas; thus reducing the risk of costly
replacement. All landscaping required and approved through site review shall be
continually maintained, including necessary watering, weeding, pruning and
replacement.
            7.   Alternatives. Occasionally strict adherence to the above
landscaping specifications may be unduly harsh or found to be in conflict with
a particular development plan. A developer may therefore propose alternatives
for Planning Commission consideration. Deviations from specified requirements
must be shown to the Panning Commission’s satisfaction that they are not in
conflict with the overall intent of this section, which is to promote adequate
and pleasing landscaping for development.
            8.   Landscaping credit for street tree planting.
               a.   The retention of trees shall be considered in the design of
partitions, site plans, subdivisions or planned developments and the placement
of roads and utilities shall preserve trees wherever possible. The need to
remove trees shall be considered in the review process for partitions, site
plans, subdivisions or planned developments.
               b.   The preservation of trees, as mentioned in division (L)(2)
(a) below, shall provide a basis for consideration of a landscaping credit,
which can reduce the landscaping requirements on the subject property by 10%
(10% of 10% landscaping = 1%).
               c.   The planting and maintenance of street trees in the public
right-of-way shall provide a basis for consideration of a landscaping credit,
which can reduce the landscaping requirements on the subject property by 10%
per street tree (10% of 10% landscaping = 1%).
            9.   Street tree species. The list of street tree species to be
planted and minimum tree planting dimensions are listed in detail in Chapter
93.
      (3)   Special tree protection standards.
         (a)   Preservation. A tree that has been singled out for preservation
in the conditions of approval must not be removed or damaged during
construction.
         (b)   Root protection. When construction encroaches into the drip line
area of a protected tree, special construction techniques must be used to
protect the roots. The existing ground surface within four feet of the base of
a protected tree must not be cut, filled, compacted or paved. No more than 12
inches of fill or cut can occur within the remainder of the drip line of a
protected tree. A tree well may be used if approved by the City Planner.
         (c)   Excavation. Prohibited excavation adjacent to a protected tree
is not allowed if it will damage the root system. In questionable situations,
the applicant must provide substantiating documentation prepared by a certified
arborist showing that the trees will be protected.
      (4)   Street tree standards.
         (a)   Shade trees are required along all streets, except in the
downtown Town Center. The city approved street tree list governs street tree
selection and replacement on each street. Species designated in the list should
be consistent with the character, height, canopy and spacing of a
neighborhood’s original plantings, and the scale and function of the street
within the city. The approved street tree list shall be used in order to
determine whether a small, medium or large tree is selected. A limited number
of the same species should be planted along any single street.
         (b)   Street trees shall be sized, spaced and planted in accordance
with the standards provided below and shall be located in the center of five
foot wide planter strips between streets and pathways (minimum ten foot in
length) or between two and one-half to four feet from street edge pathways or
impervious surfaces. Plant the largest tree that space allows for each planting
location.
         (c)   1.   If utilities exist in the planting strip, large trees shall
be planted on the side of the road without utilities and medium and small trees
on the utility side of the road. It is recommended that in these situations,
rather than having equal sized planting areas, that the planting areas on the
side opposite the utilities be larger than the utility side planting areas.
            2.   In general, the side of the street without overhead electric
lines should be planted with trees with potential to attain a large size, if
there are no obvious constraints to trees attaining mature size, such as small
planting areas. On the sides of streets with overhead electrical lines directly
above the planting areas, only trees from the recommended street tree list
designated “small” may be planted, unless there is a minimum of ten feet of
horizontal clearance between the bases of the street trees and electrical
facilities.
            3.   Columnar shaped trees should only be used where there are
obstructions like buildings, signs and overhead electrical lines that preclude
broader canopied trees. Medium sized trees may be planted if the horizontal
clearance is ten feet or greater, and large trees may be planted if the
horizontal clearance is 20 feet or greater.
         (d)   At street corners, no tree shall be planted which branches below
eight feet to ensure vision clearance.
         (e)   Appropriate pruning, watering, nutrient feeding and tree
protection devices are required after planting, staking only when necessary. No
metal stakes may be used for tree stakes. Tree protection devices shall remain
in place until the trees reach four inch DBH or until the trees have been in
place for two years, whichever is longer.
         (f)   A secured agreement shall be provided that ensures that if
planted trees are not alive and viable two years after planting, replacements
will be required.
      (5)   Standards for plant measurements, installation and maintenance.
         (a)   Developers shall install and/or dig, ball, burlap and transplant
all plant materials listed on landscape plan. Bareroot is typically not
permitted for any tree.
         (b)   Plant materials shall conform to the requirements described in
the latest edition of American Standard for Nursery Stock, which is published
by the American Association of Nurserymen. Plants shall be nursery grown.
Neither heeled-in plants nor plants from cold storage shall be acceptable.
         (c)   Plants shall conform to the measurements specified in the
landscape plan.
            1.   Diameter at breast height (DBH) shall be measured by taking
the circumference of the tree’s trunk(s) at four feet above grade/ground level
and dividing by 3.14.
            2.   Minimum branching height for all shade trees shall be six
feet.
            3.   Minimum size for shade trees shall be two inches at DBH; seven
to nine feet in height.
            4.   Minimum size for evergreen trees shall be six to eight feet in
height.
            5.   The minimum planting area by tree size shall be:
               a.   Small trees (under 25 feet in height at maturity): 40
square feet;
               b.   Medium trees (between 25 to 50 feet in height at maturity)
60 square feet; and
               c.   Large trees (over 50 feet in height at maturity) 96 square
feet.
            6.   The maximum spacing between trees shall be:
               a.   Small trees: 20 feet;
               b.   Medium and large trees: 30 feet; and
         (d)   A professional horticulturist/nurseryman shall be consulted to
determine the proper time to move and install plant material so that stress to
the plant is minimized.
         (e)   1.   Planting areas for trees must be in an uncompacted state to
a depth of at least two feet. Areas to be ripped or excavated to that depth,
unless within the drip line of a resource tree or if roots from other trees
larger than one inch diameter are encountered. If these occur, obtain and
follow the recommendation of a certified arborist.
            2.   Use existing soil for tree planting. Avoid adding topsoil.
Soil amendments like aged sawdust (minimum of ten years of aging) may be used.
Avoid working the soil when it is saturated with water, frozen or dry. Use two
to three inches of bark mulch around all newly planted trees.
   (M)   Landscaping standards. All landscaping in any zone district in the
city shall conform to the following requirements unless otherwise exempted.
      (1)   General height limitation for hedges and other landscaping used for
screening. Hedges and other landscaping used for screening and privacy shall
not be permitted to grow higher than eight feet.
      (2)   Relation to adjoining property.
         (a)   Hedges, shrubs and other landscaping used for screening and
privacy shall not be installed or planted on or across a property line unless
jointly owned by adjoining property owners, in which case they may be on the
property line. Hedges and shrubs shall not extend beyond the property line
unless jointly agreed to by adjoining landowners.
         (b)   All landscaping or portions thereof shall be located in such a
way as to not be detrimental to abutting property. No landscaping shall
obstruct or threaten to obstruct the access of neighboring property to adequate
and sufficient sunlight.
      (3)   Interference and hazard to the public.
         (a)   No owner or person in charge of property that abuts upon a
street or public sidewalk shall permit trees, bushes, hedges or shrubs on the
property to interfere with street or sidewalk traffic. It shall be the duty of
an owner or person in charge of the property that abuts upon a street or public
sidewalk to keep all trees on the premises, including the adjoining parking
strip, trimmed at a height of not less than ten feet above the sidewalk and not
less than 14 feet above the roadway.
         (b)   No owner or person in charge of property shall allow a dead or
decaying tree to stand that is a hazard to the public or to persons or property
on or near the property.
      (4)   Enforcement. The city shall be empowered to perform any necessary
work in order to bring such hedges into conformance and, after so doing, may
assess to the property the cost of any such work, plus an additional fee for
administration.
   (N)   Planting in the city rights-of-way. Abutting property owners may be
granted permission to plant in the city right-of-way by the city according to
Chapter 93 if the following information is provided:
      (1)   A request in writing is provided in the form of a letter to the
City Council and a city public works permit application for street trees
proposed in a new subdivision or newly created road right-of-ways, or a city
public works permit application for administrative permission for street tree
(s) proposed on an existing tree lawn and an established road right-of-way with
curb;
      (2)   A plot plan of area referencing water and sewer lines, power lines,
driveways and intersecting streets is provided; and
      (3)   Approval, if granted by the city, shall be required in the form of
an approved city public works permit prior to planting of the tree or trees.
Fees for such permit shall be paid prior to approval by the abutting property
owner.
   (O)   Triplex and quadplex design standards.
      (1)   Entry orientation. At least one main entrance for each triplex or
quadplex structure must meet the standards below. Any detached structure for
which more than 50% of its street-facing facade is separated from the street
property line by a dwelling is exempt from meeting these standards.
         (a)   The entrance must be within eight feet of the longest street-
facing wall of the dwelling unit; and
         (b)   The entrance must either:
            1.   Face the street (see Figure
152.053(O)-1);
            2.   Be at an angle of up to 45 degrees from the street (see Figure
152.053(O)-2);
            3.   Face a common open space that is adjacent to the street and is
abutted by dwellings on at least two sides (see Figure
152.053(O)-3); or
            4.   Open onto a porch that is at least 25 square feet in area, and
that must have at least one entrance facing the street or have a roof (see
Figure 152.053(O)-4).
   Figure 152.053(O)-1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1922.jpg]
 
   Figure 152.053(O)-2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1924.jpg]
 
   Figure 152.0563(O)-3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1926.jpg]
 
   Figure 152.053(O)-4
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1928.jpg]
 
      (2)    Windows. A minimum of 15% of the area of all street- facing
facades must include windows or entrance doors. Facades separated from the
street property line by a dwelling are exempt from meeting this standard. See
Figure 152.053(O)-5.
   Figure 152.053(O)-5
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1930.jpg]
 
      (3)   Garages and off-street parking areas. Garages and off-street
parking areas shall not be located between a building and a public street
(other than an alley), except where they comply with the following standards:
         (a)   The garage or off-street parking area is separated from the
street property line by a dwelling; or
         (b)   The combined width of all garages and outdoor on-site parking
and maneuvering areas does not exceed a total of 50% of the street frontage
(see Figure 152.053(O)-6), and driveways must meet the access spacing standards
in §
152.052(I)(5).
   Figure 152.053(O)-6
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1932.jpg]
 
      (4)   Conversions. Internal conversion of an existing detached single-
family dwelling or duplex to a triplex or quadplex is subject to the following
standards:
         (a)   Conversions are exempt from the design standards of §
152.053(O)(1) through (3); and
         (b)   Conversions are exempt from the minimum parking requirements in
§
152.054(I)(1).
   (P)   Townhouse design standards.
      (1)   Entry orientation. The main entrance of each townhouse must:
         (a)   The entrance must be within eight feet of the longest street-
facing wall of the dwelling unit; and
         (b)   The entrance must either:
            1.   Face the street (see Figure
152.053(P)-1);
            2.   Be at an angle of up to 45 degrees from the street (see Figure
152.053(P)-2);
            3.   Face a common open space that is adjacent to the street and is
abutted by dwellings on at least two sides (see Figure
152.053(P)-3); or
            4.   Open onto a porch that is at least 25 square feet in area, and
that must have at least one entrance facing the street or have a roof (see
Figure
152.053(P)-4).
      (2)   Unit definition. Each townhouse must include at least one of the
following on at least one street-facing facade (see Figure
152.053(P)-1)
         (a)   A roof dormer a minimum of four feet in width;
         (b)   A balcony a minimum of two feet in depth or four feet in width
and accessible from an interior room;
         (c)   A bay window that extends from the facade a minimum of two feet;
         (d)   An offset of the facade of a minimum of two feet in depth,
either from the neighboring townhouse or within the facade of a single
townhouse;
         (e)   An entryway that is recessed a minimum of three feet;
         (f)   A covered entryway with a minimum depth of four feet; or
         (g)      A porch with at least 25 square feet in area, and at least
one entrance facing the street or have a roof.
         (i)   Balconies and bay windows may encroach into a required setback
area.
Figure 152.053(P)-1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1934.jpg]
      (3)    Windows. A minimum of 15% of the area of all street-facing facades
on each individual unit must include windows or entrance doors. Half of the
window area in the door of an attached garage may count toward meeting this
standard.
      (4)   Driveway access and parking. Townhouses with frontage on a public
street shall meet the following standards:
         (a)   Garages on the front facade of a townhouse, off-street parking
areas in the front yard, and driveways in front of a townhouse are allowed if
they meet the following standards (see Figure
152.053(P)-2);
            1.   Each townhouse lot has a street frontage of at least 20 feet
on a local street.
            2.   A maximum of one driveway per lot is allowed that does not
exceed 12 feet wide. For two abutting lots in the same townhouse project,
driveways are encouraged to be paired and abut along the lot line to create one
shared driveway approach.
            3.   The garage width does not exceed 12 feet wide, as measured
from the inside of the garage door frame.
   Figure 152.053(P)- 2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1936.jpg]
 
         (b)   The following standards apply to driveways and parking areas for
townhouse projects that do not meet all of the standards in division (P)(4)(a).
            1.   Off-street parking areas shall be accessed on the back facade
or located in the rear yard. No off-street parking shall be allowed in the
front yard or side yard of a townhouse.
            2.   A townhouse project that includes a corner lot shall take
access from a single driveway approach on the side of the corner lot. See
Figure
152.053(P)-3.
   Figure 152.053(P)-3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1938.jpg]
            3.    Townhouse projects that do not include a corner lot shall
consolidate access for all lots into a single driveway. The driveway and
approach are not allowed in the areas directly between the front facade and the
front lot line of any of the townhouses. See Figure
152.053(P)-4.
   Figure 152.053(P)-4
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1940.jpg]
 
 
 
 
 
      4.   A townhouse project that includes consolidated access or shared
driveways shall grant access easements to allow normal vehicular access and
emergency access.
         (c)    Townhouse projects in which all units take exclusive access
from a rear alley are exempt from compliance with division (P)(4)(b).
   (Q)    Cottage cluster design standards.
      (1)    Development standards. The development standards of the applicable
base zone apply, with the following exceptions and additions:
         (a)   The maximum building footprint for a cottage in a cottage
cluster is 900 square feet.
         (b)   A maximum height of 25 feet shall apply to cottage clusters in
all zones.
         (c)   A minimum density of four units per net acre shall apply to
cottage clusters in all zones.
         (d)   No minimum setback shall exceed ten feet in all zones.
         (e)   Cottages shall be separated by a minimum distance of six feet.
The minimum distance between all other structures, including accessory
structures, shall be in accordance with building code requirements.
         (f)   A minimum of three cottages and a maximum of eight cottages
shall be permitted per common courtyard, per legal lot.
      (2)   Cottage orientation. Cottages must be clustered around a common
courtyard, meaning they abut the associated common courtyard or are directly
connected to it by a pedestrian path, and must meet the following standards
(see Figure 152.053(Q)-1):
         (a)   Each cottage within a cluster must either abut the common
courtyard or must be directly connected to it by a pedestrian path.
         (b)   A minimum of 50% of cottages within a cluster must be oriented
to the common courtyard and must:
            1.   Have a main entrance facing the common courtyard;
            2.   Be within ten feet from the common courtyard, measured from
the facade of the cottage to the nearest edge of the common courtyard; and
            3.   Be connected to the common courtyard by a pedestrian path.
         (c)   Cottages within 20 feet of a street property line may have their
entrances facing the street.
         (d)   Cottages not facing the common courtyard or the street must have
their main entrances facing a pedestrian path that is directly connected to the
common courtyard.
      (3)   Common courtyard design standards. Each cottage cluster must share
a common courtyard in order to provide a sense of openness and community of
residents. Common courtyards must meet the following standards (see Figure
52.052(Q)-1);
         (a)   The common courtyard must be a single, contagious piece.
         (b)   Cottages must abut the common courtyard on at least two sides of
the courtyard.
         (c)   The common courtyard must contain a minimum of 150 square feet
per cottage within the associated cluster.
         (d)   The common courtyard must be a minimum of 15 feet wide at its
narrowest dimension.
         (e)   The common courtyard shall be developed with a mix of
landscaping, lawn area, pedestrian paths, and/or paved courtyard area, and may
also include recreational amenities. Impervious elements of the common
courtyard shall not exceed 75% of the total common courtyard area.
         (f)   Pedestrian paths must be included in a common courtyard. Paths
that are contigious to a courtyard shall count toward the courtyard’s minimum
dimension and area. Parking areas, required setbacks and driveways do not
qualify as part of a common courtyard.
   Figure 152.053(Q)-1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1942.gif]
 
      (4)   Community buildings. Cottage cluster projects may include community
buildings for the shared use of residents that provide space for accessory uses
such as community meeting rooms, guest housing, exercise rooms, day care, or
community eating areas. Community buildings may be no loarger than 900 square
feet.
      (5)   Pedestrian access.
         (a)   An accessible pedestrian path must be provided that connects the
main entrance of each cottage to the following:
            1.   The common courtyard;
            2.   Shared parking areas;
            3.   Community buildings; and
            4.   Sidewalks in public rights-of-way abutting the site or rights-
of-way if there are no sidewalks.
         (b)   The pedestrian path must be hard-surfaced and a minimum of four
feet wide.
      (6)   Parking design.
         (a)   Clustered parking. Off-street parking may be arranged in
clusters, subject to the following standards:
            1.   Cottage cluster projects with fewer than 16 cottages are
permitted parking clusters of not more than five contiguous spaces.
            2.   Cottage cluster projects with 16 cottages or more are
permitted parking clusters of not more than eight contiguous spaces.
            3.   Parking clusters must be separated from other spaces by at
least four feet of landscaping.
            4.   Clustered parking areas may be covered.
         (b)   Parking location and access.
            1.   Off-street parking spaces and vehicle maneuvering areas shall
not be located:
               a.   Within ten feet from any street property line, except alley
property lines;
               b.   Between a street property line and the front facade of
cottages located closest to the street property line. This standard does not
apply to alleys.
            2.   Off-street parking spaces shall not be located within ten feet
of any other property line, except alley property lines. Driveways and drive
aisles are permitted within ten feet of other property lines.
         (c)   Screening. Landscaping, fencing, or walls at least three feet
tall shall separate clustered parking areas and parking structures from common
courtyards and public streets.
         (d)   Garages and carports.
            1.   Garages and carports (whether shared or individual{'}'} must
not abut common courtyards.
            2.   Individual attached garages up to 200 square feet shall be
exempted from the calculation of maximum building footprint for cottages.
            3.   Individual detached garages must not exceed 400 square feet in
floor area.
            4.   Garage doors for attached and detached individual garages must
not exceed 20 feet in width.
   Figure 152.053(Q)-2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1944.jpg]
 
      (7)    Existi ng dwelli ngs. On a lot or parcel to be used for a cottage
cluster project. an existing single -family dwelling on the same lot at the
time of proposed development of the cottage cluster may be incorporated into
the cottage cluster under the following conditions:
         (a)    The existin g dwelli ng may be nonconforming with respect to
the requirements of this code.
         (b)   The existing dwelling may be expanded up to the maximum height
and building footprint allowed in division (Q)(l). Existing dwellings that
exceed the maximum height and/or footprint of this code may not be expanded.
         (c)   The existing dwelling shall be excluded from the calculation of
orientation toward the common courtyard required in division (Q)(2).
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 1320, passed 3-20-2017; Ord. 1335, passed 7-
2-2018; Ord. 1349, passed 8-19-2019; Ord. 050525A, passed 5-19-2025) Penalty,
see §
152.999
§ 152.054 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to assure that no building or
other permit shall be issued until plans and evidence are presented to show how
the off-street parking and loading requirements are to be fulfilled and that
property is and will be available for exclusive use as off-street parking and
loading space. The subsequent use of the property for which the permit is
issued shall be conditional upon the unqualified continuance and availability
of the amount of parking and loading space required by this chapter.
   (B)   Scope.
      (1)   Development of off-street parking and loading areas shall be
provided and maintained for any type of development as set forth in this
section.
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading standards apply to the following
types of development:
         (a)   A new building or structure erected after the effective date of
this chapter;
         (b)   The construction or provision of additional floor area, seating
capacity or other expansion of an existing building or structure; and/or
         (c)   A change in the use of a building or structure existing on the
effective date of this chapter, which would require additional off-street
parking spaces or off-street loading areas under the provisions of this
section.
      (3)   If the expansion of an existing building or structure does not
exceed 50% of the market value or the capacity of the existing building or
structure is increased by less than 50% in size, additional parking spaces only
need to be provided in proportion to the expansion.
      (4)   If the expansion of an existing building or structure exceeds 50%
of the market value or the capacity of the existing building or structure is
increased by more than 50% in size, parking spaces and loading spaces must be
provided for the entire use according to divisions (G) and (H) below.
      (5)   (a)   If the building or structure in which the change of use
occurred does not require additional off-street parking or off-street loading
spaces, no additional parking or loading spaces shall be required.
         (b)   Any use requiring one half or more of a parking space or loading
space shall be deemed to require the full space.
         (c)   Parking spaces and loading spaces provided to meet the
requirements of this chapter shall not be reduced in size or number to an
amount less than required by this chapter for the use occupying the building.
         (d)   The provision and maintenance of off-street parking and loading
space is a continuing obligation of the property owner.
      (6)   A plan drawn to scale and dimensioned, indicating how the off-
street parking and loading requirements are to be met, shall accompany an
application for a zoning clearance permit.
   (C)   Location of parking facilities. Off-street parking spaces for single-
family dwellings, duplexes, triplexes, quadplexes, townhouses and cottage
clusters shall be located on the same lot with the dwelling. Parking spaces for
all other uses require site plan approval (see §
152.070) by the Planning Commission and, in addition to §§
152.052 and
152.053, must comply with the following requirements: vehicle parking is
allowed only on approved on-street parking shoulders; within garages, carports
and other structures; or on driveways or parking lots that have been developed
in conformance with this code.
      (1)   Off-site parking. Except for single-family dwellings and duplexes,
the vehicle parking spaces required by this section may be located on another
parcel of land provided the parcel is within 500 feet from the building or use
they are intended to serve. The distance from the parking area to the use shall
be measured in straight lines from the nearest parking space to the building
entrance following a pedestrian route (sidewalk). The burden of proving the
existence of such off-premises parking arrangements rests upon the person who
has the responsibility of providing parking. The right to use the off-site
parking must be evidenced by a recorded deed, easement or similar written
instrument.
      (2)   Use of parking facilities/availability of facilities. Required
parking spaces shall be available for the parking of operable passenger
automobiles of residents, customers, patrons and employees only, and shall not
be used for the storage of vehicles or materials. Areas needed to meet the
parking requirements of a particular building or use shall not be transformed
or changed to another type of use, or transferred to meet the parking
requirements of another building or use until the parking required for the
original user of said parking area is provided at another approved location.
Owners of off-street parking facilities may post a sign indicating that all
parking on the site is available only for residents, customers, patrons and/or
employees, as applicable. Signs shall conform to the standards of § 152.055.
      (3)   Parking, front yard. Unless otherwise provided, required parking
and loading spaces shall not be located in a required front yard, except in the
case of a single- family dwelling, duplex, triplex, quadplex, townhouse or
cottage cluster, and except in the case of a use in a N-C District where
parking spaces may be located in the rear ten feet of the required 20-foot
front yard, and except for uses in a H-C District where parking and loading may
occur in all but the first ten feet of yard area from any public right-of-way.
Parking spaces may be located within a required side or rear yard.
   (D)   Joint use of facilities. The off-street parking requirements of two or
more uses, structures or parcels of land may be satisfied by the same parking
or loading space used jointly to the extent that it can be shown by the owners
or operators of the uses, structures or parcels that their operations and
parking needs do not overlap in point of time. If the uses, structures or
parcels are under separate ownership, the right to joint use of the parking
space must be evidenced by a deed, lease, contract or other appropriate written
document to establish the joint use that must extend over the time period of
the use of the property.
   (E)   More than one use on one or more parcels. In the event several uses
occupy a single structure or parcel of land, the total requirements for off-
street parking shall be the sum of the requirements of the several uses
computed separately; provided, however, where the operation of these different
uses is such that the hours of operation or uses complement each other insofar
as the parking demand is concerned, the Planning Commission may authorize a
reduction in these requirements.
   (F)   Retail storage space. If the Planning Commission finds that a portion
of the floor area, not less than 100 contiguous square feet, in a retail store
will be used exclusively for storage of merchandise which is not being
displayed for sale, it may deduct such space in computing parking requirements,
but the owner shall not thereafter use the space for any other purpose without
furnishing additional off-street parking as required by this section.
   (G)   On-street parking credit.
      (1)   For property within the Multiple Use Residential (R-O) Zone, the
Central Commercial (C-C) Zone and Town Center (T-C) Zone districts, and outside
of the C-4 Parking District, the amount of off-street parking required may be
reduced by one off-street parking space for every on-street parking space
adjacent to the development. An on-street parking credit reduces the number of
off-street parking spaces required. An on-street parking credit does not
reserve parking spaces for the specific commercial business utilizing the
credit. The Planning Commission shall review and approve all on-street parking
credits. On-street parking shall follow the established configuration of
existing on-street parking as established by the city.
      (2)   The following constitutes an on-street parking space:
         (a)   Parallel parking, each 24 feet of uninterrupted curb;
         (b)   Curb space must be connected to the lot which contains the use;
         (c)   Parking spaces that would not obstruct a required clear vision
area, nor any other parking that violates any law or street standard;
         (d)   On-street parking spaces that may be credited for a specific use
may not be used exclusively by that use, but shall be available for general
public use at all times. No signs or actions limiting general public use of on-
street spaces is permitted;
         (e)   On-street parking is on a street that is designed and physically
improved to accommodate parking within the right-of-way; and
         (f)   On-street parking credit shall not be considered on or adjacent
to areas of town zoned Residential Low (R-7.5) or Residential Medium (R-5.0).
   (H)   Off-street loading. Every use for which a building is erected or
structurally altered to the extent of increasing the floor area to equal a
minimum floor area required to provide loading space, and which will require
the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by truck or similar
vehicle, shall provide off-street loading space on the basis of minimum
requirements as follows (Note: Commercial buildings within the Town Center
Overlay Zone district shall refer to §
152.030 for loading requirements):
      (1)   Commercial, industrial and public utility uses, which have a gross
floor area of 5,000 square feet or more, shall provide truck loading or
unloading berths in accordance with the following table:
 
Square Feet of Floor Area Number of Berths Required
Less than 10,000          0
10,000 - 30,000           1
30,000 - 100,000          2
100,000 and over          3
 
      (2)   Restaurants, office buildings, hotels, motels, hospitals and
institutions, schools and colleges, public buildings, recreation or
entertainment facilities and any similar use which has a gross floor area of
30,000 square feet or more shall provide off-street truck loading or unloading
berths in accordance with the following table:
 
Square Feet of Floor Area Number of Berths Required
Less than 30,000          0
30,000 - 100,000          1
100,000 and over          2
 
      (3)   A loading berth(s) shall contain space large enough to accommodate
the largest anticipated delivery vehicle, and be not less than ten feet wide,
25 feet in length and 14 feet in height. If the vehicles generally used for
loading and unloading exceed these dimensions, the required length of these
berths shall be increased.
      (4)   If loading space has been provided in connection with an existing
use or is added to an existing use, the loading space shall not be eliminated
if elimination would result in less space than required to adequately handle
the needs of the particular use.
      (5)   Off-street parking areas used to fulfill the requirements of this
chapter shall not be used for loading and unloading operations except at off-
peak hours during periods of the day when not required to take care of parking
needs.
      (6)   A driveway designed for continuous forward flow of passenger
vehicles for the purpose of loading and unloading passengers shall be located
on the site of any school or other public meeting place which is designed to
accommodate more than 25 persons at one-time.
   (I)   Off-street parking.
      (1)   Off-street parking spaces shall be provided and maintained as set
forth in this section for all uses in all zoning districts except the Downtown
(C-4) Commercial District, as described in §
152.030. The minimum number of required off-street vehicle parking spaces
(i.e., parking that is located in parking lots and garages and not in the
street right-of-way) shall be determined based on the standards listed in
divisions (E) through (H) above. Off-street parking spaces shall be provided as
follows (Note: Commercial buildings within the Town Center Zone shall refer to
§
152.030(G)(7) for parking and circulation standards):
Use Requirement
Use                                                                             Requirement
A. Residential
   Single-family dwellings                                                   2 spaces per
                                                                                dwelling
   Duplex, triplex, quadplex, townhouse, cottage                             1 space per
                                                                                dwelling
                                                                                1 1/2 spaces
   Multiple-family dwelling                                                  per dwelling
                                                                                unit
                                                                                2 spaces per
   Bed and breakfast establishments:                                         dwelling plus
                                                                                1 per guest
                                                                                room
                                                                                1 space for
                                                                                each
   Rooming or boarding houses; accessory rental units                        accommodation
                                                                                and 1 space
                                                                                per guest room
B. Commercial services:   
                                                                                1 space per
                                                                                500 square
   Bank, personal services, office (except medical and dental):              feet of floor
                                                                                area plus 1
                                                                                space per 2
                                                                                employees
                                                                                1 space per
   Barber shop or beauty shop:                                               service chair
                                                                                or stool
                                                                                2 spaces per
                                                                                dwelling plus
                                                                                1 per guest
   Bed and breakfast establishments:                                         room for the
                                                                                establishments
                                                                                of 3 guest
                                                                                rooms or more
                                                                                The same
                                                                                number of
                                                                                spaces to meet
                                                                                the combined
                                                                                requirements
   Clubs; lodge:                                                             of the uses
                                                                                being
                                                                                conducted such
                                                                                as hotel,
                                                                                restaurant,
                                                                                auditorium and
                                                                                the like
                                                                                1 space per 4
                                                                                seats or 1
                                                                                space per 100
   Eating and drinking establishments:                                       square feet of
                                                                               dining or
                                                                                drinking area,
                                                                                whichever is
                                                                                greater
                                                                                 
                                                                                1 space for
                                                                                the owner or
                                                                                manager, 1
   Hotel/motel:                                                              space per 2
                                                                                employees, 1
                                                                                space per
                                                                                guest room or
                                                                                suite
                                                                                1 space per
                                                                                200 square
   Medical and dental office or clinic:                                      feet of floor
                                                                                area plus 1
                                                                                space per 2
                                                                                employees
                                                                                1 space per 4
                                                                                seats or 8
   Mortuaries, chapels:                                                      feet of bench
                                                                                length in main
                                                                                chapel
                                                                                1 space per 4
   Self-service laundry or dry cleaning:                                     washing or
                                                                                cleaning
                                                                                machines
                                                                                1 space per
   Service or repair shop:                                                   600 square
                                                                                feet of floor
                                                                                area
C. Commercial retail stores:
                                                                                1 space per
      4,000 square feet or less:                                          200 square
                                                                                feet of floor
                                                                                area
                                                                                1 space per
      4,001 square feet or more:                                          275 square
                                                                                feet of floor
                                                                                area
                                                                                1 space per
   Retail store exclusively handling bulky merchandise, such as automobiles, 600 square
furniture and large appliances:                                                 feet of retail
                                                                                floor area
                                                                                1 space for
   Open air market; used car sales lot:                                      1,500 square
                                                                                feet of land
                                                                                area
                                                                                1 space per 2
   Supermarkets, grocery stores:                                             employees,
                                                                                plus
                                                                                1 space per
      4,000 square feet or less:                                          150 square
                                                                                feet of floor
                                                                                area
                                                                                1 space per
      4,001 square feet and over:                                         200 square
                                                                                feet of floor
                                                                                area
D. Commercial amusements:
                                                                                3 spaces per
   Bowling alley:                                                            lane plus 1
                                                                                space per 2
                                                                                employees
                                                                                1 space per
                                                                                100 square
   Dance hall, skating rink:                                                 feet of floor
                                                                                area plus 1
                                                                                space per 2
                                                                                employees
   Miniature golf course:                                                    4 spaces per
                                                                                hole
                                                                                1 space per 4
   Stadium, arena, theater:                                                  seats or 8
                                                                                feet of bench
                                                                                length
E. Industrial:
                                                                                1 space per
   Manufacturing establishment:                                              employee on
                                                                                the maximum
                                                                                shift
                                                                                1 space per
   Storage warehouse, rail or trucking freight terminal                      employee on
                                                                                the maximum
                                                                                shift
                                                                                1 space per
                                                                                employee plus
   Wholesale establishment:                                                  1 space per
                                                                                700 square
                                                                                feet of patron
                                                                                serving area
                                                                                1 space per 2
                                                                                employees on
                                                                                the largest
                                                                                shift, plus 1
   Public utilities (gas, water, telephone and the like) not including businespace per
offices:                                                                        company
                                                                                vehicle; a
                                                                                minimum of 2
                                                                                spaces is
                                                                                required
F. Institutions/place of public assembly:
                                                                                1 space per 2
                                                                                employees; a
   Child care center, having 13 or more children:                            minimum of 2
                                                                                spaces is
                                                                                required
                                                                                1 space per 4
                                                                                seats or 8
   Churches and similar places of worship:                                   feet of bench
                                                                                length in the
                                                                                main
                                                                                auditorium
                                                                                1 space per 2
   Convalescent hospital, nursing home, sanitarium, rest home, home for      beds for
seniors:                                                                        patients or
                                                                                resident
                                                                                8 spaces per
                                                                                hole, plus
                                                                                additional
   Golf course (except miniature):                                           spaces for any
                                                                                auxiliary uses
                                                                                set forth in
                                                                                this section
   Hospital:                                                                 2 spaces per
                                                                                patient bed
                                                                                1 spaces per
                                                                                400 square
   Library, reading room, museum, art gallery:                               feet of floor
                                                                                area plus 1
                                                                                space per 2
                                                                                employees
                                                                                1 space per
   Limited school service facility (i.e., non- classroom):                   400 square
                                                                                feet of floor
                                                                                area
                                                                                1 space per 4
                                                                                seats or 8
                                                                                feet of bench
                                                                                length. If no
                                                                                permanent
   Other auditorium, meeting rooms:                                          seats are
                                                                                provided, 1
                                                                                space per 100
                                                                                square feet of
                                                                                floor or
                                                                                assembly area
   Schools:                                                                   
      Pre-school nursery, kindergarten:                                   2 spaces per
                                                                                teacher
                                                                                1 space per
                                                                                employee or 1
                                                                                1/2 space per
                                                                                classroom or 1
                                                                                space per 4
      Elementary and junior high:                                         seats or 8
                                                                                feet of bench
                                                                                length in the
                                                                                auditorium or
                                                                                assembly room,
                                                                                whichever is
                                                                                greater
                                                                                1 space per
                                                                                employee plus
                                                                                1 space for
                                                                                each 6
                                                                                students or 1
                                                                                space per 4
      High School:                                                        seats or 8
                                                                                feet of bench
                                                                                length in the
                                                                                main
                                                                                auditorium,
                                                                                whichever is
                                                                                greater
                                                                                1 1/2 spaces
                                                                                per classroom,
                                                                                plus 1 space
                                                                                per 5 students
                                                                                the school is
      Colleges, universities and commercial trade schools for adults:     designed to
                                                                                accommodate or
                                                                                1 space per 3
                                                                                seats in
                                                                                classrooms,
                                                                                whichever is
                                                                                greater
                                                                                1 space per 5
      Correctional institutions:                                          beds for
                                                                                patients and
                                                                                inmates
 
      (2)   Other uses not specifically listed above shall furnish parking as
required by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall use the
above list as a guide for determining requirements for said other uses, and
shall determine the minimum number of parking spaces required to avoid undue
interference with the public use of streets and alleys.
   (J)   Disabled parking (as required in conformance with the Americans with
Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.). The number of disabled
parking spaces shall comply with the following standards: striping and signing
of the handicap space(s) shall conform to ADA standards and are shown in the
table below.
Total Number of                       Van Accessible        Accessible Parking
Parking Spaces     Accessible Parking Parking Spaces with   Spaces with Minimum
Provided (Per Lot) Spaces             Minimum 96-Inch Wide  60-Inch Wide Access
                                      Access Aisle Required Aisle
                                       Van Accessible       Accessible Parking
Total Number of    Accessible Parking  Parking Spaces with  Spaces with Minimum
Parking Spaces     Spaces              Minimum 96-Inch Wide 60-Inch Wide Access
Provided (Per Lot)                     Access Aisle         Aisle
                                       Required
1 to 25            1                   1                    0
26 to 50           2                   1                    1
51 to 75           3                   1                    2
76 to 100          4                   1                    3
101 to 150         5                   1                    4
151 to 200         6                   1                    5
201 to 300         7                   1                    6
301 to 400         8                   1                    7
401 to 500         9                   2                    7
                   2% of total parking 1/8 of column to the 7/8 of the first
501 to 1,000       provided in each    left                 column
                   lot
1,001 and over     20 plus 1 for each  1/8 of column to the 7/8 of the first
                   100 over 1,000      left                 column
 
   (K)   Development and maintenance standards for off-street parking and
loading areas. Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public or private
parking area, including commercial parking lots, public parking lots and non-
subsidiary uses, such as automobile sales lots, shall be developed as follows.
      (1)   An off-street parking area for more than five vehicles shall be
effectively screened by a sight-obscuring fence, hedge or planting on each side
which adjoins property situated in an R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District or the
premises of any school or like institution.
      (2)   Any lighting used to illuminate the off-street parking areas shall
be pedestrian-scale and so arranged that it will not project light rays
directly or create or reflect substantial glare upon any adjoining property in
an R-7.5, R-5.0 or R-O District or on any adjacent dwelling.
      (3)   Except for single-family dwellings, duplexes, triplexes,
quadplexes, townhouses and cottage clusters, groups of more than two parking
spaces shall be so located and served by a driveway that their use will require
no backing movements or other maneuvering within a street or right-of-way other
than an alley.
      (4)   Types of surfacing required for off-street parking and loading
areas:
         (a)   Except in floodway or floodplain zones, areas used for standing
vehicles and required for maneuvering of vehicles in all residential,
commercial or industrial zones shall have surfaces of asphalt, concrete, brick
or other permanent, durable, dustless surfaces maintained adequately for all
weather use (excluding oil-matte surfaces). In flood zones, permeable surfaces
are encouraged. All such areas shall be so drained as to avoid standing water
and flow of water across sidewalks, walkways and adjacent properties.
         (b)   According to § 2.14.7, “Driveways”, of the City of Tillamook
Public Works Design Standards, all driveway aprons shall be paved a minimum of
20 feet from the back of the sidewalk into the driveway.
         (c)   Unless the driveway is shared between adjacent property owners,
a minimum of five feet between the improved driveway surface and the side
property line is required as is further determined by the street designation in
§
152.052.
         (d)   Areas used for standing and maneuvering of vehicles in all
property within the designated floodway shall have surfaces of durable,
dustless permeable materials. All such areas shall be designed to avoid flow of
water across adjacent properties.
      (5)   Except for parking to serve single-family dwellings, duplexes,
triplexes, quadplexes, townhouses and cottage clusters, parking and loading
areas adjacent to or within residential zones or adjacent to residential uses
shall be designed to minimize disturbance of residents by the erection of a
sight-obscuring fence of not less than five nor more than six feet in height
between the uses, except where vision clearance is required.
      (6)   Access aisles shall be of sufficient width for all vehicular
turning and maneuvering.
      (7)   Service drives to off-street parking areas shall be designed and
constructed to facilitate the flow of traffic, provide maximum safety of
traffic access and egress and maximum safety of pedestrians and vehicular
traffic on the site. The number of service drives shall be limited to the
minimum that will allow the property to accommodate and service the traffic to
be anticipated. Service drives shall be clearly and permanently marked and
defined through the use of rails, fences, walls or other barriers or markers on
frontage not occupied by service drives. Service drives to drive-in
establishments shall be designed to avoid backing movements or other
maneuvering within a street, other than an alley.
      (8)   Service drives shall have a minimum vision clearance area formed by
the intersection of the driveway center line, the street right-of-way line and
a straight line joining said lines through points 20 feet from their
intersection. Such area shall be maintained free of all visual obstructions.
(See §
152.003.)
      (9)   Parking spaces along the outer boundaries of a parking area shall
be contained by a curb or bumper rail so placed to prevent a motor vehicle from
extending over an adjacent property line or a street. Wheel stops shall be a
minimum of four inches in height and width, and six feet in length; shall be
firmly attached to the ground; and so constructed as to withstand normal wear.
Wheel stops shall be provided where appropriate for all spaces abutting
property lines, buildings, landscaping and no vehicle shall overhang a public
right-of-way.
      (10)   Except for parking to serve single-family dwellings, duplexes,
triplexes, quadplexes, townhouses and cottage clusters, all spaces shall be
permanently and clearly marked/striped according to the city stall standards.
   (L)   Maximum number of parking spaces allowed. The number of parking spaces
provided by commercial use in ground surface parking lots shall not exceed the
required minimum number of spaces provided by this section by more than 10%.
Spaces provided on-street, or within the building footprint of structures, such
as in rooftop parking, or understructure parking, or in multi-level parking
above or below surface lots, may not apply towards the maximum of allowable
spaces. Parking spaces provided through “shared parking” also do not apply
towards the maximum number.
   (M)   Parking stall standard dimensions, disabled person parking stall
requirements and standard dimensions. All off-street parking stalls shall be
improved to conform to city standards for surfacing, storm water management and
striping. Standard parking spaces shall conform to the dimensions in the
following figure.
   (1)   Standard dimensions:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1577.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1581.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1583.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1585.png]
 
   (N)   Bicycle parking requirements. The following new developments shall be
required to provide bicycle parking in compliance with this division (M).
Additionally, the required bicycle parking facilities shall be constructed when
an existing building is altered or enlarged, or when a use is intensified by
the addition of floor space, seating capacity or change in use.
      (1)   This section does not apply to single-family dwellings,
manufactured housing, duplexes, triplexes, quadplexes, townhouses, cottage
clusters, home occupations, agriculture and livestock uses or other
developments with fewer than ten vehicle parking spaces.
      (2)   New multiple-family residential with five or more units shall
provide at least one sheltered bicycle parking space for each dwelling unit.
Sheltered bicycle parking spaces may be located within a garage, storage shed,
basement, utility room or similar area. In those instances in which the
residential complex has no garage or other easily accessible storage unit, the
bicycle parking spaces shall be sheltered from sun and precipitation under an
eave, overhang, an independent structure or similar cover.
      (3)   New retail, office and institutional development and other
commercial uses shall provide at least one bicycle parking space for each
retail, office and institutional development, and provide a minimum of one
bicycle parking space for every ten motor vehicle parking spaces regarding the
off-street parking lot and parking structures.
      (4)   Transit transfer and park and ride lots shall provide a minimum of
one bicycle parking space for every ten motor vehicle parking spaces.
      (5)   All public and commercial parking lots and parking structures
provide a minimum of one bicycle parking space for every ten motor vehicle
parking spaces.
      (6)   Elementary and middle schools, both private and public, provide one
bicycle parking space for every ten students and employees. High schools
provide one bicycle parking space for every five students and employees. All
spaces shall be sheltered under an eave, overhang, independent structure or
similar cover.
      (7)   Colleges and trade schools provide one bicycle parking space for
every ten motor vehicle spaces plus one space for every dormitory unit. Fifty
percent of the bicycle parking spaces shall be sheltered under an eave,
overhang, independent structure or similar cover.
      (8)   For buildings with multiple uses (such as a commercial or mixed use
center), bicycle parking standards shall be calculated by using the total
number of motor vehicle parking spaces required for the entire development. A
minimum of one bicycle parking space for every ten motor vehicle parking spaces
is required.
      (9)   Bicycle parking shall be conveniently located with respect to both
the street right-of-way and at least one building entrance (e.g., no farther
away than the closest parking space) either on the sidewalks or in specially
constructed areas such as pedestrian curb extensions. All bicycle parking
spaces shall be located in close proximity to the use they are intended to
serve; shall be located no more than 50 feet from a well-used entrance; and
shall have direct access to both the public right-of-way and the main entrance
of the principal use. Inverted “U” style racks or ribbon racks are recommended.
Bicycle parking shall not interfere with pedestrian passage, leaving a clear
area of at least 36 inches between bicycles and other existing and potential
obstructions. Bicycle parking should be incorporated whenever possible into
building design and coordinated with the design of street furniture when it is
provided. Street furniture includes benches, street lights, planters and other
pedestrian amenities.
      (10)   Bicycle parking shall be visible to cyclists from street sidewalks
or building entrances, so that it provides sufficient security from theft and
damage.
      (11)   Bicycle parking requirements for long-term and employee parking
can be met by providing a bicycle storage room, bicycle lockers, racks or other
secure storage space inside or outside of the building.
      (12)   Bicycle parking shall be least as well lit as vehicle parking for
security.
      (13)   Areas set aside for bicycle parking shall be clearly marked and
reserved for bicycle parking only and shall not impede or create a hazard to
pedestrians.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 1335, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 050525A, passed
5-19-2025) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.055 SIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known as the “Tillamook Sign Ordinance”
and shall be cited herein as “Sign Standards and Requirements - the City Sign
Codes”.
   (B)   Purpose. The purposes of this section are as follows:
      (1)   To provide objective standards governing the placement and size of
signs, and the responsibilities of those persons erecting said signs, within
the city’s urban growth boundary (UGB);
      (2)   Allows signs compatible with the character and uses allowed in the
zoning district in which they are located;
      (3)   To improve the neat, clean, orderly and attractive appearance of
the community; and
      (4)   To improve the effectiveness and maintenance of signs; and to
regulate the construction, erection, maintenance, electrification,
illumination, type, size, number and locations of signs.
   (C)   Signs in the right-of-way (ROW).
      (1)   Signs located in the public ROW shall be handled under a ROW permit
application, and shall follow separate requirements for placement in the ROW
identified in Resolution 1706.
      (2)   Signs attached to walls but extending over the ROW with proper
clearance shall comply with this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1587.png]
 
   (D)   Signs allowed in zone districts. The city is divided into specific
zones, as shown the official city zoning map, and any sign erected or
constructed in these zones shall be controlled by the rules of each zone. No
signs shall be erected and no changes of any nature shall be made to existing
signs within these zones except in conformity with the procedures set forth in
this section.
Zones/Sign Types R-7.5 R-O N-C H-C T-C L-I G-I P & S-P O
                 R-5.0         C-C
Zones/Sign     R-7.5  R-O        N-C      H-C      T-C         L-I      G-I      P & S-P  O
Types          R-5.0                      C-C
                                 1 sign   1 sign               1 sign   1 sign   1 sign
                      1 sign     per      per                  per      per      per      2 signs
                      24 sq. ft. street   street               street   street   street   per lot
Free-standing/ -      size       frontage frontage -           frontage frontage frontage 18 sq.
Ground Mounted        5 ft.      40 sq.   40 sq.               40 sq.   40 sq.   40 sq.   ft. size
                      height     ft.      ft. size             ft. size ft. size ft. size 20 ft.
                                 10 ft.   20 ft.               20 ft.   20 ft.   20 ft.   height
                                 height   height               height   height   height
                                 3 signs  3 signs              3 signs  3 signs  3 signs  2 signs
                                 per      per                  per      per      per      per
                      1 sign per street   street   3 signs per street   street   street   street
On-Building    -      use        frontage frontage street      frontage frontage frontage frontage
                      24 sq. ft. 40 sq.   120 sq.  frontage    40 sq.   40 sq.   40 sq.   18 sq.
                                 ft. size ft. per              ft. size ft. size ft. size ft. size
                                 per sign sign                 per sign per sign per sign per sign
                      5 signs    5 signs  5 signs              5 signs  5 signs  5 signs  5 signs
                      per lot    per lot  per lot              per lot  per lot  per lot  per lot
Directional    -      3 sq. ft.  3 sq.    3 sq.    -           3 sq.    3 sq.    3 sq.    3 sq.
                      3 feet     ft.      ft.                  ft.      ft.      ft.      ft.
                      height     3 ft.    3 ft.                3 ft.    3 ft.    3 ft.    3 ft.
                                 height   height               height   height   height   height
                      5 signs    5 signs  5 signs              5 signs  5 signs  5 signs  5 signs
                      per lot    per lot  per lot              per lot  per lot  per lot  per lot
Identification -      12 sq. ft. 12 sq.   12 sq.   -           12 sq.   12 sq.   12 sq.   12 sq.
                      6 ft.      ft.      ft.                  ft.      ft.      ft.      ft.
                      height     6 ft.    6 ft.                6 ft.    6 ft.    6 ft.    6 ft.
                                 height   height               height   height   height   height
                                 1 sign   1 sign               1 sign   1 sign   1 sign   1 sign
                      1 sign per per      per                  per      per      per      per
Temporary/            business   business business             business business business business
Portable       -      32 sq. ft. 32 sq.   32 sq.   Exempt      32 sq.   32 sq.   32 sq.   32 sq.
                      6 ft.      ft.      ft.                  ft.      ft.      ft.      ft.
                      height     6 ft.    6 ft.                6 ft.    6 ft.    6 ft.    6 ft.
                                 height   height               height   height   height   height
               1 sign
               2      1 sign
Name Plates    square 2 sq. ft.  -        -        Exempt      -        -        Exempt   -
               feet   max size
               max
               size
                      Internally
                      =
                      commercial                   Lit or
Illuminated    -      and public Allowed  Allowed  externally  Allowed  Allowed  Allowed  Allowed
                      facilities                   illuminated
                      Externally
                      = all
Note: On-building signs include: wall signs, roof signs, projecting signs, canopy signs, suspended
signs
 
   (E)   Types of signs.
      (1)   A-frame or sandwich board sign. A temporary, double-faced in the
shape of the letter “A” and is not attached to a structure or the ground,
collapsible, movable steeply angled sign, hinged at the top and open at the
bottom for self-support; also known as a “tent sign”, sign with two sides that
meets at the top.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1589.png]
Illustration of an A-Frame Sign
      (2)   Ancillary sign. Any sign allowed by this code, with or without
permit, that is not a freestanding, incidental freestanding, wall, roof or
projecting sign. If allowed within the zoning designation, ancillary signs
include, but are not limited to: A-frame signs, flags (excluding attention
flags) and banners.
      (3)   Blade sign also known as “feather”, “teardrop”, or “attention
flag”. A pole-supported sign made of fabric, vinyl or other similar non-rigid
material, where one side of the sign is more than three times as long as any
other side projecting or suspended from a building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1602.png]
Illustration of a Blade Sign
      (4)   Banner. A sign made of fabric, vinyl or other similar non-rigid
material.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1593.png]
Illustration of a Banner
      (5)   Banner on street light pole. A sign made of fabric, vinyl or other
similar non-rigid material intended to be displayed in the right-of-way for a
limited period of time which complies with Chapter 15.28 of the Oregon City
Municipal Code and the signs in the right-of-way policy.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1604.png]
Illustration of a Banner on Street Light Pole
      (6)   Billboard. A sign with a display area of 300 square feet or more,
including, but not limited to, outdoor advertising signs, as defined in O.R.S.
377.710(21), advertises a business, commodity or activity, which is sold,
offered or conducted on premises other than those where such a sign is located.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1598.png]
Illustration of a Billboard
      (7)   Bulletin board, changeable copy sign or reader board. A sign of a
permanent nature, but which accommodates changes in wording, indicating
persons, events, products or services offered on the premises of the sign
location.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1600.png]
Illustration of a Bulletin Board/Reader Board Sign
      (8)   Blinking sign. A sign which shines with intermittent or momentary
brief beams or flashes of light, flashing on and off.
      (9)   Building register sign. A sign which identifies four or more
businesses contained within a single building, structure or complex.
      (10)   Awning sign/canopy sign. A sign that is a part of or attached to
an awning, canopy or other fabric, plastic or structural protective cover
(excluding a marquee) over a door, entrance, window or outdoor service area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1606.png]
Illustration of Awning and Canopy Sign
      (11)   Electronic readerboard. A sign on which display can be altered
electronically by using patterns of lights. This sign may be changed at
intervals of no less than one and one-half seconds and may contain only one
screen of text or graphic display. The illumination shall be by steady
continuous light.
      (12)   Flashing sign. A sign incorporating intermittent electrical
impulses to a source of illumination, or revolving in a manner which creates
the illusion of flashing, or which changes color or intensity of illumination
with sequential light source giving off light suddenly or in transient bursts
where the period of time of illumination is equal to the period of non-
illumination, and is used solely to attract attention in a non-informative way.
This includes, but is not limited to, all lights on or within a building or
premises or vehicle on or off the premises for the purpose of attracting
attention for commercial purposes. This definition does not include time, tide
and temperature signs or electronic reader-board signs.
      (13)   Fluttering sign. A sign which moves or vibrates in quick,
irregular motions, with irregular spasms or trembling motions.
      (14)   Freestanding sign/ground sign/pole sign. A sign erected on a free-
standing frame, mast or pole, wholly supported from the ground by its own
integral structure not attached to any building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1608.png]
Illustrations of a Freestanding Sign
      (15)   Incidental sign. A sign intended primarily for the convenience and
direction of the public on the premises which does not advertise but is
information only. Includes signs which denote the hours of operation, credit
cards, service station gasoline price sign, entrance and exit and any signs
required by law.
      (16)   Incidental freestanding sign. A sign wholly supported from the
ground by its own integral structure, excluding A-frame signs. The maximum size
allowed is less than that of a freestanding sign and greater than an ancillary
sign.
      (17)   Lit sign. A sign that is a neon and/or bulbed sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1610.png]
Illustration of a Lit Sign
      (18)   Marquee sign. A sign which is painted on, attached to or supported
by a projecting marquee. Marquee signs must be located within one inch of the
top and bottom of the marquee with no more than three businesses indicated per
marquee.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1612.png]
Illustration of a Marquee Sign
      (19)   Neighborhood identification. A sign located on a wall or fence at
the entry point of a single-family subdivision comprising not less than two
acres, or a sign identifying a multiple-family development of ten or more
dwelling units.
      (20)   Non-conforming sign. An existing sign, lawful at the time of
enactment of this chapter, which does not conform to the requirements of this
code.
      (21)   Political sign. Any temporary sign which supports the candidacy of
any candidate for public office or urges action on any other matter on the
ballot of primary, general or special elections.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1614.png]
Illustration of a Political Sign
      (22)   Portable sign. Used to temporarily identify a new business until
permanent identification signs are installed, or to identify an existing
business while permanent identification signs are being repaired or replaced,
or to temporarily identify a sale or business location during the hours of
operation, or service station signs displaying the current prices for fuel sold
on the same premises.
      (23)   Projecting sign. A sign projecting more than one foot from the
wall of a building. Signs, other than wall signs, which are attached to and
project from a structure or building face, usually perpendicular to the
building face, including blade signs and marquee signs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1616.png]
Illustration of a Projecting Sign
      (24)   Real estate sign. A sign indicating that the premises on which the
sign is located, or any portion thereof, is for sale, lease or rent.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1618.png]
Illustration of a Real Estate Sign
      (25)   Roof sign. A sign constructed or maintained wholly upon or over
the roof of any building with the principal support on the roof structure. Any
sign, other than painted signs, erected upon, against or directly above a roof
or top of or above the parapet of a building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1620.png]
Illustration of a Roof Sign
      (26)   Rotating sign. A sign which turns/revolves around as on an axis or
center point.
      (27)   Suspended sign. A sign that is hanging or suspended from an
awning, a canopy or a marquee, not supported from the ground.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1622.png]
Illustration of a Suspended Sign
      (28)   Temporary sign.
         (a)   A sign which is not permanently affixed to the ground or to a
permitted structure. These include all devices such as banners, pennants, flags
(not including flags of nations), searchlights, sandwich boards, sidewalk
signs, curb signs, balloons or other symbols designed to attract attention.
         (b)   Temporary signs include: signs advertising the sale, rental or
lease of commercial or industrial premises or identifying a property developer,
lease agent or builder; or advertising a legally recorded subdivision.
      (29)   Time and temperature sign. A message display providing only time,
date and/or temperature information to the public. This information can be
updated at intervals of no less than one second.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1624.png]
Illustration of a Time and Temperature Sign
      (30)   Wall graphics. Any mosaic, mural or painting, or graphic art
technique, or combination or grouping of mosaics, murals or paintings or
graphic art techniques applied, implanted or placed directly onto a wall or
fence and containing no copy, advertising symbols, lettering, trademarks or
other references to any product, service, goods or advertising anything sold on
or off the premises.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1626.png]
Illustration of Wall Graphics
      (31)   Wall sign. A sign attached to, or erected against, or painted upon
the wall of a building with the face in a parallel plane of the building wall
and extends no more than 12 inches from a wall.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1628.png]
Illustrations of a Wall Sign
      (32)   Wind sign or device. Any sign or device in the nature of a series
of one, two or more banners, flags or other objects, fastened in such a manner
as to move upon being subject to pressure by wind or breeze.
      (33)   Window sign. A sign attached to, suspended behind, displayed
behind, placed or painted upon the window or glass door of a building, which is
intended for viewing from the exterior of the building. Windows signs include:
posters and other signs which advertise or inform the public of current prices
or events may be displayed on the inside of a window or door of a business
located in a commercial or industrial district.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1630.png]
Illustration of a Window Sign
   (F)   Zone districts.
      (1)   Highway Commercial (H-C), Central Commercial (C-C), Light
Industrial (L-I) and General Industrial (G-I).
         (a)   Free-standing and ground-mounted signs shall be allowed subject
to the following conditions:
            1.   Shall not exceed 40 square feet in size;
            2.   Shall not exceed a height of 20 feet;
            3.   Only one such sign shall be allowed per street frontage; and
            4.   Sign clearance and setback: see division (G) below.
         (b)   On-building wall signs, roof signs, projecting signs, canopy
signs shall be allowed subject to the following conditions:
            1.   Shall not exceed 120 square feet in sign per building side;
            2.   A maximum of three such signs shall be allowed per building
side; and
            3.   On-building signs shall be incorporated into the design of the
building, and shall not be placed in locations which interrupt, detract from or
change the architectural character of the building.
         (c)   Such signs may be illuminated.
      (2)   Town Center Commercial (T-C). Signs in the Town Center shall meet
requirements described in §
152.030.
      (3)   Neighborhood Commercial (N-C).
         (a)   Free-standing and ground-mounted signs shall be allowed subject
to the following conditions:
            1.    Shall not exceed 40 square feet in size;
            2.   Shall not exceed a height of ten feet;
            3.   Only one such sign shall be allowed per street frontage; and
            4.   Sign clearance and setback: see division (G) below.
         (b)   On-building wall signs, roof signs, projecting signs, canopy
signs identifying the use of the premises shall be allowed subject to the
following conditions:
            1.   Shall not exceed 40 square feet in size per sign;
            2.   Three such signs shall be allowed per street frontage; and
            3.   On-building signs shall be incorporated into the design of the
building, and shall not be placed in locations which interrupt, detract from or
change the architectural character of the building.
         (c)   Illumination: such signs may be illuminated.
      (4)   Multiple Use Residential (R-O).
         (a)   Signs identifying multiple use development, multi-family
development or subdivisions:
            1.   Free-standing and ground-mounted signs:
               a.   Shall not exceed 24 square feet, as viewed from a single
direction;
               b.   Shall not exceed a height of five feet above the natural
ground elevation; and
               c.   No more than one free-standing or ground-mounted
identification sign shall be allowed for a development or complex, even when
more than one tax lot or ownership is included in the development. However, in
mixed-use developments, a separate freestanding sign may be allowed to identify
the multiple uses and multi-family portion of the development.
            2.   On-building signs:
               a.   Shall be reviewed as part of the architecture of the
building; and
               b.   Shall not exceed 24 square feet in size.
            3.   Directional signs within the development shall not exceed
three square feet except as provided in the district.
            4.   Illumination: signs may only be externally illuminated by
indirect lighting.
         (b)   Signs identifying commercial businesses and public facilities:
            1.   Free-standing and ground-mounted signs:
               a.   Shall not exceed 24 square feet, as viewed from a single
direction;
               b.   Shall not exceed a height of five feet above the natural
ground elevation;
               c.   No more than one free-standing or ground-mounted
identification sign shall be allowed per development or complex, even when more
than one tax lot or ownership is included in the development. However, in
mixed-use developments, a separate freestanding sign may be allowed to identify
the multiple uses and multi-family portion of the development; and
               d.   Sign clearance and setback: see division (G) below.
            2.   On-building wall signs, projecting signs, canopy signs:
               a.   Shall not exceed 24 square feet in size; and
               b.   No more than one on-building identification sign shall be
allowed per use of the development.
            3.   Directional, on-site traffic control and identification signs:
               a.   Shall not exceed three square feet in size; and
               b.   Shall not exceed a height of five feet.
            4.   Illumination:
               a.   Signs located adjacent to an arterial roadway may be
internally illuminated outright;
               b.   Signs located adjacent to a local or collector roadway may
be internally illuminated subject to a conditional use permit as per the
provisions of §
152.071; and
               c.   Signs may be externally illuminated if at any other
location.
      (5)   Residential (R-7.5 and R-5.0).
         (a)   Signs permitted outright. Residential name plates:
            1.   Shall not exceed two square feet;
            2.   Shall be limited only to the title, name and address of the
occupant of the premises upon which the sign is located;
            3.   Only one such sign shall be permitted upon the premises; and
            4.   May be externally illuminated lighting only.
         (b)   Signs permitted with a sign permit. Signs pertaining to home
occupations, as provided under §
152.051(M):
            1.   If located inside or flush against the dwelling, the sign
shall not exceed three square feet in size. If not affixed to or inside the
dwelling, the sign shall not exceed two square feet in size;
            2.   Only one such sign shall be permitted upon the premises;
            3.   May be located within the required setback area of the
district provided it is situated in a manner so as not to adversely affect
safety, corner vision or other similar conditions; and
            4.   May be externally illuminated lighting only.
      (6)   Public and Semi-Public:
         (a)   Free-standing and ground-mounted signs shall be allowed subject
to the following conditions:
            1.   Shall not exceed 40 square feet in size.
            2.   Shall not exceed a height of 20 feet.
            3.   Only one such sign shall be allowed per street frontage.
            4.   Sign clearance and setback: see division (I)(7) below.
         (b)   On-building wall signs, roof signs, projecting signs, canopy
signs shall be allowed subject to the following conditions:
            1.   Shall not exceed 120 square feet in sign per building side.
            2.   A maximum of three such signs shall be allowed per building
side.
            3.   Design: on-building signs shall be incorporated into the
design of the building, and shall not be placed in locations which interrupt,
detract from, or change the architectural character of the building.
         (c)   Additional signage, or signage above the permitted size, may be
allowed subject to a conditional use permit as per provisions of § 153.070.
         (d)   Illumination: such signs may be illuminated.
      (7)   Open Space (O):
         (a)   Free-standing and ground-mounted signs for public and semipublic
facilities, schools, churches, hospitals, and similar uses shall be allowed
subject to the following conditions:
            1.   Shall not exceed 18 square feet in size.
            2.   Shall only pertain to the use on the premises.
            3.   Only two such sign shall be permitted upon the premises.
            4.   Sign clearance and setback: see division (I)(7) below.
         (b)   On-building wall, roof signs, projecting, canopy signs shall be
allowed subject to the following conditions:
            1.   Shall not exceed 18 square feet in size.
            2.   Shall only pertain to the use of the building.
            3.   Only two such sign per street frontage shall be permitted upon
each building.
            4.   Design: on-building signs shall be incorporated into the
design of the building, and shall not be placed in locations which interrupt,
detract from, or change the architectural character of the building.
         (c)   Illumination: such signs may be illuminated.
   (G)   Sign permit requirements.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, alter or relocate any
sign or other advertising structure, as defined in this chapter, within the
city, without first obtaining a permit from the City Planning Department. The
Planning Department may require the filing of sufficient data to determine
compliance with these requirements and zoning requirements.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Planning Department to examine such
plans and specifications and other data needed to erect the sign or other
advertising structure and, if it appears that the proposal is in compliance
with all the requirements of this section and all other laws and ordinances of
the city, the City Planner shall issue the sign permit.
      (3)   No person shall place on, or apply to, the surface of any building,
any painted sign, or erect, construct, place or install any other sign, unless
a sign permit has been issued by the city for such sign.
      (4)   Application for a sign permit shall be signed by the property owner
and the permittee in accordance with these provisions.
      (5)   No person having a permit to erect a sign shall construct or erect
in any manner, except in the manner set forth in his approved application
permit.
      (6)   The application for a sign permit (both existing signs and
proposed) shall be accompanied by a filing fee in an amount established by
resolution of the City Council.
   (H)   Sign permit application.
      (1)   A sign permit application is required for the erection of any new
sign or the structural alteration of an existing sign, except those signs that
are exempt. A sign permit application is required for modification or
alteration of the sign face, or any portion of the sign or supporting
structure.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit three copies of the following with a
sign permit application:
         (a)   An accurate in-scale rendering of the sign fully indicating its
colors, lettering, symbols, logos, materials, size, area and the like;
         (b)   An elevation and plot plan drawn to scale indicating where the
proposed sign will be located on a structure or lot, method of illumination, if
any, and similar information;
         (c)   One completed copy of the city sign permit application; and
         (d)   No notification is required upon application for a sign.
   (I)   General requirements, provisions and standards applicable to signs.
      (1)   Sign illumination/glare. The artificial illumination of signs,
either from an internal or external source, shall be designed to eliminate
negative impacts to prevent the casting of glare or direct light from
artificial illumination on surrounding right-of-way and surrounding properties,
and shall be placed, directed and shielded to limit direct illumination so as
not to shine into residential dwelling units or structures, or impair the
vision of the driver of any vehicle. Lights and illuminated signs requiring an
outside power source shall use a state approved power outlet. Illuminated signs
shall conform to current electrical codes and shall be designed by a state
licensed signs contractor and erected by a state licensed electrician.
      (2)   Conflicting standards. Signs shall be allowed subject to the
provisions of this section, except when the provisions conflict with the
specific standards for signs in the subject zoning or overlay district.
      (3)   Signs subject to state approval. All signs visible to the traveling
public from state highways are additionally subject to the regulations and
permit requirements of the State Department of Transportation. Where the
regulations of the state and city differ, the more restrictive regulations
shall govern.
      (4)   Uniform Sign Code. All signs shall comply with and meet the
material and construction methods requirements of the provisions of the current
Uniform Sign Code of the Uniform Building Codes, except as otherwise provided
in this section.
      (5)   Pre-existing signs. Signs and sign structures existing prior to the
adoption of this chapter, which complied with the applicable regulations
existing when the sign was established, but which do not comply with one or
more of the requirements of this section, shall be subject to the provisions
for non-conforming uses in §
152.073 except:
         (a)   Alterations to a non-conforming sign which reduces, or does not
increase its non-compliance with the provisions of this chapter, including
changes in display surface, sign area, height and setback, may be allowed; and
         (b)   Sign copy which identifies or advertises a business, product or
service no longer located on the same site or premises on which the sign is
posted shall be replaced, or removed, within 12 months of the change of
occupancy of the premises or vacancy of the premises. Failure to use the copy
area of a non-conforming sign for purposes permitted under this section for a
period of more than 12 consecutive months shall constitute a discontinuation of
use as provided under §
152.073 and such sign shall be removed or modified to satisfy all applicable
requirements of this section and the underlying district.
      (6)   Abandoned, obsolete and damaged signs to be removed or repaired.
Any sign now or hereafter existing, which no longer advertises a bonafide
business conducted or a product sold, a current event or is otherwise abandoned
or obsolete, shall be taken down and removed by the owner, agent or person
having the beneficial use of the building or structure upon which such sign may
be found within 30 days after closure of said business.
      (7)   Sign clearance and setbacks for free-standing or ground-mounted
signs.
         (a)   No signs shall be erected or maintained if any part of such sign
extends less than 15 feet above driveways.
         (b)   Signs less than 28 square feet in size must observe at least
one-half of the yard setback requirements of the zone district in which it is
located.
         (c)   Signs greater than 28 square feet in size must observe the
setback requirements of the zone district in which it is located.
         (d)   All signs shall be situated in a manner so as not to adversely
affect safety, corner vision or other similar conditions.
      (8)   Sign measurements. The following diagrams shall be used to
determine sign measurements:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1632.png]
 
      (9)   Height measurements. The following diagrams shall be used to
determine sign height measurements:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f0e7ac5b704efbda79a55b9f01bf0defe7cbcc5b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1634.png]
 
   (J)   Wind pressure, seismic and dead load requirements. All signs shall be
designed and constructed to withstand pressure loads, seismic loads and dead
loads as required by the current State Uniform Building Code.
   (K)   Freestanding sign requirements.
      (1)   All letters, figures, characters or representations in uncut or
irregular form, maintained in conjunction with, attached to or superimposed
upon any sign shall be safely and securely built or attached to the sign
structure and shall comply with all requirements in this section.
      (2)   No freestanding sign shall project or extend into any vision
clearance area prescribed by any provision of this chapter. One or two sign
poles supporting a freestanding sign may be located within the vision clearance
area if they do not exceed a combined total width of 12 inches and if no other
portion of the sign proper is located within the vision clearance area between
three and seven feet above grade.
      (3)   All posts, anchors and bracing or wood shall be treated to protect
them from moisture by creosoting or together approved methods when they rest
upon or enter the ground.
   (L)   On-building wall sign, roof sign, projecting sign, canopy sign
requirements. On-building wall sign, roof sign, projecting sign and canopy sign
requirements include the following:
      (1)   Shall not cover, wholly or partially, any wall opening nor project
beyond the ends or top of the wall to which it is attached; and
      (2)   Shall not be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent free
ingress or egress from any door, window or fire escape.
   (M)   Construction standards for temporary signs.
      (1)   Standards. All temporary signs shall be constructed to the
following standards: all exposed parts of the sign shall be constructed of such
materials, or treated in such a manner, that normal rainfall or other moisture
shall not harm, deface or otherwise affect the sign.
      (2)   Anchoring. All signs approved under this section shall be
physically established in a manner, which both prevents the sign from being
moved or blown from its approved location, and allows for removal of the sign.
   (N)   Maintenance. All signs, together with all of their supports, braces,
guys, and anchors, shall be kept in good repair and be maintained in a safe
condition. All signs and the site upon which they are located shall be
maintained in a neat, clean and attractive condition. Signs shall be kept free
from rust, corrosion, peeling paint or other surface deterioration. The display
surfaces of all signs shall be kept neatly painted or posted. All freestanding
signs and the premises surrounding the same shall be maintained by the owner
thereof in a clean, sanitary and inoffensive condition, and free and clear of
all obnoxious substances, rubbish and weeds.
   (O)   Voiding permits. If the work authorized under a sign permit has not
been completed within six months after the date of issuance, the permit shall
become null and void.
   (P)   Exempt signs and temporary signs. The following signs and devices
shall be exempt from the approval of a sign permit:
      (1)   Bunting or flags of national, state or local government, provided
they are displayed or draped so as to not obstruct or hinder traffic or
pedestrian access, or cause a safety hazard;
      (2)   Signs placed by local, state or federal governments for the purpose
of construction, maintenance or identification of roads or other public
agencies for the direction of traffic, and designed to fulfill the requirements
of state and federal funding agencies;
      (3)   Signs within a building or within a window; and
      (4)   A portable sign may be used to temporarily identify a new business
until permanent identification signs are installed, or to identify an existing
business while permanent identification signs are being repaired or replaced,
or to temporarily identify a sale or business location during the hours of
operation under the following conditions and limitations.
         (a)   Need. No portable sign shall be allowed under this provision
when any other permanent or portable sign visible from adjacent roads
accurately identifies the premises.
         (b)   Number. Only one portable identification sign shall be displayed
for a development or complex.
         (c)   Time period. The use of a portable identification sign shall be
valid for 90 consecutive days, or until a permanent identification sign is
installed, whichever occurs first.
         (d)   Design review. The application for permanent identification
signing for the business shall be submitted for review and shall be subject to
the approval of a sign permit, prior to, or concurrent with, the establishment
of a temporary display or portable sign under this section.
         (e)   Size limits. Portable signs shall not exceed a sign area of 32
square feet, or a height of six feet above the natural ground elevation.
         (f)   Portable service station signs. A service station may maintain
one portable sign displaying the current prices for fuel sold on the same
premises provided such sign does not exceed an area of 12 square feet, or a
height of five feet. Such signs shall be subject to clear vision area
requirements and one-half the setback requirements of the district.
      (5)   Temporary signs advertising the sale, rental or lease of commercial
or industrial premises, or identifying a property developer, lease agent or
builder, or advertising a legally recorded subdivision in its entirety, or
residential property in excess of one acre, may be allowed, subject to the
following limitations:
         (a)   Shall not exceed 40 square feet in area;
         (b)   Shall pertain only to property upon which they are located,
unless they are temporary off-premises directional signs indicating a sale on
another piece of property;
         (c)   Shall observe the setback provisions under division (I)(7)
above;
         (d)   Only one such sign shall be permitted on the premises;
         (e)   Shall not be artificially illuminated;
         (f)   Such signs shall be removed from the premises after the premises
are sold, rented or leased. Signs pertaining to recorded subdivisions shall not
remain upon the premises in excess of 18 months from the date of filing of the
subdivision; and
         (g)   These signs are not included in the required sign face area.
      (6)   Real estate signs advertising individual lots:
         (a)   Shall not exceed six square feet;
         (b)   Shall pertain only to the property upon which they are located,
unless they are temporary off-premises directional signs indicating a sale on
another piece of property;
         (c)   Shall be located at least five feet behind the front lot line;
         (d)   Shall not exceed five feet in height;
         (e)   Shall be temporary in nature and shall be removed within two
weeks after the date of sale; and
         (f)   Shall not be artificially illuminated.
      (7)   Signs which support or oppose ballot measures, persons running for
political office and other issues subject to a vote by the public may be
allowed subject to the following:
         (a)   Approval. Approval by the owner of the property on which the
sign is to be posted;
         (b)   Setbacks. Such signs may be located within the required setback
area of the district, provided they are situated in a manner so as not to
adversely affect safety, corner vision or other similar conditions;
         (c)   Size. Signs shall not exceed 16 square feet in size, as viewed
from one direction; and
         (d)   Time limit. All such signs shall be removed within one week
after the election for which the sign is posted.
      (8)   Temporary paper signs that serve as notice of a public meeting when
removed promptly after such meeting is held;
      (9)   A combination of banners (both vertical and horizontal), streamers,
strings of lights, flags, beacon lights, sandwich board signs and/or other
similar apparatus may be displayed for the purpose of advertising a grand
opening, sale or similar event on the same property under the following
conditions and limitations.
         (a)   Time period and duration. The temporary display shall not exceed
a total time period of four weeks in any calendar year and must coincide with
an actual event. Such signs must be removed ten days after the event concludes.
         (b)   Hazards. No sign, light, electrical cord, streamer, banner or
other apparatus shall be situated or used in a manner which creates a hazard.
         (c)   Size limits. Temporary signs shall not exceed a sign area of 32
square feet, which shall include sign face and any lighting strips, and, if
freestanding, a height of six feet above the natural ground elevation.
      (10)   The signing program for a multi-family, commercial or industrial
development shall include the display of the street number(s) for the
development on the sign, support structure or building where it can be seen
from adjacent roads; and
      (11)   Electronic reader boards, banners (both vertical and horizontal),
streamers, strings of lights, flags, beacon lights, sandwich board signs and/or
other similar apparatus may be displayed for the purpose of promoting an event
open to the general public, held at an offsite property, under the following
conditions and limitations.
         (a)   Time period and duration. The temporary display shall not exceed
a total time period of six weeks in any calendar year and must coincide with an
actual event. Such signs, including displays, must be removed within ten days
after the event concludes.
         (b)   Hazards. No sign, light, electrical cord, streamer, banner or
other apparatus shall be situated or used in a manner which creates a hazard.
         (c)   Size limits. Temporary signs shall not exceed a sign area of 48
square feet per sign, which shall include sign face and any lighting strips,
and, if freestanding, a height of six feet above the natural ground elevation.
   (Q)   Temporary off-premises directional signs temporarily directing traffic
to an event. Temporary off-premises directional signs temporarily directing
traffic to an event shall be subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Shall not exceed 60 square feet;
      (2)   Shall be located at least five feet behind the front lot line;
      (3)   Shall not exceed five feet in height;
      (4)   Shall be temporary in nature and shall be removed immediately at
the end of the day on which the event is conducted;
      (5)   Shall not be artificially illuminated;
      (6)   All temporary off-premises signs which are visible from a state
highway are subject to approval by the State Highway Division pursuant to the
Motorist Information Act, being O.R.S. 377.700 et seq.; and
      (7)   Temporary off-premises directional signs are subject to the
approval of a sign permit.
   (R)   Directional, on-site traffic control and identification signs.
      (1)   Directional on-site traffic control signs. Directional on-site
traffic control signs shall be those permanent signs which are oriented toward
internal circulation roads, driveways and walkways, or which direct the flow of
traffic to and from the site from adjacent roads or walkways, and within the
site area, and shall observe the clear vision requirements of the district and
shall:
         (a)   Not exceed a maximum of three square feet in area;
         (b)   Observe the clear vision requirements of the district and not
exceed a maximum of three feet in height; and
         (c)   Placement and design of any such sign shall be the
responsibility of the city. Costs for the sign and placement shall be assessed
to the applicant. No more than five signs shall be allowed at any one location.
Each property owner shall be responsible for maintaining any sign approved
under its application. Costs for replacement of any sign for any cause shall be
assessed to the applicant.
      (2)   Identification signs. An on-site permanent ground-mounted tenant
identification sign for an individual building and/or informational sign
providing on-site information to the users of the subject property within a
development may be allowed as an alternative to an on-building identification
sign provided such sign shall:
         (a)   Be located on the most visible side of the building being
identified;
         (b)   Not exceed 12 square feet in area;
         (c)   Not exceed six feet in height;
         (d)   Use materials and colors, which are the same, or substantially
the same, as those used on the building identified by the sign;
         (e)   Public facility identification signs shall be placed internally
to avoid conflicting with other signs on the premises; and
         (f)   Placement and design of any such sign shall be the
responsibility of the city. No more than five signs shall be allowed at any one
location. Each public facility shall be responsible for maintaining any sign
approved under its application. Costs for replacement of any sign for any cause
shall be assessed to the applicant.
      (3)   Illumination. Such signs may be illuminated.
      (4)   Approval. All on-site traffic control and identification signs
shall be subject to the approval of a sign permit.
   (S)   Permanent off-premises signs. Any sign not located on the site of the
use or activity for which it is advertising shall be considered off-premises
and, if not determined to be a billboard by ODOT after examination of the
location and upon due proof that such sign, signboard or other advertising will
not be unduly detrimental to the adjacent and surrounding property, but the
same front and side yard provisions as required for buildings, may be required
and shall be subject to the approval of a sign permit.
      (1)   Along state highways. All off-premises signs which are visible from
a state highway are subject to approval by the State Highway Division, pursuant
to the Motorist Information Act, being O.R.S. 377.700 et seq.
      (2)   Permanent off-premises signs. All permanent off-premises signs
shall be subject to the approval of a sign permit and the following:
         (a)   Shall not exceed a size of 40 square feet;
         (b)   Shall not exceed a height of ten feet;
         (c)   Shall not be internally illuminated;
         (d)   Shall only be allowed to be placed in the Multiple Use
Residential (R-O), Neighborhood Commercial (N-C), Central Commercial (C-C),
Highway Commercial (H-C), Light Industrial (L-I), General Industrial (G-I) or
Public and Semi-Public (P & S-P) Zone Districts;
         (e)   Only one sign shall be allowed per property off-premises site in
addition to on-premises signage; and
         (f)   Signs placed by a government (city, county, state) signage
program shall be exempt.
   (T)   Other signs. All other signs, signboards and other forms of outdoor
advertising may be allowed including the following alternatives.
      (1)   Changeable copy signs. Changeable copy signs may be incorporated
into a permanent identification sign for a business or development. The
following conditions shall apply.
         (a)   Only one such sign shall be used in development.
         (b)   The changeable copy sign shall be included in the maximum sign
area allowed under this section.
         (c)   A changeable copy sign shall not be used on a sign, which
includes a time and/or temperature display.
      (2)   Directory sign. An on-site sign oriented primarily toward vehicle
circulation which identifies and directs traffic to a number tenants, uses or
buildings within the development, shall be limited in area to a maximum of two
square feet per tenant, use or building specifically identified, up to a
maximum of 40 square feet. Directories oriented toward pedestrian circulation
areas, including those attached to buildings, shall be a maximum of 24 square
feet in area and eight feet in height.
   (U)   Prohibited signs.
      (1)   Illumination of any sign or portion thereof, in the shape of an
arrow, or any other shape which may be construed as a traffic control device is
prohibited.
      (2)   No sign shall be situated in a matter which results in the
blanketing/covering/blocking from view of an existing sign.
      (3)   No sign or other illuminating devices shall have blinking, flashing
or fluttering lights/displays, with the exception of a time and temperature
sign. This includes, but is not limited to, all lights on or within a building
or premises or vehicles on or off the premises for the purpose of attracting
attention for commercial purpose. This section shall not apply to holiday
lights (e.g., Christmas lights). No sign or window display shall be so placed
or illuminated as to be hazardous to pedestrians or traffic or in any or any
manner tending to create a nuisance to the occupants of any other building or
premises.
      (4)   No colored lights shall be used at any location or in any manner,
which may be confused with or construed to be traffic signals or lights on
emergency vehicles.
      (5)   No sign structure, or portion thereof, shall be designed to rotate,
flutter or appear to move, with the exception of barber shop poles.
      (6)   Paper or plastic signs or banners are not allowed on the exterior
of any building, except as provided in division (P) above.
      (7)   No sign shall be attached to a utility pole nor placed within any
public right-of-way, unless approved by the City Council through franchise
agreement.
      (8)   No sign, light, electrical cord, streamer, banner or other
apparatus shall be situated or used in a manner which creates a hazard.
      (9)   New billboards, as defined by the state (O.R.S. 377.700 to 377.840)
as an outdoor advertising sign, not at the location of a business or an
activity open to the public the owner of which leases out the space to others
in the exchange of compensation for posting their message, visible from the
right-of-way, shall not be allowed in any zoning district within the city and
its UGB. Billboards or off-premises advertising signs are prohibited, except as
allowed in divisions (P), (Q) and (T) above.
      (10)   Any unofficial sign which purports to be, is in imitation of or
resembles an official traffic light/sign or a portion thereof, or which hides
from view any official traffic sign or signal, is prohibited.
      (11)   Signs shall not be erected, relocated or maintained so as to
prevent free ingress or egress from any door, window or fire escape.
(Ord. 1285, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 1320, passed 3-20-2017; Ord. 1335, passed 7-
2-2018; Ord. 1349, passed 8-19-2019; Ord. 110722, passed 11-21-2022) Penalty,
see §
152.999
PROCEDURES
§ 152.070 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the site plan review process is to bring under
special review those projects involving building design and the development of
land where inappropriate development may cause a conflict between uses in the
same adjoining district by creating unhealthful or unsafe conditions, and
thereby adversely affecting the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Types of development requiring site plan review approval.
      (1)   An administrative site plan review shall be conducted when plans
are made in the R-O, C-C, N-C, H-C, L-I and G-I Zone District as described in §
152.004(O).
      (2)   A site plan review shall be conducted before the City Planning
Commission when plans are made in the R-O, P & S-P, C-C, N-C, H-C, L-I and G-
I Zone District:
         (a)   For all new development, expansion, and major modification of
existing developments unless identified as not a land use action, thus exempt,
under §
152.004(A)(1)(c); and
         (b)   For expansion of an existing structure, which is greater than
50% of the existing structure or greater than 10,000 square feet.
      (3)   A site plan review shall be conducted in conjunction with any
conditional use permit in any zone district of the city.
   (C)   Site plan review requirements. The Planning Commission shall approve,
approve with conditions or disapprove the site plans for all buildings or
structures in those zoning districts where site plan review is required, except
those eligible for administrative review as listed in this section.
   (D)   Application for site plan review. A request for site plan review may
be initiated by a property owner or authorized representative. The application
shall be filed with the Planning Department, accompanied by a filing fee as
determined by the city fees schedule, and by a written statement addressing
each of the criteria and standards as listed in this section. The applicant
shall also pay the cost of publication and notification as required. One copy
of the site plan shall be submitted for preliminary approval, and a pre-
application conference needs to be scheduled, prior to acceptance of the
application, as per § 152.004 and division (E) below.
   (E)   Preliminary site plan approval. A site plan for the total parcel shall
be prepared and one copy shall be submitted to the City Planner for review at
the time a pre-application conference is held. If, at the time of the pre-
application conference, the City Planner finds that the site plan meets all
submittal requirements, the application shall be prepared for the Planning
Commission for review and a hearing, according to the relevant application
procedures described in §
152.004. Additional materials may be requested that are essential to the
proposed use, site or its relationship to surrounding properties.
   (F)   Site plan procedures. The site plan shall be drawn to scale and
indicate the following:
      (1)   Site plan to locate where appropriate:
         (a)   Structures, both existing and proposed;
         (b)   Driveways;
         (c)   Landscaped areas;
         (d)   Off-street vehicle and bicycle parking spaces;
         (e)   Points of egress and ingress, including on-site traffic
movement;
         (f)   Loading areas;
         (g)   Utility service and drainage areas;
         (h)   Pedestrian pathways and internal circulation;
         (i)   Fences and walls; and
         (j)   Relationship of site to abutting properties.
      (2)   Landscape plan:
         (a)   Topography, existing grades, elevation and proposed grades;
         (b)   Existing trees; and
         (c)   Species, size and location of plant materials.
      (3)   Architectural drawings:
         (a)   Floor plans;
         (b)   Any other improvements; and
         (c)   Elevations (existing and proposed).
      (4)   Exterior surface specifications:
         (a)   Type;
         (b)   Color;
         (c)   Texture;
         (d)   Elevations; and
         (e)   Any other improvements.
      (5)   Exterior lighting:
         (a)   Type;
         (b)   Height; and
         (c)   Area of illumination.
      (6)   Sign plan:
         (a)   Location;
         (b)   Size;
         (c)   Design;
         (d)   Material;
         (e)   Color; and
         (f)   Method of illumination, if lighted.
      (7)   Traffic capacity plan:
         (a)   Points of egress and ingress, including on-site traffic
movement;
         (b)   Off-street parking;
         (c)   A carrying capacity plan detailing trips and general traffic
generated by the business activity of full development; and
         (d)   Vision clearance areas.
   (G)   Criteria.
      (1)   All negative environmental and historical impacts have been
mitigated;
      (2)   All development, parking, signage and utility standards have been
met; and
      (3)   There is adequate public utility capacity available (or can be made
available by the developer) to service the impacts of the development.
   (H)   Additional materials for submittal.
      (1)   Traffic capacity analysis. (State Department of Transportation
Highway Division.)
         (a)   The City Planner, or Planning Commission upon its review, may
require a proposed development to submit a detailed traffic capacity plan.
         (b)   The following requirements are to be dealt with as part of the
total site development plan for high traffic generating developments adjacent
to highway.
            1.   The analysis shall include alternatives for access to the
development from highways, country roads and city streets.
            2.   The analysis of alternative access should include:
               a.   Existing daily and p.m. peak hour counts by traffic
movements at intersections affected by generated traffic from the development;
and
               b.   Projected daily and p.m. peak hour volumes for these same
intersections and proposed access points when the development is in full
service. This shall be shown by the use of traffic flow diagrams.
         (c)   A determination of the existing levels of service and projected
levels of service at each intersection and access points studies. These
determinations shall be in conformance with nationally accepted capacity
manuals or equivalent manuals.
         (d)   An analysis of the need for traffic signals. This should include
a traffic warrant computation based on the National Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices.
         (e)   A complete analysis of the trip generation for the development,
following the Institute of Transportation Engineers’ Trip Generation Manual.
         (f)   The recommendation made in the analysis should be specific, and
should be based on a minimum level of service “D” when the development is in
full service. As an example, if a traffic signal is recommended, the
recommendation should include the type of signal control and what movements
should be signalized. If storage lanes for right and left turns are needed, the
recommendation should include the amount of storage needed. If several
intersections are involved for signalization, and an interconnection system is
considered, specific analysis should be made concerning progression of traffic
between intersections.
         (g)   The analysis should also include considerations for bicycle and
pedestrian usage of the development.
      (2)   Other requirements.
         (a)   Other conditions found necessary to protect the best interests
of the surrounding property or neighborhood or the city as a whole may be
imposed administratively or by Planning Commission. These conditions may
include, but not be limited to, the following:
            1.   Development of a preservation plan for historic sites and
structures;
            2.   Requiring fences, walls or landscape screening and/or
buffering where necessary to reduce noise, glare and maintain the property in a
character in keeping with the surrounding area;
            3.   Requiring landscaping and maintenance thereof;
            4.   Increasing street widths, controlling the location and number
of vehicular access points to the property for ingress/egress;
            5.   Requiring means of pedestrian/bicycle access pathways to serve
the property;
            6.   Increasing or limiting the number of off-street parking and
loading spaces required;
            7.   Surfacing and proper drainage of parking areas;
            8.   Limiting size, location and number of signs;
            9.   Limiting the location, coverage or height of buildings because
of obstructions to view and reduction of light and air to adjacent property;
            10.   Increasing, limiting or prohibiting openings in sides of
buildings or structures;
            11.   Enclosure of storage areas and limitation of outside display
and/or storage of merchandise;
            12.   Requiring maintenance of grounds;
            13.   Regulating noise, vibration, fumes and the like;
            14.   Regulating time for certain activities;
            15.   Establishing a time period within which the proposed use
shall be developed;
            16.   The requirement of a bond for removal of such use within a
specified period of time;
            17.   Requiring any future enlargement or alteration of the use be
reviewed by the Planning Commission and new conditions imposed;
            18.   Requiring specific lot size, yard dimensions, open spaces or
buffer areas; and
            19.   Such other conditions as will make possible the development
of the city in an orderly and efficient manner and in conformity with the
intent and purposes set forth in this section.
         (b)   Any other such architectural or engineering data may be required
by the City Planner, or Planning Commission upon its review, to permit the
necessary findings that provisions of this chapter are complied with.
   (I)   Phased site plan development.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall approve a time schedule for
developing a site in phases over a period of time of one year, but in no case
shall the total time period for all phases be greater than three years without
reapplying for site development review.
      (2)   All of the following criteria shall be satisfied in order to
approve a phased site development review proposal.
         (a)   All underground utilities are constructed during the initial
phase of the development and the remaining public facilities are constructed in
conjunction with or prior to each phase.
         (b)   The development and occupancy of any phase is not dependent on
the use of temporary public facilities. A temporary public facility is any
facility not constructed to the applicable city or district standard.
         (c)   The phased development shall not result in requiring the city or
other property owners to construct public facilities that were required by an
approved development proposal.
   (J)   Final site plan approval. Within 120 days of determination of
completeness of the application, after preliminary plan approval, the Planning
Commission shall approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the site plan.
In approving the plan, the Planning Commission shall find that all applicable
provisions of this chapter are complied with. The decision of the Planning
Commission shall be final unless appealed to the City Council.
   (K)   Revisions of site plans.
      (1)   Revisions made by the applicant to an approved site plan shall be
made pursuant to the procedures set forth in this section.
      (2)   Where required site plan approval has been granted, it shall be
unlawful for any person to cause a major modification or permit the proposed
construction, alteration, improvement or use in any manner that involves one or
more of the following:
         (a)   A change in the type and/or location of access-ways, drives or
parking areas affecting off-site traffic;
         (b)   An increase in the floor area proposed for non-residential use
by more than 15% of the area previously specified;
         (c)   A reduction of more than 10% of the area reserved for common
open space or landscaping;
         (d)   Increase in automobile parking spaces by more than 10%;
         (e)   Proposals to add or increase lot coverage within an
environmentally sensitive area or areas subject to a potential hazard;
         (f)   Changes that exceed ten feet in the location of buildings,
proposed streets, parking configuration, utility easements, landscaping or
other site improvements; and
         (g)   Change to a condition of approval, or change similar to these
sections that could have a detrimental impact on adjoining properties. The City
Planner shall have discretion in determining detrimental impacts warranting a
major modification.
      (3)   If the revision/modification does not involve one of the criteria
listed above, it is considered a minor modification and can be handled
administratively.
   (L)   Time limitation for site plan review and expiration of approval.
      (1)   Site plan approval shall be null and void after one year, unless a
building permit has been issued and substantial construction has taken place.
      (2)   The site development review approval by the City Planning
Commission shall lapse if:
         (a)   Substantial construction of the approved plan has not been
completed within the agreed upon time period; or
         (b)   Construction on the site is a departure from the approved plan.
      (3)   The City Planner may, upon written request by the applicant, grant
an extension of the approval period not to exceed one year; provided that:
         (a)   No changes are made on the original site development review plan
as approved by the planning commission;
         (b)   The applicant can show intent of initiating construction on the
site within the one year extension period; and
         (c)   There have been no changes to the applicable comprehensive plan
policies and ordinance provisions on which the approval was based.
      (4)   Notice of the decision shall be provided to the applicant.
(Ord. 1283, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 1320, passed 3-20-2017; Ord. 1335, passed 7-
2-2018; Ord. 1349, passed 8-19-2019; Ord. 050525A, passed 5-19-2025)
§ 152.071 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. There are certain uses, which, due to the nature of impacts
on surrounding land uses and public facilities, require a case-by-case review
and analysis. These are identified “conditional uses”. Conditional uses may be
permitted in certain districts, subject to the granting of a conditional use
permit. It is the purpose of this section to establish the terms, criteria and
procedures by which conditional uses may be permitted, enlarged or altered. It
is a further purpose of this section to supplement the other sections of this
Code and the Comprehensive Plan. A use is considered conditional if it may
require special consideration because of unusual characteristics of the area in
which it is to be located. It is important that conditional uses be properly
located with respect to the objectives of this chapter and the effect to the
surrounding properties. A use designated as conditional use may be permitted,
enlarged or otherwise altered upon administrative authorization or
authorization by the Planning Commission in accordance with the standards and
procedures set forth in this section. Nothing in this section guarantees that a
conditional use permit will be issued.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Application for approval of a conditional use may be processed and
authorized under an administrative or a Planning Commission decision making
procedure as provided by §
152.004 as well as the provisions of this section.
      (2)   A conditional use permit shall be issued only for the specific use
or uses outlined in the application, together with the limitations or
conditions as determined by the approval authority.
      (3)   The findings and conclusions made by the approval authority and the
conditions, modifications or restrictions of approval, if any, shall
specifically address the relationship between the proposal and the approval
criteria listed in this section, in the underlying zoning district and any
applicable overlay zones.
      (4)   An application shall be approved if it satisfies the applicable
criteria or can be made to meet the criteria through imposition of reasonable
conditions of approval. If findings or data or reasonable conditions cannot
bring an application into compliance with the criteria, then the application
shall be denied.
   (C)   Approval authority.
      (1)   Administrative authority.
         (a)   An administrative review is required for those uses listed in §
152.004. Changes in use, expansion or contraction of site area, or alteration
of structures or uses classified as conditional are considered modifications,
and can be handled administratively.
         (b)   If an exterior structural addition, extension or relocation of,
or to, an existing structure conditionally approved, or the proposed accessory
uses and buildings customarily appurtenant to a permitted or approved
conditional use, does not equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started, conditional use approval
is not required
      (2)   Planning Commission authority. The Planning Commission shall have
the authority to approve, approve with conditions, disapprove or revoke
conditional use permits subject to the provisions of this section.
      (3)   Changes in use, expansion or contraction of site area, or
alteration of structures or uses classified as conditional, except for
accessory uses and buildings customarily appurtenant to a conditional use
described in this division (C), and existing prior to the effective date of
this chapter shall conform to all regulations pertaining to conditional uses
and shall require a new conditional use permit.
      (4)   (a)   In permitting a conditional use or the modification of an
existing conditional use, the city may impose, in addition to those standards
and requirements expressly specified by this section, any additional conditions
which the city considers necessary to protect the best interests of the
surrounding property or the city as a whole.
         (b)   These conditions may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
            1.   Increasing the required lot size or yard dimensions, open
spaces or buffer areas;
            2.   Limiting the height of buildings;
            3.   Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points;
            4.   Increasing the street width;
            5.   Increasing the number of off-street parking and loading spaces
required, along with the type of surfacing and drainage of parking areas;
            6.   Limiting the number, size and location of signs;
            7.   Requiring screening, fencing and/or landscaping (and
maintenance thereof) to protect adjacent property;
            8.   Requiring means of pedestrian/bicycle access pathways to serve
the property;
            9.   Limiting the location, coverage or height of buildings because
of obstructions to view and reduction of light and air to adjacent property;
            10.   Limiting or prohibiting openings in sides of buildings or
structures;
            11.   Enclosure of storage areas and limitation of outside display
and/or storage of merchandise;
            12.   Regulation of noise, vibration, odors and the like;
            13.   Regulation of time for certain activities;
            14.   Establishing a time period within which the proposed use
shall be developed;
            15.   The requirement of a bond for removal of such use within a
specified period of time;
            16.   Requirements under which any future enlargement or alteration
of the use shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission and new conditions
imposed; and
            17.   Such other conditions as will make possible the development
of the city in an orderly and efficient manner and in conformity with the
intent and purposes set forth in this chapter and the city’s Comprehensive
Plan.
   (D)   Application.
      (1)   A property owner or their authorized agent may initiate a request
for a conditional use permit or the modification of an existing conditional use
by filing an application with the city in accordance with the provisions of §
152.004.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by a site plan (as described
in §
152.070), drawn to scale, showing the dimensions and arrangement of the
proposed development. The Planning Commission may require other drawings or
information necessary to understand the proposed use and its relationship to
surrounding properties.
   (E)   Public hearings. Before a conditional use is permitted, the proposed
conditional use shall be considered by the Planning Commission at a public
hearing, or administratively. Notice of said hearing or administrative action
shall be provided as per §
152.004.
   (F)   Action by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission may
approve, approve with conditions or disapprove the application for a
conditional use permit. The Planning Commission may approve the application for
a temporary conditional use. Any future enlargement or alteration of a
conditional use shall require a new conditional use permit application to be in
accordance with the regulations and standards of this chapter.
      (1)   Requirement for granting conditional use. In order to grant any
conditional use, the Planning Commission must find that the establishment,
maintenance or operation of the use applied for will not, under the
circumstances of the particular case, be in violation to the appropriate
regulations and standards contained in this chapter.
      (2)   Decision. The Planning Commission shall render a decision within
120 days after the application has been deemed complete. The decision of the
Planning Commission shall be final unless appealed to the City Council.
      (3)   Permit validity. A conditional use permit shall become void one
year after approval, unless a different time frame is specified as a condition
of approval, or, within that time period, the required building construction,
alteration or enlargement has commenced and been diligently pursued or, if no
such construction, alteration or enlargement is required, the permitted
activity is being regularly conducted on the premises. The Planning Commission
may extend the permit for an additional period of one year. A conditional use
permit shall become void if the use is discontinued for a period of one year.
      (4)   Criteria for conditional use. Any conditional use authorized
according to this section (excepting division (F)(6) below) shall be subject to
the following criteria, where applicable, and the Planning Commission must
find, based upon evidence in the record developed before the Planning
Commission, both factual and supportive, provided by the applicant, that:
         (a)   If the conditional use is listed as a use permitted outright in
any other zone district in the city, the conditional use is appropriate with
respect to the property in the application taking into consideration such
things as the suitability of lands in other zone districts, market or other
economic factors, the transportation system, infrastructure available to serve
the use and the impacts of the conditional use relative to the same use in a
different zone district;
         (b)   The use is consistent with the applicable goals and policies of
the city’s Comprehensive Plan;
         (c)   The parcel is adequate for the proposed use. Considering its
size, shape, location, topography, existence of proposed improvements and
natural features, the parcel will accommodate said use and all yards, spaces,
walls and fences, parking, loading, landscaping and other features required by
the site plan;
         (d)   The proposed use will not alter the character of the surrounding
area in a manner which substantially limits, impairs or prevents the use of
surrounding properties for the permitted uses listed in the underlying zone;
         (e)   Streets and highways, water and sewer service lines must be
adequate in width and degree of improvement to handle the quantity and kind of
vehicular traffic that would be generated by the proposed use; and
         (f)   There are no outstanding code violations or conditional
requirements on the subject property.
      (5)   Burden of proof.
         (a)   The specific findings made by the Planning Commission in
granting a conditional use permit must be factual and supported by substantial
evidence. The burden of producing substantial evidence to support the requisite
findings is on the applicant seeking the approval of the conditional use. If no
evidence is produced concerning any of the findings listed in division (F)(4)
above, the application must be denied based upon improper or inadequate
findings. All evidence must be cited in the findings for approval of any
conditional use permit application.
         (b)   Where the Planning Commission is of the opinion that said
conditional use permit shall be granted, it shall, in open public meeting, by a
majority of its members in attendance, enter a Planning Commission order
granting the conditional use permit, which order shall include specific
findings of fact, conclusions and supportive evidence and any conditions of
approval. Upon the filing of said order with the City Recorder, the order shall
be in full force and effect. An order denying a conditional use permit shall be
entered and filed in a like manner, with the necessary findings of fact, where
the Planning Commission, based on the standards specified herein, determines
that the conditional use permit should not be granted.
      (6)   Conditional uses and criteria for certain transportation facilities
and improvements. Conditional uses and criteria for certain transportation
facilities and improvements includes the following:
         (a)   1.   Construction, reconstruction or widening of highways,
roads, bridges or other transportation facilities that are not designated in
the city’s adopted Transportation System Plan (“TSP”); or
            2.   Not designed and constructed as part of an approved
subdivision or partition, are allowed in all zones subject to a conditional use
permit under transportation facilities, and satisfaction of all of the
following criteria.
               a.   The project and its design are consistent with city adopted
TSP, or, if the city has not adopted a TSP, consistent with the State
Transportation Planning Rule, O.A.R. 660-012 (“the TPR”).
               b.   The project design is compatible with abutting land uses in
regard to noise generation and public safety and is consistent with the
applicable zoning and development standards and criteria for the abutting
properties.
               c.   The project design minimizes environmental impacts to
identified wetlands, wildlife habitat, air and water quality, cultural
resources and scenic qualities, and a site with fewer environmental impacts is
not reasonably available. The applicant shall document all efforts to obtain a
site with fewer environmental impacts, and the reasons alternative sites were
not chosen.
               d.   The project preserves or improves the safety and function
of the facility through access management, traffic calming or other design
features.
               e.   The project includes provisions for bicycle and pedestrian
access and circulation consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, the requirements
of this chapter and the TSP or TPR.
         (b)   The State Department of Transportation (“ODOT”) shall provide a
narrative statement with the application demonstrating compliance with all of
the criteria and standards in divisions (F)(6)(a)2.b. through (F)(6)(a)2.e.
Where applicable, an environmental impact statement or environmental assessment
may be used to address one or more of these criteria.
         (c)   If the city determines that the proposed use or activity or its
design is inconsistent with the TSP or TPR, then the applicant shall apply for
and obtain a plan and/or zoning amendment prior to or in conjunction with
conditional use permit approval. The applicant shall choose one of the
following options.
            1.   If the city’s determination of inconsistency is made prior to
a final decision on the conditional use permit application, the applicant shall
withdraw the conditional use permit application.
            2.   If the city’s determination of inconsistency is made prior to
a final decision on the conditional use permit application, the applicant shall
withdraw the conditional permit application, apply for a plan/zone amendment
and re-apply for a conditional use permit if and when the amendment is
approved.
            3.   If the city’s determination of inconsistency is made prior to
a final decision on the conditional use permit application, the applicant shall
submit a plan/zoning amendment application for joint review and decision with
the conditional use permit application, along with a written waiver of the
O.R.S. 227.178 120-day period within which to complete all local reviews and
appeals once the application is deemed complete.
            4.   If the city’s determination of inconsistency is part of a
final decision on the conditional use permit application, the applicant, after
one year, may submit a new conditional use permit application without prior
inconsistencies, along with a plan/zoning amendment application for joint
review and decision.
         (d)   If no improvements are made or actions taken, a conditional use
permit for transportation system facilities and improvements shall be null and
void after five years.
   (G)   Appeal. The applicant or any interested person of standing may appeal
a decision of the Planning Commission to the City Council in the form
prescribed by the city. The appeal procedures shall be set forth in §
152.076.
   (H)   Effect. No building or other permit shall be issued in any case where
a conditional use permit is required by the terms of this chapter until 14 days
after the approval of the conditional use by the Planning Commission. An appeal
from an action of the Planning Commission shall automatically stay the issuance
of a building or other permit until such appeal has been completed.
   (I)   Violation of condition.
      (1)   The Planning Commission, on its own motion, may revoke as being
void any conditional use permit for non-compliance with conditions set forth in
the granting of said permit after first holding a public hearing and giving
notice of such hearing as provided in §
152.076. Revoking the conditional use permit shall not be the exclusive remedy,
and it shall be unlawful and punishable hereunder for any person to violate any
condition imposed by a conditional use permit.
      (2)   The Planning Commission, on its own motion, may also revoke any
other conditional use permit granted, if the permitted use has been
discontinued for a period of one year, and if the property owner, after
notification of such proposed action, does not certify his or her intent to
resume the use during the following year.
   (J)   Limitation on new applications. In a case where an application is
denied by the Planning Commission, or denied by the City Council on appeal from
the Planning Commission, unless specifically stated to be without prejudice, it
shall not be eligible for resubmittal for the period of one year from the date
of said denial, unless, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, new evidence
is submitted or conditions have changed to an extent that further consideration
is warranted.
   (K)   Notification of action. The City Planner shall notify the applicant
and all interested parties submitting written or oral testimony into the record
for a conditional use in writing of the Planning Commission’s action within
five days after the entry of the final order. A copy of said order shall be
provided to the applicant.
   (L)   Applicability. The approved conditional use permit shall apply to the
specific use applied for only, and shall transfer with the ownership of the
property. A conditional use permit granted pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall run with the land and shall continue to be valid upon a change of
ownership of the site or structure which was the subject of the use permit
application, except as otherwise provided in this section.
(Ord. 1283, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 1320, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.072 LAND DIVISIONS (PARTITIONS, SUBDIVISIONS).
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to enact subdivision and land
partitioning and expedited land division regulations for the city which will
provide for better living conditions within new land divisions; assure
necessary streets, utilities and public areas and provide for their
installation or improvement; enhance and secure property values in land
divisions and adjacent land; simplify and make land descriptions more certain
and in general to promote the health, safety, convenience and general welfare
of the people consistent with the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Rules of application. No person shall subdivide, submit a land
division or partition for an area or tract of land without compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   No person shall dispose of, transfer, sell or agree, offer or
negotiate to sell any lot in any subdivision with respect to which approval is
required by the city provisions of this chapter until such approval is obtained
and the plat thereof has been acknowledged and recorded with the County
Recording Officer.
      (2)   No person may dispose of, transfer, sell or agree to sell any
parcel in a partition, subdivision and planned unit development (PUD) prior to
approval as required by the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   No person subdividing or partitioning a parcel of land shall lay
out, construct, open or dedicate thereon a street, sanitary sewage disposal
system, storm sewer, water supply or other improvements for public or common
use unless the partitioning has received preliminary and construction plan
approval pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Land partitioning.
      (1)   A land partition is the division of one lot into two or three lots
within a period of one calendar year. Splitting a lot into two lots, where a
flag lot is created, is considered a land partition. Only one flag lot shall be
created from a parent parcel. This definition is subject to any exclusions
provided for by state law.
      (2)   A land partition is used in situations where only the lot lines
need to be changed or added. If a partition will create a new street,
compliance with the subdivision regulations (division (E) below) is required.
      (3)   An expedited land partition is used solely for the purposes of
residential use and will create three or less parcels as defined by state law.
      (4)   The minimum standards for design and improvements in a land
partitioning shall conform to standards mentioned in this section and §
152.052. A partition does not include the creation of a street.
      (5)   The person proposing the partition, or his or her authorized agent
or representative, shall make an application in writing to the City Planner.
Each application shall be accompanied by one reproducible copy of the tentative
plan map, and any proposed deeds for easements. Ten copies shall be submitted
to the City Planner at least 45 days prior to the Planning Commission hearing
at which such plan would be considered. A filing fee as listed in §
152.004 shall be paid at this time.
      (6)   All applicants shall submit to the city information and materials
consistent with the requirements of this section.
      (7)   The applicant must submit a completed application form, signed by
the owner of record of the real property covered by the application. If more
than one ownership is involved, the applicant shall submit a signed notarized
statement from each property owner agreeing to participate in the project as a
group. An application form may be signed by the duly authorized representative
of the record owner if such authorization is evidenced by a properly executed
power of attorney.
      (8)   A site plan is required only to the extent necessary to adequately
and reasonably permit findings that the provisions of this section have been
met. The City Planner is empowered to waive the submittal of any of the
following site plan items, which are deemed unnecessary or inapplicable based
on the nature, scope and significance of the proposed project. Waiver of
application items, if any, shall occur following a pre-application conference.
If the City Planner position is vacant, all application materials must be
submitted.
      (9)   The applicant shall submit ten copies of a site plan, accurately
drawn to a scale of sufficient size to illustrate the following site plan
details as determined to be required during the application conference and the
review for completeness:
         (a)   The location and dimension of property boundaries and the
location, name, surface type and width of public and private streets,
pedestrian ways, driveways and any off-street parking, along with a north point
and indication of scale;
         (b)   The accurate location and outline of the exterior walls of all
existing buildings and structures, if any, with the square footages, uses and
heights of each clearly noted. Include setback dimensions for front, side and
rear yards;
         (c)   The site plan shall conceptually illustrate the location of
existing major site features, including water courses, topography for sites
having slopes in excess of 5%, rock outcroppings, drainage swales, springs,
woodlands and other physical features which may influence future site layout
and design. If there are any special or unusual seismic, soil or geologic
conditions on the site, a written disclosure to that effect must accompany the
application;
         (d)   Street light, fire hydrant, water, sanitary sewer and storm
drain locations within 100 feet of the subject property. Show direction of flow
for the site;
         (e)   Wells, septic tanks and drainfields, if applicable;
         (f)   Flood elevation of 100-year floodplain or floodway, if
applicable;
         (g)   Zoning, total land area; section lines, corners, city
boundaries, monuments and lot; and block dimensions and identifying numbers;
         (h)   Location and purpose of easements, if applicable; and
         (i)   Title block with section, township and range; street address;
title of proposal; names of applicant and owner; name and stamp of person
preparing the plan (if applicable); and date of drawing.
      (10)   An application fee for processing all applications shall be
charged by the city. No part of any application fee is refundable. Application
fees shall be established by resolution of the City Council. Fees shall not
exceed the actual average cost of processing services incurred by the city.
      (11)   Legal description of the existing property.
      (12)   Mark the location of the proposal on the vicinity map available
from the city offices.
      (13)   A copy of any covenants, conditions and restrictions applicable to
the subject property.
      (14)   (a)   At the time an application is made to divide a parcel into
any number of lots, a
conversion plan must also be submitted if the parcel will have additional
division potential after the current proposal is completed. This conversion
plan requirement does not apply to commercially or industrially zoned property.
The conversion plan must show how the parcel can be ultimately divided into the
maximum practical number of lots allowed by the zoning.
         (b)   The conversion plan must provide all of the graphic information
required for a land subdivision or a partition, as applicable, based on the
ultimate number of lots allowable under the zoning. The conversion plan must
show how the presently proposed division will be compatible with the allowable
ultimate land division. The conversion plan must be simultaneously recorded
with the approved partition plat and shall be binding unless amended with the
Planning Commission’s approval.
      (15)   (a)   If requested by the applicant, city shall process a land
division meeting the requirements of O.R.S. 197.360 as an expedited procedures
available under O.R.S. 197.360 through 197.380. See division (G)(3)(f).
         (b)   Processing a commercial land partition proposal is a quasi-
judicial action requiring discretionary decision-making. Commercial land
partition approval is a land use decision and subject to the procedures
established by O.R.S. 197.763. The Planning Commission has the authority to
base its decision on the evidence and interpretation of city’s Comprehensive
Plan and zoning ordinance criteria and standards.
         (c)   Within 30 days of the receipt of the completed partition
application, the City Planner shall distribute copies thereof to appropriate
offices and agencies, and property owners within the distance, as described in
§ 152.004, for their review. Not more than 15 days thereafter, such copies
shall be returned to the City Planning Department, together with any comments
or information they City Planner deems necessary. Upon receipt of this
information, the planning staff shall transmit to the Planning Commission, or
handle internally for administrative processing, a written report and
recommendation including available reports and recommendation of the City
Engineer and/or other affected agencies.
         (d)   After receipt of the report, the City Planning Commission shall
take action on the proposed partition at a regular meeting, or city staff shall
handle the process administratively, as directed by § 152.004.
         (e)   If an application is incomplete, the city shall notify the
applicant in writing of exactly what information is missing within 30 days of
receipt of the application and allow the applicant to submit the missing
information. The applicant has 180 days from the date of initial submission to
submit all additional information. The application shall be deemed complete for
purposes of this subsection upon receipt by the city of the missing
information.
         (f)   The application must meet all of the following objective
criteria.
            1.   The application does not violate any city or state
regulations, including, but not limited to, lot configuration requirements,
unimpeded drainage, accessibility by public utilities and vehicular/foot
traffic and zoning requirements.
            2.   The project is compatible and suitable within the context of
its surroundings. This shall include, but not be limited to, consideration of
human scale, street scape, landscaping and any noise and lighting impacts.
            3.   The development will be compatible with the use or character
of any adjacent resource land.
            4.   Development conforms to or minimally alters existing
topographic features and seeks to preserve natural features. Development in
areas adjacent to streams and those characterized by erosive slopes has been
limited to the extent necessary to minimize risk to acceptable levels, as
determined by the city’s Comprehensive Plan or, where objective levels are not
available, as determined by the Planning Commission.
            5.   Natural wildlife habitats and wetlands have been identified,
preserved and protected.
            6.   Adjoining land under the same or separate ownership can either
be developed or be provided access that will allow its development in
accordance with the city’s Comprehensive Plan and this Code, and with the
county’s Comprehensive Plan and Code, where applicable.
            7.   After partition, all lots must directly access a public street
with a minimum frontage dimension determined in §
152.052, except a flag lot as provided below.
            8.   For commercial land to be eligible for a land partition, the
applicant must submit a legitimate development proposal to substantiate the
need for the partition and the ability of the resulting parcels to provide
adequate off-street parking and loading. If the city grants the partition and
the development is not effectuated to an agreed upon point of construction
within 180 days, the land reverts to the original configuration.
      (16)   (a)   If the original lot cannot be otherwise divided separately
or in conjunction with adjoining lots and it can be demonstrated and guaranteed
through a recorded building envelope that the building site of the rear lot
will be within 200 feet of an existing street, a deep lot may be split into a
front and rear lot, creating a maximum of one flag lot. The length, width and
yard dimensions of each resulting lot must be at least the minimum required in
the zoning district, with the front lot retaining a minimum lot depth of 100
feet.
         (b)   The rear lot must have an access to the street that is at least
20 feet wide with 20 feet of frontage and a maximum length of 150 feet. The
“flagpole” access must be conveyed with ownership of the rear lot and be an
integral part of the rear lot.
         (c)   The driveway access shall be improved to a permanent surface of
asphaltic concrete, Portland cement or similar surface acceptable to the fire
district with a minimum width of 15 feet. However, in order to minimize the
number of parallel driveways accessing a public street, shared access
agreements benefitting two adjacent parcels shall be encouraged, particularly
where two accesses are less than 50 feet apart.
         (d)   The partition must still comply with the legal frontage
requirement. However, the improvement requirement may be waived for the shorter
driveway of two parcels sharing such an agreement.
         (e)   In granting a permit, the Planning Commission may impose such
reasonable conditions or limitations as it deems necessary to assure compliance
with Comprehensive Plan and zoning ordinance criteria and standards. The
Planning Commission may require dedication of land and easements, and may
specify conditions or modifications in the drawing to facilitate development,
including, but not limited to, deed restrictions and constructed improvements.
Any conditioned changes shall be reviewed by the City Planner or his or her
designee, prior to recording the final partition plat
      (17)   (a)   Approval. Approved partitions shall be signed by the
Planning Commission Chairperson or designee. The date of approval and any
conditions attached to the approval must be completed prior to final approval.
         (b)   Appeal. Decisions made by the Planning Commission may be
appealed to the City Council in accordance with §
152.076.
         (c)   Filing of partition map. A partition plat conforming to all
applicable provisions of O.R.S. Chapter 92: Approval of Plans, Plats; O.R.S.
Chapter 209: County Surveyors; and other applicable O.R.S. requirements must be
prepared under the direction of and bear the seal of a licensed professional
land surveyor. Prior to recording, the survey must be monumented. If the
surveyor finds a discrepancy in a previous survey, the discrepancy must be
corrected as part of the partition process. Signatures of all property owners
whose properties are directly affected by the partition must be included on the
application map.
         (d)   Filing approved plat. Within 180 days after the partition has
been approved by the Planning Commission, all improvements must be completed
and two blueline copies of the indelibly inscribed and recorded partition plat,
with the approval date and a reference adequately directing the reader to the
file where conditions of approval are stored, are to be delivered to the city.
If the improvements have not been completed or the two copies of the partition
plat are not submitted, then the partition plat shall become null and void. The
Planning Commission may extend a partition approval for an additional period of
up to one year.
   (D)   Property line adjustments.
      (1)   Area of application. A property line adjustment is a change to a
property boundary that only modifies existing lots and does not create a new
parcel of land or reduce the number of lots.
      (2)   Standards.
         (a)   A property line adjustment cannot create or vacate a parcel.
Creation or vacation of a parcel requires a separate approval process by the
city.
         (b)   Following the property line adjustment, all lots must comply
with lot size and dimensional standards of the applicable land use district.
For non-conforming lots, the adjustment shall not increase the degree of non-
conformance of the subject property or surrounding properties.
         (c)   If there are existing structures on the parcels, the lot
property line adjustment may not result in a setback violation.
      (3)   Submittal requirements. The following information and material must
be submitted by the applicant.
         (a)   Applications for property line adjustments shall be submitted on
forms provided by the city to the City Planner and accompanied by the
appropriate fee. The application must be signed by the owners of all lots
affected by the application.
         (b)   All applicants shall submit to the city information and
materials consistent with the requirements of this section.
            1.   Completed application form. The applicant must submit a
completed application form signed by the owner of record of the real property
covered by the application. If more than one ownership is involved, the
applicant shall submit a signed notarized statement from each property owner
agreeing to participate in the project as a group. An application form may also
be signed by the duly authorized representative of the record owner if such
authorization is evidenced by a properly executed power of attorney.
            2.   a.   Site plan. A site plan is required only to the extent
necessary to adequately and reasonably permit findings that the provisions of
this chapter have been met. The City Planner is empowered to waive the
submittal of any of the following site plan items, which are deemed unnecessary
or inapplicable based on the nature, scope and significance of the proposed
project. Waiver of application items, if any, shall occur following an
application conference. If the City Planner position is vacant, all application
materials must be submitted.
               b.   Site plan details. The applicant shall submit three copies
of a site plan, accurately drawn to a scale of sufficient size to illustrate
the following site plan details as determined to be required during the
application conference and the review for completeness:
                  i.   The location and dimension of property boundaries and
the location, name, surface type and width of public and private streets,
pedestrian ways, driveways and any off-street parking, along with a north point
and indication of scale;
                  ii.   The accurate location and outline of the exterior walls
of all existing buildings and structures, if any, with the square footages,
uses and heights of each clearly noted. Include setback dimensions for front,
side and rear yards;
                  iii.   The site plan shall conceptually illustrate the
location of existing major site features, including water courses, topography
for sites having slopes in excess of 5%, rock outcroppings, drainage swales,
springs, woodlands and other physical features which may influence future site
layout and design. If there are any special or unusual seismic, soil or
geologic conditions on the site, a written disclosure to that effect must
accompany the application;
                  iv.   Street light, fire hydrant, water, sanitary sewer and
storm drain locations within 100 feet of the subject property. Show direction
of flow for the site;
                  v.   Wells, septic tanks and drainfields, if applicable;
                  vi.   Flood elevation of 100-year floodplain or floodway, if
applicable;
                  vii.   Zoning, total land area; section lines, corners, city
boundaries, monuments and lot and block dimensions and identifying numbers;
                  viii.   Location and purpose of easements, if applicable; and
                  ix.   Title block with section, township and range; street
address; title of proposal; names of applicant and owner; name and stamp of
person preparing the plan (if applicable); and date of drawing.
               c.   Application fee. An application fee for processing all
applications shall be charged by the city. No part of any application fee is
refundable. Application fees shall be established by resolution of the City
Council. Fees shall not exceed the actual average cost of processing services
incurred by the city.
               d.   Description. Legal description of the existing property.
               e.   Vicinity map. Mark the location of the proposal on the
vicinity map available from the city offices.
               f.   Deed restrictions. A copy of any covenants, conditions and
restrictions applicable to the subject property.
         (c)   1.   At the time an application is made to adjust property
lines, a conversion plan must also be submitted if the parcel will have
additional division potential after the current proposal is completed. This
conversion plan requirement does not apply to commercially or industrially
zoned property. The conversion plan must show how the parcel can be ultimately
divided into the maximum practical number of lots allowed by the zoning.
            2.   The conversion plan must provide all of the graphic
information required for a land subdivision or a partition, as applicable,
based on the ultimate number of lots allowable under the zoning. The conversion
plan must show how the presently proposed division will be compatible with the
allowable ultimate land division. The conversion plan must be simultaneously
recorded with the approved map of adjustment and shall be binding unless
amended with the Planning Commission approval.
         (d)   Incomplete application. If an application is incomplete, the
city shall notify the applicant in writing of exactly what information is
missing within 30 days of receipt of the application and allow the applicant to
submit the missing information. The applicant has 180 days from the date of
initial submission to submit all additional information. The application shall
be deemed complete for purposes of this subsection upon receipt by the city of
the missing information.
      (4)   Review process. A property line adjustment is subject to City
Planner review. Processing a property line adjustment permit is an
administrative action that does not require discretionary decision-making. If
the application fails to comply with all objective criteria for a property line
adjustment, the permit must be denied. The application must meet all of the
following objective criteria.
         (a)   The application does not violate any city or state regulations,
including, but not limited to, lot configuration requirements, unimpeded
drainage, accessibility by public utilities and vehicular/foot traffic and
zoning requirements.
         (b)   The drawing is technically correct and the map of survey
conforms with the approved site plan.
         (c)   After property line adjustment, all lots must directly access
either a public street or an
easement that benefitted the subject property(s) prior to the property line
adjustment.
      (5)   Effectiveness. After a property line adjustment is approved, the
new boundary becomes effective only after the following steps are completed:
         (a)   A metes and bounds legal description of the adjusted lots is
recorded with the County Clerk; and
         (b)   As required by O.R.S. Chapter 92, a final plat of survey is
prepared and all new boundaries are monumented, as required by O.R.S. Chapters
92 and 209. The final plat is submitted to the city for signatures. After
signatures are received, the applicant files the final plat in the County
Surveyor’s office and returns three copies to the city.
   (E)   Subdivision of land. A land subdivision is the division of one lot
into four or more lots or any division that will create a street. The land
subdivision is used in situations where substantial engineering and improvement
work will need to be done.
      (1)   Application conference.
         (a)   It is in the best interests of the city to provide planning
services that assist applicants in constructing appropriate developments. In
that spirit, the city requires that, prior to filing an application, a
prospective applicant shall hold an application conference with the City
Planner or his or her designee.
         (b)   The purpose of an application conference is to provide advice to
prospective applicants, regarding compliance with the purpose and requirements
of this chapter, and to determine which application materials must be submitted
to constitute a complete application.
      (2)   Application requirements. All applicants shall submit to the city
information and materials consistent with the requirements of this section. The
City Planner is empowered to waive the submittal of any of the following
application items, except filing fees, which are deemed unnecessary or
inapplicable based on the nature, scope and significance of the proposed
project. Waiver of application items, if any, shall only occur following an
application conference. If the City Planner position is vacant, all application
materials must be submitted.
      (3)   Completed application form. The applicant must submit a completed
application form signed by the owner of record of the real property covered by
the application. If more than one ownership is involved, the applicant shall
submit a signed notarized statement from each property owner agreeing to
participate in the project as a group. An application form may also be signed
by the duly authorized representative of the record owner if such authorization
is evidenced by a properly executed power of attorney.
      (4)   Tentative Plan. The applicant shall submit 20 copies of the plan on
sheets not less than 18 inches by 24 inches at a scale of one inch equals 50
feet with the following information:
         (a)   Proposed name and the title “Tentative Plan”. The name shall not
be similar to or pronounced the same as the name of any other subdivision in
the county, except as provided in O.R.S. 92.090;
         (b)   The name, address and telephone number of property owner(s),
preparer of plan, surveyor and engineers. The stamp of the registered
professional preparer of the plan shall also be clearly indicated, along with
the date the plan was prepared;
         (c)   Boundary lines (to scale) of the tract to be divided. This shall
include section lines, corners, city boundaries, monuments and lot and block
dimensions and other identifying numbers as deemed necessary. The plan shall
also include a north arrow and the zoning of the subject and adjacent
properties. Location by section, township, range and tax lot sufficient to
define the location and boundaries of the proposed tract shall be called out in
the title block;
         (d)   A vicinity sketch shown on the plat at a small scale (i.e., one
inch equals 400 feet), showing all existing and adjacent subdivisions, streets,
tract lines of acreage parcels, names of the recorded owners of parcels of land
immediately adjoining the land to be divided, including properties across a
street, and between it and the nearest existing or proposed public road;
         (e)   Topographic contour lines having the following minimum
intervals:
 
Overall Site Elevation Difference Contour Interval
0 feet to 25 feet                 2 feet
26 feet to 50 feet                5 feet
51+ feet                          10 feet
With slopes indicated as follows:
   Slopes 12% to 20% light shading.
   Slopes exceeding 20% heavy shading.
 
         (f)   The existing uses of the property, including scaled location and
present use of all existing structures with an indication as to whether they
will remain on the property after platting. The accurate location and outline
of the exterior watts of all existing (dotted line) and proposed (solid line)
buildings and structures, with the square footages, uses and heights of each
shall be clearly noted. Include setback dimensions for front, side and rear
yards;
         (g)   The general type, size and location of existing (dotted line)
and proposed (solid line) trees, shrubs and ground cover, including the
location, height and type of trees having a caliper of one and one-half inches
or greater measured four feet above the base of the tree. Groups of three or
more trees with a closed canopy may be indicated using scalloped lines. The
landscaping plan shall include a diagram of irrigation system piping and
sprinkler locations;
         (h)   The accurate location, height and dimensions of all signs which
are not to be attached to buildings;
         (i)   Existing (dotted line) and proposed (solid line) exterior walls
and fencing, including specification of construction materials and height;
         (j)   The location and type of all exterior lighting;
         (k)   The location of existing major site features, including water
courses (location, direction and extent of streams and their high banks),
wetlands, rock outcroppings, drainage swales, springs, woodlands, significant
isolated trees and other natural features which influence site layout and
design. Any proposed changes to such site features shall be shown;
         (l)   The existing drainage demonstrating disposition of storm water
runoff and the direction of flow for the site. A drainage plan showing all
proposed drainage ways, sized inlets, culverts, drainage lines, drainage
easements, disposition of storm water runoff and approximate slopes of drainage
channels to demonstrate adequate disposition of storm water runoff. A grading
plan is required if more than 100 cubic yards of material will be disturbed.
Include slope calculations, contours and erosion control;
         (m)   The location and elevation of 100-year floodplains or floodways,
and all other areas subject to seasonal ponding;
         (n)   The location of setback lines, along with the location, widths
and purpose of all existing or proposed easements on or abutting the tract;
         (o)   The location and size of all existing and proposed sanitary
sewer mains, storm drains, water lines, fire hydrants, street lights and
irrigation canals on and within 100 feet of the tract. Include wells, septic
tanks and drainfields, if applicable;
         (p)   The location of waste handling facilities and outdoor storage
areas, along with screening technique;
         (q)   The typical cross-sections of proposed streets, showing all
utility improvements proposed within the street right-of-way and adjacent
easements at such scale to clearly show the details thereof;
         (r)   Existing transportation: location, names, surface types, grades,
pavement dimensions of public and private streets, pedestrian ways, driveways,
alleys, any off-street parking and rights-of-way on and abutting the tract.
Source of datum shall be indicated on the plan and shall be acceptable to the
review body;
         (s)   Proposed transportation: location, names, surface types, grades,
pavement dimensions of public and private streets, pedestrian ways, driveways,
alleys, any off-street parking and rights-of-way on and providing service for
the direct benefit of the proposed land division, including approximate radius
of curves and grades. Include entry and exit points for motor vehicles and
pedestrians using off-street parking areas, and internal circulation patterns,
and location of any street plugs required to direct future street extensions;
         (t)   A future transportation plan: the pattern of future
transportation routes from the boundaries of the proposed land division. This
pattern must include other tracts within 200 feet of the proposed land division
and properties to each side of a proposed route which will primarily benefit
the proposed subdivision.
            1.   A future transportation plan shall not be required for any
portion of the area for which a proposed street layout has been established by
a Transportation System Plan previously approved by the governing body.
            2.   The Planning Commission may adopt a future transportation plan
submitted by an applicant; provided the transportation plan does not conflict
with a Transportation System Plan previously approved by the governing body and
contains only local streets.
            3.   If a future transportation plan submitted by an applicant does
conflict with a Transportation System Plan previously approved by the governing
body or contains other than local streets, review and adoption of the future
transportation plan by the City Council will be required before a tentative
plan can be approved.
         (u)   The numbering, location, dimensions and lot sizes (in square
feet or acres) of all proposed lots and blocks;
         (v)   The building envelopes necessary to show compliance with all
setback requirements. Approved building envelopes shall be enforceable and
recorded as a supplement to the final plat and/or covenants, conditions and
restrictions; and
         (w)   The locations of all areas to be dedicated or reserved for
public use, with the purpose, condition or limitations of such reservations
clearly indicated.
      (5)   Development schedule. The applicant shall submit a construction
timeline schedule showing all major events. If the project is to be constructed
in phases, a schedule shall be submitted for each phase. Areas designated for
staged development shall be indicated on the tentative plan.
      (6)   Architectural details. The applicant shall submit the details of
any structures proposed to be built in conjunction with the proposed
subdivision.
      (7)   Deed restrictions. The applicant shall prepare preliminary
covenants, conditions and restrictions (CCRs) that affect all resulting
properties. These CCRs shall also establish a homeowners association if
necessary to address the development and maintenance of all common areas. The
proposed preliminary covenants, conditions and restrictions, once approved, may
not be substantially altered when presented back to the city in their final
form.
      (8)   Names and mailing addresses. The applicant shall submit the correct
name and mailing address of all fee title holders of real property situated
within 300 feet of the outer boundaries of the property covered by the
application. The names and mailing addresses shall be submitted on an eight and
one-half by 11 inch sheet(s) of peel-and-stick transferable label paper. This
information shall be provided to the City Recorder’s office 25 days in advance
of the hearing at which the application is scheduled for consideration.
      (9)   Application fee. The applicant shall pay an application fee for
processing all applications. No part of any application fee is refundable. The
amount for such fees shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
Fees shall not exceed the actual average cost of processing services incurred
by the city.
      (10)   Legal description of the property. The applicant shall submit a
land division guarantee issued by a title insurance company in the name of the
owner of the land showing all parties whose consent is necessary and their
interest in the premise.
      (11)   Supplemental information. The applicant shall submit the following
information.
         (a)   Land use tabulation:
            1.   Total site area (acres);
            2.   Area dedicated to public right-of-way (acres);
            3.   Useable site area (acres - item (a) minus item (b));
            4.   Density factor used (du/acre);
            5.   Minimum allowable dwelling units;
            6.   Maximum allowable dwelling units (du - item (c) times item
(d));
            7.   Actual dwelling units (du) total, and per stage of
development;
            8.   Area recreation/open space (acres and percentage of useable
site); and
            9.   Area impervious surface (acres, number of parking spaces and
percentage of usable).
         (b)   If the subdivision proposal is adjacent to any resource land,
either in the city or in the county, a written mitigation plan is required that
describes buffering techniques that will utilize current best management
practices.
         (c)   A written disclosure to that effect that there are no special or
unusual seismic, soil or geologic conditions on the site. If there are any such
conditions, an engineer’s report and recommendations as to mitigation of those
concerns are required.
         (d)   A written statement that there are no wetlands on the subject.
If, when compared to city wetland maps, there are any wetlands identified on or
potentially impacted by the tentative plan proposal, the Department of State
Lands shall be notified at least 30 days prior to any hearing.
         (e)   A statement showing the source and availability of the municipal
water supply, sanitary sewer, adequate drainage, public parks, schools,
transportation facilities and police and fire services. The statement must be
accompanied by a certification from the Public Works Director that verifies the
statement’s accuracy and that the services contemplated are available and can
be furnished without unreasonable detriment to the existing service commitments
of the city. In the absence on such certification, the statement shall be
deemed insufficient to meet this requirement.
         (f)   A statement as to how the proposal satisfies all applicable
zoning requirements.
      (12)   Conversion plan requirement.
         (a)   If the land being subdivided is only a part of the land owned or
controlled by the applicant or if the land will have additional division
potential after the current proposal is completed, the applicant must submit a
conversion plan (shadow plat) for the unsubdivided portion, or convey the
remaining development rights on that unsubdivided portion to a disinterested
third party.
         (b)   The conversion plan (shadow plat) must provide all of the
graphic information required for a land subdivision above, based on the
ultimate practical number of lots allowable under the zoning. The conversion
plan (shadow plat) must show the location and gradient of the streets and how
they will connect to existing streets and streets proposed for the new
subdivision. The conversion plan (shadow plat) must show how the presently
proposed division will be compatible with the allowable ultimate land division.
         (c)   The conversion plan (shadow plat) must be simultaneously
recorded with the approved subdivision plat and shall be binding unless amended
with the Planning Commission’s approval.
      (13)   Preparation of tentative plan. The tentative plan must be prepared
under the direction of a registered civil engineer or registered surveyor,
licensed by the state.
      (14)   Additional requirements for commercial proposals.
         (a)   For commercial land to be eligible for a subdivision, the
applicant must submit a legitimate development proposal to substantiate the
need for the subdivision and the ability of the resulting parcels to provide
adequate off-street parking and loading.
         (b)   The applicant shall submit the following:
            1.   Parking plan. A parking plan with adequate, convenient, well-
marked and safely lighted off-street parking. Include shade trees and
landscaping to ameliorate the effect of paved areas. Handicapped access is
required. Loading areas must be safely integrated;
            2.   Pedestrian plan. A pedestrian circulation plan that provides
adequate pedestrian access in the vicinity and within the project. The plan
must provide hard surfaced, safely lighted walkways suitable for use by the
handicapped;
            3.   Traffic plan. A traffic plan that provides adequate vehicle
circulation in the vicinity of and within the project. The traffic plan must
coordinate internal and external transportation networks, including bikeways
and mass transit, to the extent possible. Traffic noise must be minimized;
            4.   Loading plan. A plan for loading dock or space that provides
adequate room for safe truck backing and turning movements;
            5.   Landscape plan. A plan for landscaping, including trees,
bushes, shrubs, ground cover for site aesthetics, shade, visual buffers,
screening, pedestrian paths, pavers, other site features and the like;
            6.   Public safety plan. A plan for minimizing the likelihood of
criminal activity by eliminating areas that are neither clearly private nor
clearly public and by using landscaping that allows maximum observation while
providing desired aesthetics; and
            7.   Perimeter plan. A plan for the perimeter of the project to
protect adjacent properties from noise, visual incompatibility, light glare,
heat pumps, fans or other potential nuisances. This may be accomplished through
screening, setbacks, siting or other means.
      (15)   Determination of a complete application.
         (a)   Incomplete application. If an application is incomplete, the
city shall notify the applicant in writing of exactly what information is
missing within 30 days of receipt of the application and allow the applicant to
submit the missing information.
         (b)   Submission. The applicant must submit all additional information
180 days from the date of initial submission. The application shall be deemed
complete for purposes of this division (E)(15) upon receipt by the city of the
missing information.
         (c)   Public inspection. The applicant must make available for public
inspection at the city offices the complete application and all evidence to be
used by the applicant in seeking approval no less than 14 days prior to the
first public hearing date regarding the proposal.
         (d)   Initial submission. Twenty copies of a tentative plan consistent
with division (E)(4)(a) through (E)(4)(w) above shall be submitted to the City
Planner at least 30 days prior to the meeting of the City Planning Commission.
         (e)   Preliminary review.
            1.   Upon receipt of a notice of a complete application within 30
days, accompanied with filing fees, the applicant shall transmit copies of the
tentative plan to each of the following:
               a.   School district;
               b.   State Department of Transportation (ODOT) if the property
abuts a state highway;
               c.   Electric, telephone, garbage and cable TV utilities;
               d.   County Surveyor; and
               e.   Affected governmental agencies and special districts, and
others, as determined by the City Planner.
            2.   Any comments received will be included in the staff report as
part of the official record and distributed to the review body.
         (f)   Report. The City Planner shall prepare a report on the plan
findings for submission to the City Planning Commission. The report shall
include information on the Comprehensive Plan, Comprehensive Plan background
report, zoning, adjoining streets and property, existing sewers, water mains,
culverts, electric conduits and other community facilities, in addition to
features of the proposal, together with any other data pertinent to the review
of the plan.
         (g)   Public notice. The City Planner shall provide adequate public
notice according to §
152.004(M) and (N). Individual notices shall be mailed to all owners of parcels
of land within 250 feet of the subdivision boundaries, according to §
152.004(C).
         (h)   Planning Commission determination. The City Planning Commission
shall determine whether the tentative plan is in conformity with the provisions
of the Comprehensive Plan and this chapter.
      (16)   Limited land use decision. Subdivision approval shall be
considered a “limited land use decision” and subject to the procedures
established by O.R.S. 197.195. Following review and a recommendation by the
City Planner, the Planning Commission shall approve, approve with condition or
deny the application based on the evidence and the application of the
Comprehensive Plan and zoning ordinance criteria.
      (17)   Proposal presentation. The licensed professional(s) who is
retained by the applicant to prepare the application, including the tentative
plan, must supervise the presentation of the proposal before the Planning
Commission and be available for questioning during the presentation.
      (18)   Burden of proof. The applicant must produce substantial evidence
to support the requisite findings of compliance with all the standards and
criteria applicable to subdivisions. As a quasi-judicial process, the Planning
Commission shall determine whether the tentative plan is in conformity with the
provisions of the Comprehensive Plan and of this chapter.
         (a)   The review body shall approve, approve with conditions or deny
the request, based upon the following criteria:
            1.   The project will maintain a high quality visual appearance,
and to the extent possible, a distinct rural/urban transition at city limits
along major city entryways;
            2.   The project will be compatible with the use or character of
any adjacent resource land;
            3.   The project conforms to or minimally alters existing
topographic features and seeks to preserve natural features. Development in
areas adjacent to streams and those characterized by erosive slopes has been
limited to the extent necessary to minimize risk to acceptable levels as
determined by the Comprehensive Plan, or where objective levels are not
available, as determined by the Planning Commission;
            4.   The project identifies, preserves and protects natural
wildlife habitats and wetlands;
            5.   The project demonstrates the adequate availability of the
following:
               a.   Public sanitary sewers;
               b.   Drainage facilities;
               c.   Municipal water facilities;
               d.   Transportation facilities;
               e.   Police and fire services;
               f.   Public elementary schools; and
               g.   Improved parks or recreation facilities.
            6.   Alternately, the applicant agrees to provide, concurrent with
the subdivision development, such improvements as would bring any inadequate
facilities and services to the level necessary to accommodate the project;
            7.   The project’s proposed transportation plan affords the most
economic, safe, efficient and least environmentally damaging circulation of
people, goods and information and layout of utilities and parking possible;
            8.   The project, through sensitive housing and site design,
minimizes the cost of housing and barriers to the handicapped;
            9.   The project demonstrates that adjoining land under the same or
separate ownership can either be developed or be provided access that will
allow its development, in accordance with the city’s Comprehensive Plan and
this Code, and with the county’s Comprehensive Plan and Code, where applicable;
and
            10.   The project complies with all design standards contained in
this chapter and applicable portions of the Comprehensive Plan, this Code, and
state and federal laws.
         (b)   In granting a land subdivision permit, the Planning Commission
may impose such reasonable conditions or limitations as it deems necessary to
assure compliance with Comprehensive Plan and zoning ordinance criteria and
standards, or state and federal laws. The Planning Commission may require
dedication of land and easements, and may specify conditions or modifications
in the drawing to facilitate development, including, but not limited to, deed
restrictions and constructed on-site and off-site improvements. All conditions
of approval shall be satisfied prior to final plat approval unless otherwise
specified by the review body.
         (c)   If the City Planning Commission does not approve the plan, it
shall state the reasons for denial. The action of the Planning Commission shall
be noted on two copies of the tentative plan, including any conditions attached
thereto. The Planning Commission shall retain one copy and the other returned
to the subdivider. An appeal to the City Council of a Planning Commission
decision may be made consistent with §
152.076.
      (19)   Revised tentative plan. Prior to receiving a development permit
for the tentative plan, the applicant shall submit a revised plan to the
Planning Commission, demonstrating compliance with the conditions of tentative
plan approval. The review body may waive this requirement if no significant
modifications are required. Any significant modifications must be approved by
the Planning Commission.
      (20)   Filing tentative plan. After the tentative plan has been approved,
or approved as revised, two copies are to be indelibly inscribed with the
approval date and a reference adequately directing the reader to any documents
that describe conditions of approval. One copy of the inscribed tentative plan
is to be given to the applicant and one copy is to be filed with the City
Recorder.
      (21)   Expiration of tentative plan.
         (a)   Within 18 months following the effective date of approval of a
tentative plan, improvements must be completed and the final plat shall be
submitted to the City Planner and shall incorporate any modification or
condition required by the approval of the tentative plan. If the improvements
have not been completed or the final plat has not been submitted for approval,
then the tentative plan shall become null and void.
         (b)   The Planning Commission may extend the validity for good cause
for one additional year. An extension must be applied for in writing before the
original 18 months expire. Upon granting such an extension, the City Planner
shall make written findings that the facts upon which the approval was based
have not changed to an extent sufficient to warrant taking the tentative plan
back through the application process and that no other development approval
would be affected.
      (22)   Staged development. When an applicant desires to record and
develop subdivision plats in stages, the reviewing body may authorize a time
for the submittal of the final plat and development in various stages. The time
period may exceed one year, but, in no case, shall the total time period for
all stages exceed five years without resubmission of the tentative plan
application for review and approval. Each stage so platted and developed shall
conform to the applicable requirements of this Code. Stages platted after one
year are subject to further review against current standards for compliance
with modifications or any changes in the Comprehensive Plan or implementing
regulations.
      (23)   Preparation of final plat. The subdivision final plat must be
prepared under the direction of, and bear the seal of, a licensed professional
land surveyor. All subdivisions shall be surveyed by a registered professional
land surveyor, setting lawfully approved monuments at all the parcel corners.
If the surveyor finds a discrepancy in a previous survey, the discrepancy must
be corrected as part of the subdivision process. Signatures of all property
owners whose properties are altered by the subdivision must be included on the
final plat.
         (a)   Within 18 months after approval of the tentative plan, the
subdivider or land divider shall cause the proposed subdivision, or any part
thereof, to be surveyed and a plat thereof prepared in conformance with the
tentative plan as approved or conditionally approved, unless an extension is
requested in writing and granted by the Planning Commission.
            1.   A request for extension must be submitted prior to the
expiration of 18 months, as described in division (E)(21) above.
            2.   An original drawing and five blue line or black line prints of
the plat shall be submitted to the City Recorder.
         (b)   A subdivision final plat must subsequently be approved if it is
substantially the same as the approved tentative plan and complies with all
other city and state requirements.
      (24)   Determining complete submittal and general conformance. Within 18
months of tentative plan approval, or not later than the extension date
authorized by the Planning Commission, a final plat shall be submitted to the
City Planner for review and processing. With 30 days of submission, the City
Planner shall determine whether or not the application is complete and the
final plat generally conforms with the approved tentative plan and conforms
with the applicable requirements of this Code. If the City Planner determines
that generally the final plat fails to conform, or if the required supplemental
information required is inadequate, then the applicant shall be advised and
afforded an opportunity of up to 30 days to make corrections.
         (a)   Information on final plat. At the time of submittal of the final
plat, all required materials and required fees shall be accepted by the City
Planner prior to review of the final plat. The final plat shall be prepared
under the supervision of a licensed professional land surveyor and contain the
following information, along with any additional information required by O.R.S.
Chapter 92, § 209.250 and other applicable O.R.S. statutes:
            1.   The date, north arrow and scale;
            2.   Legal description of the tract boundaries;
            3.   Name of the owner or owners, subdividers and engineer or
surveyor;
            4.   Reference points of existing surveys identified, related to
the plat by distances and bearings, and referenced to a field book or map as
follows:
               a.   Stakes, monuments or other evidence found on the ground and
used to determine the boundaries of the subdivision;
               b.   Adjoining corners of adjoining subdivisions;
               c.   City boundary lines when crossing or adjacent to the
subdivision; and
               d.   Other monuments found or established in making the survey
of the subdivision or required to be installed by provisions of this chapter.
            5.   The exact location and width of streets and easements
intercepting the boundary of the tract;
            6.   Tract, block and lot or parcel boundary lines and street
right-of-way and centerlines, with dimensions, bearings or deflection angles,
radii, arcs, points or curvature and tangent bearings. Approximate high water
lines and high banks for any creek, lake or other body of water. Tract
boundaries and street bearings shall be shown to the nearest 30 seconds with
bases of bearings. Distances shall be shown to the nearest 0.01 feet. No ditto
marks shall be used;
            7.   The width of the portion of streets being dedicated and the
width of existing right-of-way. For streets on a curvature which are being
dedicated, curve data shall be based on the street centerline dimensions, the
radius and central angle shall be indicated;
            8.   Easements denoted by fine dotted lines, clearly identified
and, if already of record, their recorded reference. New easements shall be
referenced in the owner’s certificates of dedication;
            9.   Lot numbers beginning with the number “1” and numbered
consecutively;
            10.   The area of each lot or parcel which is one acre or larger to
the nearest hundredth of an acre. If less than one acre, the area to the
nearest square foot;
            11.   Block numbers in any addition in the subdivision of the same
name shall be a continuation of the numbering in the original subdivision. No
other block numbers shall be used;
            12.   Identification of land to be dedicated for any purpose,
public or private, to distinguish it from lots or parcels intended for sale.
The following phrasing shall be used when identifying open space dedications.
               a.   “Common open space” shall be used to identify those parcels
of land created for the purpose of common ownership, enjoyment and maintenance
by an approved Homeowners’ Association group or is listed as being held in
common ownership, with appropriate deed restrictions and responsibilities, by
owners of property within the subdivision.
               b.   “Public open space” shall be used when identifying those
parcels of land dedicated in fee simple to the city or the county for open
space purposes.
               c.   “Open space or landscape easement” shall be used to
identify that portion of a lot or lots that has established an open space or
landscape easement agreement with the city, or a Homeowners’ Association.
            13.   The following certificates which may be combined where
appropriate:
               a.   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having
any proprietary interest in the land, consenting to the preparation and
recording of the final plat;
               b.   A certificate signed and acknowledged as above, dedicating
all lots for land shown on the final plat intended for the exclusive use of the
owners in the subdivision, their licensees, visitors, tenants and servants;
               c.   A certificate conforming to O.R.S. 92.060 through 92.070
with the seal and signature of the surveyor responsible for the survey and
final plat;
               d.   A certificate or transfer deed signed by all parties having
any proprietary interest in the land, dedicating to the public all streets and
roads, without any reservation or restriction other than reversionary rights
upon vacation of any such street or road, and easement for public utilities;
and
               e.   Other certifications now or hereafter required by law.
            14.   A statement of water rights noted on the subdivision plat
together with the water rights certificate number, if applicable;
            15.   The city may require, through the terms of approval,
additional notes to be placed on the face of the plat, including, but not
limited to, restrictions, notices and special conditions which are peculiar to
the subdivision. The city shall not require that the plat show graphically any
information or requirement that is, or may be, subject to administrative change
or variance;
            16.   As required by the City Planner, the applicant must submit:
               a.   A subdivision guarantee issued by a title insurance company
in the name of the owner of the land, showing all parties whose consent is
necessary and their interest in the premises, and written documentation stating
that all taxes and assessments are paid to date. The report must not be more
than 30 days old at the time it is submitted;
               b.   A copy of all final conditions, covenants and deed
restrictions applicable to the subdivision;
               c.   A copy of all dedication agreement requiring separate
documents;
               d.   Contracts with the private companies that will install
public utilities and improvements;
               e.   Mylar sheets and drawings showing the following:
                  i.   Traverse data including the coordinates of the boundary
of the subdivision and ties to section corners and donation land claim corners,
and showing the error of closure, if any;
                  ii.   The computation of distances, angles and courses shown
on the plat;
                  iii.   Ties to existing monuments, proposed monuments,
adjacent subdivision, street corners and street highway stationing; and
                  iv.   Floodway or 100-year floodplain designation, as
applicable.
               f.   Building envelope and/or setback lines, if any, are to be
made a part of the subdivision or deed restrictions;
               g.   Any and all instruments of improvement guarantees,
including warranty bonds; and
               h.   Payment of 110% in advance of all outstanding inspection
fees incurred by the city and bonding for 110% of all estimated inspection fees
that are likely to be incurred by the city with any remaining work yet to be
completed.
            17.   a.   On the same day the applicant submits the application to
the city, the applicant must also mail or deliver copies of the application to
each of the following:
                  i.   School district;
                  ii.   State Department of Transportation if the property
abuts a state highway;
                  iii.   Electric, garbage, telephone and cable TV utilities;
                  iv.   County Surveyor; and
                  v.   Affected governmental agencies and special districts,
and others, as determined by the City Planner.
               b.   Any comments received will be included in the staff report
as part of the official record and distributed to the review body.
            18.   Upon receipt of the final plat and accompanying data, the
City Planner shall review the plat and documents to determine that it conforms
to the proposed tentative plan. The City Planner shall review the final plat
and shall state findings on whether to approve or deny the request. A denial of
the final plat shall render the tentative plan void;
            19.   The City Planner shall approve or deny the request based upon
the following criteria.
               a.   The final plat must be accompanied by application must
contain all of the final plat and all of the supplemental information asked for
in this chapter.
               b.   The layout shown on the subdivision plat must be
substantially the same as the layout approved for the tentative plan.
               c.   The subdivision plat must be technically correct.
               d.   All required off-site and on-site improvements and other
conditions of approval have been satisfied or guaranteed.
            20.   Processing a subdivision final plat is an administrative
action that does not require discretionary decision-making. The application for
final plat and all required material is judged solely on its merits by the City
Planner. If the application fails to comply with all objective criteria, the
subdivision final plat must be denied;
            21.   Following the final action of approval by the City Planner,
the applicant shall obtain the following signatures on the original of the
final plat:
               a.   The County Surveyor;
               b.   The director of any special district (such as fire) shown
on the final plat;
               c.   The County Assessor certifying that all taxes on the
property have been paid or bonded for in accordance with state law;
               d.   The City Administrative Services Department certifying that
all fees, charges and special assessments on the property have been paid;
               e.   Following divisions (E)(24)(a)21.a. through (E)(24)(a)21.d.
above, the review authority of the final plat, and other officials as required
by law; and
               f.   Following division (E)(24)(a)21.e. above, the City Planning
Commission.
            22.   At the applicant’s expense, a City Engineer or Surveyor may
examine the plat for compliance with requirements for accuracy and completeness
and shall collect such fees as are provided by state law. He or she may make
checks in the field to verify that the map is sufficiently correct on the
ground, and he or she may enter the property for this purpose. If he or she
determines that there has not been full conformity, he or she shall advise the
subdivider of the changes or additions that must be made and afford the
subdivider an opportunity to make such changes or additions; and
            23.   If the engineer determines that full conformity has been
made, he or she shall so certify and transmit the plat to the Planning
Commission.
         (b)   Final plat approval of City Planning Commission/City Manager or
designate. If the City Planning Commission determines that the plat conforms to
all requirements, it shall approve the same, but before certifying its approval
thereon, it shall be required that the subdivider file the agreement and bond,
or make the deposit as required in §
152.052 (Site Development Standards) and when the agreement and bond have been
filed as approved and prescribed, the City Planning Commission approval shall
be endorsed upon the plat by execution of the appropriate certificate as
prescribed by law. The approval of the plat does not constitute or affect an
acceptance by the public of the dedication of any street or other easement
shown on the plat.
         (c)   Filing of final plat. After obtaining all required approvals and
signatures, the developer shall:
            1.   Within 90 days, file the plat with the County Recorder.
Failure to file within 90 days will render the final plat null and void, and
will require resubmission of the tentative plan in the same manner as a new
tentative plan; and
            2.   File one print each of the approved and recorded plat with the
City Planner and the City Engineer.
         (d)   Record of approval. Approval of the plat shall be null and void
if the plat is not recorded within 90 days after the date the last required
approving signature has been obtained.
      (25)   Appeal.
         (a)   A person may appeal to the City Council a decision or
requirement of the Planning Commission. Written notice of the appeal must be
based on criteria and filed with the city within ten days after the notice of
decision has been mailed. The notice of appeal shall state the nature of the
decision or requirement and the grounds for the appeal.
         (b)   The City Council shall hold a hearing on the appeal according to
§
152.076. The city may continue the hearing for good cause according to §
152.076. The Council may uphold, modify or overrule the decision of the
Planning Commission.
   (F)   Planned unit development (PUD).
      (1)   Purpose. To encourage development of large land areas as planned
building groups by making possible greater variety, functionality and
diversification in the location and orientation of buildings and open spaces.
PUD proposal must serve at least three of the below purposes:
         (a)   Promote creative and imaginative design for urban development in
a way that is more compatible with the natural topography;
         (b)   Promote the preservation of important natural features, view
sheds and scenic qualities of the land;
         (c)   Promote a mixture of housing types;
         (d)   Promote a more economic and efficient use of urbanizable land
while integrating with the surrounding neighborhood and not compromising the
public health, safety or general welfare;
         (e)   Promote clustering of housing to preserve open space, historic
and heritage resources and limit the amount of key facilities or infrastructure
to service the development;
         (f)   Promote a mixture of land use types that are thoughtfully
planned and integrated;
         (g)   Promote the development public utilization and appropriate
maintenance of open spaces and other elements intended for common use and
ownership;
         (h)   Provide opportunities to further the objectives and policies of
the city’s Comprehensive Plan;
         (i)   Promote the use of energy-efficient, sustainable development;
and
         (j)   Promote construction of pedestrian ways including internal
pedestrian circulation.
      (2)   Application requirements. The owner or his or her agent may make
application for planned unit development approval by filing an application with
the city. When an application is submitted for a planned development, the
following items will be submitted:
         (a)   A filing fee in an amount established by general resolution of
the City Council. No part of the fee shall be refundable;
         (b)   A current assessor’s map with the boundaries of the proposed PUD
identified;
         (c)   All applications shall be accompanied by a general development
plan (12 copies). Additionally, such plans shall include preliminary plans for
the provision of public access, water and sanitary sewer service and a proposal
for the PUD’s operative covenants, codes and restrictions (CCRs). The applicant
shall also submit one copy of the preliminary PUD plan which has been reduced
to a size suitable for photocopy reproduction;
         (d)   If a tentative plan for a land division is submitted
concurrently with a preliminary PUD plan, the preliminary PUD plan and
tentative plan shall be on separate sheets, with the tentative plan submitted
in accordance with the application requirements of division (E) above;
         (e)   The following quantitative data is required:
            1.   Total number and type of dwelling units;
            2.   Parcel sizes;
            3.   Proposed lot coverage of buildings and structures;
            4.   Approximate residential densities; total amount of open space
(including separate figures for common open space and usable open space); and
            5.   The total amount of non-residential acreage (including a
separate figure for commercial and industrial acreage).
         (f)   A development schedule shall be submitted for each phase. Areas
designated for staged development shall be indicated on the tentative plan. The
schedule shall indicates the approximate date when construction of a planned
unit development is expected to begin and end, or if developed in phases, the
development schedule for each phase shall be keyed to a plan that indicates
phasing boundaries. The schedule coordinates the improvement of the common open
space, and the construction of buildings and other structures in the common
open space with the construction of the primary structures in the planned unit
development;
         (g)   A site plan and any maps necessary to show the major details of
the proposed planned development must contain the following minimum
information:
            1.   The existing site conditions, including contours at two-foot
intervals, shorelines, floodplains, unique natural features and forest cover;
            2.   A grading plan for the site showing future contours if the
existing grade is to be changed by more than two feet;
            3.   Proposed lot lines and other divisions of land for management,
use or allocation purposes;
            4.   The approximate location of present and proposed buildings and
structures;
            5.   The location and size of all areas proposed to be conveyed,
dedicated or reserved for streets, parks, playgrounds, public and semi-public
buildings and similar uses;
            6.   The existing and proposed vehicular circulation system
including off-street parking and loading areas;
            7.   The existing and proposed pedestrian circulation system,
including its interrelationships with the vehicular circulation system,
indicating proposed treatments of points of conflict;
            8.   The existing and proposed utility systems including sanitary
sewers, storm sewers and water, electric, gas and telephone lines;
            9.   Enough information on land areas adjacent to the proposed
development to indicate the relationship between the proposed development and
existing and proposed adjacent areas, including land uses, zoning
classifications, densities, circulation systems, public facilities and unique
natural features of the landscape;
            10.   The proposed treatment of the perimeter of the development,
including materials and techniques used such as screens, fences and walls; and
            11.   Any additional information as required by the review
authority necessary to evaluate the character and impact of the proposed
development. When the approval of architectural plans for buildings has been
proposed, the preliminary PUD plan shall show the footprint of planned
buildings in conceptual form and indicate their approximate height(s). Such
building envelopes shall reasonably anticipate and separately define the
maximum extent of the footprint for each building in the PUD.
         (h)   A narrative description of the PUD shall cover the following:
            1.   The nature, planned use, future ownership and method of
perpetual maintenance of accessways and land to be left in natural or developed
open space or which is otherwise to be held in common ownership;
            2.   A listing of all deviations from the strict provisions of this
Code by citing each provision of the Code to be deviated from, followed by a
brief explanation which covers the nature and extent of the deviation;
            3.   A proposed development schedule which indicates the
approximate date when construction of the PUD is expected to begin and end. If
the PUD will be developed in phases, the development schedule for each phase
shall be keyed to a plan that indicates PUD phasing boundaries; and
            4.   Such other pertinent information shall be included as may be
considered necessary by the Planning Commission to make a determination that
the contemplated arrangement or use makes it necessary and desirable to adopt
regulations and requirements differing from those ordinarily applicable under
this chapter.
         (i)   Written findings of fact and conclusions of law which address
the approval criteria; and
         (j)   The names and mailing addresses of the owners of property which
are located within 200 feet of the exterior boundary of the whole PUD. The
names and mailing addresses shall be typed on mailing labels.
      (3)   Limitation on application. No application shall be accepted for a
use which will require a change of zoning district, unless said application is
accompanied by an application for a zoning amendment as set forth in §
152.004.
         (a)   Applicability of planned unit development regulations. The
requirements for a planned unit development set forth in this section are in
addition to the conditional use procedures and standards of §
152.071.
         (b)   PUD approval process. Approval of a PUD shall be a two-step
process involving approval of a preliminary PUD plan as the first step and
approval of a final PUD plan as the second step. Where use is made of the
planned unit development process as provided in this section, no building or
other permit shall be issued for such development or part thereof until the
Planning Commission has approved said development.
         (c)   Findings for project approval. The Planning Commission shall
approve a planned unit development only if it finds that the planned unit
development will satisfy the criteria of this section including the following.
            1.   The applicant has, through investigation, planning and
programming, demonstrated the soundness of the proposal, the fact that it will
result in a safe, functional and attractive development, and the ability to
carry out the project as proposed.
            2.   The proposal conforms with all requirements found in §§
152.052 and 152.070 that are relevant to the property or properties upon which
that development proposal is located or to the off-site facilities and services
which are affected by the proposal, and any other implementing ordinances of
the city in terms of location and general development standards, except those
for which a specific deviation has been approved under this section.
            3.   The project shall accrue benefits to the city and the general
public in accordance with this section sufficient to offset any requested
deviations to the zoning district.
            4.   The project will satisfactorily take care of the traffic it
generates by means of adequate off-street parking, access points and additional
street rights-of-way improvements.
            5.   The project will be compatible with the adjacent natural
environment and resource areas, and shall complement the character of the area.
            6.   a.   The property is or can be supplied, at the time of
development, with the following types of public facilities that are determined
to be sufficient in their condition and capacity to support development of the
property as anticipated by the PUD:
                  i.   Public sanitary sewerage collection facilities;
                  ii.   Public domestic water distribution facilities;
                  iii.   Storm drainage facilities;
                  iv.   Public streets; and
                  v.   Parks and recreational facilities.
               b.   In instances where the Planning Commission determines that
there is insufficient public facility capacity to support the development of a
whole PUD project, nothing in this criterion shall prevent the approval of
early phase of a PUD which can be supplied with adequate public facilities.
            7.   In the case of proposed commercial developments, that such
development is needed at the proposed location to provide adequate commercial
facilities of the type proposed; that traffic congestion will not likely be
created by the proposed center, or will be obviated by presently proposed
improvements and by demonstrable provisions in the plan for proper entrances
and exits, and by internal provisions for traffic and parking; that such
development will be an attractive and efficient center which will fit
harmoniously into and will have minimal adverse effects upon the adjacent or
surrounding development.
            8.   The proposal has met three of the above criteria objectives in
division (F)(1) above.
            9.   Developments shall be designed to provide pedestrian and
bicycle access and link with existing and planned pathways.
            10.   Designs such as detached garages to the rear of the residence
shall be encouraged to reduce the conflict between automobiles and pedestrians.
If an alley is available, it shall service the detached garage, if traffic
impacts on other properties adjacent to the alley can be mitigated. If lot
size, shape, topography or traffic circumstances prohibit such relationships or
render them impractical, attached garages may be permitted subject to garage
standards in §
152.053(E).
         (d)   Potential uses in a residential zone. The following uses are
allowed in a residential planned development if the Planning Commission
considers them appropriate for the particular development being proposed and if
other applicable standards are satisfied:
            1.   Single-family dwellings, townhouses, and cottage clusters, on
individual lots or in cooperative or condominium ownership;
            2.   Duplexes, triplexes and quadplexes;
            3.   Multi-family housing developments;
            4.   Manufactured home, mobile house or modular home;
            5.   Commercial uses supported mainly by residents of the planned
development when such commercial uses require an area no larger than 5% of the
area devoted to residential uses; and
            6.   Non-residential uses permitted in the underlying zone as
either an outright use or a conditional use.
         (e)   Size of the planned unit development site. A tract of land to be
developed as a planned unit development shall contain not less than four
contiguous acres and be of a configuration that is conducive to a planned unit
development.
         (f)   Density. The density of a planned development shall not exceed
the density of the underlying zone, if any, with uses permitted singly or in
combination. When calculating density, the gross area of the PUD shall be used
(total area including street dedications). Areas of common use may be included
in calculating allowable density.
         (g)   Deviations to be authorized. The Planning Commission may
authorize the design and approval of PUD’s which deviate from the strict
standards of this Code. It is further provided that the nature and extent of
potential Code deviations shall be limited to the limitations, restrictions and
design standards which are listed below and pertain to:
            1.   The size, dimension, location, position and coverage of lots;
            2.   The location, size, height, yards and setbacks for buildings
and other structures;
            3.   Off-street vehicle parking and loading;
            4.   Lot frontage, access, buffer yards and agricultural buffering;
            5.   Streets with respect to length, width, intersection standards,
grades, curve radii, turnarounds, easements, street lighting, sidewalks, curbs
and driveway approaches for streets within the PUD, provided they allow for
adequate fire access;
            6.   It is further provided that any deviations from the standards
adopted in this Code shall be of an equivalent or better structural quality
with respect to the amount, quality and installation of construction materials.
It is also provided that, when deviations are proposed for the design of
streets, the City Engineer shall have sole discretion whether said streets will
be accepted as dedicated city streets or shall be held in private ownership and
such determination shall be made at the time the preliminary PUD plan is
approved. In no instance, shall this section be used to deviate from the
standards of this Code, which apply to collector or arterial streets whether
such streets occur adjacent to or within the PUD. The overall residential
housing density for the entire portion of the PUD, which is devoted to
residential uses, may be increased by not more than 35% over the maximum
density allowed in the underlying zone. Density bonuses shall be applied in 7%
increments by the Planning Commission; satisfied by the applicant’s design;
            7.   One or more additional uses may be approved without the need
to comply with the conditional use permit process or other criteria as part of
the PUD provided that the amount of land devoted to uses other than those
permitted outright in the underlying zone shall not exceed 20% of the gross
acreage of the entire PUD is satisfied; and
            8.   The percentage of land within the PUD allowed for other uses
shall be computed by multiplying the gross area of the PUD by a factor of 0.2
and rounding the result down to the nearest whole number.
         (h)   Dimensional and bulk standards.
            1.   The minimum lot area, width, frontage and yard requirements
otherwise applying to individual buildings in the zone in which a planned unit
development is proposed do not apply within a planned unit development. Such
standards may be less than the minimums set forth in this chapter, provided
that the residential density, open space and other requirements of this section
are satisfied.
            2.   Other setbacks may be established by the Planning Commission
to provide adequate light, ventilation, privacy and other characteristics.
            3.   If the spacing between main buildings is not equivalent to the
spacing, which would be required between buildings similarly developed under
this chapter on separate parcels, other design features shall provide light,
ventilation and other characteristics equivalent to that obtained from the
spacing standards.
            4.   Buildings, off-street parking and loading facilities, open
space, landscaping and screening shall provide protection outside the boundary
lines of the development comparable to that otherwise required of development
in the zone.
            5.   The maximum building height shall, in no event, exceed those
building heights prescribed in the applicable zoning district in which the
planned unit development is proposed, except that a greater height may be
approved if surrounding open space within the planned unit development,
building setbacks and other design features are used to avoid any adverse
impact due to a greater height.
         (i)   Common areas.
            1.   In all planned developments, 40% of the total land area shall
be devoted to open space. This open space may be in the form of yards, buffers,
setbacks, common open areas or recreational facilities. Of this 40%, 75% of
this area shall be common or shared open space, and the remaining 25% of said
open space may be utilized privately by individual owners or users of the
planned development. Notwithstanding the previous standards, the Planning
Commission may increase or decrease the open space requirements depending on
the particular site and the needs of the development.
            2.   No open area may be accepted as common open space within a
planned unit development unless it meets the following requirements:
               a.   The location, shape, size and character of the common open
space is suitable for the planned development;
               b.   The common open space is for amenity, recreational or other
common functionality purposes and the uses authorized are appropriate to the
scale and character of the planned unit development, considering its size,
density, expected population, topography and the number and type of dwellings
provided;
               c.   Common open space will be suitably improved for its
intended use, except that common open space containing natural features worthy
of preservation may be left unimproved. The buildings, structures and
improvements to be permitted in the common open space are appropriate to the
uses which are authorized for the common open space; and
               d.   If buildings, structures or other improvements are to be
made in the common open space, the developer provides a bond or other adequate
assurance that the buildings, structures and improvements will be completed.
The City Manager shall release the bond or other assurances when the buildings,
structures and other improvements have been completed according to the
development plan.
            3.   Land shown on the final development plan as common open space
shall be conveyed under one of the following options:
               a.   To a public agency, which agrees to maintain the common
open space and any buildings, structures or other improvements which have been
placed on it;
               b.   To an association of owners or tenants, created in
accordance with the laws of the state, which shall adopt and impose articles of
incorporation and bylaws, and adopt and impose a declaration of covenants and
restrictions on the common open space that is acceptable to the Planning
Commission as providing for the continuing care of the space. Such an
association shall be formed and continued for the purpose of maintaining the
common open space and other common elements;
               c.   No common open space may be put to a use not specified in
the final development plan unless the final development plan is amended to
permit the use. However, no change of use may be considered as a waiver of any
of the covenants limiting the use of common open space areas, and all rights to
enforce these covenants against any use permitted are expressly reserved; and
               d.   If the common open space is not conveyed to a public
agency, the covenants governing the use, improvement and maintenance of the
common open space shall authorize the city to enforce their provisions at the
city’s discretion, and shall require City Council ratification of any
amendments after initial approval.
            4.   The development schedule which is part of the development plan
coordinates the improvement of the common open space and the construction of
buildings and other structures in the common open space with the construction
of primary structures in the planned development.
            5.   Where a PUD has open spaces, parking areas or other elements
to be owned or maintained in common by the owners or future owners of land or
improvements within the PUD, the final PUD plan shall not be approved and in no
event shall any lot or unit be sold or conveyed until the PUD has been found to
comply with the following requirements, as applicable.
               a.   If the PUD is a planned community under O.R.S. Chapter 94,
the declaration and plat for the planned community shall be submitted with the
final PUD plan for approval by the Planning Commission before being recorded in
the official records of the county.
               b.   If the PUD is a condominium under O.R.S. Chapter 100, the
declaration and plat for the condominium shall have been recorded in the
official records of the county and a copy of the recorded declaration and plat
shall be submitted with the final PUD plan. A condominium declaration and plat
that has been approved by the State Real Estate Commissioner and recorded in
the official records of the county is not required to be reviewed and approved
by the Planning Commission and the Planning Commission shall have no authority
under this division (F)(3) to require changes thereto.
               c.   If the PUD contains elements intended for common ownership
but O.R.S. Chapters 94 and 100 do not apply, there shall be appropriate legal
documents which assure that the common elements will be improved and
perpetually maintained for their intended purposes. The legal documents, in
such instance, shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for approval as
part of the final PUD plan before being recorded in the official records of the
county.
               d.   When a PUD is proposed to be developed in phases, the
phased provision of improved common elements shall be proportional with the
development of housing and other elements intended for private ownership.
Nothing in this division (F)(3)(i) shall prevent the provision of improved
common elements at a rate that is proportionally greater than the development
of housing and other elements intended for private ownership.
               e.   Land shown on the final development plan as a common
element shall be conveyed under one of the following options:
                  i.   To a public entity which shall agree in writing to
perpetually maintain the common element(s) being conveyed; and
                  ii.   To an association of owners created pursuant to O.R.S.
Chapters 94 and 100 or as otherwise created under O.R.S. 17.64.090(3), in which
instance the city shall be made a party to the legal document which establishes
the association and such document shall provide that the association cannot be
terminated or discontinued without the city’s prior consent, and that the city
may enforce any and all of its provisions.
         (j)   Transportation.
            1.   Principal vehicular access points shall be designed to permit
smooth traffic flow with controlled turning movements and minimum hazards to
vehicular or pedestrian traffic. Minor streets within planned developments
shall not be connected to streets outside the development in such a way as to
encourage their use by through traffic.
            2.   Streets in a planned development may be dedicated to public
use. All streets will be constructed in accordance with city’s Public Works
Design Standards unless an alternative is accepted by the Planning Commission
based upon the applicant’s engineer attestation as to its equal functionality,
safety and durability.
            3.   All uses shall comply with access, parking and loading
standards as shown in §
152.054. The Planning Commission may authorize exceptions where warranted, or
may specify additional requirements when appropriate.
         (k)   Signs. All signs larger than eight square feet within a planned
development are subject to approval of the Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission shall consider each such sign on its merits based on the aesthetic
impact on the area, potential traffic hazards and the need for the sign.
         (l)   Compatibility with adjacent development. If topographical or
other barriers near the perimeter of the development do not provide reasonable
privacy for existing uses adjacent to the development, the Planning Commission
shall require buildings in the planned development to be setback an adequate
distance, as determined by the Planning Commission, from the perimeter and/or
require an attractively designed and maintained buffer in the form of
vegetation, fencing, walls and/or berms.
         (m)   Utility easements. Easements necessary for the orderly extension
and maintenance of public utilities may be required as a condition of approval.
         (n)   Accessory uses in a planned unit development. In addition to the
accessory uses typical of the primary uses authorized, accessory uses approved
as a part of a planned unit development may include the following uses:
            1.   Golf courses;
            2.   Private park, lake or waterway;
            3.   Recreation area;
            4.   Recreation building, club house or social hall; and
            5.   Other accessory structures which the Planning Commission finds
are designed to serve primarily the tenants of the planned unit development,
and are compatible to the design of the planned unit development.
         (o)   Review procedures.
            1.   Planned developments will be reviewed in two phases; a
preliminary development plan phase and a final development plan phase. However,
pre-application review of the project before these phases is required.
            2.   The preliminary development plan will include the information
and procedures specified in this division (F). If the proposed planned
development involves subdividing land, the preliminary plat shall be reviewed
concurrently with the preliminary development plan.
               a.   The Planning Commission shall act upon the application for
a planned unit development within 120 days of a determination of complete
application by the City Planner, excluding such time as may be required to
complete any necessary zoning amendment. A public hearing shall be held in
accordance with provisions in §
152.070, as modified by this section.
               b.   Planned unit development is a limited land use decision and
shall be conducted in accordance with O.R.S. 197.195, except that the Planning
Commission may take verbal testimony. Pursuant to O.R.S. 197.195, only those
submitting written testimony during the 14-day comment period shall have the
right to appeal said decision.
               c.   In taking action, the Planning Commission may approve,
approve with conditions or deny the planned unit development based on the
preliminary development plan. Any planned unit development authorized shall be
subject to all conditions imposed. Any approval of a planned unit development
granted hereunder shall be exempted from other provisions of this chapter only
to the extent specified in said authorization. Any approval of a preliminary
planned unit development granted hereunder shall lapse and become void unless,
within 18 months after the final granting of approval, or within such other
period of time as may be stipulated by the Planning Commission as a condition
of such approval, construction of the buildings or structures involved in the
development has begun and diligently pursued. The Planning Commission may
further impose other conditions limiting the time within which the development
or portions thereof must be completed.
               d.   The decision of the Planning Commission shall be final
unless appealed to the City Council according to the procedures set forth in §
152.076.
            3.   Within three months to a year following the approval of the
preliminary development plan, or approval of the plan with conditions, the
applicant shall file with the city a final development plan containing, in
final form, the information required in the preliminary plan. This plan may be
for the entire development or, when submission in stages has been authorized,
for the first stage of the development.
            4.   If the City Planner finds evidence of a material deviation
from the preliminary development plan, the City Planner shall advise the
applicant to submit an application for amendment of the planned unit
development to the Planning Commission. An amendment shall be considered in the
same manner as an original application. If no significant deviation from the
preliminary development plan is found, the City Planner will approve the final
planned development.
            5.   The following provisions shall govern the submittal and
approval of a final PUD plan.
               a.   Filing requirements; time extensions. Within 12 months
following final approval by the Planning Commission of the preliminary PUD
plan, the applicant shall file a final PUD plan on forms supplied by the city.
The final PUD plan shall contain in final form all information and materials
required by the preliminary PUD plan approval. However, there shall be no
burden to demonstrate compliance with the above approval criteria and no
findings of fact and conclusions of law for these criteria are required in
order for the Planner to approve a final PUD plan. The final PUD plan shall
incorporate all conditions imposed by the Planning Commission at the time the
preliminary PUD plan was approved. In its sole discretion and upon the written
request by an applicant, the Planning Commission may extend the time for filing
a final PUD plan for one additional 12-month period or such lesser period as
may be established by the Planning Commission.
               b.   Phased PUD; time limit between phases. The final PUD plan
may be submitted for the entire project or on a phase-by-phase basis consistent
with the approved preliminary PUD plan. If a preliminary PUD plan was not
approved as a phased project, nothing in this division (F)(3)(o)5. shall
prevent the City Planner from approving a final PUD plan in phases provided
that the final PUD plan complies with all other requirements of this chapter.
If the Planner approves a final PUD plan for the first phase of a PUD having
approved multiple phases, such approval shall perfect the applicant’s rights
under this section to complete subsequent future phases. However, it is further
provided that, after final PUD plan approval for the first phase and for each
successive phase thereafter, no more than five years shall elapse between the
approval of phases. If more than five years pass between the final PUD plan
approval of any two PUD phases, the Planning Commission may, without consent of
the owners of the PUD, initiate action to terminate undeveloped portions of the
PUD under the public hearing provisions of §
152.070(E). Nothing in this division (F)(3)(o)5. shall prohibit or limit the
ability of the Planning Commission to establish time periods within which
substantial construction of a PUD or any phase thereof is required to occur
after a final PUD plan has been approved.
               c.   Final plat for land division. Application for the approval
of a final PUD plan may occur before, after or concurrent with the approval of
a final plat for a land division by the City Planner. However, it is further
provided that no building permits shall be issued by the city and no buildings
intended for human occupancy shall be constructed and no lot shall be sold
until the final PUD plan has been approved.
               d.   Final PUD plan approval criteria. A final PUD plan shall be
approved by the City Planner or Planning Commission if they conclude that
compliance exists with each of the following criteria:
                  i.   Provisions for the establishment and maintenance of
elements to be held in common ownership, if any have or will comply with the
standards in this division (F)(3);
                  ii.   The final PUD plan is substantially consistent with
preliminary PUD plan and the conditions, if any, which were attached by the
Planning Commission to the approval of the preliminary PUD plan. An applicant
may seek written clarification from the Planner or Planning Commission
regarding whether any anticipated differences between the preliminary and final
PUD plans meet the test of being substantially consistent. In no instance shall
a final PUD plan be approved if inconsistencies with the approved preliminary
PUD plan exist in any of the ways listed below, and when such inconsistencies
are found to occur, these shall result in the need to approve a revision to the
approved preliminary PUD plan.
                     A.   The exterior boundaries of the PUD shall not change
except for slight deviations which are the result of correcting boundary errors
or inconsistencies that are found to exist at the time the PUD property is
surveyed.
                     B.   The number of housing units shall not be increased
and, in no instance, shall the number of housing units be decreased by more
than 2%.
                     C.   There are new deviations to provisions of this City
Code which were not approved by the Planning Commission as part of the
preliminary PUD plan.
               e.   Engineering construction plans.
                  i.   Engineering construction plans, profiles, details and
specifications for all public facility and utility improvements shall be
prepared by a qualified engineer registered in the state. The required
engineering plans shall be submitted to and approved by the city before the
start of construction.
                  ii.   Unless specifically authorized by the Planning
Commission at the time of preliminary PUD plan approval, all public facilities
and utilities shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
standards and procedures of the city or other public entity to which ownership
of said facilities or utilities will be conveyed. The procedures for
engineering design, plan approval and inspection shall in all respects be the
same as for land divisions under this City Code.
               f.   Zoning clearance and building permits; development and
operation of a PUD. All site, building and construction plans submitted for the
purpose of obtaining building and other site improvement permits shall be
consistent with the approved final PUD plan. In addition to other provisions of
the Municipal Code and law, the city shall have authority under this section to
ensure the successful completion of all public improvements. The development
and operation of the PUD shall conform in all respects with the approved final
PUD plan.
         (p)   Control of the development after completion. The final
development plan shall continue to control the planned unit development after
it is finished, and the following shall apply.
            1.   The building official, in issuing a certificate of completion
of the planned unit development, shall note the issuance to the city on the
recorded final development plan.
            2.   After the certificate of completion has been issued, the use
of the land and the construction, modification or alteration of a building or
structure within the planned unit development shall be governed by the approved
final development plan.
            3.   After the certificate of completion has been issued, no change
shall be made in development contrary to the approved final development plan
without approval of an amendment to the plan, except as follows.
               a.   Minor modifications of existing buildings or structures may
be authorized by the Planning Commission if they are consistent with the
purposes and intent of the final plan and do not increase the cubic footage of
a building or structure.
               b.   A building or structure that is totally or substantially
destroyed may be reconstructed without approval of an amended planned unit
development if it is in compliance with the purpose and intent of the final
development plan.
            4.   An amendment to a completed planned unit development may be
approved by the Planning Commission if it is required for the continued success
of the planned unit development, if it is appropriate because of changes in
conditions that have occurred since the final development plan was approved or
because there have been changes in the development policy of the community as
reflected by the Comprehensive Plan or related land use regulations.
            5.   Revision of a preliminary or final PUD plan. The revision of a
preliminary or final PUD plan shall follow the same procedures required for
initial approval, provided that the following occur.
               a.   For changes deemed by the City Planner to be minor, the
City Planner shall exercise appropriate discretion to limit and waive the
submittal of any of the required filing materials that are deemed to be
excessive, repetitive or unnecessary based upon the scope and nature of the
proposed PUD revisions.
               b.   At the sole discretion of the Planner, revisions to an
approved PUD plan may be consolidated into a single procedure, the effect of
which will be the approval of both a preliminary PUD plan and final PUD plan.
               c.   The burden of proof and supporting findings of fact and
conclusions of law for the criteria shall be strictly limited to the specific
nature and magnitude of the change.
               d.   No modification or amendment to a completed planned unit
development is to be considered as a waiver of the covenants limiting the use
of the land, buildings, structures and improvements within the area of the
planned unit development; and all rights to enforce these covenants against any
change permitted by this section are expressly reserved.
         (q)   Commercial/industrial PUD. In addition to the criteria contained
in this division (F), a PUD within a commercial or industrial zone shall be
subject to the following standards.
            1.   The principal uses conducted on the site are either outright
or conditional uses for the respective zone. Conditional uses shall meet the
review criteria of §
152.071.
            2.   Secondary uses shall be directly related to the principal use,
or provide support services, including, but not limited to, transportation,
housing, commercial service and commercial retail.
            3.   Secondary uses should be limited to 30% of the buildable area
within the PUD.
         (r)   Cluster development (CLD).
            1.   The purpose of a cluster development (CLD) is as follows:
               a.   To provide a greater flexibility in development of land on
sites that may be too small (infill sites) or not desirable for a planned unit
development;
               b.   To provide housing types that respond to changing household
sizes and ages (e.g., retirees, single person households, small families):
               c.   To promote opportunities for ownership of dwelling units;
               d.   To encourage a creative approach in land development and
for a consistent and interesting;
               e.   To encourage creation of more usable open space for
residents of the development through flexibility in density and lot standards;
and
               f.   To provide guidelines to ensure compatibility with
surrounding land uses.
            2.   Throughout this division (F)(3)(r), the term DEVELOPMENT shall
mean a cluster development (CLD).
            3.   The uses shown in Table A in division (F)(3)(q)5. below are
permitted in a residential cluster development.
            4.   Every CLD is subject to land use review and approval as a
conditional use (§
152.071).
            5.   The following uses are permitted in cluster developments:
Table A. Uses Permitted
Land Use Comments and References
Table A. Uses Permitted
Land Use                                Comments and References
Accessory dwelling                       
Accessory structure                     Includes sheds, storage buildings,
                                        residential garages
Apartments                              Called multi-family dwellings/complexes
Child care, day nursery                  
Church, religious institution            
Complex, multi-family (over 4           30% parking reduction for senior
dwellings)                              facility
Condominium                             State regulated
Dwelling, duplex                         
Dwelling, multi-family (including 3 or   
4 plex)
Dwelling, single-family                  
Park (public or private)                Playground, recreation centers, pools
                                        and the like
Parking garage (public or private)      Private only; common area maintained by
                                        HOA
Public transportation station            
Residential use other than ground floor  
Residential care facility               Only permitted where MFRs are allowed
Residential care home                   Only permitted where SFRs are allowed
RV storage                              Residential use only; HOA maintenance
                                        required
Schools (public or private)              
Single-family manufactured home          
Townhouse                                
Utility facility                         
 
            6.   The following exceptions to city standards may be allowed
through the CLD approval process without a variance:
               a.   Minimum lot sizes;
               b.   Yard setbacks, except perimeter yard requirements;
               c.   Permitted land uses;
               d.   Grid street spacing standards;
               e.   Street frontage requirements on public roads;
               f.   Connection to public utilities, subject to review and
acceptance by City Engineering;
               g.   Landscaping requirements, as stated herein;
               h.   Solar setback standards (only on lots that are not along
the northern border of the development);
               i.   Street and right-of-way widths on non-grid streets;
               j.   Sidewalk placement and size standards; and
               k.   i.   Changes to an approved plan, when the requested change
is so minor that the City Planner or designate determines that it would be
appropriate for an administrative decision.
                  ii.   Examples of minor changes include, but are not limited
to:
                     A.   A reduction in the overall number of lots;
                     B.   Minor architectural changes to approved buildings;
                     C.   Changes to phases that do not impact public
facilities or change the number of approved phases;
                     D.   Changes that result in a reduction of impacts (i.e.,
reduced traffic flows); or
                     E.   Changes that are required to protect or increase
public safety.
            7.   CLDs shall meet the following standards unless otherwise
specified. In the case that these standards conflict with other standards
within the Zoning Code, these standards shall take precedence.
               a.   Acreage. Cluster developments may only take place on sites
of one acre minimum to seven acres maximum.
               b.   Densities.
Table B
Zone Densities (per net acre)
Table B
Zone                      Densities (per net acre)
R-1                       Not applicable (CLDs not allowed)
R-2                       Not applicable (CLDs not allowed)
R-3                       Not applicable (CLDs not allowed)
R-4                       5 to 12 units/acres
R-5                       8 or more units/acres
High Density Overlay Zone Up to 30 units/net acre
 
               c.   Design requirements.
Table C
Feature Standard
Table C
Feature                    Standard
Building height            Underlying zone
Lot area                   No minimum
Lot width                  No minimum
Lot depth                  No minimum
Floor area                 No minimum
Open space                 Based on size of parent unit
                           20 feet when abutting an arterial or collector
Perimeter                  street (along perimeter), underlying zone in all
                           other cases. Setbacks to common areas determined at
                           the discretion of the Planning Commission
Front                      10 feet to house, 5 feet when house fronts common
                           open space, 5 feet to townhouse, 20 feet to garage
Side (corner lot)          No minimum; clearance vision applies
Side (non-corner lot)      No minimum
                           No minimum; garage setback for alleys, if needed for
Rear                       parking or maneuvering, to be determined by Planning
                           Commission
Solar                      Northern perimeter only
Non-permeable surface area Varies according to open space requirements
Building coverage          No maximum
Parking - residential      2 spaces/dwelling unit
Other                       
 
               d.   Open space, park and common area.
                  i.   Definition. OPEN SPACE means land area, which can be
physically accessed and used by occupants and users of the CLD for scenic,
landscaping or open recreational purposes within the development.
                  ii.   Open space land area requirements. For all CLDs, the
required land area used as open space, park or common areas shall be 15% of the
net land area (minus roads). Providing a recreation center, developed park,
pool, tennis courts, recreation rooms, clubhouse or other similar facilities
(as determined by the Planning Commission) will reduce the required land area
by up to 5% at the discretion of the Planning Commission.
                  iii.   Open space - general requirements.
                     A.   Public and private roads and the landscaped portions
of such roads and rights-of-ways shall not be considered as open space.
                     B.   Development plans shall assure that natural features
of the land are preserved and landscaping is provided, or a finding shall be
made by the Planning Commission that preservation of significant natural
feature(s) is not feasible. Waterways located on the property may be considered
as open space for the development.
                     C.   The Planning Commission may require at its discretion
the dedication of park land or open space to the city.
                     D.   All common areas, open space areas and landscaped
right-of-ways shall undergo site design review concurrently with the
development review, and are subject to site design review standards for
landscaping, with the exceptions noted herein.
                     E.   Non-accessible open space may be considered as “open
space”. However, if these areas are not physically accessible by the users of
the development for recreational purposes, up to half of such non-accessible
land area, measured on the horizontal, may be counted towards the required area
for open space. Pull area credit may only be allowed wherever such features are
completely accessible to occupants of the development.
                     F.   Up to 10% of the required open space/common area/
landscaped areas may be left in a natural and non-irrigated state at the
discretion of the Planning Commission; however, this shall not apply to any
required landscaped screening or landscaped strips abutting public or private
roads. If the development has a significant natural feature in excess of the
10% allowance, the Planning Commission may allow additional natural feature
open space credit.
                     G.   Open space, common areas and common structures shall
be financially assured of continued maintenance. A legal mechanism shall be
provided which guarantees the continued maintenance of such areas and
structures.
                     H.   Parking areas and their required landscape screening
shall not be considered as open space.
               e.   Construction standards. In each development, all provisions
of the International and Uniform Building Code, and International Fire Code
incorporating Oregon Fire Code amendments shall apply and control design and
construction of improvements, except as specifically varied as provided within
these standards. City standards and specifications shall apply unless a
deviation is granted by the Planning Commission as part of the CLD approval
process.
                  i.   Non-residential off-street parking and loading. In
residential CLDs, off-street parking and loading space for all non-residential
uses shall be limited to 80% of the minimum standards of §
152.054. All non-residential parking and loading areas shall be screened from
view from roads and residences, and shall be located behind structures where
feasible. All parking lots shall be accessed from interior roads or alleys
within the CLD unless the Planning Commission determines that this is not
feasible.
                  ii.   Signage.
                     A.   Monument or entrance signage shall be reviewed with
initial site design review and integrated into the overall building and site
design or separately at the discretion of the developer. If other similar
signage is proposed separately from the overall development, then it shall
require sign permit review at the time of submittal.
                     B.   All entrance or monument signage within or adjacent
to a CLD related to the development shall integrate the development theme into
the design of the signage.
                     C.   All entrance or monument signage shall conform to the
requirements within each respective zone, and with §
152.055.
                     D.   In a residential CLD, other than the entrance signs,
no signs shall be visible from adjacent residential properties.
                     E.   Monument signs may be incorporated into the fence or
wall design subject to site design review approval.
                  iii.   Streets and utilities.
                     A.   All construction of streets and utilities within
developments shall be required to comply with city standards and specifications
at the discretion of the Planning Commission, if recommended by the City
Engineer, except that the Planning Commission can grant exceptions to specific
standards and specifications as follows:
                        1.   Street width;
                        2.   Right-of-way width; and
                        3.   Sidewalk width/placement.
                     B.   The city may require those streets needed for traffic
circulation to be public streets under the provisions of the city’s
transportation plan and the city street standards of § 152.052.
                     C.   The applicant shall provide to the city easements for
all public utilities (sewer and water) on the subject property subject to
acceptance by the Engineering Division. If required, all public easements may
need to be dedicated without reservation, also at the discretion of the City
Engineering Division.
                  iv.   Landscaping.
                     A.   Required landscaping. A portion of the required
landscaping shall be provided on the property to visually screen any multi-
family complex residential uses from adjoining single-family and duplex
property.
                     B.   Street trees. Street trees shall be placed adjacent
to all public and private roads within all types of developments, as specified
in §
152.053. However, street trees along alleys and private internal driveways are
not required.
                  v.   Fences and walls. Perimeter walls or fencing, if
required or proposed, shall integrate the architectural character plan and site
plan elements into the design. Walls or fences may be required if the Planning
Commission determines it is necessary to meet one or more approval criterion.
                     A.   Approval of any perimeter fencing or wall is
discretionary to the Planning Commission, and may be required to be modified
based on approval criterion and the specific design submitted for review.
                     B.   If a perimeter fence is required, the Planning
Commission can consider a vegetative screen in lieu of a fence.
                     C.   All such fencing, if approved, shall comply with §
152.053.
                  vi.   General development design requirements.
                     A.   The total minimum number of dwelling units of all
combined zones within a residential CLD may be located anywhere within the
development subject to Planning Commission approval, and subject to all
applicable setbacks and regulations established herein.
                     B.   All development parking lots shall be screened from
view from public or private streets (excluding driveways of 20 feet width or
less), and from all residences by a screen of no less than three feet in
height. Screening shall not exceed a height of four feet.
                     C.   Parking lot screening shall be achieved by either
landscaping or fencing, or a combination of each.
                     D.   All parking spaces shall be paved, and shall meet the
parking space standards within §
152.054 and all applicable code standards.
                     E.   If detached parking structures are proposed, they
shall integrate the architectural character plan and site plan into the design.
The Planning Commission may require a compatible design with adjacent
development if necessary to meet one or more approval criterion.
                     F.   Accessory dwelling units, when allowed in the
underlying zone, are permitted.
                     G.   A development may contain community building(s) or
recreation center(s) that are clearly incidental in use or size and related to
the dwelling units. Such buildings shall be located on the same parent parcel
of the development, and shall be commonly owned by the residents.
                     H.   An existing attached or detached single-family
dwelling that is incorporated in to a development may be permitted to remain,
and, at the discretion of the Planning Commission, may be considered as an
existing nonconforming residence subject to all non-conforming structure
requirements within the City Code.
                     I.   An architectural theme is required for all structures
within any development. The theme shall be continued on all elevations for each
building, and onto the entire site (including, but not limited to, lighting,
fencing, accessory structures and signage) as is applicable based on the
specific theme chosen by the developer. For assurance of ongoing compliance, an
Architectural Review Committee (ARC) shall be created for each development
through the CCRs for each development. The ARC shall be formed for the purpose
of reviewing future changes and additions to structures including fencing and
trim within the development, which shall be self-regulating following the city
approval of each structure within the development, as stated within the CCRs.
                     J.   All required open space within any planned
development shall be “usable” as passive or active recreational land without
sharing the space as a combined use with non-recreational uses, including, but
not limited to, drainage retention areas that are fenced or otherwise not
visual or usable open space amenities.
                  vii.   Trash enclosures. All developments within CLDs that
contain multi-family dwellings or multi-family complexes shall provide
centrally located trash collection enclosures for the multi-family dwellings or
multi-family complexes. Trash enclosures shall be architecturally compatible in
terms of color and materials with adjacent residential units. Trash collection
bins or carts within the enclosures shall be as approved by the collection
company.
         (s)   Termination of a PUD. A PUD may be terminated by action of the
Planning Commission subject to the following procedures.
            1.   If substantial construction or development of the PUD has not
occurred or if no lots or units therein have been sold, the PUD may be
terminated by filing with the city a written petition signed by the owner or
owners who control a majority interest in the land covered by the approved PUD.
Upon receipt of a petition submitted by the PUD owners, the Planning Commission
shall consider the matter in open meeting and may declare the PUD terminated.
The Planning Commission’s termination of a PUD shall be evidenced by a final
order declaring the same and, after the final order is signed, the PUD shall be
terminated and previous PUD plan approvals shall be considered void and of no
further effect. Termination of a PUD shall in no way affect other land use
actions taken by the city which concern the PUD property.
            2.   If substantial construction or development of the PUD has
occurred or if lots or units within the PUD have been sold, the PUD may be
terminated by filing with the city a written petition signed by the owner or
owners who control a majority interest in the land covered by the approved PUD.
Upon receipt of the petition, the Planning Commission shall give public notice
of the proposed PUD termination and conduct a public hearing on the matter. The
Planning Commission may declare the PUD terminated if it concludes that the
termination will not produce greater than minimal harm to the public health,
safety or general welfare. The Planning Commission’s termination of a PUD shall
be evidenced by a final order declaring the same and, after the final order is
signed, the PUD shall be terminated and previous PUD plan approvals shall be
considered void and of no further effect. Termination of a PUD shall in no way
affect other land use actions taken by the city which concern the PUD property.
   (G)   Middle housing and expedited land divisions.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the expedited and middle housing land
division process is to implement requirements in O.R.S. 197.360 to 197.380 for
expedited land divisions in residential districts and O.R.S. 92.031 regarding
middle housing land divisions, in order to create homeownership opportunities.
      (2)   Applicability.
         (a)   Expedited land division applicability. The procedures of this
section are applicable to partitions and subdivisions within a residential zone
as provided in O.R.S. 197.365.
         (b)   Middle housing land division applicability. The procedures of
this chapter are applicable to the following middle housing projects, or
proposed middle housing projects, on an existing lot within a residential zone:
            1.   A duplex;
            2.   A triplex;
            3.   A quadplex; or
            4.   A cottage cluster.
         (c)   Townhouses, by definition, are already on their own lots, so a
middle housing land division is not applicable to townhouse projects. Lots for
townhouses shall be created through subdivision or partition, subject to the
requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Procedures. An expedited land division or middle housing land
division is not a land use procedure subject to §
152.004. The following procedure for an expedited land division or middle
housing land division shall be followed:
         (a)   Pre-application meeting. A pre-application meeting is encouraged
but not required.
         (b)   Application requirements. Applicants shall submit information
required by §
152.004(I).
         (c)   Completeness review. The City Planner or his or her designee
shall review the application submittal and advise the applicant in writing
whether the application is complete or incomplete within 21 calendar days after
the city receives the application submittal.
            1.   If the application for a land division is incomplete, the
local government shall notify the applicant of exactly what information is
missing within 21 days of receipt of the application and allow the applicant to
submit the missing information. For purposes of computation of time under this
section, the application shall be deemed complete on the date the applicant
submits the requested information or refuses in writing to submit it.
            2.   If the application was complete when first submitted or the
applicant submits the additional information within 180 days of the date the
application was first submitted, approval or denial of the application shall be
based upon the standards and criteria that were in effect at the time the
application was first submitted.
            3.   If an application is incomplete, the completeness notice shall
list what information is missing and allow the applicant to submit the missing
information. The completeness notice shall include a form, designed to be
returned to the City Planner or his or her designee by the applicant,
indicating whether or not the applicant intends to amend or supplement the
application.
         (d)   Notification.
            1.   The City Planner or his or her designee shall provide written
notice of the receipt of the completed application for a middle housing land
division or expedited land division to all of the following:
               a.   The applicant and/or authorized representative;
               b.   The owner(s) of record of the subject property;
               c.   Any city-recognized neighborhood association whose
boundaries include or are within 200 feet of the subject property;
               d.   Owners of record within 100 feet of the perimeter of the
subject property; and
               e.   Any state agency, local government or special district
responsible for providing public facilities or services to the development.
            2.   The notice shall state:
               a.   The street address or other easily understood geographical
reference to the subject property;
               b.   The place, date and time that comments are due;
               c.   A time and place where copies of all evidence submitted by
the applicant will be available for review;
               d.   The applicable criteria for the decision;
               e.   The name and telephone number of a local government contact
person;
               f.   A brief summary of the local decision-making process for
the middle housing
land division or expedited land division;
               g.   The deadline for submitting written comments;
               h.   That issues that may provide the basis for an appeal to the
hearings officer must be raised in writing prior to the expiration of the
comment period; and
               i.   That issues must be raised with sufficient specificity to
enable the local government to respond to the issue.
            3.   After notification according to the procedure set out above,
the City Planner or his or her designee shall provide a 14 day period for
submission of written comments prior to the decision.
         (e)   Decision. The City Planner or his or her designee shall make a
decision to approve or deny the application within 63 days of receiving a
completed application, based on whether it satisfies the applicable
requirements of §
152.004(1).
            1.   Approval may include conditions to ensure that the application
meets the applicable regulations.
            2.   For middle housing land division and expedited land division
applications, the City Planner or his or her designee:
               a.   Shall not hold a hearing on the application; and
               b.   Shall issue a written determination of compliance or
noncompliance with applicable land use regulations that includes a summary
statement explaining the determination.
            3.   The decision shall include a statement of the facts upon which
the decision authority relied to determine whether the application satisfied or
failed to satisfy each applicable approval.
            4.   Notice of the decision shall be provided to the applicant and
to those who received notice under division (G)(3)(d) within 63 days of the
date of a completed application. The notice of decision shall include:
               a.   The summary statement included with the written decision;
and
               b.   An explanation of appeal rights under O.R.S. 197.375
(appeal of decision on application for expedited land division).
         (f)   Appeals. An appeal of a decision made under this section shall
not be subject to §
152.076. Any appeal of an expedited land division or middle housing land
division must be as provided in O.R.S. 197.375.
         (g)   Expiration. The tentative approval of a middle housing land
division or expedited land division is void if a final plat is not recorded
within three years of the tentative approval.
      (4)   Criteria of approval- expedited land division.
         (a)   The City Planner or his or her designee will approve or deny an
application for expedited land division based on whether it satisfies the
applicable criteria of approval. The City Planner or his or her designee may
approve the land division with conditions to ensure the application meets the
applicable land use regulations.
         (b)   The land subject to the application is zoned for residential
uses.
         (c)   The land will be used solely for residential uses, including
recreational or open space uses that are accessory to residential use.
         (d)   The land division does not provide for dwellings or accessory
buildings to be located on land that is specifically mapped and designated in
the comprehensive plan and land use regulations for full or partial protection
of natural features under the statewide planning goals that protect:
            1.   Open spaces, scenic and historic areas and natural resources;
            2.   Estuarine resources;
            3.   Coastal shorelands; and
            4.   Beaches and dunes.
         (e)   The land division satisfies the minimum street and right-of-way
connectivity standards of §
152.052(K).
         (f)   The land division satisfies the following development standards:
            1.   Applicable use standards for the proposed use(s) in the zone
where proposed;
            2.   Applicable development standards for the proposed use(s) in
the zone where proposed; and
            3.   Improvement requirements in §
152.052.
         (g)   The land division will result in development that either:
            1.   Creates enough lots to allow building residential units at 80%
or more of the maximum net density permitted by the zoning designation of the
site: or
            2.   Will be sold or rented to households with incomes below 120%
of the median family income for the county in which the project is built.
      (5)   Criteria of approval-middle housing land division. The City Planner
or his or her designee will approve a tentative plan for middle housing land
division based on whether it satisfies the following approval criteria:
         (a)   The application provides for the development of middle housing
in compliance with the Oregon Residential Specialty Code and the applicable
middle housing regulations in this code.
         (b)   Separate utilities will be provided for each dwelling unit.
         (c)   Easements will be provided as necessary for each dwelling unit
on the site for:
            1.   Locating, accessing, replacing and servicing all utilities;
            2.   Pedestrian access from each dwelling unit to a private or
public road;
            3.   Any common use areas or shared building elements;
            4.   Any dedicated driveways or parking; and
            5.   Any dedicated common area.
         (d)   Exactly one dwelling unit on each resulting lot, except for
lots, parcels or tracts used as common areas.
         (e)   The applicant demonstrates that buildings or structures on a
resulting lot will comply with applicable building codes provisions relating to
new property lines and, notwithstanding the creation of new lots. that
structures or buildings located on the newly created lots will comply with the
Oregon Residential Specialty Code.
         (f)   The original lot dedicated and improved the abutting street
right-of-way sufficient to comply with minimum right-of-way and improvement
standards of §
152.052(K), or dedication and/or improvements of the abutting street right-of-
way are proposed that meet the standards of §
152.052(K).
         (g)   The type of middle housing developed on the original lot shall
not be altered by a middle housing land division. For example, cottages withing
a cottage cluster do not become single family dwellings after a middle housing
land division.
      (6)   Conditions of approval - expedited land division and middle housing
land division. The City Planner or his or her designee may add conditions of
approval of a tentative plan for a middle housing land division or expedited
land division as necessary to comply with the applicable criteria of approval.
Conditions may include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A condition to prohibit the further division of the resulting
lots or parcels.
         (b)   A condition to require that a notation appear on the final plat
indicating that the approval was given under O.R.S. 92.031 as a middle housing
land division.
         (c)   A condition to require recording of easements required by the
tentative plan on a form acceptable to the city, as determined by the City
Attorney.
      (7)   Final plat for expedited land division and middle housing land
division.
         (a)   The final plat shall comply with the middle housing land
division or expedited land division conditions of approval.
         (b)   The following data requirements, if applicable, shall also be
shown on the final plat:
            1.   All tracts of land intended to be deeded or dedicated for
public use;
            2.   Street names as approved by the City Planner or his or her
designee; and
            3.   Any non-access strips.
         (c)   Approval criteria. The City Planner or his or her designee shall
approve or deny the final plat for the middle housing land division or
expedited land division, based on whether it conforms with the tentative plan,
with all changes permitted and all requirements imposed as a condition of
acceptance. Final plat approval shall only take place after installation of
improvements, or filing of an agreement and bond to that effect. After approval
of the final plat, filing of an agreement and bond or installation of
improvements, the applicant shall obtain the signatures of the Chairman of the
Planning Commission and Mayor, and record the plat within 90 days after the
last signature has been obtained.
         (d)   A notice of middle housing land division for each middle housing
lot shall be recorded with the County Recorder that states:
            1.   The middle housing lot may not be further divided.
            2.   No more than one unit of middle housing may be developed on
each middle housing lot.
            3.   The dwelling developed on the middle housing lot is a unit of
middle housing and is not a single family detached residential unit, or any
other housing type.
         (e)   No plat shall have any force or effect and no title to any
property shall pass until the final plat has been recorded: however, a final
plat is not required prior to issuance of building permits for middle housing
proposed with a middle housing land division.
   (H)   Monuments.
      (1)   In addition to requirements of state law and other provisions of
this chapter, permanent monuments of a type approved by the city shall be set
in the following locations:
         (a)   At each boundary corner of the subdivision, at the beginning and
end of the property line curves and at any other points required by the city;
and
         (b)   At intersections of street center line tangents or offsets
therefrom, and where such intersect on private property, at the beginning and
end of the center line curve or offsets therefrom.
      (2)   Any required monument that is disturbed or destroyed before
acceptance of all improvements shall be replaced by the applicant.
      (3)   Complete field notes, in a form satisfactory to the city, showing
references, ties, locations, elevations and other necessary data relating to
monuments and bench marks set in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter shall be submitted to the city, to be retained by the city as a
permanent record.
(Ord. 1283, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 1338, passed 10-1-2018; Ord. 1349, passed 8-
19-2019; Ord. 050525A, passed 5-19-2025) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.073 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to assure that variances may
be granted, as provided in this section where practical difficulties,
unnecessary hardships and results inconsistent with the general purposes of
this chapter may result from the strict application of certain provisions. This
section shall not be used to allow a use that is not permitted by this chapter
for the district in which the land is located. In granting a variance, the city
may impose conditions similar to those provided for conditional uses to protect
the best interests of the surrounding property, the neighborhood or the city as
a whole.
   (B)   Authorization to grant or deny variances.
      (1)   The Planning Commission may authorize variances from the
requirements of this chapter where it can be shown that, owing to special and
unusual circumstances related to a specific piece of property, the literal
interpretation of this chapter would cause an undue or particular hardship,
except that no variance shall be granted to allow the use of property for
purposes not authorized within the district in which the proposed use would be
located.
      (2)   In granting a variance, the city may attach conditions which it
finds necessary to protect the best interests of the surrounding property or
neighborhood and to otherwise achieve the purposes of this chapter. The
conditions to an authorized variance shall also be a part of the public record
on the deed and be a part of the requirements for an issuance of a zoning
clearance permit.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   The property owner or his or her authorized agent may make
application for a variance from the provisions of this chapter by filing an
application on a form and in a manner prescribed by the city in §
152.004, with the Planning Department at least 40 days prior to the meeting
date the matter is intended to be considered.
      (2)   Such application shall be accompanied by a legal description of the
property, plans and elevations necessary to show the proposed development; a
filing fee in the amount established by general resolution of the City Council;
a map showing the subject property and surrounding properties and current
property owners within 250 feet of the property subject to such variance
application, a statement, plans and supportive evidence that all of the
following conditions in division (E) below exist.
   (D)   Burden of proof. In order for the City Planning Commission to grant a
variance, all the conditions and circumstances listed in divisions (E)(1)
through (E)(4) below must be found to exist. The specific findings by the
Planning Commission in granting a variance must be factual and supported by
substantial evidence. The burden of producing substantial evidence to support
the requisite findings is on the applicant seeking the variance from the
provisions of this title. If no evidence is produced concerning any or all of
the findings listed in divisions (E)(1) through (E)(4) below, the application
must be denied based upon improper or inadequate findings. All evidence
produced must be recited in the findings for approval of any variance
application.
   (E)   Criteria for granting a variance. No variance shall be granted unless
it can be shown that all of the following conditions exist.
      (1)   Exceptional or extraordinary conditions apply to the property that
do not apply generally to other properties in the same district or vicinity,
which conditions are a result of lot size or shape, topography or other
circumstances over which the applicant has no control.
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation of a property right
of the applicant substantially the same as is possessed by owners of other
property in the same district or vicinity.
      (3)   The authorization of the variance shall not be materially
detrimental to the purposes of this chapter, be injurious to property in the
district or vicinity in which the property is located or be otherwise
detrimental to the objectives of any city development plan or policy.
      (4)   The variance requested is the minimum variance from the provisions
and standards of this chapter which will alleviate the hardship.
   (F)   Hearing. Before a variance is granted, the proposed variance shall be
considered by the Planning Commission at a public hearing, or administratively
by staff. Notice of said hearing or administrative action shall be provided as
per §
152.004.
   (G)   Action of the Planning Commission. The City Planning Commission shall
make its findings and conclusions available in writing within ten days after
the decision on the proposed variance. Upon the filing of said order with the
City Recorder, the order shall be in full force and effect. An order denying
the variance shall be entered and filed in a like manner, with the necessary
findings, where the Planning Commission, based on the standards specified
herein, determines that the variance should not be granted.
      (1)   The Planning Commission, at the time of a public hearing, or staff,
in the case of an administrative action, may attach conditions to an authorized
variance, which it feels are necessary to protect the public interest and carry
out the purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   The conditions to an authorized variance shall also be part of the
public record and be a part of the requirements for an issuance of a building
permit. The variance shall not be effective if any such express condition is
not fulfilled or is violated or if the activity of the applicant exceeds any
express limitation in the variance. It shall be unlawful for any person to
cause or permit the use of any property in violation of the express conditions
or limitations of any variance granted with respect to such property.
   (H)   Appeal. Appeal of a decision made by the Planning Commission shall be
filed and conducted in accordance with §
152.076.
   (I)   Administrative authority. The following type of variance application
can be handled administratively:
      (1)   Deviation from the minimum building setback of not more than 20%;
      (2)   Deviation from the building height limitation of not more than 10%;
      (3)   Deviation from a residential accessory dwelling living area of not
more than 5%; and
      (4)   Expansion of a conditional or non-conforming use by not more than
20% of the gross building volume.
   (J)   Time limit on and extension of approval of a variance.
      (1)   Authorization of a variance shall be void after six months if:
         (a)   A building permit has not been issued and substantial
construction has not taken place; or
         (b)   Construction on the site is a departure from the approved plan.
      (2)   The City Planner, in the case of an administrative action, or
Planning Commission, may, upon written request by the applicant, grant that
authorization may be extended for an additional six months; provided that:
         (a)   No changes are made on the original approved variance;
         (b)   The applicant can show intent of initiating construction on the
site within the six month extension period; and
         (c)   There have been no changes to the applicable Comprehensive Plan
policies and zoning ordinance provisions on which the approval was based.
      (3)   Notice of the decision regarding the extension shall be provided to
the applicant.
   (K)   Effect. No building or zoning permit shall be issued in any case where
a variance is required until 14 days after the decision of the City Planning
Commission is filed with the City Recorder, and then only in accordance with
the terms and conditions of said approval. An appeal from the action of the
Planning Commission shall automatically stay the issuance of the building or
other permit until such appeal has been completed and the City Council has
acted thereon.
   (L)   Time limitation. In the case where an application is denied by the
Planning Commission, or denied by the City Council on appeal from the Planning
Commission, unless specifically stated to be without prejudice, it shall not be
eligible for resubmittal for the period of one year from the date of said
denial unless, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, new evidence is
submitted or conditions have changed to an extent that further consideration is
warranted.
(Ord. 1283, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.074 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Non-conforming structure or use. A structure or use lawfully occupying
a site on the effective date of the original zoning ordinance, dated July 28,
1980, of or amendments thereto, which does not conform to the regulations for
the district in which it is located, shall be deemed to be a non-conforming
structure or use.
   (B)   Definitions.
      ALTERATION OF A NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. A partial change to a
structure, not involving enlargement of the external dimensions of the
structure.
      ALTERATION OF A NON-CONFORMING USE. A change in the characteristics of
the use (for example, hours of operation or type of vehicle serviced) but not a
change in the use.
      EXPANSION. Any increase in any external dimension of a structure, or any
increase in land area devoted to a use.
      REPLACEMENT OF STRUCTURE. Removal that exceeds 80% of an existing
structure and placement of a new structure.
      REPLACEMENT OF USE. The discontinuance of an existing use and
commencement of a new use.
      50% MARKET VALUE THRESHOLD. Alterations or expansions within any five-
year period, of which equals or exceeds 100% of the market value of the
structure (as indicated by the records of the County Assessor) at the beginning
of the five-year period. The 50% market value threshold shall not apply to an
alteration or expansion for purposes of conformance with the Flood Hazard
Overlay Zone.
   (C)   Burden of proof.
      (1)   In matters relating to the continuation, alteration, expansion or
replacement of a non-conforming structure or use, the applicant bears the
burden of proof for establishing:
         (a)   The current use or structure lawfully existed at the time the
applicable zoning requirement went into effect; and
         (b)   The level of use and/or dimensions of the structure that existed
at the time the applicable zoning requirement went into effect.
      (2)   Standard evidence that a use or structure has been maintained over
time may include dated documents such as: building permits, land use approvals,
development permits, other governmental permits, utility bills, tax records,
assessor records, loan statements, business license, directory listings,
published references or other documents deemed admissible by the City Planner.
      (3)   If the regulation, which rendered the structure or use non-
conforming, was enacted more than 20 years prior to the time of application,
the applicant need only provide evidence or information pertaining to the 20
years immediately previous to application.
      (4)   As part of the application process, the City Planner may require
the applicant to submit a site survey or similar information to assist in
making these determinations.
   (D)   Non-conforming use and structure regulations. Non-conforming uses and
structures may be continued, subject to the following regulations.
      (1)   Routine maintenance and repairs, including elevation changes for
flood requirement compliance, may be performed on sites, the structure or use
of which is non-conforming.
      (2)   No non-conforming structure or use shall be moved, altered or
enlarged without permission of the Planning Commission, unless required by law
or unless the moving, alteration or enlargement will be performed in the
elimination of the non-conformity.
      (3)   No structure partially occupied by a non-conforming use shall be
moved, altered or enlarged in such a way as to permit the enlargement of the
space occupied by the non-conforming use, without permission of the Planning
Commission.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, alteration or
expansion of a non-conforming use or structure shall be allowed if necessary to
comply with any lawful requirement.
   (E)   Criteria. The Planning Commission may grant an application for an
alteration, expansion or replacement of a non-conforming structure or use,
filed in accordance with the provisions of this Code, only if the non-
conforming structure or use is brought into conformance, or, on the basis of
the application and the evidence submitted, it makes findings that support the
following criteria:
      (1)   All proposed new construction will comply with all standards of the
zone;
      (2)   The request will have no greater adverse impact on neighboring
areas than the existing use or structure when the current zoning went into
effect, considering:
         (a)   A comparison of existing use or structure with the proposed
change using the following factors:
            1.   Noise, vibration, dust, odor, fumes, glare or smoke detectable
at the property line or off-site;
            2.   Numbers and kinds of vehicular trips to the site;
            3.   Amount and nature of outside storage, loading and parking;
            4.   Visual impact;
            5.   Hours of operation;
            6.   Effect on existing vegetation;
            7.   Effect on water drainage and water quality; and
            8.   Service or other benefit to the use or structure provided to
the area.
         (b)   The character and history of the use and of development in the
surrounding area.
      (3)   The request shall maintain a minimum separation of six feet between
structures, and comply with clear vision requirements; and either:
         (a)   The non-conforming structure or use, including the proposed
alteration/expansion, preserves the rights of neighboring property owners to
use and enjoy their land for legal purposes; or
         (b)   The applicant demonstrates that bringing the structure or use
into compliance is either physically impracticable or financially onerous, and
that mitigation will be implemented and maintained which will substantially
offset the impact(s) to neighboring property owners.
   (F)   Abandoned structures. If a non-conforming use has been changed to a
conforming use, or if the non-conforming use of a building, structure or
premises ceases for the period of one year or more, said use shall be
considered abandoned, and said building, structure or premises shall thereafter
be used only for uses permitted as a matter of right or as a conditional use in
the district in which it is located.
   (G)   Destruction. If a structure containing a non-conforming use is
destroyed by any cause, it may be rebuilt for that use subject to the
requirements that, if the structure is not returned to that use within one year
from the date of destruction, a future use on the site shall conform to this
chapter.
   (H)   Existing permits. Nothing contained in this chapter shall require any
change in the plans, construction, alteration or designated use of a structure
for which a valid permit exists prior to the adoption of this chapter and
subsequent amendments thereto, except that if the designated use will be non-
conforming, it shall be considered a discontinued use if not in operation
within one year of the date of issuance of the building zoning permit.
   (I)   Uses not enclosed. If an existing non-conforming use, or portion
thereof not housed or enclosed within a structure, occupies a portion of a lot
or parcel of land on the effective date hereof, the area of such use may not be
expanded. Nor shall the use, or any part thereof, be moved to any other portion
of the property not theretofore regularly and actually occupied by such use;
provided that, notwithstanding the preceding, this shall not apply where such
increase in area is for the purpose of increasing an off-street parking or
loading facility to the area specified in this chapter for the activity carried
on in the property. This shall not be construed as permitting unenclosed
commercial activities where otherwise prohibited by this chapter.
   (J)   Regulations for continuance. A building or structure lawfully
occupying a site on the effective date of the ordinance incorporated in this
chapter of or amendments thereto, which does not conform to the setback or
coverage regulations for the district in which it is located, shall be deemed
to be a non-conforming structure and may be continued, subject to the following
regulations.
      (1)   If a building or structure, in existence on the effective date of
this chapter and subject to any yard, location or coverage restriction imposed
by this Code, fails to comply with such restriction, such building or structure
may be enlarged or altered to the extent that such alteration or enlargement
does not itself encroach upon any required restriction.
      (2)   If a non-conforming structure is destroyed by any cause other than
a willful act by the owner(s) or his or her agent, it may be rebuilt within the
foundation and building outlines of that pre-existing structure. This is
subject to the requirement that, if destruction exceeds 50% of its assessed
value as indicated by the records of the County Assessor and it is not returned
to use within year, a future structure on the site shall conform to this
chapter. The willful removal or destruction of the structure by the owner(s) or
his or her agent does not entitle the right to replace the structure to its
original form and, hence, any new structure on the property must conform to the
lot requirements as specified for the applicable zoning district.
(Ord. 1283, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 1335, passed 7-2-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.075 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   This chapter, the city’s Comprehensive Plan text and map and zone map
may be amended by changing the boundaries of zone districts or by changing any
other provisions thereof. Whenever the public necessity, convenience or the
general welfare requires such an amendment, such a change may be proposed by
the City Council on its own motion or by motion of the Planning Commission, or
by petition as hereinafter set forth. Any such proposed amendment or change
shall first be submitted to the Planning Commission.
   (B)   (1)   Application and fee. An application for amendment by a property
owner or his or her authorized agent shall be filed with the City Recorder. If
the amendment involves a boundary change, the application shall be made on the
forms provided by the city, accompanied by a site plan drawn to scale showing
the property involved and adjacent land. A fee as set forth in the city’s fee
schedule, in §
152.004, shall accompany each application. The applicant shall pay the costs of
notification and publication required by this chapter. The failure of the
applicant to meet any or all conditions, stipulations or limitations contained
in the resolution, including the time limit placed in the resolution, shall
render the resolution of intent to re-zone null and void, unless an extension
is granted by the City Council upon recommendation of the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Public hearing on an amendment. Before taking final action on a
proposed amendment, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
thereon. After receipt of the report on the amendment from the Planning
Commission, the Council shall hold a public hearing on the amendment.
         (a)   Notice of hearing. Notice of time and place of the public
hearing before the Planning Commission and of the purpose of the proposed
amendment shall be given by the City Recorder in the following manner.
            1.   If an amendment to the text is proposed, the notice shall be
by publication on the city’s website and social media outlets, in a press
release to local publications known to the city and posting in three prominent
places of public viewing at least ten days prior to the date of hearing. If an
amendment to the zoning map is proposed, the notice shall be as provided in §
152.004.
            2.   Failure of a person to receive the notice shall not invalidate
any proceedings in connection with the proposed amendment.
         (b)   Recess of hearing. The Planning Commission may recess a hearing
in order to obtain additional information or to serve further notice upon other
property owners or persons it decides may be interested in the proposed
amendment. Upon recessing for this purpose, the Planning Commission shall
announce the time and date when the hearing will be resumed.
         (c)   Recommendation by the Planning Commission to City Council. At
the conclusion of the Planning Commission public hearing, the Planning
Commission may make a recommendation to the City Council to approve, approve
with changes or deny the zone change or amendment(s). The Planning Commission
shall, in any case, render its decision on any application within 40 days after
a hearing.
         (d)   Public hearing held by City Council. Notice of the hearing to be
held by the Council on the proposed amendment to the Zoning Code shall be given
as provided in §
152.004.
      (3)   Action by the City Council. At the conclusion of the public
hearing, the City Council may enact an ordinance granting the zone change or
amendment, or may, by motion, deny the granting of the zone change or
amendment. The City Council shall, in any event, render its decision on any
application within 40 days after the public hearing; provided, however, that
nothing shall prohibit the City Council from, by motion, postponing disposition
of the application to a definite time past the said 40-day period.
      (4)   Record of amendments. The signed copy of each amendment to the text
and the map of this chapter shall be maintained on file in the office of the
City Recorder. A record of such amendments shall be maintained in a form
convenient for the use of the public.
      (5)   Resubmittal. In a case where a petition for an amendment is denied
by the City Council, said petition shall not be eligible for resubmittal for
one year from the date of said denial, unless such denial was specifically
stated to be without prejudice. A new petition affecting the same property must
be, in the opinion of the Planning Commission and the City Council,
substantially different from the petition denied, to be eligible for
consideration within one year from the said date of denial, unless the first
denial was denied without prejudice, or the Planning Commission finds that
conditions have changed to the extent that further consideration is warranted.
      (6)   Resolution of intent to re-zone. If, from the findings presented
and recommendations of the Planning Commission, as required in §
152.075 hereof, the City Council determines that the public health, safety,
welfare and convenience will be best served by a proposed change of zone, the
City Council may indicate its general approval in principal of the proposed re-
zoning by the adoption of a “resolution of intent to re-zone” the area
involved. This resolution shall include any conditions, stipulations or
limitations, which the City Council may feel necessary to require in the public
interest as a pre-requisite to final action, including those provisions which
the City Council may feel necessary to prevent speculative holdings of the
property after re-zoning. The fulfillment of all conditions, stipulations and
limitations contained in said resolution, on the part of the applicant, shall
make such resolution a binding commitment on the City Council. Such a
resolution shall not be used to justify spot zoning, to create unauthorized
zoning categories by excluding uses otherwise permitted in the proposed zoning
or by imposing setback, area or coverage restrictions not specified in the
chapter for the zoning classification, or as a substitute for a variance. Upon
completion of compliance action by the applicant, the City Council shall, by
ordinance, effect such re-zoning.
      (7)   Required submittals. Submittals required for a Comprehensive Plan
and zoning map amendment:
         (a)   Basic proposal description;
         (b)   Size, shape and orientation of the subject property;
         (c)   Analysis of residential land/commercial land/public and semi-
public land within the UGB, including such things as:
            1.   Acreage needed for each land use type for the 20-year planning
period; and
            2.   Acreage left for each land use type if proposed change occurs
(if, after the proposed change, there is a shortage in one of the land use
types, the Planning Commission may consider converting other land in surplus of
20-year planning period to fill the need).
         (d)   Applicability of land use objectives of both existing and the
proposed zoning districts;
         (e)   Analysis of the need for the change;
         (f)   Economic and population data for the affected area that may be
necessary as part of the amendment of the Comprehensive Plan;
         (g)   Compatibility with surrounding land uses/current use of
surrounding land;
         (h)   Surrounding parcel sizes;
         (i)   Zoning history of the subject property and surrounding
properties;
         (j)   Traffic circulation and proposed traffic impact analysis;
         (k)   Existing/proposed/availability of public services, such as:
            1.   Sewer;
            2.   Water;
            3.   Access roads;
            4.   Fire/police protection; and
            5.   Parks and schools.
         (l)   Environmental issues, such as:
            1.   Floodplains;
            2.   Wetlands; and
            3.   Steep slopes.
         (m)   Feasibility for development of rezoned properties;
         (n)   Additional criteria and standards within the applicable plan and
zoning ordinance should be addressed; and
         (o)   Consistency with Statewide Planning Goals 1 (Citizen
Involvement), 9 (Economic Development), 10 (Housing), 11 (Public Facilities and
Services) and 12 (Transportation), as contained in the Oregon Administrative
Rules.
      (8)   Amendment criteria. The Planning Commission and City Council shall
determine that text amendments to the zoning codes or the Comprehensive Plan
and zone change requests meet the following criteria:
         (a)   Rezoning of the subject property and any applicable text
amendments to the zoning codes or Comprehensive Plan will conform with the
intent of and will be consistent with all policies of the Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   Rezoning of the subject property any applicable text amendments
to the zoning codes or Comprehensive Plan will conform with the intent of the
zoning designation to which the subject property is proposed to be changed, as
defined in the purpose statement of the proposed zone;
         (c)   Rezoning of the subject property any applicable text amendments
to the zoning codes or Comprehensive Plan will not seriously interfere with the
permitted uses on other nearby and surrounding parcels;
         (d)   Rezoning of the subject property any applicable text amendments
to the zoning codes or Comprehensive Plan are better suited to the purposes of
the proposed zone that it is to the purposes of the existing zone;
         (e)   Rezoning of the subject property will not adversely impact the
orderly provision of public services (water, sewer, police, fire, schools and
the like) in the area in which the property is located;
         (f)   Rezoning of the subject property will not adversely impact the
road and street system serving the area in which the property is located; and
         (g)   Rezoning and any applicable text amendments to the zoning codes
or Comprehensive Plan are consistent with statewide planning goals, as
contained in the Oregon Revised Statute and the Oregon Administrative Rules as
follows:
            1.   Oregon Revised Statutes (O.R.S.):
               a.   O.R.S. 197.250, compliance with statewide planning goals;
               b.   O.R.S. 197.610, submission of proposed changes; and
               c.   O.R.S. 227.186, notice to property owners.
            2.   Oregon Required Administrative Rules (O.A.R.):
               a.   O.A.R. 660-003-0010, acknowledgment procedures and notice;
               b.   O.A.R. 660-012-0060, plan and land use regulation
amendments;
               c.   O.A.R. 660-025-0010, periodic review; and
               d.   Associated administrative rules for each state goal.
(Ord. 1283, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 1320, passed 3-20-2017; Ord. 1335, passed 7-
2-2018) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.076 APPEALS, GENERAL.
   (A)   Hearing of appeals by Planning Commission or City Council. The
Planning Commission shall have the power to hear appeals from administrative
decisions, and to declare the meaning and intent, and interpret the provisions
of the Development Code, unless a corresponding interpretation has been made by
resolution of the City Council. In thus resolving ambiguities on appeal, the
Planning Commission shall so interpret the Development Code as to carry out
division (B). In the event of an ambiguity in this Development Code affecting
enforcement thereof, the City Council shall have the power to hear and decide
appeals from Planning Commission interpretations, and to declare the meaning
and intent, and interpret the provisions of the Development Code. In thus
resolving ambiguities on such appeal the City Council shall so interpret this
chapter as to carry out division (C) below. Final action on an application for
a permit, limited land use decision, conditional use permit, variance or zone
change, including resolution of all appeals, shall be taken by the governing
body of the city within 120 days after the application is deemed complete
(according to O.R.S. 227.180).
   (B)   (1)   Appeal to Planning Commission.
         (a)   1.   Any appeal from a decision of the administration shall be
based on a specific issue about the criteria and/or standards raised in the
administrative decision that pertains to this chapter, and shall be filed with
the Planning Commission within 14 days of written notice (signed and mailed) of
the administrative decision. The Planning Commission shall consider such appeal
on the record and render its decision within 60 days of the receipt of the
appeal. Any action of the Planning Commission interpreting any uncertainty or
ambiguity may be in the form of a final order, and shall be signed by the
President or presiding member of the Planning Commission and filed with the
City Recorder.
            2.   Notice of the appeal public hearing shall be by one
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, not less than
four days nor more than ten days prior to the date of the hearing the same as
that required for the original decision, but shall include other interested
parties who may testified during the original decision.
         (b)   The action of the Planning Commission shall be final and an
appeal shall not be heard by the City Council if the appeal period has lapsed.
   (C)   Appeal to City Council.
      (1)   (a)   The appellant must be an interested party who has
participated either orally or in writing in previous Planning Commission
proceedings pertaining to the decision under appeal. The appeal must be made
within 14 days of the written notice of decision action of the Planning
Commission, in writing to the City Council. All appeals shall be made in
writing, based on a specific issue about the criteria and/or standards raised
during the Planning Commission hearing, dated and signed by the appellant. Such
appeal shall be filed with the City Recorder with the appropriate fee listed in
§
152.004 within 14 days after the written notice of decision action of the
Planning Commission.
         (b)   The City Council shall consider such appeal and render its
decision within 60 days of the receipt of the appeal. In no instance, however,
shall this period extend the date of the hearing and final action beyond 120
days from the date of the initial submission of a complete application, unless
voluntarily agreed to by the applicant. Notice of the appeal hearing shall be
the same as that required for the original decision, but shall include other
interested parties who testified during the original decision.
      (2)   City Council - land use hearings procedures.
         (a)   It shall be the duty of the City Council, upon receiving an
application of appeal of a decision by the Planning Commission, to receive and
examine available information, including Planning Commission transcripts per §
152.004, and conduct a hearing on behalf of the applicant or other interested
party. Individual City Council members may tour the site at any time prior to
the Council rendering its decision, and must disclose ex parte contact, but
there is no requirement that City Council members do so. The Mayor may call a
special City Council meeting to tour the site should he or she determine a
unique need exists due to site characteristics or complexity of proposed
development. A written decision will be rendered within 30 days of the hearing
and will be considered final. In no case, however, shall this decision and
preparation of written findings extend beyond 120 days from the date of initial
submittal of a complete application.
(O.R.S. 227.178)
         (b)   The City Council shall review the record of the prior proceeding
(s), and may ask for clarification or additional information from the
participating parties as it relates to the record. Full disclosure of both
parties of the issues of concern must have been at the staff or Planning
Commission level.
         (c)   The City Council shall establish and issue rules of procedures
and standards for the conduct of hearings.
         (d)   The City Council may affirm, rescind or amend the action of the
Planning Commission and may grant approval subject to conditions necessary to
carry out the Comprehensive Plan and the zoning ordinance. The City Council may
also remand the matter back to the Planning Commission for additional
information subject to the agreement of the applicant to extend the 120-day
review period.
         (e)   The City Council shall make and enter findings from the record
and conclusions thereof which support its decision; and the findings and
conclusions shall set forth and demonstrate the manner in which the decision
shall be carried out, as well as the implementation of the goals and objectives
of the Comprehensive Plan, the zoning ordinance and other official policies and
objectives of the city.
(Ord. 1283, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 1335, passed 7-2-2018)
§ 152.077 REVOCATION OF PERMITS OR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Revocation of permits, automatic if not used. Any planned unit
development permit, conditional use permit, home occupation permit, change of
use permit, site plan approval or variance granted in accordance with the terms
of this chapter shall be deemed null and void if not used within one year from
the date of approval or such time as specified by the Planning Commission. Said
permit shall not be deemed used until the applicant has actually obtained a
building permit, and commenced construction thereunder.
   (B)   Revocation for non-compliance with conditions. Any planned unit
development permit, conditional use permit, home occupation permit, change of
use permit, site plan approval, variance or other land use action, as listed in
this chapter, granted in accordance with the terms of this chapter may be null
and void if any of the conditions or terms of such permit or variance are
violated, or if any law or ordinance is violated in connection therewith. If,
after notice and hearing, a planned unit development permit is revoked for a
substantial violation of any of its conditions, the City Council may reconsider
any zone change granted in connection with the planned unit development and
restore the zoning existing prior to such revocations, but any such proposed
change of zone shall follow the procedures otherwise specified for zone changes
herein.
   (C)   Public hearing. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on
any proposed revocation after giving written notice to the permittee and to
other owners of property as set forth in §
152.004. The Planning Commission shall render its decision within 45 days after
the conclusion of the hearing. In case the permittee is not satisfied with the
action of the Commission, he or she may appeal the Planning Commission decision
to the City Council in the manner provided in §§
152.004 and
152.076.
(Ord. 1283, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the City Manager to enforce this
chapter. All departments, officials and public employees of the city, vested
with the duty or authority to issue permits, shall conform to the provisions of
this Development Code and shall issue no permit, certificate or license for any
use, building or purpose which violates or fails to comply with conditions or
standards imposed by this Development Code. Any permit, certificate or license
issued in conflict with the provisions of this Development Code,
unintentionally or otherwise, shall be void.
   (B)   Penalties for violation. Any person, firm or corporation, whether as
principal, agent, employee or otherwise, violating or causing the violation of
any of the provisions of this Development Code shall be guilty of a violation,
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than
$1,500. Such person, firm or corporation shall be deemed guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day during any portion of which any violation of
this Development Code is committed or continued by such a person, firm or
corporation and shall be punishable as herein provided.
   (C)   Injunctive relief. The foregoing sanctions shall not be exclusive, and
where the public health, safety, morals or general welfare will be better
served thereby, the City Manager may institute such proceedings for injunctive
relief against a continuing violation as may be authorized by the statutes of
the state. In the enforcement of provisions prohibiting nuisances caused by
odor, sound, vibration and the like, the City Manager may seek injunction
against the specific device, activity or practice causing the nuisance.
   (D)   Evidence. In any prosecution for causing or maintaining any condition
or use of, or activity on, or constructing, moving or maintaining any structure
on, any premises in violation of this Development Code, a person in possession
or control of the premises, as owner or lessee at the time of the violation or
continuance thereof, shall be presumed to be the person who constructed, moved,
caused or maintained the unlawful activity, use, condition or structure. This
presumption shall be rebuttable and either the city or the defendant in such
prosecution shall have the right to show that the offense was committed by some
person other than, or in addition to, an owner or lessee or other person in
possession or control of the premises; but this shall not be construed as
relieving a person in possession and control of property from any duty imposed
upon him or her by this Development Code. For the purposes hereof, the person
to whom the premises are taxed according to the records of the County Assessor
shall be prima facie evidence the person in possession or control of the
premises. Where premises on which the violation is committed are commercial or
industrial premises on which a sign is situated identifying the commercial or
industrial activity conducted thereon, or displaying the real or assumed
business name of a person or proprietor thereof, the same shall constitute
prima facie evidence that the person whose name is thus displayed is in
possession or control of the premises as owner or lessee, but this shall not be
construed to relieve from responsibility any agent, manager, employee or other
person who actually committed the violation.
   (E)   Abatement. Where, because of the absence of the responsible person, or
persons from the city or from the state, as the case may be, the courts of the
city or the state cannot secure effective jurisdiction over the person or
persons responsible for the cause or continuation of a structure or condition
erected or maintained in violation of this Development Code, or where the City
Council deems it important to the public interest that the unlawful structure
or condition be removed or corrected without delay, the City Council may, after
notice and hearing, order the removal of the unlawful structure or condition
and, if such removal or correction is not effected within the time prescribed
in the order, the City Manager shall cause such abatement, going upon the
premises with such workers or equipment as may be necessary and the City
Council shall thereafter, by ordinance, assess the cost of abatement against
the real property. The lien of the assessment shall be enforced in the same
manner as in the case of street improvement liens. Notice of hearing shall be
sufficient if given 30 days in advance of the hearing, either by personal
delivery or by mailing the same to the last known address of the owner of the
property, as shown by the County Assessor’s records. The order shall be served
upon the owner or responsible person in the manner prescribed for the notice of
hearing, and the owner or responsible person shall have such period of time
after service of the order, but less than 30 days, as the City Council may deem
to be reasonably necessary to accomplish the requirements of the order. The
notice of hearing and the abatement order shall contain a notice to the
property owner, or other person served, that the city shall not be responsible
for the condition or storage of the component parts of, or personal property
situated within, the structure following abatement by the city. The remedy of
abatement shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, the other remedies
prescribed in this section.
   (F)   General penalty. Any person, firm or corporation, whether as
principal, agent, employee or otherwise, violating or causing the violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation, and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or by
imprisonment in the county jail for a term not to exceed 100 days or both such
fine and imprisonment. Such person, firm or corporation shall be deemed guilty
of a separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which any
violation of this chapter is committed or continued by such a person, firm or
corporation and shall be punishable as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 153.999) (Ord. 979, passed 7-28-1980; Ord. 1283, passed 12-2-
2013; Ord. 1315, passed 6-6-2016)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ELECTIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES, CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   PUBLIC WAYS; DEDICATIONS AND VACATIONS
      
IV.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
      
V.   ANNEXATIONS
      
VI.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
VII.   MISCELLANEOUS
TABLE I: ELECTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
608      6-3-1946    Charter amendment, bond issue (sewers)
620      7-2-1947    Charter amendment, providing for establishment of a City
                     Manager plan of government
639      3-21-1949   Charter amendment, bond issue (streets)
646      9-6-1949    Charter amendment, bond issue (streets)
                     Charter amendment, prohibit right of appeal in minor
655      4-17-1950   offenses, abolishing Office of Treasurer and combining
                     duties with City Recorder
658      5-1-1950    Charter amendment, bond issue (streets)
706      2-4-1957    Charter amendment
777      10-6-1966   Charter amendment, Article XVIII
793      10-21-1968  Revenue bonds for sewer improvements
847      12-29-1975  Charter amendment, Article IV, 1a, 1b, 1c [defeated]
851      5-17-1976   Charter amendment, bond issue (sewers)
852      7-6-1976    Charter amendment, Article IV, 1a, 1b, 1c
856      1-3-1977    Firefighters tax levy
902      8-22-1977   Annexation and construction of planned unit development
952      4-16-1979   Charter amendment, Article XX
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES, CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
28     11-14- Telegraph franchise between Bay City and Tillamook Telegraph (indefinite term)
       1891
144    4-20-  Electricity franchise with Clark E. Hadley, for 99 years
       1903
       12-6-  Grant permission to Standard Oil Company to locate, operate and maintain
305    1915   buildings and tanks for storage and distribution of petroleum and products (no
              date)
389    3-22-  Grant permission to Union Oil Company of California to maintain warehouses,
       1920   tanks for distribution of petroleum and its products (no date)
602    5-15-  Spur line permit for Southern Pacific RR (indefinite term)
       1945
772    9-20-  Railroad franchise for Southern Pacific RR (indefinite term)
       1965
1147   7-22-  Loan contract with Oregon Economic Development Department
       1996
1179   11-4-  Amending Ordinance 1043, Urban Growth Management Agreement
       2002
1193   7-6-   Cable television franchise to Falcon Telecable, a California Limited
       2004   Partnership, d.b.a. Charter Communications (expires 8-5-2014)
1203   11-21- Telecommunicati ons franchise to United Telephone Company of the Northwest,
       2005   d.b.a. Sprint (ten years)
1260   12-21- Intergovernmental agreement with Tillamook County for urban growth management
       2011   to provide for future intergovernmental planning and regulatory action
1281   8-5-   Telecommunicati ons franchise to CoastCom, Inc. (ten years)
       2013
       7-16-  Intergovernmental agreement with the county for building inspection services
489    2014   (Agreement file – no expiration date – either party may terminate with 180 day
              notice)
1306   12-14- Cable services franchise to Falcon Telecable, a California Limited
       2015   Partnership, locally known as Charter Communications
Res.   7-18-  Approving the assignment of a franchise to construct, operate and maintain a
1709   2016   telecommunicatio ns network to CoastCom, Inc.
1319   9-19-  Granting a franchise to construct, operate and maintain a telecommunicatio ns
       2016   network to Lightspeed Networks, Inc. (ten years)
1321   11-21- Electrical franchise to Tillamook People’s Utility District (five years)
       2016
1331   11-6-  Solid waste management and franchise agreement
       2017
Res.   12-8-  Wireless communications facilities franchise to Cellco Partnership, d.b.a.
1833   2020   Verizon Wireless
040422 4-18-  Amending Tillamook People’s Utility District (TPUD) franchise agreement
       2022
021825 3-3-   Granting a nonexclusive telecommunications franchise with Ziply Fiber Pacific,
       2025   LLC
             
 
TABLE III: PUBLIC WAYS; DEDICATIONS AND VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date   Description
         Passed
618      5-5-   Vacating middle Block 1, Park Addition
         1947
618a     6-16-  Vacating alley Block 1, Park Addition
         1947
647      8-9-   Vacating portion Fifth Avenue West, Stillwell’s Addition
         1949
702      8-6-   Vacating alley Blocks 1 and 2, Parkway Manor Addition
         1956
714      8-21-  Vacating Cedar Avenue, between Blocks 5 and 7, Coats Subdivision; also portion
         1958   of Dogwood Avenue, Block 7
746      10-3-  Vacating alley Lots 2 and 3, Block 1, First Addition
         1960
751      5-1-   Vacating alley Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, Block 5, Tillamook Addition
         1961
756      7-2-   Vacating alley Eleventh and Twelfth Streets, Block 7, Norton’s Addition
         1962
759      12-17- Vacating portion of Hemlock Avenue
         1962
787      2-19-  Vacating alley Block 2, Stillwell’s Addition
         1963
775      4-4-   Vacating portion of Twelfth Street
         1966
784      12-18- Vacating portion of Eighth Street
         1967
819      1-15-  Vacation (unnamed)
         1973
821      3-19-  Amends Ordinance 775
         1973
825      3-18-  Amends Ordinance 775
         1974
826      6-17-  Amends Ordinance 775
         1974
831      1-20-  Vacating portion plat of Hathaway Meade Acres
         1975
876      4-11-  Vacating alley Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, Block 8, Goodspeed’s Second
         1977   Addition
954      5-21-  Vacating portion of Fir Avenue lying northerly of Front Street
         1979
954      5-22-  Vacation of portion of Fir Avenue lying northerly of Front Street
         1979
962      10-2-  Vacating alley Block 5, Tillamook Addition
         1979
963      10-15- Vacating portion of Tenth Street lying east of Miller Avenue
         1979
964      10-15- Vacating alley Block 4, Norton’s Addition
         1979
999      8-3-   Vacating portion of Grove Avenue lying northerly of Front Street
         1981
1025     11-15- Vacating portion of Nestucca Avenue
         1982
1036     10-18- Vacating easterly one foot of Stillwell Avenue
         1983
1068     4-21-  Vacating portion of alley between Fifth and Sixth Streets and Douglas and Elm
         1986   Avenue
1082     12-21- Vacating portion of Eighth Street lying east of the east right-of-way line of
         1987   Park Avenue
1083     12-21- Vacating portion of Laurel Avenue lying between Blocks 29 and 30 of Thayer’s
         1987   Third Addition
1105     5-7-   Vacating southerly 100 feet lying between Lot 5, Block 29 and Lot 8, Block 48
         1990   of the Thayer’s Addition
1132     9-19-  Vacating an alley within Block 8 of Norton’s Addition
         1994
1133     10-3-  Vacating an alley within Block 2 of Maple Grove Addition
         1994
1134     10-17- Vacating 20 feet of right-of-way on Douglas Avenue between Front and First
         1994   Streets
1141     9-5-   Vacating a portion of Sixth Street adjacent to Tax Lot 12600
         1995
1151     2-3-   Vacating Ash Avenue between Second Street and Third Street
         1997
1163     1-2-   Vacating a street/alley within Block 2, Park Addition
         2001
1181     1-6-   Vacating an alley within Block 4, Park Addition
         2003
1191     4-19-  Vacating a portion of Fifth Street, as described
         2004
1200     2-22-  Vacating a portion of Ivy Avenue south of the right-of-way of Third Street and
         2005   north of the north right-of- way of Fourth Street, McDermott’s Addition
1235     7-21-  Vacating an alley within Block 3, Tillamook Addition
         2008
1247     3-1-   Renaming Marine Park to Sue H. Elmore Park
         2010
1255     3-7-   Vacating a portion of Fifth Street, as described
         2011
1258     9-19-  Vacating an alley within Block 3 of Maple Grove Addition
         2011
1259     10-3-  Naming the right-of- way north of Hoquarton Slough, south of Wilson River and
         2011   the city limits line as North Main Avenue
                Vacating a portion of Second Street west of Birch Avenue, east of Ash Avenue
1268     6-26-  between Blocks 3 and 10 of the Second Stillwell Addition and a portion of Ash
         2012   Avenue extending a distance of approximately 270 feet north of Second Street
                west of Block 3 of the Second Stillwell Addition
1297     12-1-  Vacating alley within Block 6 of the Maple Grove Addition
         2014
Res.     9-8-   Accepting offers from the State Department of Transportation for permanent
1692     2015   easements for highway right-of- way purposes on city property
1307     1-19-  Vacating Grove Avenue between First Street and Front Street and between Block
         2016   3 and Block 4
         3-7-   Vacating Cedar Avenue, north of Front Street, west of Tide Lot 8, of
1310A    2016   Stillwell’s Addition and the vacation of a 20-foot wide right-of-way west of
                Elm Avenue between Lots 7, 8 and 9 of the Parkway Manor Addition
         11-21- Vacating a 60-foot street right-of-way extending east-west a distance of
1323     2016   approximately 944 feet from the east side of Pacific Avenue right-of-way to a
                point approximately 200 feet west from the Miller Avenue right-of-way
Res.     2-21-  Dedicating a portion of the intersection of Third Street and Marolf Loop Road
1720     2017   to be used as public right- of-way
Res.     6-5-   Dedicating a portion of Beachwood Avenue and Fifth Street to be used as public
1727     2017   right-of- way
Res.     3-18-  Changing the name of the Heritage Recreation Area and Hadley Fields to Hadley
1777     2019   Recreation Area and Joe Champion Fields
1353     1-21-  Vacating an alley between First Street and Front Street and the alley between
         2020   Fir Avenue and Grove Avenue, Block 4
090721   9-20-  Re-naming Hemlick Lane to Bob Hemlick Lane
         2021
110121   11-16- Vacating a portion of alley between Lots 2 and 7 of Block 7 of the Parks
         2021   Addition
100322   11-7-  Vacating a public access easement granted by Partition Plat 2018-9
         2022
R060324A 6-3-   Re-naming 2nd Street Plaza to Henson Plaza
         2024
R061724C 6-17-  Re-naming Joe Champion Fields to Humberto Maciel Fields
         2024
102124B  11-4-  Vacating northern portion of Evergreen Drive between Third Street and Highway
         2024   6
               
 
TABLE IV: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
713      7-13-1958   Sewer
1034     9-6-1983    Sewer
1131     7-18-1994   Creating Local Improvement District (LID) 70, curbs and
                     sidewalks
1139     5-1-1995    Creating LID 71, curbs and sidewalks
                    
 
TABLE V: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
675       12-1-1952   High school property
692       12-19-1955  Hathaway Meade area
694       2-6-1956    Hathaway Meade area
758       11-5-1962   Hathaway Meade area - jurisdiction over public ways
824       2-19-1974   Portion Goodspeed’s Park Addition
827       10-7-1974   Property north of Twelfth Street
828       11-4-1974   Metes and bounds
880       4-18-1977   Portion Meadowlark Estates, hearing
920       4-17-1978   Metes and bounds, hearing
921       5-1-1978    Metes and bounds, hearing
922       6-5-1978    Metes and bounds
923       6-19-1978   Metes and bounds
928       9-18-1978   Northeast corner of Twelfth Street and Evergreen Drive;
                      large parking area and Ace Hardware building; hearing
930       10-2-1978   Metes and bounds, withdrawal
935       11-6-1978   Metes and bounds
933       11-20-1978  Metes and bounds
934       11-20-1978  Northeast corner of Twelfth Street
939       1-2-1979    Metes and bounds
940       1-2-1979    Metes and bounds, hearing
941       1-2-1979    Metes and bounds, withdrawal
946       2-20-1979   Metes and bounds, withdrawal
948       2-20-1979   Metes and bounds
953       5-21-1979   Metes and bounds, withdrawal
967       12-17-1979  Metes and bounds, hearing
968       3-17-1980   Metes and bounds
987       12-1-1980   Metes and bounds, hearing
1012      6-21-1982   Metes and bounds
1017      9-7-1982    Metes and bounds, withdrawal
1018      9-7-1982    Metes and bounds, hearing
1023      11-1-1982   Metes and bounds
                     
1026      12-20-1982  Metes and bounds, withdrawal
1035      10-3-1983   Metes and bounds, hearing
1037      11-7-1983   United Methodist Church
1045      4-2-1984    Metes and bounds, withdrawal
1046      4-2-1984    Metes and bounds, withdrawal
1067      3-17-1986   Amends Ordinance 1037
1084      2-2-1988    United Methodist Church
1100      1-16-1990   Shilo Inn, Phase 2
1104      4-16-1990   Shilo Inn
1108      9-17-1990   East Third Street
1110      9-17-1990   West Third Street
1138      5-1-1995    Annexing approximately eight acres west of Highway 101,
                      between Dougherty and Hall Sloughs, metes and bounds
1199      2-7-2005    Annexing 76 tax lots, being 123.44 acres, as identified
1248      3-15-2010   Annexing 18 tax lots, being 43.53 acres, as identified
1261      12-5-2011   Annexing properties located in Sections 28 and 29,
                      Township 1 South, Range 9 West
1299      1-20-2015   Metes and bounds
Res. 1680 2-2-2015    Annexing Tax Lot 100, being 21 acres, as identified
1300      3-2-2015    Metes and bounds
Res. 1697 1-19-2016   Annexing 18 tax lots, being 6.3 acres, as identified,
                      hearing
1308      3-7-2016    Annexing 18 tax lots, being 6.36 acres, as identified
Res. 1711 10-3-2016   Portion of Third Street
Res. 1775 1-22-2019   Portion of Twelfth Street
                     
 
TABLE VI: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
1050 5-21-  Rezoning Lots 3-12 of Block 2 and all of Block 3 in the Maple Gove Addition
     1984   from C- C Central Commercial to R-O Residential
1064 7-15-  Rezoning Tax Lots 3400, 3700, 3800, 3900, 4000 and 4100 of 1S930DA from R-
     1985   5.0 Single-Family Duplex to R-O Residential Office
1081 7-6-   Rezoning Tax Lot 200 of 1SO 29 from I-L Light Industrial to R-O Residential
     1987   Office
1137 5-1-   Rezoning eight acres adjacent to Main Avenue from County Farm (F-1) to City
     1995   Highway Commercial (C-H); amending Urban Growth Boundary
1148 10-7-  Rezoning 8.54 acres, being Parcel 2 of Partition Plat 1995-43, from Public
     1996   Semi- Public (P&S-P) to Multi-Family Residential (R-O)
1149 12-2-  Rezoning ten acres, being Parcel 1 of Partition Plat 1995-43, from Public
     1996   Semi- Public (P&S-P) to Multi-Family Residential (R-O)
1210 5-15-  Rezoning the “Armory Site”, Tax Lots 7800 and 7801 of Map 1S10W25AD, from
     2006   Public Semi-Public (P&S-P) to Central Commercial (C-C)
1218 5-7-   Rezoning the “Old Library,” Tax Lot 9400 of 1S10W25AD, from Public Semi-
     2007   Public (P&S-P) to Central Commercial (C-C)
1224 9-17-  Rezoning Tax Lot 900 of 1S1025AC from Single-Family Residential (R-7.5) to
     2007   Light Industrial (I-L)
            Rezoning Tax Lot 600 of 1S9W30BB, Lot 1,000 of 1S10W24D, Lot 200 of
1231 4-7-   1S10W25AA, Lots 300 and 301 of 1S10W25AA from Highway Commercial (C-H) to
     2008   Open Space (OS); and rezoning Tax Lot 200TC of 1S9W30BC from Central
            Commercial (C-C) to Open Space (OS)
Res. 5-6-   Enterprise zone boundary change and re-designating the String of Pearls
1785 2019   enterprise zone
     8-19-  Rezoning Tax Map 01S09W30BC00400 and 01S09W30BC00500 from Commercial (CC) to
1349 2019   Parks (P); rezoning Tax Map 01S10W250000400 from Open Space (OS) to
            Residential (R-0); rezoning Tax Map 1S10W25AD00501 from I-L to C-C
Res. 10-21- Rezoning Tax Lot 0100 of Map 1S10W24D0 and Tax Lot 00400 of Map 1S9W30BB from
1801 2019   Public (P) to Highway Commercial (H-C)
 
TABLE VII: MISCELLANEOUS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
1313      - -         Hoquarton Waterfront Plan adopted
245       5-29-1912   Creation of Sewer District No. 1
581       9-15-1941   Changing names of certain streets and avenues
715       3-16-1959   Naming of avenues and numbering of buildings in annexed
                      area
745       7-5-1960    Amends Ordinance 715
749       1-3-1961    Creation of Sewer District No. 36
834       5-5-1975    Acquiring of property for City Hall and off-street
                      parking
835       5-5-1975    Acquiring of property for City Hall and off-street
                      parking
960       8-20-1979   Sewer system improvements
1011      6-21-1982   Sewer system improvements
1019      9-7-1982    Sewer system improvements
1187      11-3-2003   Transportation System Plan adopted
1204      11-21-2005  Storm Water Drainage Master Plan adopted
1208      4-17-2006   Transportation System Plan amended
1215      11-20-2006  Urban Renewal Plan adopted
1243      11-16-2009  Urban Renewal Plan amended
1270      10-15-2012  Tillamook Comprehensive Plan (repealed the prior
                      Comprehensive Plan)
1270      7-15-2013   Amends the Comprehensive Plan EOA for the Tillamook
                      Region
Res. 1646 9-3-2013    Forming the Helmick Sanitary Sewer Reimbursement District
1287      4-7-2014    Moratorium on medical marijuana dispensaries
1289      5-5-2014    Codification acceptance and incorporation of new
                      legislation, amends Ord. 893
Res. 1670 7-7-2014    Pavement Preventative Maintenance Plan adopted (2014 to
                      2024)
1312      5-16-2016   Amending Ord. 1270, Comprehensive Plan/Zoning Maps and
                      Hoquarton Waterfront Plan
1313      5-16-2016   Adopting the Hoquarton Waterfront Plan and amending the
                      Comprehensive Plan
1316      7-5-2016    Amending zoning code and the Hoquarton Waterfront Overlay
                      (HWO) District and HWO District Map
1318      9-6-2016    Amends the Comprehensive Plan
1322      1-17-2017   Amends the Hoquarton Waterfront Plan and Comprehensive
                      Plan
1328      6-5-2017    Amending the Comprehensive Plan Zoning Map
Res. 1732 7-6-2017    Adopting the Tillamook Area Chamber of Commerce
                      Wayfinding Plan
1330      8-24-2017   Amending the Hoquarton Waterfront Plan pages 57 and 69
                      and Comprehensive Plan
Res. 1737 8-24-2017   2017 Multi- Jurisdictional Natural Hazards Mitigation
                      Plan adopted
1348      7-1-2019    Transportation System Plan Update 1 and Update 2 adopted
080221    8-16-2021   Amends the Comprehensive Plan
                      Reclassifies all outside Tillamook water districts to
R040124   4-1-2024    industrial use, sets provisions in place for a water rate
                      study and individual inter-governmental agreements
R050624A  5-6-2024    2023 Multi-Jurisdictional Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan
                      adopted
                     
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oregon Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OREGON REVISED STATUTES
O.R.S. Cites Code Section
O.R.S. Cites               Code Section
17.64.090(3)               152.072
21.1.11                    152.003
34.010 through 34.100      34.153,
                           52.087
35.500 through 35.530      151.17
87.366                     91.024
Chapter 88                 91.024
88.010 et seq.             130.60
Chapter 92                 152.072
92.010(6)                  152.003
92.031                     152.072
92.060 through 92.070      152.072
92.090                     152.072
93.740                     130.61
Chapter 94                 152.072
Chapter 100                152.072
105.580                    130.60
105.585                    130.61
105.668(2)                 91.043
105.668(3)(a)              91.043
105.668(3)(b)              91.043
105.668(3)(c)              91.043
105.668(3)(d)              91.043
133.537                    130.59
Chapter 153                10.19
153.030(2)                 72.089
163.305                    112.05
164.015                    130.24
166.090                    94.04,
                           94.05
Chapter 167                112.65,
                           152.003
167.002 through 167.027    112.20
Chapter 167.060 to 167.090 152.003
Chapter 171                152.052
Chapter 181A               31.16
181A.230                   31.16
181A.230(3)                31.16
181A.240                   31.16
183.360(3)                 152.003
192.311 to 192.478         33.70,
                           33.72
192.324(5)                 33.73
192.344(4)                 33.71
190.240                    91.038
192.345(5)                 34.181
Chapter 197                33.03,
                           32.20
197.195                    152.072
197.250                    152.075
197.360 through 197.380    152.072
197.360                    152.072
197.365                    152.072
197.375                    152.072
197.610                    152.075
                           152.016,
197.660 through 197.670    152.017,
                           152.018,
                           152.019
197.665                    152.016
197.763                    152.072
198.835(3)                 35.21
Chapter 209                152.072
209.250                    152.072
222.170(1)                 152.004
223.205 et seq.            91.024
223.205 through 223.295    52.083
223.297 to 223.314         52.087
223.387 et seq.            91.022
223.387 through 223.485    152.003
223.405 to 223.485         34.100
223.505 to 223.650         34.110
Chapter 227                152.037
227.020                    152.003
227.175(10)                151.03
227.178                    152.071,
                           152.076
227.180                    152.003,
                           152.076
227.186                    152.075
227.350                    152.003
243.650 et seq.            33.16
243.676                    33.21
243.682                    33.22
243.686                    33.19
244.020                    36.24,
                           152.003
271.080 through 271.230    152.004
271.080(1)                 152.004
271.080(2)                 152.004
271.300 through 271.360    152.004
283.140                    91.038
Chapter 287A               32.07
310.140                    34.091
310.140 et seq.            34.112,
                           34.157
319.210                    34.058
319.300                    34.064
320.300                    34.015
320.300(12)                34.015
321.005                    34.066
368.001                    152.003
368.016                    152.003
377.700 to 377.840         152.055
377.700 et seq.            152.055
377.710(21)                152.055
401.025                    91.038
443.400                    152.003
446.003                    152.003
448.315                    51.35
454.225                    52.055
454.605                    152.052
454.605 through 454.745    152.052
454.745                    152.052
455.446                    152.035
455.447                    152.035
Chapter 457                151.17
457.010                    31.03
457.035                    31.03
457.045(2)                 31.03
457.115                    151.17
Chapter 459                50.02,
                           50.05
459.005                    50.03
459.015                    50.01,
                           50.02
459.085                    50.04,
                           50.11
459.386                    50.03
459.410                    152.003
Chapter 459A               50.02,
                           50.04
459A.085                   50.01,
                           50.09
459A.085(6)(a)             50.09
466.005                    50.03
Chapter 471                115.03
Chapter 475                112.20
475.005                    111.26
Chapter 475A               115.01,
                           115.02
Chapter 475C               115.03
Chapter 523                152.052
527.610 et seq.            152.035
568.900                    152.051
609.100(1)                 152.003
656.031                    33.03
656.041                    33.03
662.405 to 662.455         33.25
697.105                    34.180
806.010                    72.072
807.010                    72.072
811.175                    72.072
811.182                    72.072
813.010                    72.072
819.180(2)                 72.060
                           
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2022 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2022 Code Section
10.01              10.01
10.02              10.02
10.03              10.03
10.04              10.04
10.05              10.05
10.06              10.06
10.07              10.07
10.08              10.08
10.09              10.09
10.10              10.10
10.11              10.11
10.12              10.12
10.13              10.13
10.14              10.14
10.15              10.15
10.16              10.16
10.17              10.17
10.18              10.18
10.19              10.19
10.99              10.99
30.0               36.01
30.02              36.02
30.03              36.03
30.04              36.04
30.05              36.05
30.06              36.06
30.20              36.20
30.21              36.21
30.22              36.22
30.23              36.23
30.24              36.24
30.25              36.25
30.26              36.26
30.27              36.27
30.28              36.28
30.29              36.29
30.30              36.30
30.31              36.31
30.32              36.32
30.33              36.33
30.34              36.34
30.45              36.45
30.46              36.46
30.47              36.47
30.48              36.48
30.49              36.49
30.50              36.50
Ch. 30, App. A     Ch. 36, App. A
Ch. 30, App. B     Ch. 36, App. B
Ch. 30, App. C     Ch. 36, App. C
31.01              30.01
31.02              30.02
32.02              31.02
32.03              31.03
32.15              31.15
32.16              31.16
33.25              32.01
33.26              32.02
33.27              32.03
33.28              32.04
33.29              32.05
33.30              32.06
33.31              32.07
33.45              32.20
33.99              32.99
34.01              33.15
34.02              33.16
34.03              33.17
34.04              33.18
34.05              33.19
34.06              33.20
34.07              33.21
34.08              33.22
34.09              33.23
34.10              33.24
34.11              33.25
34.12              33.26
34.13              33.27
34.14              33.28
35.001             34.001
35.015             34.015
35.016             34.016
35.017             34.017
35.018             34.018
35.019             34.019
35.020             34.020
35.021             34.021
35.022             34.022
35.023             34.023
35.024             34.024
35.025             34.025
35.026             34.026
35.027             34.027
35.028             34.028
35.029             34.029
35.030             34.030
35.031             34.031
35.032             34.032
35.045             34.045
35.046             34.046
35.047             34.047
35.048             34.048
35.049             34.049
35.050             34.050
35.051             34.051
35.052             34.052
35.053             34.053
35.054             34.054
35.055             34.055
35.056             34.056
35.057             34.057
35.058             34.058
35.059             34.059
35.060             34.060
35.061             34.061
35.062             34.062
35.063             34.063
35.064             34.064
35.065             34.065
35.066             34.066
35.067             34.067
35.068             34.068
35.069             34.069
35.070             34.070
35.071             34.071
35.072             34.072
35.073             34.073
35.074             34.074
35.075             34.075
35.090             34.090
35.091             34.091
35.092             34.092
35.093             34.093
35.094             34.094
35.095             34.095
35.096             34.096
35.097             34.097
35.098             34.098
35.099             34.099
35.100             34.100
35.101             34.101
35.102             34.102
35.103             34.103
35.104             34.104
35.105             34.105
35.106             34.106
35.107             34.107
35.108             34.108
35.109             34.109
35.110             34.110
35.111             34.111
35.112             34.112
35.113             34.113
35.130             34.130
35.131             34.131
35.132             34.132
35.133             34.133
35.134             34.134
35.150             34.145
35.151             34.146
35.152             34.147
35.153             34.148
35.154             34.149
35.155             34.150
35.156             34.151
35.157             34.152
35.158             34.153
35.159             34.154
35.160             34.155
35.161             34.156
35.162             34.157
35.163             34.158
35.999             34.999
36.01              35.01
36.02              35.02
36.03              35.03
36.04              35.04
36.05              35.05
36.06              35.06
36.07              35.07
36.08              35.08
36.20              35.20
50.01              50.01
50.02              50.02
50.03              50.03
50.04              50.04
50.05              50.05
50.06              50.06
50.07              50.07
50.08              50.08
50.09              50.09
50.10              50.10
50.11              50.11
50.12              50.12
50.13              50.13
50.30              50.40
50.31              50.41
50.32              50.42
50.33              50.43
50.34              50.44
50.35              50.45
50.36              50.46
50.99              50.99
51.01              51.15
51.02              51.16
51.15              51.30
51.16              51.31
51.17              51.32
51.18              51.33
51.19              51.34
51.20              51.35
51.99              51.99
52.001             52.001
52.015             52.015
52.016             52.016
52.017             52.017
52.018             52.018
52.019             52.019
52.020             52.020
52.035             52.035
52.036             52.036
52.037             52.037
52.038             52.038
52.039             52.039
52.050             52.050
52.051             52.051
52.052             52.052
52.053             52.053
52.054             52.055
52.055             52.056
52.056             52.057
52.057             52.058
52.059             52.059
52.060             52.060
52.075             52.075
52.076             52.076
52.077             52.077
52.078             52.078
52.079             52.079
52.080             52.080
52.081             52.081
52.082             52.082
52.083             52.083
52.084             52.084
52.085             52.085
52.086             52.086
52.087             52.087
52.999             52.999
71.001             71.001
71.002             71.002
71.003             71.003
71.015             71.015
71.016             71.016
71.017             71.017
71.030             71.030
71.031             71.031
71.032             71.032
71.033             71.033
71.034             71.034
71.035             71.035
71.050             71.050
71.051             71.051
71.052             71.052
71.053             71.053
71.065             71.065
71.080             71.080
71.081             71.081
71.082             71.082
71.083             71.083
71.084             71.084
71.085             71.085
71.999             71.999
72.001             72.002
72.002             72.003
72.003             72.004
72.004             72.005
72.005             72.006
72.020             72.020
72.021             72.021
72.022             72.022
72.023             72.023
72.024             72.024
72.025             72.025
72.040             72.040
72.041             72.041
72.042             72.042
72.043             72.043
72.044             72.044
72.045             72.045
72.060             72.060
72.061             72.061
72.062             72.062
72.063             72.063
72.064             72.064
72.065             72.065
72.066             72.066
72.067             72.067
72.068             72.068
72.069             72.069
72.070             72.070
72.071             72.071
72.072             72.072
72.085             72.085
72.086             72.086
72.087             72.087
72.088             72.088
72.089             72.089
72.090             72.090
72.091             72.091
72.999             72.999
Ch. 73, Sch. I     Ch. 73, Sch. I
Ch. 73, Sch. II    Ch. 73, Sch. II
Ch. 73, Sch. III   Ch. 73, Sch. III
Ch. 73, Sch. V     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
91.01              91.001
91.02              91.002
91.03              91.003
91.04              91.004
91.20              91.020
91.21              91.021
91.22              91.022
91.23              91.023
91.24              91.024
91.99              91.999
92.01              92.20
92.02              92.21
92.03              92.22
92.04              92.23
92.05              92.24
92.20              92.35
92.21              92.36
92.22              92.37
92.23              92.38
92.24              92.39
92.25              92.40
92.26              92.41
92.99              92.99
93.01              93.01
93.02              93.02
93.03              93.03
93.04              93.04
93.05              93.05
93.06              93.06
93.07              93.07
93.08              93.08
93.09              93.09
93.10              93.10
93.99              93.99
110.030            110.045
110.031            110.046
110.032            110.047
110.033            110.048
110.034            110.049
110.035            110.050
110.036            110.051
110.037            110.052
110.038            110.053
110.039            110.054
110.040            110.055
110.041            110.056
110.042            110.057
110.043            110.058
110.044            110.059
110.999            110.999
111.001            111.01
111.002            111.02
111.003            111.03
111.004            111.04
111.005            111.05
111.006            111.06
111.020            111.20
111.021            111.21
111.022            111.22
111.023            111.23
111.024            111.24
111.025            111.25
111.026            111.26
111.027            111.27
111.028            111.28
111.029            111.29
111.080            111.40
111.081            111.41
111.999            111.99
112.01             112.01
112.02             112.02
112.03             112.03
112.04             112.04
112.05             112.05
112.20             112.20
112.21             112.21
112.22             112.22
112.23             112.23
112.24             112.24
112.25             112.25
112.26             112.26
112.27             112.27
112.40             112.40
112.41             112.41
112.42             112.42
112.43             112.43
112.44             112.44
112.45             112.45
112.60             112.60
112.61             112.61
112.62             112.62
112.63             112.63
112.64             112.64
112.65             112.65
112.99             112.99
113.01             113.01
113.02             113.02
113.03             113.03
113.04             113.04
113.05             113.05
113.06             113.06
113.07             113.07
113.08             113.08
113.09             113.09
113.20             113.20
113.21             113.21
113.22             113.22
113.23             113.23
113.24             113.24
113.25             113.25
113.26             113.26
113.27             113.27
113.28             113.28
113.29             113.29
113.30             113.30
113.31             113.31
113.32             113.32
113.33             113.33
113.34             113.34
113.35             113.35
113.36             113.36
113.37             113.37
113.38             113.38
113.99             113.99
114.01             114.01
114.02             114.02
114.03             114.03
114.04             114.04
114.99             114.99
130.01             130.01
130.02             130.02
130.03             130.03
130.04             130.04
130.05             130.05
130.06             130.06
130.07             130.07
130.08             130.08
130.09             130.09
130.10             130.10
130.11             130.11
130.12             130.12
130.13             130.13
130.14             130.14
130.15             130.15
130.16             130.16
130.17             130.17
130.18             130.18
130.19             130.19
130.20             130.20
130.21             130.21
130.22             130.22
130.23             130.23
130.35             130.35
130.36             130.36
130.37             130.37
130.38             130.38
130.39             130.39
130.40             130.40
130.41             130.41
130.42             130.42
130.43             130.43
130.55             130.55
130.56             130.56
130.57             130.57
130.58             130.58
130.59             130.59
130.60             130.60
130.61             130.61
130.62             130.62
130.99             130.99
150.01             150.01
150.03             150.02
150.99             150.99
151.05             151.01
151.06             151.02
151.01             151.15
151.02             151.16
151.03             151.17
151.99             151.99
153.065            152.033
153.999            152.999
                   
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
1644     8-19-2013   92.01
1640     9-3-2013    33.02
1646     9-3-2013    TSO Table VII
1647     9-3-2013    33.40 -
                     33.43
1650     10-7-2013   90.23,
                     90.99
1661     4-7-2014    110.030 -
                     110.033
1669     6-16-2014   72.001
1670     7-7-2014    TSO Table VII
1673     9-2-2014    52.002
1675     9-15-2014   151.18
1676     11-17-2014  92.04
1678     12-15-2014  33.01
1680     2-2-2015    TSO Table V
1692     9-8-2015    TSO Table III
1693     10-19-2015  51.01
1695     10-19-2015  91.170 -
                     91.174
1694     11-2-2015   52.053
1696     11-2-2015   91.171
1697     1-19-2016   TSO Table V
1706     5-17-2016   91.145 -
                     91.156
1709     7-18-2016   TSO Table II
1677     8-1-2016    Ch. 73, Sch. V,
                     90.99
1711     10-3-2016   TSO Table V
1716     11-7-2016   52.061,
                     52.062
1719     2-6-2017    92.03
1720     2-21-2017   TSO Table III
1727     6-5-2017    TSO Table III
1731     7-6-2017    31.01
1732     7-6-2017    TSO Table VII
1737A    8-7-2017    110.070 -
                     110.078
1737     8-24-2017   TSO Table VII
1744     12-18-2017  35.21
1745     12-18-2017  35.21
1747     2-20-2018   92.05
1748     3-5-2018    52.063
1749     3-19-2018   92.06
1753     4-2-2018    92.07
1754     4-16-2018   51.16
1788     5-20-2018   Ch. 73, Sch. V
1766     9-4-2018    33.03
1767     10-1-2018   Ch. 73, Sch. V,
                     90.99
1769     10-15-2018  Ch. 73, Sch. V,
                     90.99
1771     10-15-2018  50.25
1775     1-22-2019   TSO Table V
1777     3-18-2019   TSO Table III
1784     4-15-2019   34.002
1785     5-6-2019    TSO Table VI
1779     5-20-2019   110.034
1786     5-20-2019   50.07
1791     6-17-2019   52.075
1792     6-17-2019   52.088
1795     7-1-2019    51.02
1796     7-15-2019   110.090 -
                     110.095
1797     9-5-2019    91.145,
                     91.157
1801     10-21-2019  TSO Table VI
1802     12-16-2019  52.078
1808     3-2-2020    52.064
1809     3-2-2020    91.001
1811     3-2-2020    92.02
1813     4-20-2020   51.15
1814     5-5-2020    31.02
1821     7-20-2020   52.078
1824     8-17-2020   92.01
1833     12-8-2020   TSO Table II
R020121A 2-1-2021    51.03
R060721  6-7-2021    50.07
R040422  4-4-2022    95.01 -
                     95.03
R081522A 8-15-2022   31.01
100322   10-3-2022   33.02
041723   4-17-2023   50.07
R082123B 8-21-2023   151.03
R100223  10-2-2023   31.02
R100223A 10-2-2023   33.57
R100223B 10-16-2023  36.07
R110623  11-6-2023   30.03
R112023  11-20-2023  33.04
R040124  4-1-2024    TSO Table VII
R050624A 5-6-2024    TSO VII
R060324  6-3-2024    50.07
R060324A 6-3-2024    TSO III
R061724C 6-17-2024   TSO III
R120224  12-2-2024   91.043
R121624  12-16-2024  33.70 -
                     33.73
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
28       11-14-1891  TSO Table II
144      4-20-1903   TSO Table II
245      5-29-1912   TSO Table VII
305      12-6-1915   TSO Table II
389      3-22-1920   TSO Table II
448      7-21-1924   91.004,
                     91.999
                     111.40,
554      10-16-1939  111.41,
                     111.99
567      6-2-1941    30.02
581      9-15-1941   TSO Table VII
602      5-15-1945   TSO Table II
                     50.40 -
603      5-21-1945   50.44,
                     50.99
608      6-3-1946    TSO Table I
618      5-5-1947    TSO Table III
618a     6-16-1947   TSO Table III
620      7-2-1947    TSO Table I
639      3-21-1949   TSO Table I
647      8-9-1949    TSO Table III
646      9-6-1949    TSO Table I
                     113.20 -
648      10-3-1949   113.38,
                     113.99
651      11-7-1949   91.003,
                     91.999
655      4-17-1950   TSO Table I
658      5-1-1950    TSO Table I
668      9-17-1951   151.01,
                     151.99
675      12-1-1952   TSO Table V
692      12-19-1955  TSO Table V
694      2-6-1956    TSO Table V
702      8-6-1956    TSO Table III
701      9-17-1956   Ch. 73, Sch. III
706      2-4-1957    TSO Table I
710      11-18-1957  Ch. 73, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 73, Sch. II
713      7-13-1958   TSO Table IV
714      8-21-1958   TSO Table III
715      3-16-1959   TSO Table VII
719      8-3-1959    30.01
723      8-3-1959    50.45,
                     50.46
745      7-5-1960    TSO Table VII
746      10-3-1960   TSO Table III
749      1-3-1961    TSO Table VII
751      5-1-1961    TSO Table III
755      2-19-1962   31.15
756      7-2-1962    TSO Table III
758      11-5-1962   TSO Table V
759      12-17-1962  TSO Table III
787      2-19-1963   TSO Table III
772      9-20-1965   TSO Table II
775      4-4-1966    TSO Table III
777      10-6-1966   TSO Table I
                     51.30 -
780      3-20-1967   51.35,
                     51.99
784      12-18-1967  TSO Table III
793      10-21-1968  TSO Table I
819      1-15-1973   TSO Table III
821      3-19-1973   TSO Table III
824      2-19-1974   TSO Table V
825      3-18-1974   TSO Table III
826      6-17-1974   TSO Table III
827      10-7-1974   TSO Table V
828      11-4-1974   TSO Table V
831      1-20-1975   TSO Table III
834      5-5-1975    TSO Table VII
835      5-5-1975    TSO Table VII
836      5-19-1975   32.01 -
                     32.07
842      11-3-1975   10.99
847      12-29-1975  TSO Table I
849      5-15-1976   33.15 -
                     33.28
851      5-17-1976   TSO Table I
852      7-6-1976    TSO Table I
                     111.20 -
855      1-3-1977    111.29,
                     111.99
856      1-3-1977    TSO Table I
861      2-14-1977   91.004
874      3-28-1977   111.99
875      3-28-1977   150.02,
                     150.99
876      4-11-1977   TSO Table III
877      4-11-1977   51.15,
                     51.16
879      4-11-1977   Ch. 73, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 73, Sch. III
880      4-18-1977   TSO Table V
886      4-25-1977   51.35
                     114.01 -
890      5-9-1977    114.04,
                     130.01
                     34.015 -
                     34.027,
893      5-23-1977   34.029 -
                     34.032,
                     34.999
                     50.40 -
895      5-23-1977   50.46,
                     50.99
898      5-23-1977   113.25,
                     113.99
901      8-1-1977    34.028
902      8-22-1977   TSO Table I
911      12-5-1977   34.130 -
                     34.134
920      4-17-1978   TSO Table V
921      5-1-1978    TSO Table V
922      6-5-1978    TSO Table V
923      6-19-1978   TSO Table V
                     52.015 -
                     52.019,
                     52.050 -
926      8-7-1978    52.053,
                     52.055 -
                     52.058,
                     52.060,
                     70.01
928      9-18-1978   TSO Table V
930      10-2-1978   TSO Table V
927      10-18-1978  31.02
935      11-6-1978   TSO Table V
933      11-20-1978  TSO Table V
934      11-20-1978  TSO Table V
                     33.17,
938      1-2-1979    33.24,
                     33.25,
                     33.27
939      1-2-1979    TSO Table V
940      1-2-1979    TSO Table V
941      1-2-1979    TSO Table V
946      2-20-1979   TSO Table V
948      2-20-1979   TSO Table V
952      4-16-1979   TSO Table I
953      5-21-1979   TSO Table V
954      5-21-1979   TSO Table III
954      5-22-1979   TSO Table III
                     52.017,
959      7-16-1979   52.059,
                     70.01
960      8-20-1979   TSO Table VII
962      10-2-1979   TSO Table III
963      10-15-1979  TSO Table III
964      10-15-1979  TSO Table III
967      12-17-1979  TSO Table V
968      3-17-1980   TSO Table V
                     52.035 -
969      3-17-1980   52.039,
                     70.01
972      6-16-1980   114.02
975      7-7-1980    111.28,
                     111.29
977      7-21-1980   52.059
                     110.045 -
984      9-15-1980   110.059,
                     110.999
987      12-1-1980   TSO Table V
989      2-3-1981    111.26
993      4-20-1981   114.03
                     111.22,
994      5-4-1981    111.23,
                     111.27,
                     111.28
999      8-3-1981    TSO Table III
1011     6-21-1982   TSO Table VII
1012     6-21-1982   TSO Table V
                     34.045 -
1014     7-19-1982   34.075,
                     34.999
1016     8-2-1982    114.03
1017     9-7-1982    TSO Table V
1018     9-7-1982    TSO Table V
1019     9-7-1982    TSO Table VII
1023     11-1-1982   TSO Table V
1025     11-15-1982  TSO Table III
1026     12-20-1982  TSO Table V
1027     1-17-1983   111.24 -
                     111.26
1030     4-18-1983   70.01
1034     9-6-1983    TSO Table IV
1035     10-3-1983   TSO Table V
1036     10-18-1983  TSO Table III
1037     11-7-1983   TSO Table V
1039     11-21-1983  150.02,
                     150.99
1040     1-3-1984    150.02,
                     150.99
1042     2-7-1984    111.28
1045     4-2-1984    TSO Table V
1046     4-2-1984    TSO Table V
1047     4-2-1984    52.017,
                     70.01
1050     5-21-1984   TSO Table VI
1060     4-1-1985    151.02,
                     151.99
1064     7-15-1985   TSO Table VI
1067     3-17-1986   TSO Table V
1068     4-21-1986   TSO Table III
1070     5-19-1986   111.26
1974     7-21-1986   111.26
                     113.01 -
1080     6-15-1987   113.09,
                     113.99
1081     7-6-1987    TSO Table VI
1082     12-21-1987  TSO Table III
1083     12-21-1987  TSO Table III
1084     2-2-1988    TSO Table V
1093     3-20-1989   110.054
1100     1-16-1990   TSO Table V
1104     4-16-1990   TSO Table V
1105     5-7-1990    TSO Table III
1108     9-17-1990   TSO Table V
1110     9-17-1990   TSO Table V
1114     5-21-1991   151.15
1115     6-3-1991    52.053
1117     9-3-1991    34.016
1118     9-3-1991    34.029
1122     2-18-1992   114.03
                     111.01 -
1123     6-1-1992    111.06,
                     111.99
                     92.35 -
1124     8-17-1992   92.40,
                     92.99
1127     6-7-1993    92.38,
                     92.99
                     92.38,
1130     7-5-1994    92.41,
                     92.99
1131     7-18-1994   TSO Table IV
1132     9-19-1994   TSO Table III
1133     10-3-1994   TSO Table III
1134     10-17-1994  TSO Table III
1137     5-1-1995    TSO Table VI
1138     5-1-1995    TSO Table V
1139     5-1-1995    TSO Table IV
1141     9-5-1995    TSO Table III
1144     4-1-1996    150.01
                     112.01 -
                     112.05,
                     112.20 -
                     112.27,
1145     5-20-1996   112.40 -
                     112.45,
                     112.60 -
                     112.65,
                     112.99
1147     7-22-1996   TSO Table II
1148     10-7-1996   TSO Table VI
1149     12-2-1996   TSO Table VI
1150     12-16-1996  151.15,
                     152.033
1151     2-3-1997    TSO Table III
1152     3-3-1997    91.002
1153     6-16-1997   151.15
1154     6-16-1997   151.15
                     50.01 -
1155     6-1-1998    50.13,
                     50.99
1156     7-6-1998    150.02,
                     150.99
1157     9-7-1999    34.090 -
                     34.113
1160     3-20-2000   91.001
1161     3-20-2000   35.01 -
                     35.08
1163     1-2-2001    TSO Table III
1165     4-2-2001    50.04
1167     5-21-2001   35.20
1166     7-2-2001    110.052
1168     8-20-2001   35.20
1170     12-3-2001   151.15
1173     4-15-2002   110.999
1173A    4-15-2002   34.026
1174     5-6-2002    34.001
1175     6-17-2002   110.999
1177     8-5-2002    34.048,
                     34.073
1179     11-4-2002   TSO Table II
1181     1-6-2003    TSO Table III
1183     1-21-2003   151.15
1185     6-2-2003    151.15
1187     11-3-2003   151.15,
                     TSO Table VII
1190     4-19-2004   34.029
1191     4-19-2004   TSO Table III
                     92.20 -
1192     6-21-2004   92.24,
                     92.99
1193     7-6-2004    TSO Table II
1194     9-20-2004   35.20
1195     9-20-2004   34.001
                     34.015,
1196     10-4-2004   34.016,
                     34.029
1197     1-3-2005    32.20
1199     2-7-2005    TSO Table V
1200     2-22-2005   TSO Table III
1202     10-3-2005   52.001
1203     11-21-2005  TSO Table II
1204     11-21-2005  TSO Table VII
1204     11-21-2005  151.16
                     91.020 -
1205     12-5-2005   91.024,
                     91.999
1207     3-20-2006   10.19
1208     4-17-2006   TSO Table VII
1210     5-15-2006   TSO Table VI
1211     7-17-2006   31.03
                     34.170 -
1310     8-1-2006    34.183,
                     34.999
1214     11-20-2006  91.023
1215     11-20-2006  TSO Table VII
1215     11-20-2006  151.17
                     72.085 -
1216     12-4-2006   72.090,
                     72.999
1218     5-7-2007    TSO Table VI
1219     5-21-2007   114.03
1223     9-17-2007   34.048,
                     34.073
1224     9-17-2007   TSO Table VI
1225     11-5-2007   91.023
1227     11-19-2007  91.022,
                     91.024
1231     4-7-2008    TSO Table VI
                     50.04,
1232     5-5-2008    50.05,
                     50.07
1233     6-16-2008   31.16
1234     7-21-2008   34.048,
                     34.073
1235     7-21-2008   TSO Table III
1236     7-21-2008   50.05
1241     4-20-2009   34.145 -
                     34.158
1243     11-16-2009  151.17,
                     TSO Table VII
1244     12-21-2009  31.16
1247     3-1-2010    TSO Table III
1248     3-15-2010   TSO Table V
                     71.001 -
                     71.003,
                     71.015 -
                     71.017,
                     71.030 -
                     71.035,
                     71.050 -
                     71.053,
                     71.065,
                     71.080 -
                     71.085,
                     71.999,
1249a    6-7-2010    72.021 -
                     72.025,
                     72.002 -
                     72.006,
                     72.020,
                     72.040 -
                     72.045,
                     72.060 -
                     72.072,
                     72.999,
                     Ch. 73, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 73, Sch. II,
                     Ch. 73, Sch. III
1250     6-21-2010   34.016,
                     34.029
                     92.38,
1252     9-20-2010   92.39,
                     92.99
                     130.01 -
                     130.23,
                     130.35 -
1253     12-6-2010   130.43,
                     130.55 -
                     130.62,
                     130.99
1254     1-3-2011    34.145 -
                     34.158
1255     3-7-2011    TSO Table III
1256     6-6-2011    130.13
                     36.01 -
                     36.06,
                     36.20 -
                     36.34,
1256a    8-1-2011    36.45 -
                     36.50,
                     Ch. 36 Apps. A,
                     B,
                     C
1258     9-19-2011   TSO Table III
1259     10-3-2011   TSO Table III
1261     12-5-2011   TSO Table V
1260     12-21-2011  TSO Table II
1262     1-3-2012    130.05
1263     1-3-2012    71.001
1264     1-3-2012    72.085,
                     72.091
1265     1-3-2012    31.16
                     93.01 -
1266     4-16-2012   93.10,
                     93.99
1267     6-18-2012   151.17
1268     6-26-2012   TSO Table III
                     70.02,
1269     10-15-2012  72.999,
                     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1269A    10-15-2012  70.02,
                     70.99
1270     10-15-2012  151.15,
                     TSO Table VII
1272     12-19-2012  52.075 -
                     52.087
                     92.38,
1275     4-15-2013   92.39,
                     92.99
1270     7-15-2013   TSO Table VII
                     90.01 -
1276     7-15-2013   90.22,
                     90.99
1277     7-15-2013   151.15
1281     8-5-2013    TSO Table II
1278     8-19-2013   130.11
1279     8-19-2013   71.032
1280     8-19-2013   72.091
                     152.001 -
1283     12-2-2013   152.004,
                     152.072,
                     152.071
                     152.015 -
                     152.025,
                     152.035,
1285     3-3-2014    152.030,
                     152.036,
                     152.052 -
                     152.055
1287     4-7-2014    TSO Table VII
                     110.001 -
1288     4-7-2014    110.016,
                     110.999
                     34.015,
1289     5-5-2014    34.022,
                     34.023,
                     TSO Table VII
489      7-16-2014   TSO Table II
                     52.035 -
                     52.038,
1291     9-2-2014    52.051,
                     52.054 -
                     52.059
                     94.01 -
1294     10-20-2014  94.05,
                     110.001
                     92.24,
1292     11-3-2014   92.55,
                     92.56,
                     92.99
1297     12-1-2014   TSO Table III
1298     1-5-2015    91.001
1299     1-20-2015   TSO Table V
1300     3-2-2015    TSO Table V
                     10.99,
                     71.999,
1301     4-20-2015   94.01 -
                     94.05,
                     111.99
1302     6-1-2015    92.24
                     93.01 -
1303     9-8-2015    93.10,
                     93.99
1304     10-19-2015  33.55
1305     11-2-2015   52.053
1306     12-14-2015  TSO Table II
1307     1-19-2016   TSO Table III
1308     3-7-2016    TSO Table V
1310A    3-7-2016    TSO Table III
1311     4-18-2016   130.21
                     151.15,
                     152.025,
1312     5-16-2016   152.051,
                     152.031,
                     TSO Table VII
1313     5-16-2016   151.15,
                     TSO Table VII
1314     5-16-2016   34.015
                     10.99,
                     32.99,
                     34.999,
                     50.99,
                     51.99,
                     70.01,
                     70.99,
                     71.999,
                     72.999,
1315     6-6-2016    90.99,
                     91.999,
                     92.99,
                     93.99,
                     110.999,
                     111.99,
                     112.99,
                     113.99,
                     130.99,
                     151.02,
                     151.99
1316     7-5-2016    152.032,
                     TSO Table VII
1318     9-6-2016    151.15,
                     TSO Table VII
1319     9-19-2016   TSO Table II
1321     11-21-2016  TSO Table II
1323     11-21-2016  TSO Table III
1324     12-5-2016   34.029
1325     12-5-2016   34.183
1322     1-17-2017   TSO Table VII
                     34.171,
1325A    2-6-2017    34.172,
                     34.183,
                     34.999
                     152.004,
                     152.035,
                     152.030,
1320     3-20-2017   152.036,
                     152.052,
                     152.055,
                     152.053,
                     152.071
                     91.035 -
                     91.042,
                     91.055 -
                     91.058,
                     91.070 -
1326     4-3-2017    91.082,
                     91.095 -
                     91.099,
                     91.110 -
                     91.134,
                     91.999
1327     4-12-2017   93.03
1328     6-5-2017    151.15,
                     TSO Table VII
1329     7-7-2017    31.01
1330     8-24-2017   151.15,
                     TSO Table VII
1331     11-6-2017   TSO Table II
1332     12-18-2017  93.07,
                     93.10
1333     2-20-2018   34.015
                     50.99,
                     51.99,
                     52.017,
1334     3-5-2018    52.019,
                     52.020,
                     52.035,
                     52.036,
                     70.01
                     152.003,
                     152.004,
                     152.016 -
                     152.024,
                     152.037,
1335     7-2-2018    152.052,
                     152.055,
                     152.054,
                     152.053,
                     152.075,
                     152.070
1336     7-2-2018    52.084
                     152.003,
1338     10-1-2018   152.037,
                     152.025,
                     152.072
1337     10-15-2018  72.085
1339     12-4-2018   110.002
1340     12-4-2018   11.01
1341     2-4-2019    130.08
1342     2-4-2019    72.091
                     70.01,
1343     3-4-2019    70.02,
                     70.99
1344     4-15-2019   34.022
1345     4-15-2019   72.089
                     52.020,
1346     5-20-2019   52.035 -
                     52.039
1347     6-3-2019    130.08,
                     130.21
1348     7-1-2019    TSO Table VII
                     151.01,
                     151.99,
                     152.003,
                     152.021,
1349     8-19-2019   152.052,
                     152.055,
                     152.055,
                     152.072,
                     TSO Table VI
                     92.20,
                     92.23,
                     92.24,
1350     9-5-2019    92.55,
                     92.56.
                     92.99,
                     Ch. 92 App. A and
                     App. B
1351     10-7-2019   34.015,
                     34.016
1352     11-4-2019   152.003,
                     152.050
1353     1-21-2020   TSO Table III
                     52.018,
                     52.020,
1353     12-21-2020  52.030,
                     52.036,
                     52.999
080221   8-16-2021   151.15
090721   9-20-2021   TSO Table III
110121   11-16-2021  TSO Table III
020323   3-20-2023   Adopting Ordinance
040422   4-18-2022   TSO Table II
100322   11-7-2022   TSO Table III
110722   11-21-2022  152.055
020623   3-20-2023   Adopting Ordinance
050123   5-15-2023   152.016
                     52.018,
101623   11-6-2023   52.030,
                     52.999
120423   12-18-2023  52.018
012224   2-5-2024    130.24
031824   4-1-2024    72.005
071524A  8-19-2024   130.25,
                     130.26
                     115.01 -
102124   11-4-2024   115.04,
                     115.99
102124B  11-4-2024   TSO Table III
021825   3-3-2025    TSO Table II
                     152.002 -
                     152.004,
                     152.016 -
                     152.021,
050525A  5-19-2025   152.050 -
                     152.054,
                     152.070,
                     152.072,
                     152.074
050525B  5-19-2025   92.24
                    
 
