BERWYN HEIGHTS, MARYLAND
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 Local legislation current through 113 passed 5-15-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
MUNICIPAL CHARTER OF BERWYN HEIGHTS
   Chapter
      
I.   THE CORPORATE BODY
      
II.   CORPORATE LIMITS
      
III.   THE COUNCIL
      
IV.   POWERS OF THE COUNCIL
      
V.   REGISTRATION, NOMINATION, ELECTION
      
VI.   FINANCE
      
VII.   PERSONNEL
      
VIII.   PUBLIC WAYS AND STORM DRAINAGE
      
IX.   TOWN PROPERTY
      
X.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
MUNICIPAL CHARTER OF BERWYN HEIGHTS
   Chapter
   
I.   The Corporate Body
   
II.   Corporate Limits
   
III.   The Council
   
IV.   Powers of the Council
   
V.   Registration, Nomination, Election
   
VI.   Finance
   
VII.   Personnel
   
VIII.   Public Ways and Storm Drainage
   
IX.   Town Property
   
X.   General Provisions
CHAPTER I. THE CORPORATE BODY
Section 101. Corporate Body Defined
The residents of Berwyn Heights, Prince George’s County, Maryland, within the
Corporate limits legally established are hereby constituted and continued a
body corporate by the name of “Town of Berwyn Heights” with all the privileges
of such, by that name to sue and be sued, to plead and be pleaded in any court
of law or equity, to have and use a common seal, and to have perpetual
succession, unless the charter and the corporate existence are legally
terminated.
CHAPTER II. CORPORATE LIMITS
Section 201. Corporate Limits - Record Requirements
The courses and distances showing the exact corporate limits of the Town shall
be filed at all times with the Secretary of State, Hall of Records, State
Library, Clerk of the Circuit Court for Prince George’s County, the
Commissioner of the Land Office, the Department of Legislative Reference and
the Town Manager. The file or record of all such descriptions shall be in a
suitable place, properly indexed and reasonably available for public
inspection.
Section 202. Public Use*
The public rights-of-way, recreation and community property under the
jurisdiction of the Town Council are dedicated to public use.
CHAPTER III. THE COUNCIL
Section 301. Number, Selection, Term
All legislative powers of the Town shall be vested in a Council consisting of
five council members who shall be elected as hereinafter provided. Council
members shall hold office for a term of two years beginning with the first
public Town Meeting following the election. This meeting shall not be held
prior to the certification of the election results by the Judges of Elections.
Section 302. Qualifications and Eligibility
Candidates for Council shall have resided in the Town for at least six months
immediately preceding the election, shall have attained the age of twenty-one
years prior to election, shall be registered voters at the time of nomination,
and must continuously reside in the Town during the term of office. No council
member shall, while in office, hold any other paid office or position in the
service of the Town or any other municipality in the State.
Section 303. Compensation
Each Council member shall receive an equal annual compensation which shall be
as specified by ordinance passed by the Council. Compensation specified shall
take effect with the next succeeding Council.
Section 304. Meetings
The Council shall meet prior to the first public Town Meeting following
election for the purpose of organization. Thereafter the Council shall meet at
such times as determined by the Council but not less frequently than once a
month. All meetings shall be open to the public and must provide residents of
the Town a reasonable opportunity to be heard in regard to any municipal
matter. Special meetings shall be called at the request of the Mayor or a
majority of the Council. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prevent
the Council from holding an executive session. No ordinance, resolution, rule,
regulation or motion shall be adopted at such an executive session. When the
Council is faced with a matter the revelation of which would invade the rights
of the individual on private matters or similar situations the public would not
be permitted to attend.
Section 305. Disqualification
The Council shall be the judge of the qualifications of its members and the
grounds for disqualification. Any member who fails to meet any qualification
for office prescribed by the Charter, violates any provision of this Charter,
is convicted of a felony, or fails to attend Council meetings for three
consecutive months without being excused by the Council shall be disqualified.
Decisions made by the Council under this section may be subject to court
review.
Section 306. Mayor, Mayor Pro Tempore
The Council candidate receiving the highest number of votes in the election
shall be the Mayor of the Town of Berwyn Heights. The candidate with the second
highest vote shall be the Mayor Pro Tempore. In the event of a tie vote, a
runoff election shall be held in accordance with Section 506.
Section 306.1. Mayor
The Mayor shall be recognized as head of the Town government. The Mayor shall
preside at all meetings of the Council, shall exercise such other powers and
perform such other duties as are conferred by this Charter or Ordinances, and
shall in all other respects be an equal member of the Council.
Section 306.2. Mayor Pro Tempore
The Mayor Pro Tempore shall assume all or a part of Mayoral duties and
responsibilities, as authorized herein, during the absence of the Mayor. The
Mayor is absent when:
A.   the Mayor notifies the Council that he or she will be absent or is unable
to perform all or a part of the duties of the Mayor; or
B.   the Mayor is unwilling to sign legislation duly adopted by the Council or
those documents necessary to give effect to said legislation; or
C.   a supermajority of the Council determines by a public vote that the Mayor
has failed to perform all or a part of the duties of the office.
In the event the Office of Mayor shall become vacant, the Mayor Pro Tempore
shall become Mayor.
Section 307. Quorum
A majority of the Members of the Council shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. No Charter change or ordinance shall be approved
without the favorable vote of a majority of the Council.
Section 308. Procedure of Council
The Council shall determine its own rules and order of business. Minutes of all
public proceedings shall be recorded and all votes of the members shall be
entered therein. The minutes shall be open to public inspection.
Section 309. Vacancies
A.   In the event of a vacancy on the Council, the remaining members shall
appoint a qualified person, in accordance with Section 302, to fill the vacancy
for the unexpired term. If the Council fails to appoint a successor within
forty-five days or if more than one vacancy occurs, the Board of Election
Supervisors shall call a special election to fill such vacancy. Such special
election shall be held not sooner than forty-five days and not later than sixty
days following the occurrence of the first vacancy.
B.   In the event that three or more members of the Council are no longer
active the remaining member(s) of the Council shall appeal to the District
Court or Circuit Court to appoint a Town Manager to take charge of the Town
Government and provide the continuing of usual services and call for an
election in accordance with the provisions of this Charter and the Election
Laws of Maryland.
C.   In the event there are no active members remaining on the Council, five
concerned citizens qualified to vote may proceed as outlined in B. above.
Section 310. Recall
Upon receipt of a legal petition signed by not less than twenty-five percent of
the registered voters of the Town requesting the recall of a Council member for
specific failure to properly perform the duties of the office, the Council
shall call a special election within ninety days providing for vote for or
against the recall. In the event the majority of the voters vote for the
recall, the office shall be declared vacant and the remaining Council members
shall appoint a qualified person (in accordance with Section 302) to fill the
office for the unexpired term.
Section 311. Ordinances
No ordinance shall be passed at the meeting at which it is introduced unless it
is declared to be an emergency ordinance. A favorable vote by a majority of the
Council is required to pass any ordinance. Prior to enactment, a copy or
summary of each ordinance shall be published and circulated in the Town.
Ordinances shall be permanently filed by the Town Manager and shall be made
available for public inspection.
Section 311.1. Emergency Ordinances
Emergency ordinances shall become effective immediately upon passage. Such
ordinances shall be of limited duration as specified therein but not to exceed
ninety days.
Section 311.2. Referendum
Ordinances, except emergency ordinances, shall become effective at the
expiration of twenty calendar days following passage. If, before the expiration
of twenty days, a legal petition is filed with the Town Manager containing the
signatures of not less than twenty percent of the registered voters of the Town
and requesting that the ordinance or any part thereof be submitted to the
registered voters for their approval or disapproval, the Council shall do so at
the next regular Town election, or at their discretion, at a special election.
Such ordinance shall be held in abeyance until approved by the voters.
CHAPTER IV. POWERS OF THE COUNCIL
Section 401. General Powers
The Council shall have the power to pass all or any such ordinances not
contrary to the Constitution and Laws of the State of Maryland, Prince George’s
County, or this Charter, as it may deem necessary for the good government of
the Town; for the protection and preservation of the Town’s property, rights
and privileges; for the preservation of peace and good order; for securing
persons and property from violence, danger, or destruction; and for the
protection of the health, safety, comfort, convenience, and welfare of the
residents of the Town and visitors thereto and sojourners therein.
Section 402. Specific Powers
The Council shall also have the power to pass ordinances, not contrary to the
Constitution and Laws of the State or County, for the following purposes:
A.   Administrative
To create, change or abolish offices and departments and assign personnel and
functions to such offices and departments. To provide for advertising for
purposes of the Town and for printing and publishing materials relative to the
affairs of the Town. To provide for codification of all ordinances which have
been or may hereafter be passed.
B.   Animals
To regulate or prohibit the keeping or running at large of dogs or other
animals; to authorize the impounding, keeping, sale and redemption of such
animals; to place constraints on dogs and cats in the Town; and to provide for
the disposition of homeless dogs and cats or dogs on which no license fee has
been paid.
C.   Billboards and Signs
To license, regulate or prohibit the erection or maintenance of billboards or
the placing of signs, bills or posters of every kind on any building, fence,
pole or other place in the Town.
D.   Buildings
To make reasonable regulations in regard to buildings to be erected,
constructed, or modified in the Town and to grant Building Permits for the
same; to formulate a building code and to provide for inspections and
enforcement of such code; to require reasonable charges for permits and
inspections of all buildings and structures. To require the condemnation in
whole or in part of buildings in violation of the code and to require that such
buildings be made safe or taken down.
E.   Community Services
To provide, maintain and operate community and social services for the
preservation and promotion of the health, recreation, welfare and enlightenment
of the inhabitants of the Town.
F.   Cooperative Activities
To make agreements with other Municipalities, Counties, Districts, Bureaus,
Commissions, and Governmental Authorities for participation or cooperation in
any Governmental or Public functions. To accept on behalf of the Town gifts or
grants of Federal, State or County funds from such governments or any agency
thereof, and to expend same for any lawful purpose in accordance with the
conditions under which the gifts or grants were made.
G.   Dangerous Conditions
To compel persons about to undertake improvements of a dangerous nature to
execute bonds with sufficient sureties conditioned that the owner or contractor
will pay all damages resulting from such work which may be sustained by any
person or property.
H.   Finances
To have general management of the finances of the Town; to levy and collect
municipal taxes permitted by the State; to provide that any valid charges,
taxes or assessments made against property within the Town shall be liens upon
such property; to appropriate Municipal funds for any purpose within the powers
of the Council; to borrow money in accordance with the provisions of this
Charter.
I.   Fire
To suppress fire hazards and prevent the dangers thereof; to contribute funds
to volunteer fire companies serving the Town; to inspect buildings and any
combustible materials for the purpose of reducing fire hazards; to issue
regulations to prohibit the use of fire-hazardous buildings or materials; to
regulate or prevent the use or storage of gunpowder, gasoline or any other
explosive or combustible material.
J.   Franchises
To grant and regulate franchises to public utilities or others conducting
business within the Town, subject to the limitations and provisions of the
Annotated Code of Maryland. No franchise shall be granted for a period longer
than fifty years.
K.   Health
To regulate, inspect and abate any buildings, drains or places which cause or
may cause unsanitary conditions or conditions detrimental to health and to
compel the owner or occupant of any filthy or unwholesome premises to abate the
condition. The exercise of these powers shall not conflict in any manner with
the powers and duties of the State Board of Health or the Health Officer of
Prince George’s County.
L.    Permits
Subject to any restrictions imposed by the General Laws of the State and County
and Regional Commissions, to regulate all persons or businesses beginning or
conducting transient or permanent businesses in the Town, to regulate or
prohibit public amusements when in the interest of public welfare. To regulate
or prohibit the solicitation of funds; and to establish and collect fees and
charges for all permits issued under the authority of this Charter.
M.   Nuisances
To prevent or abate all nuisances in the Town which may be so defined by the
Laws of the State or County, or by Ordinance of the Town.
N.   Parks and Recreation
To establish and maintain public parks, gardens, playgrounds, and other
recreational facilities and programs to promote the health, welfare and
enjoyment of the residents of the Town.
O.   Pollution
To regulate, control or prohibit the pollution of the air, waters or land in
any manner whatsoever detrimental to the public health, or welfare within the
limits of the Town whether the source be within or without the Town.
P.   Refuse
To prevent the deposit of any unwholesome or objectionable substance such as
garbage, refuse, or other waste either on private or public property, and to
compel its removal to designated points. To require, regulate or provide for
the collection, removal and disposal of refuse or any other matter that is or
may become injurious to the health of or comfort of the residents of the Town.
To make reasonable charges for the removal or disposition of refuse other than
household garbage.
Q.   Zoning
To exercise the powers as to planning and zoning conferred upon municipalities
generally by the Annotated Code of Maryland subject to the limitations and
provisions thereof.
Section 402.1. Saving Clause
The enumeration of powers in Section 402 is not to be construed as limiting the
powers of the Council to the subjects mentioned.
Section 403. Enforcement
A.   To ensure the observance of the Ordinances of the Town, the Council shall
have the power to prosecute violations thereof. Where the violation is of a
continuing nature and is persisted in, the conviction for one violation shall
not be a bar to a conviction for a continuation of the offense subsequent to
the first or any succeeding conviction. Any person subject to any penalty for
violation of any ordinance passed under the authority of this Charter shall
have the right of appeal within thirty days to a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      B.   1.   The Council may provide that violations of any municipal
ordinance shall be a municipal infraction unless that violation is declared to
be a felony or misdemeanor by the laws of the State or other ordinance. For
purposes of this article a municipal infraction is a civil offense.
         2.   A fine may be imposed for each conviction of a municipal
infraction. The fine is payable by the offender to the municipality within 20
calendar days of receipt of a citation. Repeat offenders may be assessed a fine
for each repeat offense, and each day a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
         3.   Any person receiving a citation for an infraction may elect to
stand trial for the offense by notifying the Town in writing of this intention
at least five days prior to the date set for payment of the fine. Failure to
pay the fine or to give notice of intent to stand trial may result in an
additional fine or adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         4.   Adjudication of a municipal infraction is not a criminal
conviction for any purpose, nor does it impose any of the civil disabilities
ordinarily imposed by a criminal conviction.
CHAPTER V. REGISTRATION, NOMINATION, ELECTION
Section 501. Voters
Every person who is a citizen of the United States, is at least 18 years of age
at the time of the election, has resided within the Corporate Limits of the
Town for thirty days immediately preceding any Town election, and is registered
in accordance with the provisions of this Charter or the Annotated Code of
Maryland, Article 33, is a qualified voter and is entitled to vote at all Town
elections.
Section 502. Supervisors of Elections
There shall be a Board of Supervisors of Elections consisting of three Judges
of Elections and two Clerks who shall be appointed by the Council in February
of each election year to serve for a term of two years.
Section 502.1. Qualifications
Members of the Board shall be qualified voters of the Town and not hold or be
candidates for any elective office during their term of office. Immediate
family members of Council members or Candidates for Council are also
disqualified.
Section 502.2. Vacancies
Vacancies on the Board shall be filled by the Council for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
Section 502.3. Compensation
Compensation of the Members of the Board shall be determined by the Council.
Section 502.4. Removal
Any member of the Board may be removed for good cause by the Council if in the
judgment of the Council the member is not properly performing or will not
properly perform the duties of the position. Before removal, the member shall
be given a written copy of the charges against him and, shall have a hearing on
them before the Council if request is made within ten days after receiving the
written copy of the charges.
Section 502.5. Duties
The Board shall exercise general supervision of Town elections and voter
registration. The Board shall give at least two weeks notice of every election
by an advertisement in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the
Town and by posting a motion thereof in at least three public places in the
Town.
Section 503. Voter Registration
Supplemental Town voter registration shall be held at any time during normal
Town Office hours and also between 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. on the last Monday
of March of election year. At those times the Town Clerk or others so
authorized by the Council shall accept applications for registration.
Application shall be in writing in such form as the Council shall prescribe and
shall be submitted under oath or affirmation. Registration shall be closed
thirty days prior to election.
Section 503.1. Validation
Voter registration is complete upon validation by the Judges of Elections.
Applicants refused registration shall be notified in writing.
Section 503.2. Registration Records
No person shall be entitled to vote in Town Elections unless registered at the
County or Town. The Judges of Elections shall cause the name of any person who
has died, terminated residence in the Town, has failed to vote in the previous
three Town elections, or who has otherwise become disqualified, to be stricken
from the Town supplemental registration records. A notice of this action and
the reason therefor shall be sent to the last known address of the voter
notifying him of the Action as may be legally or reasonably applicable under
this section. The records shall be revised by the Judges of Elections after the
close of registration prior to the Town election. A list of all registered Town
voters shall be prepared by the Judges of Election as requested by the Council.
All old registration books or forms shall be retained for a period of at least
sixty years.
Section 503.3. Appeal
If any person shall feel aggrieved by the action of the Board of Supervisors of
Elections in refusing to register or in striking off the name of a person, or
by any other action, such person may appeal to the Council. Any decision or
action of the Council upon such appeals may be appealed to the Circuit Court
for Prince George’s County within thirty days of the decision or action of the
Council.
Section 504. Nomination for Council
Persons qualified for membership on the Council shall be nominated by filing a
certificate of nomination at the Town Office before the close of business on
the first Tuesday in March preceding the Town Election. Certificates of
nomination shall be in the form prescribed by the Council and shall include the
signatures of five registered voters residing in the town indicating their
support of the nomination of the candidate.
Section 505. Elections
On the first Tuesday in May of every even numbered year the qualified voters of
the Town shall elect, at large, five persons to the Council to serve for terms
of two years. Elections shall be on a non-partisan basis.
Section 505.1. Conduct of Elections
For each General or Special Election the Council shall provide a suitable place
for voting and suitable ballots or voting machines in the manner prescribed by
Maryland Registration and Election Laws.
Section 505.2. Election Hours
The Board of Supervisors of Elections shall keep the polls open on Election Day
from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
Section 505.3. Vote Count
Immediately after the closing of the polls, the ballots shall be publicly
counted and the Judges of Elections shall, within forty-eight hours, certify
the results of the election to the Mayor, who shall have the results recorded
in the Minutes of the Council. The five candidates for Council with the highest
number of votes shall be declared elected to the Council. In the event of the
claim of Fraud of the election, the Council shall call for a recount of the
ballots.
Section 505.4. Preservation of Ballots
All ballots used in any Town Election shall be preserved for at least six
months from the date of election.
Section 506. Run-off Elections
If under the provisions of this Charter, one or more Council seats or the
positions of Mayor and Mayor Pro-Tempore remain unfilled after the election
because of an equal number of votes being received by two or more candidates, a
second election shall be held among those candidates for the Council Seat or
seats remaining unfilled. Such election shall be held no later than the second
Tuesday of June and shall in all respects be in accordance with the election
provisions of this Charter.
Section 507. Special Elections
All special Town Elections shall be conducted by the Board of Supervisors of
Elections in the same manner as regular Town Elections.
Section 508. Failure to Proclaim Election
In the event the Council fails to proclaim an election at the time appointed or
neglects to do any needful thing to ensure the holding of a legal election to
elect their successors, the Circuit Court of Prince George’s County shall, upon
the petition of five voters of the Town, appoint five town residents to conduct
an election on a date to be fixed by the Court in the manner provided for in
this Charter.
Section 509. Regulation and Control
The Council shall have the power to provide by ordinance for any procedure in
the elective process not otherwise covered by the provisions of this Charter.
Section 510. Emergency Actions
When a State of Emergency has been declared for the Town by the Mayor and
Council, or by the State of Maryland or Prince George’s County, pursuant to
State or local law, and in the judgment of the Mayor and Council the State of
Emergency prevents the safe, orderly and efficient conduct of a Town election,
the Mayor and Council may, by resolution, postpone an election until such time
as the election may be conducted in a safe, orderly and efficient manner and
make necessary changes to the method, conduct, or voting system of an election
to ensure an accurate vote count and certification of the election results.
CHAPTER VI. FINANCE
Section 601. Fiscal Year
The Town shall operate on an annual budget. The fiscal year of the Town shall
begin on the first day of July and end on the last day of June in each year.
Such fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the accounting year.
Section 602. Budget
The proposed annual budget shall be presented at a regular public meeting of
the Council in April of each year for the purpose of a Public Hearing. Prior to
or at the Public Hearing, the proposed budget, together with the current year’s
budget as adjusted, shall be distributed to Town residents. Before adoption of
the budget, the Council may adjust items and sums but must retain a balance
between proposed expenditures and anticipated revenues. The budget shall be
adopted at a regular public meeting of the Council in May. Adoption requires a
favorable vote of a majority of the Council.
Section 602.1. Appropriations
No public money may be expended without having been appropriated by the
Council. The amounts stated in the adopted budget as proposed expenditures
shall be appropriated to the several objects and purposes named therein. Any
transfer of money appropriated for different purposes must be approved by a
majority of the Council.
Section 602.2 Over-Expenditure Prohibited
During any budget year, no officer or employee shall expend or contract to
expend any money or incur any liability or enter into any contract which by its
terms involves the expenditure of money for any purposes in excess of the
amounts appropriated for or transferred to that general classification of
expenditure. Any contract, verbal or written, made in violation of this section
shall be null and void. Nothing in this section shall prevent the making of
contracts or the spending of money for capital improvements to be financed in
whole or in part by the issuance of bonds, nor the making of contracts of
leases, purchases or for services for a period exceeding the budget year in
which such contract is made.
Section 602.3. Capital Equipment and Outlay
All capital equipment included in the proposed annual budget shall be
identified as a separate line item under the appropriate Town Department
requiring it.
Section 602.4. Appropriations Lapse
All appropriations not spent or encumbered shall lapse at the end of the budget
year and shall be included among the anticipated revenues for the succeeding
budget year.
Section 603. Checks
All checks issued in payment of salaries or other municipal obligations shall
be issued and signed by the Town Manager and shall be countersigned by at least
one member of the Council. In the absence of the Town Manager checks shall be
signed by three Councilmembers.
Section 604. Taxes
A.   All real property, franchises, and all personal property within the
Corporate limits of the Town shall be subject to taxation for Municipal
purposes as permitted by State Laws. Exempted from taxation are household
furniture and effects held for household use and not held or employed for the
purposes of profit or in connection with any business, profession or
occupation. The assessment used for municipal taxation shall be the same as
that for State and County taxes. No authority is given to impose taxes on any
property which is exempt from taxation by any Act of General Assembly.
B.   From the effective date of the budget, the amount stated therein as the
amount to be raised by the property tax shall constitute a determination of the
amount of the tax levy in the corresponding tax year.
C.   The Council shall have authority to levy taxes annually upon all property
and franchises within the Town. Such taxes shall be levied at rates necessary
to meet the anticipated expenses for the next fiscal year. The rate of taxation
shall be determined at the regular public meeting in May of each year. (Res.
10-83; 12-1483)
Section 604.1. Notice of Tax Levy
A.   The Town Manager shall contract with the County Treasurer to make out and
mail or deliver in person to each taxpayer or his agent at his last known
address, a bill or account of the taxes due. This bill or account shall contain
a statement of the assessed valuation of property, the rate of taxation, amount
of taxes due, and the date on which taxes will bear interest. Failure to
receive any tax notice required by this section shall not relieve any taxpayer
of the responsibility to pay all taxes levied on his property.
B.   The taxes provided herein shall be due and payable on the first day of
July in the year for which they are levied and shall be overdue and in arrears
on the first day of the following October. While in arrears they shall bear
interest at the rate of two-thirds of one percent and penalties at the rate of
one percent for each month or fraction thereof until paid. All taxes not paid
and in arrears after the first day of the following January shall be collected
as provided for in Section 604.1.C below.
C.   A list of all property on which the Town taxes are not paid and are in
arrears after the first day of January shall be turned over to the Official of
Prince George’s County responsible for the sale of tax delinquent property. All
property listed thereon shall, if necessary, be sold for taxes in the manner
prescribed by State Law.
Section 605. Fees
All fees, fines and other funds received by any official or employee of the
Town in his official capacity shall belong to the Town and be accounted for by
the Town Manager.
Section 606. Audit
The financial books and accounts of the Town shall be audited annually as
required by the Annotated Code of Maryland. Financial records and the audit
reports shall be made available for inspection upon written request by any
resident of the Town in the manner prescribed by State Law.
Section 607. Tax-anticipation Borrowing
The Town shall have the power to borrow in anticipation of the collection of
property taxes, and to issue tax anticipation notes or other evidence of
indebtedness therefor. Such notes or evidence of indebtedness shall be a first
lien upon the proceeds of such tax and shall mature and be paid not later than
six months after issued. Total tax anticipation indebtedness of the Town shall
not exceed fifty percent of the property tax levy for the fiscal year in which
issued. The Council shall have authority to regulate all matters concerning the
issuance and sale of tax anticipation notes.
Section 607.1. General Obligation Borrowings*
A.   The Town shall have the power to borrow money for any proper public
purpose and to evidence such borrowing by the issuance and sale of its general
obligation bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness in the manner
prescribed in this Section.
B.   All general obligation bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness
issued under the provisions of this Section shall be authorized by an ordinance
that shall contain:
(1)   a statement of the maximum aggregate principal amount of such obligations
to be issued;
(2)   a statement of the purpose or purposes for which the proceeds of such
obligations are to be expended;
(3)   a pledge of the security for such obligations and, if applicable, a
statement that such obligations shall be payable in the first instance from a
specified source of revenue or provisions for the making of such statement by
resolution; and
(4)   a requirement that, subject to subsection (d) below, prior to the
issuance of any such obligations, the Council shall adopt a resolution in
accordance with the provisions of subsection (c) below. Any such ordinance
shall be subject to petition to referendum in accordance with Section 311.2 of
this Charter.
C.   Prior to issuing any such obligations identified in subsection (b) above,
the Council shall adopt a resolution containing, determining or providing for
the determination of, or approving or providing for the approval of:
(1)   the designation, date of issue, denomination or denominations, form or
forms and tenor of such obligations;
(2)   the rate or rates of interest payable on such obligations (which may be
fixed or variable or may be determined by a method approved or provided for);
(3)   the date or dates and amount or amounts of maturity, which may be in any
denomination;
(4)   the manner of selling such obligations, which may be either at public
sale after publication or dissemination of the notice of sale or by private
(negotiated) sale without advertisement or solicitation of competitive bids;
(5)   the price or prices of such obligations, which may be at, above or below
par value;
(6)   any desired provisions relating to the redemption of such obligations
prior to maturity (which may be at, above or below par value), and the manner
of publishing or otherwise giving notice of such redemption;
(7)   the manner of executing and sealing such obligations, which may be by
facsimile; (8) any documents pursuant to which such obligations are to be
issued or secured, including, without limitation, agreements with banks,
fiduciaries, insurers or others for the purpose of enhancing the marketability
of or as security for such obligations and for securing any tender option
granted to the holders thereof; and
(9)   such other provisions regarding the terms, conditions, issuance, sale,
delivery and security of and for such obligations as the Council may determine
necessary or desirable, including, without limitation, whether such obligations
shall be sold for cash or other valuable consideration or further specifying
the purposes for which such obligations are to be expended (within the
limitations set forth in the applicable ordinance). By resolution the Council
may delegate to a specified official or officials the authority to approve any
matters or make any determinations contemplated by this subsection (c). A
resolution adopted pursuant to this subsection (c) may be introduced and
adopted at a single session of the Council, may not be petitioned to referendum
and shall become effective immediately upon adoption or upon the date specified
in such resolution, notwithstanding the provisions of any other Section of this
Charter.
D.   The Council may, at its option, determine or provide for the determination
of, or approve or provide for the approval of, any of the matters referenced in
subsection (c) above by ordinance instead of by resolution, which ordinance
shall be subject to petition to referendum in accordance with Section 311.2 of
this Charter.
E.   In connection with any sale of general obligation bonds, notes or other
evidences of indebtedness by the solicitation of competitive bids at public
sale, any such competitive bids may be delivered by electronic and/or facsimile
means and/or by any other then-commercially reasonable manner for the sale of
municipal obligations at competitive bid; and any notice of sale may be
published solely in summary form in a newspaper of general circulation in the
Town and/or in a generally recognized financial journal such as The Bond Buyer,
or any notice of sale may be disseminated solely in electronic form and/or by
any other then-commercially reasonable manner for the sale of municipal
obligations, as determined by the Council in accordance with subsection (c) or
subsection (d) above, as applicable.
F.   The power conferred on the Town under this Section shall be deemed to be
additional and supplemental to any other general obligation borrowing authority
granted to the Town by Maryland public general or public local law, and the
Town may authorize, issue and secure any such general obligation debt in
conformity with this Charter and/or any other applicable law.
G.   The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any tax anticipation
borrowing incurred in accordance with Section 607 of this Charter.
H.   All general obligation bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness
validly issued by the Town previous to the effective date of this Charter, as
amended, and all ordinances and resolutions passed concerning them, are hereby
declared to be valid, legal and binding and of full force and effect as if
herein fully set forth.
Section 608. Payment of Indebtedness
The power and obligation of the Town to pay any and all bonds, notes or other
evidence of indebtedness issued by it under the authority of this Charter shall
be unlimited and the Town shall levy taxes upon all the taxable property of the
Town for payment thereof and interest thereon. The faith and credit of the Town
is hereby pledged for the payment of the principal and interest on all legal
evidence of indebtedness issued under the authority of this Charter, whether or
not such pledge be stated in such evidences of indebtedness in the Council
action authorizing their issuance.
Section 608.1. Previous Issues
All bonds, notes, or evidence of indebtedness issued by the Town previous to
the effective date of this Charter, and all ordinances concerning them, are
hereby declared to be valid, legal, and binding as in herein fully set forth.
Section 609. Purchases
All expenditures for equipment, public improvements, or contractual services
involving more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000) shall be made through
solicitation of at least three competitive bids and obtaining a written
contract. All such contracts shall be approved by the Council at a Public
Meeting before becoming effective.
Section 609.1. Negotiated Contracts
A.   The Mayor is authorized to negotiate a purchase or contract without regard
to the formal advertising and bidding procedures required by Sections 609 and
806 of this Charter under the following circumstances:
1)   In the event of any emergency situation, and with the consent of the Town
Council, in which the immediate procurement of supplies, contractual services
or capital improvements is required to preserve the public order and to protect
the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the Town. Any
contract or purchase negotiated under the provisions of this subsection must be
approved by the Town Council before being signed or executed by the Mayor.
2)   When proprietary articles are involved or when only one source of supply
is available.
3)   When competition is precluded because of the existence of patent rights,
copyrights, secret processes, control of basic raw material or similar
circumstances.
4)   When bids have been solicited pursuant to the requirements of formal
advertising in Sections 609 and Section 806 and no responsive bid was received
from a responsible bidder.
B.   Authority to negotiate does not excuse compliance with the basic policy of
obtaining maximum competition consistent with the needs of the occasion, to the
end that all purchases will be made to the best advantage of the Town, price
and other factors considered. The authority to negotiate contracts in no way
eliminates the need of the Mayor to exert every reasonable effort to obtain the
most favorable prices possible. Bargaining shall be free from practices or
actions which may cause inequities for bidders or justified criticism of the
purchase policies and procedures. Each purchase or contract negotiated under
this authority shall be supported by a statement signed by the Mayor justifying
the use of negotiation procedures.
CHAPTER VII. PERSONNEL
Section 701. Authority to Hire
The Council shall have the authority to appoint, hire or otherwise engage such
persons as deemed necessary to fulfill the responsibilities and duties of the
Town.
Section 702. Compensation of Employees
The Council shall determine and periodically review the compensation of all
officers and employees of the Town, subject to the restrictions imposed on
their own compensation.
Section 703. Employee Benefit Programs
The Council shall be authorized by ordinance to provide for or participate in
hospitalization or other forms of reasonable benefit or welfare programs for
its officers and employees, and to expend public funds of the Town for such
purposes.
Section 704. Retirement System
The Council shall have the authority to do all things necessary to include its
officers and employees, themselves excepted, within a retirement or pension
system, and to pay the employer’s share of the cost of such a system out of the
general funds of the Town.
Section 705. Insurance and Bonding
The Council shall determine bonding and insurance requirements for its officers
and employees and may expend public funds for such purposes.
Section 706. Personnel
The Council is authorized to appoint the following personnel. This in no way
restricts the Council from engaging the services of other employees as deemed
necessary to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the Town.
Section 706.1. Town Manager*
The Council shall appoint a Town Manager to serve at the pleasure of the
Council. The Town Manager shall, under the supervision of the Council, be the
financial and administrative officer of the Town. Duties and responsibilities
of the Administrator may be as specified by Ordinance.
Section 706.2. Town Attorney
The Council shall appoint a Town Attorney who shall be a member of the Bar of
the Maryland Court of Appeals. He shall serve as the legal advisor and legal
representative of the Town. He shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and
his compensation shall be determined by the Council. The Council shall have the
authority to employ other legal consultants as it deems necessary.
Section 706.3. Code Enforcement Officer
The Council may appoint a Code Enforcement Officer who shall be responsible for
enforcing the Town Codes and the Maryland livability code, and perform other
related duties as may be specified by ordinance.
Section 706.4. Town Engineer
The Council may appoint a Town Engineer who shall be a registered land surveyor
for the State and shall be the engineering advisor for the Town and shall
perform such other related duties as may be required by the Council.
Section 706.5. Police Officers
The Council may appoint one or more Police Officers for the Town. They shall
have all police powers in accordance with Federal, State and County Laws.
Duties and responsibilities shall be further specified by ordinance.
CHAPTER VIII. PUBLIC WAYS AND STORM DRAINAGE
Section 801. Control of Public Ways
The Town shall have control of all public ways in the Town except those under
the jurisdiction of the State Highway Administration. The Town may do whatever
it deems necessary to establish, operate, and maintain the public ways of the
Town.
Section 802. Streets, Sidewalks, Curbs and Bridges
The Town Council shall have the power:
A.   To establish or change the grade lines, placements, width and construction
materials of any new or existing public way of the Town.
B.   To grade, pave, repair, improve, open or close any public way of the Town
or part thereof including streets, sidewalks, curbs, gutters and bridges.
C.   To have surveys, plans, specifications and estimates made for any of the
above activities
Section 803. Consent of Property Owners
When it is determined by the Council that the cost of constructing public ways
is to be paid for by special assessment, such construction shall not be
authorized without the signature, consent or request of at least fifty-one
percent of the front foot abutting property owners representing at least fifty-
one percent of the front footage on the street or section thereof.
Section 804. Special Assessment
A.   To make the improvements to the public ways under the special assessment
provision, the Council is authorized to levy and collect special assessment
taxes upon property for the benefits conferred thereon by such improvements.
The cost of any project to be paid for in whole or in part by special
assessment shall include the direct cost, land acquired for the project,
interest on bonds or certificates of indebtedness, a reasonable charge for the
services of Town personnel, and any other costs which may be reasonably
attributed to the project.
B.   The Council shall levy against each parcel of land abutting the
improvement an assessment based on the assessable front footage of the property
multiplied by the cost per unit foot for the entire project. When two or more
sides of a parcel of land abut two or more public ways under the jurisdiction
of the Town, the Council shall have the authority to adjust the assessable
front footage in such amounts as may be just and equitable; however, such
adjustment shall be computed at not less than fifty percent of the actual
footage abutting the improvements.
C.   Special assessments when made shall constitute a tax or lien upon the
abutting property and shall be payable from the date of assessment. Any
assessment or part thereof remaining due and unpaid shall be collected in the
same manner as Town taxes are collected provided the Town serves legal notice
on the property owners of such assessment.
Section 805. Certificates of Indebtedness
A.   To effectuate the construction and repairs of public ways, the Council is
authorized to borrow on the credit of the Town sums of money which shall not in
total amount exceed ten percent of the assessed valuation of all real property
in the Town. They may issue bonds or certificates of indebtedness thereof which
shall be payable on or before twenty years from the date of issuance, at the
most acceptable interest rate available, but not to exceed the current prime
interest rate. Funds derived from the sale of such bonds or certificates of
indebtedness shall be deposited in a safe banking institution in the State and
shall be subject to withdrawal by check only when countersigned by at least
three Council members. (Resolution 16-81; August 27, 1981)
B.   The bonds or certificates of indebtedness authorized to be issued will be
sold through public advertisements for bids. Notice of sale of such bonds or
certificates of indebtedness shall be advertised at least once a week for two
consecutive weeks in a newspaper having general circulation in the Town. The
advertisement shall state that the Council shall be in readiness at a specified
place, time and date not less than fifteen days after final publication of the
advertisement to publicly open and read the sealed bids. Provided the bids are
adequate in the judgement of the Council, the bonds or certificates of
indebtedness shall then be sold to the highest responsible bidder.
Section 806. Construction Bids
When construction of public ways is authorized, the Council shall invite bids
for such construction by advertisement for two weeks in a newspaper having
general circulation in the Town. The Council shall award the contract for such
construction to the lowest responsible bidder, reserving at all times the right
to reject any or all bids received. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Council
may, when deemed in the public interest, upon unanimous vote of the Council,
contract directly with any responsible contractor for the construction of
improvements which do no exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000) in cost. All
contractors awarded contracts shall post bond in such sum as the Council shall
require for the faithful performance of the contract.
Section 807. Storm Drainage
A.   The Council is authorized to plan, design, construct, maintain, and
operate a system for the control and disposition of surface waters, including
storm water drainage, within the limits of the Town. For such purposes the
Council is authorized to condemn, obtain easements, and to negotiate and make
contracts with any Public Agency including the Washington Suburban Sanitary
Commission.
B.   The Council is authorized to borrow on the credit of the Town, sums of
money for the purpose of paying for storm water or surface drainage
improvements. Total annual expenditures to meet principal and interest payments
for all such improvements shall not exceed one-half one percent of the assessed
valuation of all real property in the Town unless approved by a majority of all
the votes cast on a referendum submitted to the voters of the Town.
C.   The Council is authorized to levy and collect an ad valorem tax upon all
the assessed property of the Town sufficient to meet the annual cost of storm
drainage improvements.
CHAPTER IX. TOWN PROPERTY
Section 901. Acquisition, Possession and Disposal
The Council may acquire real, personal or mixed property within or without the
Corporate limits of the Town for any public purpose by purchase, gift, bequest,
devise, lease, condemnation, or otherwise and may sell, lease, or otherwise
dispose of any property belonging to the Town. All municipal property, funds,
and franchises of every kind belonging to or in possession of the Town at the
time this Charter becomes effective are vested in the Town, subject to the
terms and conditions thereof.
Section 902. Condemnation
The Council shall have power to condemn property of any kind, or interest
therein or franchise connected therewith, in fee or as an easement, within the
corporate limits of the Town, for any public purpose, any activity, project or
improvement authorized by the provision of this Charter or any State Law
applicable to the Town shall be deemed to be a public purpose. The manner and
procedure of any condemnation proceeding shall be that established in the
Annotated Code of the General Public Laws of Maryland under Eminent Domain.
Section 903. Town Buildings
The Council shall have the power to acquire, to obtain by lease or rent, to
purchase, construct, and maintain all buildings and structures it deems
necessary for the operation of the Town Government or for the welfare of Town
residents.
Section 904. Protection and Accountability of Town Property
The Council shall have the power and responsibility to do whatever may be
necessary to account for, to protect and to maintain all Town property in good
condition.
CHAPTER X. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1001. Oath of Office
A.   Before entering upon the duties of their offices, the Council, the Town
Manager, the Members of the Board of Supervisors of Elections, and all other
persons elected or appointed to any office of trust or profit in the Town
Government shall take and subscribe the following oath or affirmation:
“I, ____________, do swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of
the United States; and that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to the
State of Maryland, and support the Constitution and Laws thereof; and that I
will, to the best of my skill and judgment, diligently and faithfully, without
partiality or prejudice, execute the Office of , according to the Constitution
and Laws of this State and the Charter and Ordinances of Berwyn Heights”.
B.   The Council shall take this oath or affirmation before the Clerk of the
Circuit Court for Prince George’s County or before a sworn Deputy of the Clerk.
All other persons taking the oath shall do so before the Mayor.
Section 1002. Prior Rights and Obligations
All rights, title, and interest held by the Town or any other person or
corporation at the time this Charter is adopted, in and to any lien acquired
under any previous Charter of the Town, are hereby preserved for the Holder in
all respects as if this Charter had not been adopted, together with all rights
and remedies in relation thereto. This Charter shall not discharge, impair, or
release any contract, obligation, duty, liability, or penalty whatever existing
at the time this Charter becomes effective. All suits and actions, both civil
and criminal, pending, or which may be hereafter instituted for causes of
action now existing or offenses already committed against any law or ordinance
repealed by this Charter, shall be instituted, proceeded with, and prosecuted
to final determination and judgment as if this Charter had not become
effective. All officials elected or appointed under the previous Charter will
continue in effect until terminated as specified herein.
Section 1003. Effect of Charter on Existing Ordinances
A.   All ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations in effect in the Town
at the time this Charter becomes effective which are not in conflict with the
provisions of this Charter shall remain in effect until changed or repealed.
B.   All ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations in effect in the Town
at the time this Charter becomes effective which are in conflict with the
provisions of this Charter are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.
Section 1004. Misdemeanors
Every act or omission which is made a misdemeanor under the authority of this
Charter, unless otherwise provided shall be punishable upon conviction before
any District Court or in the Circuit Court for the County within which the
offense is committed by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars or
imprisonment for thirty days in the County jail, or both, at the discretion of
the District Court or Circuit Court. The party aggrieved shall have the right
to appeal as is now provided under the General Laws of the State. Where the act
or omission is of a continuing nature and persisted in, a conviction for one
offense shall not be a bar to a conviction for a continuation of the offense
subsequent to the first or any succeeding conviction.
Section 1005. Liability for Damages
A.   Before the Town shall be liable for damages of any kind, someone in behalf
of, or the person injured must give the Town Manager notice in writing of the
injury within one hundred and eighty days after the injury has been received,
stating when, where and how the injury occurred and the extent of the injury.
B.   The Town shall not be liable for damage or injury to any person or
property arising from or occasioned by any public way or public grounds or any
defect thereon, unless proper diligence has not been exercised to correct the
defect.
Section 1006. Separability
If any section or part of a section of the Charter shall be held invalid by a
Court of Competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect the remainder of
this Charter nor the context in which such section or part of section so held
invalid shall appear, except to the extent that an entire section or part of
section may be inseparably connected in meaning and effect with the section or
part of section to which such holding shall directly apply.
Section 1007. Amendment
This Charter may be amended in accordance with the constitution of Maryland and
Article 23A of the Annotated Code of Maryland.
Section 1007.1. Effectiveness of Amendment
Any amendment to the Charter adopted by referendum can be changed by referendum
only and shall not be negated by a Town Council resolution.
*Section 607.1, Private Sale Authority, adopted 02/13/08
*Section 202. Corporate Boundaries, amended 04-12-2017
*Section 706.1 et al Town Administrator, amended 07-11-2018
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
Municipal Infractions
   
10.30   Definitions
   
10.31   Declaration as infraction; fine
   
10.32   Issuance of citation
   
10.33   Payment of fine
   
10.34   No formal hearing by town
   
10.35   Election to stand trial
   
10.36   Failure to pay fine
   
10.37   Conviction not criminal offense
   
10.38   Court proceedings and rights of accused
   
10.99   General penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Berwyn Heights Town Code,” for which designation “Code of Ordinances,”
“Codified Ordinances” or “Code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of such persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
      COUNCIL or COUNCILMEMBERS. The Councilmembers of the town, as a board.
      COUNTY. Prince George’s County, Maryland.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves
or as a servant, agent or employee.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the Town of Berwyn Heights.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON.
         (a)   Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver.
         (b)   Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty,
the terms PERSON or WHOMEVER as applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean
the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers
or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
      PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
      PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      STATE. The State of Maryland.
      STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the town.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
      TOWN. The Town of Berwyn Heights, Maryland.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING.
         (a)   Include printing, lithographing or other modes of representing
words and letters.
         (b)   Where the written signature of a person is required, the terms
mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code, regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which such duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express that intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a reasonable
time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall
be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt performance of the
act or the giving of the notice. The time within which an act is to be done, as
herein provided, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the
last. If the last day be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be
excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture or liability incurred under that section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides.
   (C)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (Md. Code, § 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see Md. Code, State Govt. Article, §§ 10-612
et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (C)   The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted.
   (D)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way; contracts entered into or franchises granted; the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway; and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
§ 10.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MISDEMEANOR.
      (1)   A criminal offense, not amounting to a felony, arising from a
violation of a law of the state, which violation is defined as a MISDEMEANOR;
or
      (2)   Unless otherwise specified, a violation of any law of the town. All
violations of town ordinances shall be treated as MISDEMEANORS, unless
specifically declared to be infractions.
   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION. Any violation of town ordinances which violation has
been specifically declared to be a MUNICIPAL INFRACTION. For the purposes of
these ordinances, a MUNICIPAL INFRACTION is a civil offense. The word
INFRACTION used in these ordinances means MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
(Ord. 111, passed 7-9-1980)
§ 10.31 DECLARATION AS INFRACTION; FINE.
   (A)   The Mayor and Town Council shall, by official act, declare the
violation of which ordinance or ordinances shall be an infraction or
infractions, and for each such violation a specific fine shall be set.
An additional fine shall be set for each repeat or continuing violation.
   (B)   The fine shall be expressed as a discrete amount rather than being
expressed in terms of a maximum or minimum amount.
   (C)   The authority to declare infractions and set fines shall not be
delegated by the Mayor and Town Council to any other administrative or
legislative body.
(Ord. 111, passed 7-9-1980; Ord. 179, passed 8-14-2019)
§ 10.32 ISSUANCE OF CITATION.
   (A)   (1)   Those enforcement officials authorized by the Mayor and Town
Council to enforce town ordinances may deliver a citation to any person alleged
to be committing an infraction.
      (2)   A copy of the citation shall be retained by the town and shall bear
the certification of the enforcing official attesting to the truth of the
matter set forth in the citation.
   (B)   The citation shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the person charged;
      (2)   The nature of the infraction;
      (3)   The location and time the infraction occurred or was observed;
      (4)   The amount of the infraction fine assessed;
      (5)   The manner, location and time in which the fine may be paid to the
town; and
      (6)   The right of the accused to stand trial for the infraction.
(Ord. 111, passed 7-9-1980)
§ 10.33 PAYMENT OF FINE.
   The fine for an infraction shall be as specified in the law violated. The
fine is payable by the recipient of the citation to the town within 20 calendar
days of receipt of the citation.
(Ord. 111, passed 7-9-1980)
§ 10.34 NO FORMAL HEARING BY TOWN.
   (A)   The town shall not conduct any formal hearing for those persons in
receipt of a citation of infraction. Any offender so cited may pay the fine as
indicated in the citation or elect to stand trial for the offense.
   (B)   This provision shall not prevent an offender from requesting, either
personally or through an attorney, additional information concerning the
infraction.
(Ord. 111, passed 7-9-1980)
§ 10.35 ELECTION TO STAND TRIAL.
   A person receiving the citation for an infraction may elect to stand trial
for the offense by notifying the town, in writing, of the person’s intention of
standing trial. The notice shall be given at least five days prior to the date
of payment as set forth in the citation. Upon receipt of the notice of the
intention to stand trial, the town shall forward to the district court having
venue, a copy of the notice from the person who received the citation
indicating the intention to stand trial. Upon receipt of the citation, the
district court shall schedule the case for trial and notify the defendant of
the trial date. All fines, penalties or forfeitures collected by the district
court for violations of infractions shall be remitted to the General Fund of
the town.
(Ord. 111, passed 7-9-1980)
§ 10.36 FAILURE TO PAY FINE.
   If a person receiving a citation for an infraction fails to pay the fine for
the infraction by the date of payment set forth on the citation and fails to
file a notice of the person’s intention to stand trial for the offense, a
formal notice of the infraction shall be sent to the offender’s last known
address. If the citation has not been satisfied within 15 days from the date of
the notice, the offender shall be liable for an additional fine not to exceed
twice the original fine. If, after 35 days, the citation has not been
satisfied, the town may request adjudication of the case through the district
court. The district court shall promptly schedule the case for trial and summon
the defendant to appear.
(Ord. 111, passed 7-9-1980)
§ 10.37 CONVICTION NOT CRIMINAL OFFENSE.
   Conviction of a municipal infraction, whether by the district court or by
payment of the fine to the town, is not a criminal conviction for any purpose,
nor does it impose any of the civil disabilities ordinarily imposed by a
criminal conviction.
(Ord. 111, passed 7-9-1980)
§ 10.38 COURT PROCEEDINGS AND RIGHTS OF ACCUSED.
   In any proceeding for a municipal infraction, the accused shall have the
same rights as for the trial of criminal cases. The accused shall have the
right to cross-examine witnesses against him or her, to testify or introduce
evidence in the person’s own behalf and to be represented by an attorney of the
person’s own selection and at the person’s own expense.
(Ord. 111, passed 7-9-1980)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Infraction. Any person found guilty of violating a provision of the
town ordinances, which violation is an infraction as declared, shall be
assessed a fine. The fine shall be paid by the offender to the town within 20
calendar days of receipt of a citation. Repeat offenders may be assessed an
additional fine for each repeat offense. Each day a violation continues shall,
unless otherwise provided, constitute a separate or repeat offense.
   (B)   Misdemeanor. Unless otherwise provided herein, any person found guilty
of violating any provision of the town ordinances, which violation is a
misdemeanor as defined herein, shall be subject to a fine and imprisonment not
to exceed 30 days or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 111, passed 7-9-1980; Ord. 179, passed 8-14-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Comprehensive fee and fine schedules, see §
30.01
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   ELECTIONS
      
33.   OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Fee and fines schedules
Budget
   
30.15   Annual budgets
   
30.16   Budget format
   
30.17   Copies
   
30.18   Fee schedule review
   
30.19   Public hearing on fee schedule
   
30.20   Additional changes
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 FEE AND FINES SCHEDULES.
   (A)   The comprehensive fee schedule is incorporated below.
Comprehensive Fee Schedule
Section of Code Type of Fee Amount of Fee ($)
Ordinance 104 Building and Inspection (
Chapter 150)
Comprehensive Fee Schedule
Section of Code           Type of Fee                Amount of Fee ($)
Ordinance 104 Building and Inspection (
Chapter 150)
§                        Residential building       $75 for value of
150.08                    permit                     construction under $25,000
§                        Residential building       $125 for value of
150.08                    permit                     construction over $25,000
                                                     $25 plus $3 per $1,000 of
Chapter 150               Commercial building permit construction to $1,500
                                                     maximum. Every increment
                                                     of $1,000 goes up $3
Chapter 150               Deck permit                $25
Chapter 150               Fence permit               $25
Chapter 150               New home permit            $250
Chapter 150               Raze permit                $100
§                        Roll-off (dumpster) permit $25 for every 15 days of
150.04                                               portion thereof
§                        Portable temporary storage $50 for every 30 days of
150.08                    unit permit                portion thereof
§                        Building, roll-off or      Up to $1,000 (for
150.08                    storage unit damage        potential damage to town
                          deposit                    right-of-way)
Ordinance 105 Business Licenses (Chapter 110)
§                        Banks and financial
110.04                    institutions
§                        Peddler, solicitors
110.04
§                        Professional service -
110.04                    each professional
§                        Real estate and insurance
110.04                    - each agent
§                        Coin operated vending
110.04                    machines - each
Gross receipts fee schedule:
§                        Gross receipts under       $40 per year
110.07                    $25,000
                         Gross receipts $25,000 to  $75 per year
                          $100,000
                         Gross receipts $100,000 to $125 per year
                          $500,000
                         Gross receipts $500,000 to $185 per year
                          $750,000
                         Gross receipts $750,000 or $250 per year
                          greater
Ordinance 106 - Cable TV, Comcast (
Chapter 112)
§                        Franchise application      $5,000
112.05(A)                 filing fee
Ordinance 117 - Refuse Collection (
Chapter 50)
Resolution 2-2010 Refuse Collection Fees
A                         Appliances                 $25 prior to collection
                          Building and construction  Fee determined by public
B                         debris                     works if over 3 cubic
                                                     yards
C a                       Bulk refuse                No fee if under 3 yards
                                                     Fee determined by public
C b                       Bulk refuse                works if over 3 cubic
                                                     yards
D                         Clean outs                 Fee determined by public
                                                     works - any amount
E                         Electronic or electronic   Fee determined by Town
                          recyclables                Council
F                         Hazardous waste            Not accepted
G a                       Household refuse - first   No fee
                          roll-out container
                          Household refuse -         Fee determined by Town
G b                       additional roll-out        Council
                          container
H                         Imported waste             Not accepted
I                         Loose leaves               No fee
J                         Motor vehicles and parts   Fee determined by public
                                                     works
K                         Pressured containers       Not accepted
L                         Recyclable materials       Fee collected on tax bill
M                         Special collection         Fee determined by public
                          material                   works
N                         Tires                      $5 each prior to
                                                     collection
O a                       Yard waste                 No fee under 3 yards
                                                     Fee determined by Public
O b                       Yard waste                 Works if over 3 cubic
                                                     yards
Ordinance 118 - Road and Public Rights-of-Way (
Chapter 154)
Resolution 05-2019
Permit application fee:
                         Value of work up to $4,999 $40
                         Value of work $5,000 to    $100
                          $25,000
                         Value of work greater than $1,000
                          $25,000
Permit fee:
                         Value of construction up   10% of the value of
                          to $250,000                construction/work
                         Value of construction      8% of the value of
                          $250,000 or greater        construction/work
                         Driveway upon (residential $40
                          only)
                         Permit renewal fee         25% of original fee
Ordinance 119 - Traffic and Parking (
Chapter 71)
Resolution 03-2015
                         Accident report -          $10
                          residential
                         Accident report - non-     $20
                          resident
                         Police report - resident   No charge
                         Police report - non-       $15
                          resident
                         Fingerprinting (per card)  $10
                          residents only
                         Returned check             $35
                         Vehicle impound release    $75
Ordinance 120 - Rental Housing (
Chapter 153)
Resolution 02-2017
                         Rental license application $300
                          fee
Ordinance 125 - Small Cell Facilities (
Chapter 111)
Resolution 06-2019
                         Application fee - up to 5  $500
                         Each additional            $100
                         Each new pole              $1,000
                         Plan review cost, if in
                          excess of set fees
                         Access fee                 $270 per small cell
                                                     facility per year
Administration and Police Notary fee                 $4 per page notarized
Department
 
   (B)   The comprehensive fines schedule is incorporated below.
Comprehensive Fines Schedule
Section in Code Section Name Fine for Initial Offense Fine for Repeat or
                                                      Continuous Violation
Comprehensive Fines Schedule
                                                                                    Fine for     Fine for
Section in Section Name                                                             Initial      Repeat or
Code                                                                                Offense      Continuous
                                                                                                 Violation
Ordinance 104 - Building and Inspection (Chapter 150)
§         Residential building permit late fee                                     $25 per
150.08                                                                              calendar day
§                                                                                  $1,000 per
150.03(D)  Working under stop work order                                            calendar day
(3)
          Commercial building permit late fee                                      $100 per
                                                                                    calendar day
§         Roll-off container permit fine                                                        $15
150.08
§         Portable storage unit permit fine                                                     $25
150.08
§         Portable storage unit unapproved extension                               $100 per
150.08                                                                              week
§                                                                                  Recorded as
150.08     Unpaid damages to town property 10 days after notification               lien against
                                                                                    property
Ordinance 105 - Business Licenses (
Chapter 110)
Resolution 05-2006
§
110.03 -
Annual     Application not filed and/or fees not paid within 30 days                $50
Renewal of
Licenses
          Application not filed and/or fees not paid - each additional month or                 $50
           partial month beyond first 30 days
§         Violation of any provision of
110.99 -   Chapter 110                                                              $50
Violation
          Violation of any provision of                                                         $50
           Chapter 110 not corrected in 30 days
Ordinance 107 - Clean Lot (§§
152.01 through
152.08)
Resolution 02-2015
§
152.04(A)  Imminent threat - immediate                                              $25 per day  $50 per day
(1)
§
152.04(A)  Hazardous - time sensitive                                               $100         $200
(2)
§
152.04(A)  Non-hazardous - regular order                                            $100         $200
(3)
§         Tall grass and weeds - time sensitive                                    $100         $200
152.04(B)
§         Invasive species and bamboo - regular order                              $100         $200
152.04(C)
§         Discarded vehicle - immediate                                            $100         $200
152.04(D)
§         Vehicle condition and storage - regular order                            $100         $200
152.04(E)
§         Motor vehicle parts - time sensitive                                     $100         $200
152.04(F)
§         Building materials - time sensitive                                      $100         $200
152.04(G)
§         Wood storage - regular order                                             $100         $200
152.04(H)
§         Vegetation - regular order                                               $100         $200
152.04(I)
§         Parking surface - immediate                                              $25 per      $25
152.04(J)                                                                           incident
§         Building security - time sensitive                                       $100         $200
152.04(K)
§         Accessory structures - structural                                        $100         $200
152.04(L)
§         Premises identification - regular order                                  $100         $200
152.04(M)
§         Violations not fully corrected within the timeframe, as specified in §               Not to
152.06(A)  152.06(E)                                                                             exceed
(2)(e)2.                                                                                         $1,000
          Failure to pay fine will result in the amount of any fine(s) imposed to  Lien
           be collected in the same manner as delinquent town taxes
Ordinance 110 - Ethics (§§
36.25 through
36.32)
§         (A)(1) Late fee for failure to timely file a financial disclosure        $5 per day
36.33      statement                                                                up to $500
          (A)(2) Late fee for failure to file timely lobbyist registration/        $10 per day
           lobbyist report                                                          up to $1,000
           (C)(2)(a) The Commission may impose a fine for any violation of §§     $5,000 per
          36.25 through                                                            day
           36.33
           (B)(2) the Ethics Commission may impose a fine for violation of §       $5,000 for
          36.31                                                                    each
                                                                                    violation
           Violation of §                                                          Up to
          36.31 shall be a misdemeanor subject to a fine or imprisonment of up to  $10,000
           one year
Ordinance 111 - Municipal Infractions (§§
10.30 through
10.38)
§
10.99
          (A) Infraction                                                                        $100 not to
                                                                                                 exceed $200
                                                                                    Not to       Not to
                                                                                    exceed $100  exceed $100
                                                                                    and possible and
          (B) Misdemeanor - each day to be considered a separate offense           imprisonment imprisonment
                                                                                    not to       not to
                                                                                    exceed 30    exceed 30
                                                                                    days         days
Ordinance 112 - Parks and Public Property (§§
92.01 through
92.04)
                                                                                    $5 to $100
           Any violation of §§                                                    and possible
          92.01 through                                                            imprisonment
           92.04                                                                    not to
                                                                                    exceed 30
                                                                                    days
Ordinance 114 - Peace, Order and Nuisances (
Chapter 130)
          Any violation of Chapter 130                                             $50          $100
Ordinance 117 - Refuse Collection (
Chapter 50)
Resolution 02-2010
§
50.05
          Imported waste                                                           Up to $1,000
                                                                                    fines may
          Pressured containers                                                     apply

§
50.04
           Improper disposal of (C)(1)(a) appliances, (C)(1)(b) bamboo, (C)(1)(d)
           bulk waste, (C)(1)(f) composting, (C)(1)(h) fish/animal carcasses, (C)
           (1)(j) household refuse, (C)(1)(l) leaves, (C)(1)(n) motor vehicle
A.         parts/accessories, (C)(1)(o) pressured containers, (C)(1)(p) recyclable
           materials, (C)(1)(q) special build refuse, collection, (C)(1)(r) tires,
           (C)(1)(s) Yard waste and (C)(1)(t) corrugated cardboard boxes and
           recycling bins/containers:
          a) First violation in a calendar year                                    $15
          b) Second violation in a calendar year                                                $25
          c) Third violation in a calendar year                                                 $35
          d) Repeat violation in subsequent calendar year                                       $50
           Improper disposal of (C)(1)(c) building, construction and remodeling
B.         materials and waste, (C)(1)(e) clean-outs, (c)(1)(i) hazard materials or
           waste and(C)(1)(m) litter:
          a) First violation in a calendar year                                    $50
          b) Second violation in a calendar year                                                $75
          c) Third violation in a calendar year                                                 $100
C.         Improper disposal of materials into storm drains:
          a) First violation in a calendar year                                    $50
          b) Second violation in a calendar year                                                $75
          c) Third violation in a calendar year                                                 $100
§
50.03
                                                                                    Up to $1,000
          Imported waste                                                           per
                                                                                    violation
                                                                                    per day
§         Safeguards for collectors:
50.06
          a) First violation in a calendar year                                    $25
          b) Second violation in a calendar year                                                $50
§         Accessibility of items placed for collection:
50.07
          a) First violation in a calendar year                                    $25
          b) Second violation in a calendar year                                                $50
Ordinance 118 - Roads and Public Rights-of-Way (
Chapter 154)
          Working under “stop work order”                                      $1,000 per
                                                                                    day
          Missed construction inspection                                           $125 per
                                                                                    inspection
Ordinance 119 - Traffic and Parking (
Chapter 71)
§§
71.04 through
71.14
§         Parked in excess of 72 hours                                             $60
71.04
§         Commercial or recreational vehicles                                      $40
71.05
§         Abandoned vehicle                                                        $100
71.06
§         Construction equipment or materials                                      $100
71.07
§         Vehicle repairs on street                                                $60
71.08
§         Block private driveway without consent                                   $40
71.09(A)
§         Fire hydrant                                                             $100
71.09(B)
§         Block crosswalk                                                          $60
71.09(C)
§         Traffic control devices                                                  $60
71.09(D)
§         Signs prohibiting parking                                                $40
71.09(E)
§         Handicap zone                                                            $250
71.09(F)
§         Parked on any sidewalk                                                   $60
71.09(G)
§         Fire lane                                                                $100
71.09(H)
§         Bridge or elevated structure                                             $40
71.09(I)
§         Double parking                                                           $40
71.09(J)
§         Travel portion of the roadway                                            $40
71.09(K)
§
71.09(K)   Blocking an intersection                                                 $75
(1)
§         Private or public driveway (partially in the road)                       $40
71.09(L)
§         Parked more than 12 inches from the curb                                 $40
71.10(A)
§         Parked left wheel to curb                                                $40
71.10(B)
§         Stop, stand or park any Class FA, FB, FD, EPF, E, Dump or Class E        $40
71.11(A)   registered truck or vehicle over 20,000 pounds on public street
§         Operated any Class FA, FB, FD, EPF, E, Dump or Class E registered truck  $40
71.11(B)   or vehicle over 20,000 pounds on public street
§         Parked on private property without permission                            $60
71.12
§         Unattended motor vehicle (motor running)                                 $75
71.13
§         Failure to attach vehicle registration plates in front and rear          $60
71.14
Ordinance 120 - Rental Housing (
Chapter 153)
Resolution 02-2017
          Failure to apply for or renew a rental license                           $400
                                                                                                 Up to double
          Continued failure to apply for or renew a rental license                              for each 20
                                                                                                 business
                                                                                                 days
          Failure to provide all required rental license application info          $200
                                                                                                 Up to double
          Continued failure to provide rental license application info                          for each 20
                                                                                                 business
                                                                                                 days
          Missed scheduled inspection or reinspection
          First missed appointment in a calendar year                              $50
          Second missed appointment in a calendar year                                          $75
          Third and each successive missed appointment in a calendar year                       $100
Public     Creating, encouraging, inviting, permitting or continuing to allow a
nuisance   public nuisance - fined to owner
violations
          First violation in a calendar year                                       $200
          Second violation in a calendar year                                                   $400
          Third and each successive violation in a calendar year                                $600
Remedial   Failure to correct remedial violation within 20 days of first notice     $200
violations
          Failure to correct remedial violation within 20 days of second notice                 $250
          Failure to correct remedial violation each additional 10 business days                $250
          Failure to contact for inspection or reinspection within 10 days         $200
           business days of first notice of violation
          Failure to contact for inspection or reinspection within 10 days                      $250
           business days of second notice of violation
          Failure to contact for inspection or reinspection each 10 business days               $300
           thereafter
All other  Failure to correct violation with 20 business days of first notice       $200
violations
          Failure to correct violation with 20 business days of second notice                   $250
          Failure to correct violation each additional 10 business days                         $250
          Failure to contact for inspection or reinspection within 10 business                  $200
           days of first notice of violation
          Failure to contact for inspection or reinspection within 10 business                  $250
           days of second notice of violation
          Failure to contact for inspection or reinspection within 10 for each                  $300
           additional business day thereafter
           Failure to pay any fine(s) set forth for violations of
Liens      Chapter 153 will result in the amount of any fine(s) and fee(s) imposed
           being recorded as a lien against the property and will be collected in
           the same manner as delinquent town taxes
License or The town reserves the right to either revoke or deny the renewal of
renewal    rental housing license for any violation(s) of
revocation Chapter 153
or denial
Ordinance 125 - Small Cell Facilities (
Chapter 111)
Resolution 06-2019
          Violation fines                                                          100 per day
Ordinance 134 - Commercial Clean Lot (§§
152.20 through
152.31)
Resolution 07-2015
§
152.25(A) Condition of exterior
§
152.25(A)  Imminent threat - immediate - 24 hours to correct                        $400         $800
(1)
§
152.25(A)  Hazardous - regular order - 7 days to correct                            $300         $600
(2)
§
152.25(A)  Non-hazardous - regular order - 7 days to correct                        $200         $400
(3)
§         Tall grass and weeds - regular order - 7 days to correct                 $200         $400
152.25(B)
§         Invasive species and bamboo - regular order - 7 days to correct          $200         $400
152.25(C)
§         Discarded vehicle - immediate - 24 hours to correct                      $300         $600
152.25(D)
§         Vehicle condition and storage - structural - 30 days to correct          $300         $600
152.25(E)
§         Vegetation - structural - 30 days to correct                             $200         $400
152.25(F)
§         Plantings in the right-of-way - regular order - 7 days to correct        $200         $400
152.25(G)
§         Parking surfaces - immediate - 24 hours to correct                       $200         $400
152.25(H)
§         Building materials - regular order - 7 days to correct                   $200         $400
152.25(I)
§         Motor vehicle parts - regular order - 7 days to correct                  $300         $600
152.25(J)
§         Wood storage - regular order - 7 days to correct                         $200         $600
152.25(K)
§         Conditions of public amenities - structural - 30 days to correct         $200         $400
152.25(L)
§         Structures and accessory structures - structural - 30 days to correct    $200         $400
152.25(M)
§         Building security - immediate - 24 hours to correct                      $200         $400
152.25(N)
§         Building security - structural - 30 days to correct                      $200         $400
152.25(N)
§         Premises grading - structural - 30 days to correct                       $200         $400
152.25(O)
§         Compliance with County Zoning Ordinance - regular - 7 days to correct    $200         $400
152.25(P)
§         Premises identification - regular - 7 days to correct                    $200         $400
152.25(Q)
§         Construction safety - regular - 7 days to correct                        $200         $400
152.25(R)
Ordinance 149 - Red Light Camera (
Chapter 70)
§         Red light camera violation                                               $75
70.02
Ordinance 153 - Noise (
Chapter 91)
Resolution 01-2011
          10 decibels or less over noise limit:
          a) First offense                                                         Warning
          b) Second offense                                                        Warning or
                                                                                    $25
          c) Third offense                                                                      $50
          d) Fourth and subsequent offenses                                                     $100
          More than 10 decibels over noise limit:
          a) First offense                                                         Warning
          b) Second offense                                                        Warning or
                                                                                    $50
          c) Third offense                                                                      $100
          d) Fourth and subsequent offenses                                                     $100
          Noise violation at prohibited times:
          a) First offense                                                         Warning
          b) Second offense                                                                     $50
          c) Third offense                                                                      $100
          d) Fourth and subsequent offenses                                                     $150
          Frequent and sustained noise by domestic animals:
          a) First offense                                                         Warning
          b) Second offense                                                                     $15
          c) Third offense                                                                      $30
          d) Fourth and subsequent offenses                                                     $45
           Failure of an owner to pay a noise violation fine will result in the
          amount of the fine being recorded as a lien against the property and     Lien
           collection in the same manner as delinquent town taxes
 
(Res. 07-2022, passed - -; Res. 07-2022, passed 5-11-2022; Ord. 110, passed 1-
10-2023)
BUDGET
§ 30.15 ANNUAL BUDGETS.
   The proposed annual budget ordinance is presented at the May town meeting
each year for the purpose of a public hearing. The budget is adopted at the
June town meeting and becomes effective 20 days following adoption.
(Ord. 103, passed - -)
§ 30.16 BUDGET FORMAT.
   The general format of the budget shall be as follows:
   (A)   Section 1. Town Manager’s budget message;
   (B)   Section 2. Purposes and objectives;
   (C)   Section 3. Revenues;
   (D)   Section 4. Expenditures;
   (E)   Section 5. Tax rate;
   (F)   Section 6. Capital improvement;
   (G)   Section 7. Salaries;
   (H)   Section 8. Federal revenue sharing;
   (I)   Section 9. Storm drainage; and
   (J)   Section 10. Charts and graphs.
(Ord. 103, passed - -)
§ 30.17 COPIES.
   Copies of the budget are available for public inspection at the town office.
(Ord. 103, passed - -)
§ 30.18 FEE SCHEDULE REVIEW.
   Concurrent with the submission of the proposed annual budget, the Town
Council shall annually review a proposed schedule of fees and fines set by
resolution, a document summarizing the compiled current and proposed fees and
fines and a proposed resolution by which the proposed fees are to be adopted.
(Ord. 179, passed 8-14-2019)
§ 30.19 PUBLIC HEARING ON FEE SCHEDULE.
   A public hearing on the annually proposed fees and fines schedule resolution
shall be held at the same town meeting at which the public hearing is held for
the General Fund budget.
(Ord. 179, passed 8-14-2019)
§ 30.20 ADDITIONAL CHANGES.
   Additional changes to the fees and fines schedule may be made at town
meetings other than the annual review conducted concurrent with the proposed
budget via resolution with the holding of a public hearing to be at the
discretion of the Town Council.
(Ord. 179, passed 8-14-2019)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
31.01   Town Council
   
31.02   Council member as department head
   
31.03   Policy
   
31.04   Authorization to employ
   
31.05   Bond
   
31.06   Compensation
   
31.07   Chief Administrative Officer
   
31.08   Acting Town Manager
   
31.09   Appointing power
   
31.10   Duties of Town Manager
   
31.11   Matters directed to Town Manager’s attention
   
31.12   Interaction
   
31.13   Removal
   
31.14   Council compensation
§ 31.01 TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   All legislative powers of the town shall be vested in the Town Council
in accordance with the provisions of Town Charter, Chapter III, “The Council,”
§ 301, “Number, Selection, Term” and Chapter IV, “Powers of the Council.” The
Town Council shall consist of five members who shall hold office for a term of
two years beginning with the first town meeting following the town election.
   (B)   The Town Council, as the governing body, shall act collectively as the
chief executive officer for the town government and retains any and all
authority to set town policies and priorities, and override any decision of the
Town Manager, department directors or employees.
(Ord. 121, passed 5-9-2018)
§ 31.02 COUNCILMEMBER AS DEPARTMENT HEAD.
   The Mayor may appoint, reassign or remove an individual Councilmember as
department head of a town department. Absent a Town Council decision, a
department head may set policy for his or her individual department or core
town function, and oversee the execution of Town Council policy by his or her
department, but not give operational directives.
(Ord. 121, passed 5-9-2018)
§ 31.03 POLICY.
   POLICY shall mean a strategy or course of action, or a set of goals,
objectives or priorities established by the Town Council, Councilmember
department head, Town Manager or a department director that governs and guides
the specific execution of operations.
(Ord. 121, passed 5-9-2018)
§ 31.04 AUTHORIZATION TO EMPLOY.
   The Mayor and Town Council are empowered to employ a Town Manager who will
serve at the pleasure of the Town Council and who will report and be
accountable to the Town Council for government operations and for the
implementation of Town Council goals, objectives, policies and priorities.
(Ord. 121, passed 5-9-2018)
§ 31.05 BOND.
   The town shall furnish a surety bond in such amount as may be approved by
the Town Council, such bond to be conditioned upon the financial integrity and
faithful performance of the Town Manager and chief financial officer duties.
The cost of said bond shall be paid by the town and may be part of a town
blanket dishonesty bond.
(Ord. 121, passed 5-9-2018)
§ 31.06 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall receive such compensation as the Town Council
shall establish from time to time.
   (B)   The Town Council may enter into an employment agreement with the Town
Manager that specifies in writing provisions, including, but not limited to,
establishing the level of compensation, specifying benefits including levels of
support for the Town Manager’s continuing professional education and
association activities, determining separation pay upon termination of
employment and defining other conditions of employment.
(Ord. 121, passed 5-9-2018)
§ 31.07 CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   The Town Manager, under and subject to the direction of the Town Council,
shall be the Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) of the town and shall be
responsible to the Town Council for the proper administration of the affairs of
the town and town government operations; for the execution of town ordinances;
for the compliance with appropriate federal and state laws; and for the
implementation of Town Council goals, objectives, policies and priorities. The
Town Manager shall serve as the Town Chief Financial Officer (CFO), if so
designated by the Town Council.
(Ord. 121, passed 5-9-2018)
§ 31.08 ACTING TOWN MANAGER.
   The Town Manager, after informing the Town Council, shall designate, in
writing, a member of the town’s senior staff to serve as Acting Town Manager to
carry out the duties of Town Manager during the Town Manager’s absence, but
excluding the chief financial officer’s duties. In the event of a prolonged
absence, then the Town Council shall appoint an Acting Town Manager, whose
office shall be temporary and who shall serve only until such time as the Town
Manager is able to resume the duties of the office or a new Town Manager is
appointed. Town Council may, as a standing policy, designate in advance an
individual or position to serve as Acting Town Manager. The Town Council may
also designate a different individual or position to serve as Acting Chief
Financial Officer.
(Ord. 121, passed 5-9-2018)
§ 31.09 APPOINTING POWER.
   The Town Manager may appoint such assistants or employees as are necessary
for the proper functioning of the town, except that department directors or a
comparable position, shall be appointed by the Town Council.
(Ord. 121, passed 5-9-2018)
§ 31.10 DUTIES OF TOWN MANAGER.
   The Town Manager shall have the following duties:
   (A)   Supervise and ensure coordination of the activities of all
departments, offices or agencies of the town, except as otherwise provided by
law, and administer the affairs of the town to ensure that town business is
accomplished in accordance with Town Council goals, objectives, policies and
priorities;
   (B)   (1)   Prepare supporting documents for Town Council budget
worksessions, regular worksessions, town meetings and special meetings under
the direction of the Mayor, who is responsible for setting meeting agendas;
attend all Town Council meetings, and other official town committee meetings as
directed by the Town Council, except those from which the Town Council
determines that attendance is not required because of a conflict of interest or
other reasons.
      (2)   The Town Manager may take part in the discussion of all matters
coming before the Town Council, or other official boards, commissions or
committees, but shall not have the right to vote. The Town Manager shall be
responsible to notice all regular and special meetings of the Town Council in
accordance with the Maryland Open Public Meetings Act, being General Provisions
Art., Title 3;
   (C)   Ensure proper maintenance, retention, disposition and access to town
records and correspondence, including minutes of all public meetings and
executive session meetings in compliance with the Maryland Public Information
Act, Md. Code, being General Provisions Art., Title 4;
   (D)   Prepare and submit to Town Council by the date set by the Town Council
a recommended annual budget for town operations and a recommended capital
program; and administer the approved budget after adoption;
   (E)   Supervise and monitor the disbursement of town funds in accordance
with the Town Council’s adopted budget;
   (F)   Maintain a general accounting system, as recommended by the auditor
and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and the
Government Accounting Standards Board Rules, and account for the disbursement
of all monies, and collect all revenues due the town;
   (G)   Report to Town Council periodically the financial condition of the
town;
   (H)   Supervise, submit to Town Council and make available to the public the
required annual audit of town finances; and prepare an annual report on the
finances and administrative activities of the town as of the end of each fiscal
year;
   (I)   Ensure proper preparation of grant and loan applications; administer
grant and loan funds; and prepare appropriate reports for the Town Council and
appropriate agencies;
   (J)   Serve as town’s risk manager and procurer of Town Council authorized
insurance policies;
   (K)   Supervise and administer the procurement of commodities and services
for all town departments, offices and agencies, and promulgate purchasing rules
that are consistent with Town Charter, town ordinances and state law;
   (L)   Oversee the procurement and proper administration of information
technology systems and hardware;
   (M)   Serve as town’s human resource officer. Administer Town Personnel
Manual in an equitable, fair and objective manner. Recommend to Town Council
additions, deletions or changes to Personnel Manual and personnel rules and
regulations deemed desirable to manage and improve the personnel system of the
town. Town Manager’s human resource officer’s duties includes such things as:
      (1)   Maintaining the position classification descriptions, the position
classification plan, the pay plan and conduct salary and benefit surveys;
      (2)   Reviewing all employee performance evaluations with department
directors and Councilmember department heads;
      (3)   Preparing a draft of each department director’s and core function
supervisor’s performance evaluation for Town Council action;
      (4)   Overseeing employee grievance, discipline, demotion, promotion,
reprimand, suspension, termination and the whistleblower protection process;
and
      (5)   Overseeing administration of rules governing outside employment,
and prevent nepotism and political activity of town employees.
   (N)   Ensure employment, promotion, compensation, discipline, reprimand,
suspension or termination of all town employees is done in a manner consistent
with town policies and state and federal law; all actions related to directors
or core-function supervisors shall be decided or approved by the Town Council
while all binding actions related to other employees shall require advance
prior approval of the Town Manager. Employees retain the right to appeal
disciplinary actions or other matters to the Town Council;
   (O)   Maintain an inventory of all real and personal property of the town
and location of such property. Town Manager shall be responsible for the care
and custody of all town property that is not assigned to some other agency or
body for care and control;
   (P)   Ensure that all franchises granted by the town and all contracts with
the town are faithfully kept and performed by all parties thereto;
   (Q)   Forward complaints about services provided by public utilities to the
proper utility authorities;
   (R)   Ensure fair and prompt handling of complaints concerning the
administration of town services and programs;
   (S)   Evaluate town projects, programs, agreements and services and make
recommendations to Town Council on modifications and improvements thereto;
   (T)   Advise the Town Council on such matters or actions deemed to be in the
best interest of the town;
   (U)   Represent town in its dealings with other governmental agencies and
officials, businesses, not-for-profit organizations, residents and the general
public as appropriate or as designed by the Town Council;
   (V)   Hold such other appointive offices as the Town Council may determine,
and to faithfully and honestly discharge the duties and powers associated with
such office; and
   (W)   Perform such other duties as may be required by the Town Council
consistent with state statutes and ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 121, passed 5-9-2018)
§ 31.11 MATTERS DIRECTED TO TOWN MANAGER’S ATTENTION.
   Departments shall submit all operational, budget and policy matters
requiring Town Council action or attention to the Town Manager who shall submit
them to the Town Council with recommendations as may be deemed necessary. All
formal departmental or employee requests to Town Council shall be submitted to
the Town Manager in advance who shall provide instruction as to current
policies and procedures, options or actions.
(Ord. 121, passed 5-9-2018)
§ 31.12 INTERACTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Manager shall work with each department head,
department director and core-function supervisor to ensure that department
operations adhere to the policies established by Town Council and the
department head, as appropriate.
      (2)   The Town Manager may overrule an operational directive of a
department head if it is in conflict with standing Town Council policies or
procedures. This matter shall be heard by the Town Council for a decision.
Department heads are encouraged not to give orders to subordinates of the Town
Manager and to work with and through the Town Manager to accomplish their
individual concerns and goals for their department.
   (B)   The powers and/or authority assigned to the Town Manager are not
intended to diminish those powers otherwise assigned to other officers by
statute or ordinance, including, but not limited to, the Mayor, a Councilmember
or Town Council as a whole.
(Ord. 121, passed 5-9-2018)
§ 31.13 REMOVAL.
   The Town Manager, department director, acting department director or core-
function supervisor may be removed in accordance with law by a majority vote of
the sitting members of Town Council.
(Ord. 121, passed 5-9-2018)
§ 31.14 COUNCIL COMPENSATION.
   The Mayor and Town Council elected to office on May 6, 2014 shall each be
compensated at a rate as set from time to time. Councilmembers elected at
subsequent elections shall also be compensated at a rate as set from time to
time.
(Ord. 108, passed 5-14-2014)
CHAPTER 32: ELECTIONS
Section
   
32.01   Purpose and authority
   
32.02   Applicability
   
32.03   Definitions
   
32.04   Voter registration
   
32.05   Appointment and duties of Board of Election supervisors
   
32.06   Preparing for Town Council elections
   
32.07   Election Day
   
32.08   Town Council selections to fill mid-term vacancies
   
32.09   Ballot questions
§ 32.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   The purpose of this chapter is to set forth the rules and procedures for
electing or selecting the five members of the Town Council, as well as to
define the roles and responsibilities of the Board of Supervisors of Elections,
the Town Clerk and other employees charged with managing the municipal election
process. The authority to hold municipal elections is contained in Article XI-
E of the Constitution and Md. Code, Local Government Article, as amended from
time to time, and Town Charter,
Chapter III and
V. All town election procedures shall be subject to the provisions contained in
the Annotated Code of Maryland that apply to municipal elections.
(Ord. 109, passed 11-8-2023)
§ 32.02 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies to the process of electing and selecting the members of
the Town Council.
(Ord. 109, passed 11-8-2023)
§ 32.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABSENTEE VOTING. Voting in a location other than an official polling
station.
   BALLOT. The means by which a qualified voter records their vote. It may be
an electronic ballot (generated by a voting machine) or a paper ballot
(designed by the Town Clerk or designated employee).
   BALLOT QUESTION. (See “referendum”). Any non-binding question initiated by
Town Council or voter petition, to be placed on the ballot for general or
special election.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF ELECTIONS. The BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF ELECTIONS
(“Board”) is composed of at least five members; three election judges
(including one Chief Judge) and two clerks, who shall be appointed by the Town
Council in February of an election year and serve for a term of two years, or
until a successor is appointed.
   DOMICILE. The place where a person has established their permanent principal
residence to which they return or intend to return.
   DULY AUTHORIZED AGENT. A person at least 18 years of age, who is not a
candidate on the ballot, and is designated in writing by a qualified voter as
their agent in picking up and delivering an absentee ballot.
   ELECTION DAY. The first Tuesday in May of every even-numbered year.
   ELECTION PROCEDURES MANUAL. A reference manual for Town Council elections
containing detailed instructions on preparing and conducting an election as
well as standard templates and relevant legal references.
   PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY BOARD OF ELECTIONS. The local board for conducting
elections in Prince George’s County (“County Board of Elections”).
   PROVISIONAL VOTER. A resident not listed in the voter registration list,
whose eligibility to vote must be established after casting a ballot.
   PUBLIC OUTREACH. A systematic attempt to provide information or services to
a targeted group of people, such as posting to the town website or in a
newspaper of general circulation.
   QUALIFIED VOTER. A person who is a citizen of the United States, is at least
18 years of age at the time of the election, has resided within the corporate
limits of the town for 30 days immediately preceding any town election and who
is registered to vote in the town.
   REFERENDUM. The right of registered voters of the town to approve or reject
an ordinance of the Town Council, in accordance with Town Charter, § 311.2.
   REFERENDUM PETITION. A petition that has the signatures of 20% of the
registered voters of the town requesting that an adopted ordinance or any part
thereof be submitted to the registered voters for their approval or disapproval
at a regular or special election in accordance with Town Charter, § 311.2.
   REGISTRATION. A town resident may register to vote in the town by
registering to vote in Prince George’s County, Maryland or through the State of
Maryland or through the town’s supplemental voter list.
   SPECIAL ELECTION. An election held on a date other than a regularly
scheduled election. All SPECIAL ELECTIONS shall be conducted by the Board in
the same manner as regular town elections, as set forth in Town Charter, §
505.1.
   SPOILED BALLOT. A ballot that has been declared invalid by the Board and is
excluded from the vote count.
   SUPPLEMENTAL VOTER REGISTRATION LIST. A list of qualified voters registered
to vote solely in town elections as permitted in Md. Code, Election Art., § 3-
403.
   TOWN CLERK. The duly appointed clerk for the town.
      (1)   The TOWN CLERK is responsible for preparation for and management of
the municipal elections process.
      (2)   The TOWN CLERK may designate other municipal employees to assist
with election preparation and management.
   VOTER AUTHORIZATION CARD. A card provided by the Prince George’s County
Board of Elections in conjunction with the voter registration list that must be
signed before a voter may proceed to cast a vote.
   VOTER REGISTRATION LIST. Official voter registration list for the town as
maintained by the Prince George’s County Board of Elections.
   VOTING MACHINE. A mechanical or electronic piece of equipment, including
software, used to define ballots, cast and count votes, display and report
election results and to maintain an audit trail.
   VOTING MACHINE VENDOR. A business that sells or leases voting machines and
provides the technical support to operate them.
   WRITE-IN CANDIDATE. A qualified voter of the town who submits all required
forms to run in a Town Council election after the filing deadline has passed
and by the write-in candidate closing date.
   WRITE-IN VOTE. The action of a voter to write-in the name of a person who is
not listed as a candidate for Town Council on the ballot.
(Ord. 109, passed 11-8-2023)
§ 32.04 VOTER REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The eligibility of persons to register to vote in the town is defined
in Town Charter, Chapter V, “Registration, Nomination, Election.” U.S. citizens
who are at least 18 years of age at the time of the election and have resided
within the corporate limits of the town for 30 days prior to a town election
are eligible to register to become a qualified voter in the town. A voter who
is duly registered to vote through the county, the state or the town’s
supplemental voter list, at an address within the town, is a qualified voter
eligible to vote in a town election.
   (B)   Residents of the town who maintain a domicile in another state, but
otherwise qualify to register in the town, may utilize a supplemental
registration with the town to vote solely in the municipal election.
Supplemental registration shall occur during normal office hours, Monday
through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. until 30 days prior to the election date
and on the last Monday in March between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 109, passed 11-8-2023)
§ 32.05 APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF ELECTION SUPERVISORS.
   (A)   Appointment.
      (1)   The Board exercises general supervision of the town elections in
accordance with Town Charter, § 502. An invitation to serve on the Board is
published in the town bulletin or other suitable means of public outreach in
December and January prior to election day.
      (2)   A proposed Board is approved, and a Chief Judge appointed, by the
Town Council at the first worksession in February and the Board and Chief Judge
are sworn-in by the Mayor at the February town meeting.
   (B)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Board to become familiar with
state laws, town ordinances and the Election Procedures Manual that guide the
electoral process by attending relevant training at the state, county or
municipal level; review supplemental voter registration lists and absentee
voter lists; prepare the polling station and supervise the election; and tally
the votes and report the election results to the sitting Mayor.
   (C)   Compensation. Board members shall receive daily compensation as
authorized by the state minimum compensation requirements for local election
boards, including compensation for those who attend elective, relevant
training. The Chief Judge shall receive an additional $100 per day served.
(Ord. 109, passed 11-8-2023)
§ 32.06 PREPARING FOR TOWN COUNCIL ELECTIONS.
   Town Council elections take place on the first Tuesday of May of every even-
numbered year.
   (A)   Election schedule. In December prior to the Town Council election, the
Town Clerk shall update the election schedule for publication in the January
bulletin or other suitable means of public outreach. The schedule shall contain
important dates and deadlines related to the election.
   (B)   Registration. Registration through the County Board of Elections
closes 30 days prior to the election date. The town’s supplemental voter
registration list shall be closed and finalized by the Town Clerk 30 days prior
to the election date.
   (C)   Board of Supervisors of Election. The Town Clerk shall begin
recruitment of members of the Board in December and January prior to the
election by publicizing the position in the town bulletin or through other
suitable means of public outreach, as needed; assemble Board candidates for
Town Council approval and swearing in, and ensure that all members of the Board
receive a course of training in their duties. The training shall take place
after the candidate filing and candidate withdrawal deadlines.
   (D)   Town Council candidacy. The Town Clerk shall give notice of the first
date on which candidate certificates of nomination will be accepted (i.e. the
second Tuesday in January) in the December and January issues of the town
bulletin. The Town Clerk shall give notice of the filing deadline (i.e., the
first Tuesday in March) for a Town Council election in the February and March
issues of the town bulletin and other suitable means of public outreach, as
needed; provide certificates of nomination and financial disclosure forms to
qualified voters wishing to file for Town Council candidacy; and receive and
review the filed forms. The completed financial disclosure form must conform
with the provisions of §§
36.25 through
36.32, subject to State Public Ethics Law, § 15-801, Md. Code, General
Provisions Art., Title 5, as may be amended. The Town Clerk may not accept a
certificate of nomination unless it is accompanied by a financial disclosure
statement. The person filing cannot qualify as a candidate unless the financial
disclosure statement includes all required identifying and contact information,
is signed under oath, and includes answers to every mandatory question. The
Town Clerk shall also advise candidates on all relevant election matters,
including the election schedule, Candidates’ Night, campaigning and other
questions that may arise. Candidates who wish to withdraw must do so no later
than 15 days after the filing deadline.
   (E)   Campaign material. The Town Clerk shall inform Town Council candidates
of the town’s campaign rules. Starting three weeks prior to the election,
campaign literature may be distributed, and campaign signs and posters may be
displayed on private property, including the town right-of-way, with the
property owner’s permission. Campaign signs shall:
      (1)   Not be displayed until three weeks prior to the election;
      (2)   Not create a public safety hazard;
      (3)   Be removed within two days after the election;
      (4)   Not be attached to utility poles; and
      (5)   Not be displayed on town property, except when located in town
designated spaces for all candidates and on Election Day.
   (F)   Write-in candidates.
      (1)   The Town Clerk shall accept petition of candidacy and financial
disclosure forms that have been filed after the first Tuesday in March-deadline
as write-in candidacies.
      (2)   Write-in candidates that have submitted all completed forms and are
determined to be qualified are entitled to:
         (a)   Having their names published in the town bulletin if their forms
were filed and determined to be acceptable by April 15 of an election year;
         (b)   Participate in Candidates’ Night if their forms were filed and
determined to be acceptable at least one week prior to Candidates’ Night; and
         (c)   Have their names posted inside and outside the polling station,
if their forms were filed at least one week prior to election day. A candidate
must qualify to run as a write-in candidate at least one week prior to election
day.
   (G)   Candidates’ Night. The Town Clerk shall arrange for a Candidates’
Night to be held in April prior to a town election. All qualified candidates
confirmed at that time may participate in this moderated public forum to
introduce themselves and answer questions from residents.
   (H)   Absentee/mail-in voting application. An eligible voter may vote by
absentee/mail-in ballot in a town election for any reason, pursuant to the Md.
Code, Local Govt. Article, § 4-108, as may be amended. The Town Clerk shall
prepare absentee/mail-in ballots and an absentee/mail-in voter list to keep an
accurate record of voters who request an absentee/mail-in ballot. After voter
registration closes (i.e., 30 days prior to the election), absentee/mail-in
ballots and accompanying envelopes are made available to any eligible voter
upon request until one week prior to the election, including ballots requested
in writing by a duly authorized agent. Every absentee/mail-in voter shall be
listed on the absentee/mail-in voter list that includes name, address, date of
issuance of ballot and date of receipt of voted ballot. Absentee/main-in
ballots may be voted by mail and drop box. Voted ballots shall be kept sealed
in their envelopes and stored in a secure location to be opened and tallied on
Election Day.
   (I)   Notice of election. The Town Clerk shall give at least two weeks’
notice of every election, including early voting dates, in the town bulletin, a
paper of general circulation, or other suitable form of public outreach, and
post the election notice in three public places in the town.
   (J)   Election supplies. The Town Clerk shall ensure that all necessary
election supplies are at hand on Election Day, either for voting by paper
ballot or by voting machine.
   (K)   Early and drop box voting. The Town Council in consultation with the
Board may provide for one or more early voting days and drop boxes for voting
in any election. Any early voting day shall be held no more than 15 days prior
to the Election Day established in §
32.03. On a designated early voting day, polls shall be open to qualified votes
for a minimum of four hours on each day at times and places specified and
advertised by the Board.(Ord. 109, passed 11-8-2023)
§ 32.07 ELECTION DAY.
   The preparation for and the conduct of an election day are described in
detail in the Election Procedures Manual. Early voting days will follow the
procedures outlined below, outside of specified hours and vote tallying
procedures. Any ballots received during early voting or by drop box will be
held securely and tallied on Election Day. On Election Day, the polls are open
between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
   (A)   Preparing the polling station. The Town Clerk shall meet the members
of the Board of Election Supervisors before polls open at 7:00 a.m. on Election
Day to prepare the polling station. Preparation of the polling station
includes:
      (1)   Posting sample ballots and instructions outside and inside the
polling station for public view. The sample ballot shall show names of
qualified candidates and ballot questions and referenda, if any. The names of
write-in candidates may be posted inside and outside the polling station, but
not within the voting booth;
      (2)   Demarcating a 50-foot perimeter around the polling station as a “no
electioneering” zone. No campaigning by candidates or their supporters will be
allowed within this area. Candidates for election may cross this line only to
cast their own vote;
      (3)   Setting up a voter “check-in” station, including readying of the
voter registration list for voters registered through the county and voter
authorization cards, and the supplemental voter list;
      (4)   Completing set-up of voting booths. The Chief Judge, with
assistance from the voting machine vendor, shall verify that any voting
machines are ready for use with counters set to zero. If paper ballots are
used, members of the Board shall ensure that each booth has a pen for marking
the ballot; and
      (5)   Setting up ballot boxes if paper ballots are used. Ballot boxes
must be empty and unlocked for use. The Town Clerk shall keep the ballot box
key in secure storage until the polls close.
   (B)   Polling station open. The Chief Judge supervises the polling station
and may assign members of the Board to their particular stations. Upon opening
of the polls, all members of the Board shall take their assigned stations. At
least two members of the Board shall staff the voter check-in/registration
tables. One member of the Board shall staff the voting booths and one shall
staff the ballot boxes, if paper ballots are used. Physically disabled voters
shall be assisted as prescribed in the State Election Law Article, as may be
amended.
      (1)   The Chief Judge shall be responsible for provisional voting and
ensure that residents who are not on the voter registration list are able to
cast a provisional ballot. Provisional ballots are set aside for separate
tallying. Votes remain provisional until the eligibility of the voter has been
established by the County Board of Elections.
      (2)   The Town Clerk shall announce the closing of polls five minutes
before 7:00 p.m. on Election Day. Any resident wishing to observe the tallying
may remain inside the polling station when the doors are locked. No one shall
be permitted to enter or re-enter the polling station while tallying is in
progress. Any person who interferes with the tallying of the vote may be
required by the Board to leave the polling station.
   (C)   Vote tallying. All tallying of ballots shall be performed by the
members of the Board in public view. Challenges to the count must wait until
after the count is complete.
      (1)   If voting machines are used:
         (a)   The Chief Judge, with two other members of the Board, shall open
the voting machines and unroll the tally sheets;
         (b)   The machine count shall be verified by at least two members of
the Board. Under the supervision of the Chief Judge, members of the Board shall
tally record sheets from each voting machine. Once the machine votes have been
tallied, the Chief Judge shall open the sealed envelopes with absentee ballots
and count them. The absentee ballots shall be added to the tally of regular
ballots. The result is compared with the tallied check marks on the county
voter registration list and the town supplemental voter registration list to
ensure that the total number of voters agrees with the total number of ballots
cast;
         (c)   Provisional votes cast by paper ballot must be tallied
separately and returned separately to the County Board of Elections to be
certified;
         (d)   Tally sheets shall be verified against the total count of the
signed voter authorization cards, a count of check marks on the county voter
registration list, and a count of checks on the town supplemental registration
list;
         (e)   Voting machine tally sheets and absentee ballots shall be placed
in envelopes, sealed and signed across the seal by at least three members of
the Board of Election Supervisors; and
         (f)   Voting machines shall be locked and sealed and keys placed in a
sealed envelope for safekeeping until the voting machines are picked up by the
vendor.
      (2)   If paper ballots are used:
         (a)   The ballot box key shall be returned to the Chief Judge by the
Town Clerk to open the ballot boxes;
         (b)   The Chief Judge shall remove ballots from the ballot box and
organize them for tallying assisted by other members of the Board;
         (c)   The Chief Judge shall read aloud how each ballot was voted,
including write-in votes, referenda and ballot questions (if any);
         (d)   Two members of the Board will independently tally the votes cast
for each candidate and results of each ballot question;
         (e)   In the case of an irregular ballot, the Chief Judge shall
consult with two other members of the Board to determine if the ballot is valid
or spoiled. If spoiled, the ballot shall be marked “void” and set aside. A
voided ballot shall be shown to any challenger but shall not leave the hand of
the member of the Board;
         (f)   When all regular ballots are tallied, the Chief Judge shall open
the sealed envelopes with absentee ballots and count them. The absentee ballots
shall be added to the tally of regular ballots. The result is compared with the
tallied check marks on the county voter registration list and the town
supplemental voter list to ensure that the total number of voters agrees with
the total number of ballots cast;
         (g)   Provisional votes shall be tallied separately and set aside
until the qualification of each provisional voter can be verified;
         (h)   Voted ballots shall be placed in envelopes, sealed and signed
across the seal by three members of the Board. Said envelopes, marked voter
registration list and voter authorization cards shall be kept in a secure place
until they are delivered to the County Board of Elections for certification;
and
         (i)   Tally sheets shall be verified, signed and dated by the Chief
Judge and members of the Board. Tally sheets, together with spoiled ballots,
those not distributed and not used shall be placed in envelopes, sealed, signed
across the seal by at least three members of the Board and returned to the Town
Clerk.
   (D)   Announcement of election results. The Chief Judge shall announce the
five candidates receiving the highest number of votes as Councilmembers-elect,
with the candidate receiving the highest number of votes as Mayor-elect, and
the candidate receiving the second highest number of votes as Mayor Pro Tem-
elect. The Chief Judge shall also announce the results of any ballot questions.
   (E)   Statement of election results. The Chief Judge shall, within 48 hours,
sight the statement of election results that has been prepared by the Town
Clerk for submission to the county. The statement of election results shall
also be dated and signed by at least three members of the Board, placed in an
envelope, sealed and signed across the seal by three members of the Board.
   (F)   Reporting election results and certification.
      (1)   The Town Clerk shall deliver the statement of election results, the
marked voter registration list, voter authorization cards, absentee and
provisional ballots to the County Board of Elections within four days after the
election.
      (2)   The County Board of Elections will independently tally the votes,
including confirmed provisional votes, and certify the election.
      (3)   The Town Clerk will submit to the State Board of Elections an
electronic copy of the election results for each office or question voted on at
the election within 30 days of the election certification. After tallying the
votes, the County Board of Elections will return the voter registration lists,
voter authorization cards and voted ballots, which shall be retained by the
town for a period of at least six months.
   (G)   Runoff elections.
      (1)   If one or more Town Council seats, or the positions of Mayor and
Mayor Pro Tem remain unfilled because of an equal number of votes being
received by two or more candidates, a run-off election shall be held among
those candidates for the Town Council seat or seats remaining unfilled.
      (2)   Such election shall be held no later than the second Tuesday of
June in accordance with the provisions of Town Charter, Chapter V.
(Ord. 109, passed 11-8-2023)
§ 32.08 TOWN COUNCIL SELECTIONS TO FILL MID-TERM VACANCIES.
   (A)   In the event a vacancy occurs on the Town Council, the remaining
Councilmembers shall appoint a qualified resident to fill the vacancy in
accordance with Town Charter, §§ 302 and 309. The appointment must be made
within 45 days of the occurrence of the vacancy and shall be for the remainder
of the current term. The vacancy can be filled by public solicitation of
applications or by appointment of a candidate who ran in the previous Town
Council election. The swearing-in of an appointee shall take place at the
earliest available town meeting after an appointment has been made. The
swearing-in shall mark the date at which an appointee becomes a full member of
the Town Council with all attendant powers and duties.
   (B)   Public solicitation of applications.
      (1)   If appointment of a successor is made by public solicitation of
applications, the vacancy shall be advertised as soon as feasible in the town
bulletin, town website, special mailing and/or other suitable means of public
outreach. The public notice shall state the deadline for submitting
applications and the qualifications for serving on the Town Council.
      (2)   After the deadline for submissions has passed, the town’s Ethics
Commission shall review the financial disclosure forms submitted by the
applicants to ensure all comply with the requirements set forth in §§
36.25 through
36.32. The Town Council shall set a date for interviewing the qualified
applicants. The interviews shall be conducted individually in executive
session, which may be held during a regularly scheduled worksession, or a
special meeting called for this purpose. Selection of the preferred candidate
shall be made in executive session and announced in the next town bulletin and/
or by other suitable means of public outreach, as needed.
   (C)   Appointment of previous Town Council candidate. Alternatively, the
Town Council may offer a vacant Town Council seat to a qualified candidate who
ran in the immediately preceding election and received the next highest number
of votes after the top five vote getters. If the candidate accepts the offer,
the selection shall be announced in the next town bulletin and/or other
suitable means of public outreach, as needed.
   (D)   Special election. If a vacancy cannot be filled by appointment within
45 days of its occurrence, the Board of Election Supervisors shall call a
special election. The special election shall not be held sooner than 45 days
and not later than 60 days after the occurrence of the vacancy. A public notice
of such an election shall be given as soon as feasible by a special mailing
and/or by other suitable means of public outreach.
   (E)   Multiple Town Council vacancies.
      (1)   In the event a second Town Council vacancy occurs within three
months of the first vacancy, the Town Council may offer the vacant seat to any
of the other applicants for the first vacancy without initiating a new round of
public solicitation of applications.
      (2)   If more than one vacancy occurs at the same time, the Board shall
call a special election, which shall not be held sooner than 45 days and not
later than 60 days after the occurrence of the vacancy, in compliance with Town
Charter, § 309.
      (3)   In the event that three or more members of the Town Council are no
longer active, the remaining members of the Town Council shall appeal to the
District Court or the Circuit Court to appoint an administrator to take charge
of the Town Government and provide continued service, and call for an election
in accordance with the provisions of the Town Charter and the Md. Code,
Election Law Article.
      (4)   In the event there are no active members remaining on the Town
Council, five concerned citizens qualified to vote may proceed as outlined in
division (E)(3) above.
(Ord. 109, passed 11-8-2023)
§ 32.09 BALLOT QUESTIONS.
   The sitting Town Council will, by resolution, on its own initiative or upon
receipt of a petition signed by 25% of the qualified voters, add non-binding
questions to the ballot at the next general election or special election held
for the purpose to receive the advice or input from the town’s voters on
different topics. Said resolution shall list each question and provide detailed
background information on why this topic is important. The resolution shall be
introduced at the March town meeting, prior to the general election or at a
suitable time for a special election. Ballot questions shall be included in the
sample ballot and posted in the town bulletin or other suitable forms of
outreach.
(Ord. 109, passed 11-8-2023)
CHAPTER 33: OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Personnel System
   
33.01   Declaration of policy
   
33.02   Scope
   
33.03   Administration
   
33.04   Agreements authorized
   
33.05   Political activities
   
33.06   Unlawful acts
Town Organizations
   
33.20   Authority, purpose, scope and definitions
   
33.21   Appointed bodies
   
33.22   Town committees
   
33.23   Town assemblies
   
33.24   Non-profit organizations
   
33.25   Privileges
   
33.26   Meetings
   
33.27   Communications
   
33.28   Insurance and liability
   
33.29   Events
   
33.30   Initiation/dissolution
 
   
33.99   Penalty
PERSONNEL SYSTEM
§ 33.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   By virtue of the authority vested in the Town Council by Md. Code,
Local Govt. Art., Title 9 through 15 and Town Charter, Chapter VII, there is
hereby established a personnel system for the town.
   (B)   This personnel system is established for all present and future
employees of the town, and shall provide the means to recruit, select, develop,
advance and maintain an effective and responsive work force on the basis of
relative ability, knowledge requirements of the citizens of the town.
   (C)   All personnel actions shall be taken without regard to race sex,
religion, national origin or political affiliation and shall be based on merit
and performance.
(Ord. 115, passed 6-10-1981)
§ 33.02 SCOPE.
   (A)   All offices and positions of the town are divided into the exempt
services and the career services. The exempt services shall include the
following: all elected officials; persons employed as consultants rendering
temporary professional services; persons employed part-time or on projects of
limited duration; volunteer personnel and personnel appointed to serve without
pay.
   (B)   The career service shall include all other full-time positions in the
town service that are not specifically placed in the exempt service by this
subchapter.
   (C)   (1)   When this subchapter becomes effective, all employees holding
positions in the career service shall have career status if they have held
their positions for at least three months immediately preceding the effective
date of this subchapter.
      (2)   All employees who have served less than three months, or all new
employees of the town except police, shall become career employees upon
successful completion of three months of active duty.
      (3)   The first three months of service are considered a probationary
period. The probationary period may be extended for cause by the Town Council.
The following sections of this subchapter apply only to the career service
unless otherwise specifically provided.
(Ord. 115, passed 6-10-1981)
§ 33.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Town Council shall:
      (1)   Establish qualification standards for all career and exempt service
positions which will retain employees on the basis of adequacy of performance;
      (2)   Establish equal opportunity methods of recruiting, examining,
investigating and determining the relative qualifications of all applicants and
developing appointment procedures;
      (3)   Establish probationary and tenure requirements for newly appointed
or newly promoted employees in the career service;
      (4)   Establish conditions of work such as duty hours, holidays, leave,
compensation, fringe benefits, training and retirement plans;
      (5)   Establish a position of classification plan for career service
positions based on similarity of duties performed, responsibilities assumed and
tenure, so that the same pay schedule may be applied equitably to all positions
in the same class;
      (6)   Establish a plan for resolving employee grievances and complaints;
and
      (7)   Establish employee disciplinary action procedures which shall
provide a means of presenting such charges, hearing rights and appeals
procedures.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall:
      (1)   Advise the Town Council on the efficient utilization of Human
Resources;
      (2)   Prepare an annual report for the Town Council which includes an
evaluation of the personnel system and suggested budget requirements for the
following fiscal year;
      (3)   Maintain the position classification plan for career service
positions and recommend revisions to the Town Council;
      (4)   Establish and maintain an employment record system; and
      (5)   Perform any lawful acts which may be necessary or desirable to
carry out the intent and provisions of this subchapter, or to execute the
policies of the Town Council.
   (C)   Departmental supervisors shall work in conjunction with the Town
Manager in advising the Town Council on the efficient utilization of human
resources and shall perform any lawful acts necessary to execute the personnel
policies of the Town Council.
(Ord. 115, passed 6-10-1981)
§ 33.04 AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED.
   The Town Manager, with the consent of the Town Council, is authorized and
empowered to enter into reciprocal agreements with any public agency or body
for purposes deemed of benefit to the public personnel system.
(Ord. 115, passed 6-10-1981)
§ 33.05 POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No employee in the career service shall hold an elected or appointed
office in the exempt service.
   (B)   No official or employee of the town shall solicit any contributions or
service for any political purpose from any employee in the career service.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall affect the right of any employee to
hold membership in the support of political party, to vote as he or she
chooses, to express himself or herself publicly or privately on all political
subjects and candidates, to maintain political neutrality and to actively
participate in political meetings. Such activities must be engaged in as a
private citizen and on the employee’s own time.
(Ord. 115, passed 6-10-1981) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.06 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall make any false statements with regard to any test,
certification or appointment made under any provisions of this subchapter, or
in any manner commit, or attempt to commit, any fraud preventing the impartial
execution of this subchapter and policies.
   (B)   No person shall, directly or indirectly, give, render, pay, offer,
solicit or accept any money, service or other valuable consideration for any
appointment under this subchapter, or furnish to any person any special
privileged information for the purpose of affecting the rights or prospects of
any person with respect to employment in the career service.
(Ord. 115, passed 6-10-1981) Penalty, see §
33.99
TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
§ 33.20 AUTHORITY, PURPOSE, SCOPE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Authority. Under Md. Code, Local Govt. Art., Title 5, Subtitle 2, and
Town Charter §§ 401, 402(E) and 402(N), the Town Council shall be authorized
pursuant to this subchapter or any other duly enacted ordinance to create and
establish certain offices, committees and other appointive bodies as deemed
necessary to serve the best interests of the town.
   (B)   Purpose. In addition to the authority stated in division (A) above,
the purpose of this subchapter is to authorize and set forth the practices,
procedures and requirements for all town-appointed and civic bodies serving the
town. Every appointed body and committee shall have a specific statement of
purpose and function as approved by the Town Council or otherwise prescribed by
law. The size of each body shall be no less than three and no more than seven
people.
   (C)   Scope. Unless otherwise provided elsewhere in the ordinances of the
town, the Town Charter or by authorized resolution, the provisions of this
subchapter shall apply to all appointed bodies, committees, and recognized
organizations established by Charter, or separate legislation of the Town
Council as permitted by law.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APPOINTING AUTHORITY. The Mayor and Town Council, as permitted by the
Town Charter or state law.
      APPOINTED BODY. A board or commission consisting of appointed officials
that perform some delegated power, function or duty on behalf of the town
government.
      APPOINTED OFFICIAL. A resident designated by an appointing authority to
occupy a town office or perform some delegated power, function or duty on
behalf of the town government.
      ASSEMBLIES. Informal groups primarily made of town residents, based
within the town limits, that provide focused recreational and activities that
benefit the town and are recognized by the town via Town Council resolution.
      COMMITTEE. An ad hoc or standing body to whom the Town Council has
delegated or committed a particular duty. These bodies are established by
resolution, and may be solely advisory in nature or may have expressly
delegated powers or functions.
      NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS. Groups recognized as such by the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) that gather socially and/or provide a benefit and amenity
to the town residents.
      RECREATION COMMISSION. The appointed body of the town tasked to support
and promote recreational and educational programs within the town.
(Ord. 113, passed 5-5-2024)
§ 33.21 APPOINTED BODIES.
   Appointed bodies established by the town include the Board of Supervisors of
Elections (§§
32.01 through 33.09), Ethics Commission (§§
36.25 through
36.32), Shade Tree Board (§§
155.01 through
155.07) and Commercial District Management Authority (§§
151.01 through
151.12). The duties, membership qualifications and general governing rules
shall be as contained in their respective ordinances and within the general
rules of this subchapter.
   (A)   Recreation Commission.
      (1)   The Recreation Commission is an appointed body established under
this subchapter and is charged with supporting and promoting recreational and
educational programs within the town. The Recreation Commission may host
classes or activities dedicated to a particular interest, hobby or pastime. The
Recreation Commission is the primary group for the exchange of information,
news or ideas about public town recreation and special events. Residents are
encouraged to share their ideas for activities with the Recreation Commission.
      (2)   Membership on the Recreation Commission shall be composed of the
following appointed officials:
         (a)   One current Town Council member who shall serve as an ex officio
member;
         (b)   Between three and seven at-large residents and/or residents
associated with organizations having received formal recognition by the Town
Council via resolution as outlined in this subchapter; and
         (c)   In addition, a representative of the Maryland-National Capital
Park and Planning Commission, usually the Facility Director or staff member of
the town Community Center, may be invited to attend the meetings and partner
with the Recreation Commission on events.
      (3)   The Recreation Commission shall hold a minimum of nine monthly
meetings annually.
   (B)   General rules of appointed bodies.
      (1)   Each appointed body shall establish bylaws to be submitted to the
Town Council for approval. Each shall elect officers according to their bylaws.
Members who hold these positions must be town residents for the duration of
their term. Elections may be held as positions become vacant. The appointed
body shall notify the Town Council via the Town Manager of the results of the
elections.
      (2) Only appointed officials shall exercise the privilege of voting on
motions or recommendations executed by the appointed body. All expenditure
decisions must be made by a majority vote; however, no appointed official may
vote on an expenditure from which they may financially benefit. If necessary,
the appointed body may seek the approval of the Town Council for an expenditure
that cannot be executed by the appointed body.
      (3)   Each appointed body must submit regular expenditure reports to the
Town Council via the Town Manager, acknowledging that any budget appropriations
may be made in installments and may be contingent on the Town Council’s
approval of the use of funds provided in previous installments, as reported in
expenditure reports.
      (4)   All equipment and supplies purchased by appointed bodies shall be
the property of the town and be for public purposes and use.
      (5)   Each appointed body must post meetings publicly in the town
bulletin or other accepted means, and the meetings must be open to the public
and comply with the State Open Meetings Act.
      (6)   Each appointed body must maintain records of agendas and minutes,
and submit the same to the Town Clerk to ensure compliance with the State
Public Information Act.
      (7)   Each appointed body must comply with the town’s non-discrimination
policy, and abide by ordinances and the Town Charter.
(Ord. 113, passed 5-5-2024)
§ 33.22 TOWN COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Town Council establishes ad hoc or standing committees, to whom
the Town Council has delegated or committed a particular duty, by resolution.
The Town Council also reserves the right to change the official status of a
town committee by affirmative approval of a subsequent resolution.
   (B)   General rules of committees.
      (1)   Each committee shall establish bylaws to be submitted to the Town
Council for approval. The bylaws will contain their mission and outline their
organizational structure and membership requirements. Each committee shall
elect officers according to their bylaws; however Town Council members or
employees of the town cannot serve in any officer capacity. Members who hold
officer positions must be town residents for the duration of their term.
Elections may be held as positions become vacant. Each committee shall notify
the Town Council via the Town Manager of the results of their elections.
      (2)   Each committee shall provide contact information and officer lists
to the Town Council and update the Town Manager and Town Council of any
changes.
      (3)   Only committee members shall exercise the privilege of voting on
motions or recommendations executed by the committee. All expenditure decisions
must be made by a majority vote; however, no committee member may vote on an
expenditure from which they may financially benefit. If necessary, the
committee may seek the approval of the Town Council for an expenditure that
cannot be executed by the committee.
      (4)   Each committee must submit regular expenditure reports to the Town
Council via the Town Manager, acknowledging that any budget appropriations may
be made in installments and may be contingent on the Town Council’s approval of
the use of funds provided in previous installments, as reported in expenditure
reports.
      (5)   All equipment and supplies purchased by committees shall be the
property of the town and be for public purposes and use.
      (6)   Each committee must post meetings publicly in the town bulletin or
other accepted means, and the meetings must be open to the public and comply
with the State Open Meetings Act. The purpose of the meetings are to assist the
town government by providing specific tasks and activities open to residents.
      (7)   Each committee must maintain records of agendas and minutes, and
submit the same to the Town Clerk to ensure compliance with the State Public
Information Act.
      (8)   Each committee must comply with the town’s non-discrimination
policy, and abide by the ordinances and the Town Charter.
(Ord. 113, passed 5-5-2024)
§ 33.23 TOWN ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   (1)   Assemblies are informal groups primarily made of town residents,
based within the town limits, that provide focused recreational and activities
that benefit the town and are recognized by the town via Town Council
resolution.
      (2)   The Town Council reserves the right to change the official
recognition of an assembly by affirmative approval of a subsequent resolution.
   (B)   General rules of assemblies.
      (1)   Each assembly shall be established by town residents and share
their statement of purpose with the Town Council.
      (2)   Each assembly shall provide contact information to the Town Council
and update them of any changes.
      (3)   Each assembly must submit regular expenditure reports if a budget
appropriation is approved, acknowledging that any budget appropriations may be
made in installments and may be contingent on the Town Council’s approval of
the use of funds provided in previous installments, as reported in expenditure
reports.
      (4)   Each assembly must post their activities publicly in the town
bulletin or other accepted means, and the activities must be open to the
public.
      (5)   Each assembly must comply with the town’s non-discrimination
policy, and abide by the ordinances and the Town Charter.
(Ord. 113, passed 5-5-2024)
§ 33.24 NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   Non-profit organizations (NPOs) are groups recognized as such by the
IRS that gather socially and/or provide a benefit and amenity to the town
residents. The Town Council has the authority to support non-profit
organizations that provide a benefit to town residents.
   (B)   General rules for NPOs.
      (1)   They shall maintain non-profit or not-for-profit status; maintain
bylaws or a statement of purpose and provide updates to the Town Council upon
request; have town residents as members; have an established Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) with the town; and comply with the town’s non-
discrimination policy.
      (2)   The Town Council may appropriate grants to NPOs through the budget
appropriations process. If a grant is provided, the NPO must abide by the
requirements outlined in the granting documents.
(Ord. 113, passed 5-5-2024)
§ 33.25 PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   Privileges granted to appointed bodies. Interaction with the Town
Manager and town staff; use of town facilities and resources, including town
letterhead; no permit required for certain community and special events (see
event policy); free space in the town bulletin, mention on town cable
television, website and in social media (see bulletin policy and communications
policy); ability to collect cash and checks (see money handling policy);
official email address maintained by the town (if requested) and any other
privileges as accorded by their respective ordinance.
   (B)   Privileges granted to committees. Interaction with the Town Manager
(and through them, appropriate town staff); limited use of town facilities, at
no cost, if such use does not conflict with any use by the town (with the
understanding that certain penalties may be charged or withheld from a budget
appropriation for cancellations with short notice); no permit required for
certain community and special events (see event policy); use of the town
letterhead; free space in the town bulletin, mention on town cable television,
website and in social media (see bulletin policy and communications policy);
ability to collect cash and checks (see money handling policy); and official
email address maintained by the town (if requested).
   (C)   Privileges granted to assemblies. Limited use of town facilities at no
cost, if such use does not conflict with any use by the town (with the
understanding that certain penalties may be charged or withheld from a budget
appropriation for cancellations with short notice); free space in the town
bulletin, mention on town cable television, website and in social media (see
bulletin policy and communications policy).
   (D)   Privileges granted to NPOs. Limited use of town facilities at no cost,
if such use does not conflict with any use by the town (with the understanding
that certain penalties may be charged or withheld from a budget appropriation
for cancellations with short notice); free space in the town bulletin, mention
on town cable television, website and in social media (see bulletin policy and
communications policy); and use of town logo with approval from Town Council.
(Ord. 113, passed 5-5-2024)
§ 33.26 MEETINGS.
   The below section outlines the procedures for the meetings of the town’s
appointed bodies and committees:.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified by law, the most recent edition of Robert’s
Rules of Order shall generally be followed when conducting meetings.
   (B)   Meetings shall be open to the public after reasonable notice is given
and conducted in accordance with the State’s Open Meetings Law. An appointed
body or committee may convene in closed session only for those reasons set
forth in Md. Code, State Govt. Art., § 10-508(a), and must consult with the
Town Clerk prior to considering doing so.
   (C)   Minutes should be brief and essentially reflect decisions, motions,
consensus, votes or recommendations of the appointed body or committee. A copy
of the minutes should be sent to the Town Clerk for custodial purposes on at
least a quarterly basis.
   (D)   (1)   The Town Council recognizes the importance of civil discourse at
all levels of the government, including for those who volunteer their time and
services on behalf of the town.
      (2)   Members of appointed bodies and committees should conduct
themselves in a manner that maintains public confidence in their municipal
government and in the performance of the public trust. Disruptive behavior by
an appointed official may result in their removal by the Town Council.
(Ord. 113, passed 5-5-2024)
§ 33.27 COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Electronic mail (e-mail).
      (1)   The use of electronic mail creates certain issues related to the
State Open Meetings and Public Records laws. There is no distinction in the law
between written and electronic records. As a result, it is likely that email
messages written or received in the capacity of an appointed body or committee
member are public records that must be made available for public inspection in
the same manner as hardcopy documents.
      (2)   Use of one’s own home computer and personal email accounts may not
exempt such communications, depending on the context. Unless subject to a
privilege provided for by law, employees, appointed body and committee members
acting in their official capacity should have no expectation of privacy in
using electronic mail for town purposes.
      (3)   Appointed body and committee members are encouraged to use an
official organization email account established by the town or set up a
separate individual account dedicated solely for their use as an appointed
official or committee member.
   (B)   Social media. Any social media accounts created and managed by
appointed bodies or committees must abide by the town’s communications policy.
All accounts must be set up and accessed through a town e-mail account.
   (C)   Town website. Appointed bodies, committees and assemblies may have an
informational page, or a link to their own website on the town website. The
Town Clerk will coordinate content to be placed on the website.
   (D)   Town bulletin and e-newsletter. The town offers space in the monthly
town bulletin and e-newsletter for town organizations to provide information,
updates, and notices as space allows. Such content must be submitted to the
Town Clerk by the set deadlines, in accordance with the town’s bulletin policy.
   (E)   Town cable channel. Town organizations may submit content to the Town
Manager to be considered for broadcasting.
(Ord. 113, passed 5-5-2024)
§ 33.28 INSURANCE AND LIABILITY.
   Appointed officials are considered municipal officials, regardless of
whether they receive compensation. Subject to certain exceptions and
limitations, state law allows a municipality to indemnify its officials and
employees from personal financial loss, while acting in a discretionary
capacity, without malice, and within the scope of the official’s authority. The
town has purchased liability insurance policies for this purpose and will
indemnify and defend its duly appointed body and committee members (and may, by
resolution, members of other town organizations) in substantially the same
manner as its other appointed and elected officials. From time to time,
volunteers may need to sign a hold-harmless agreement.
(Ord. 113, passed 5-5-2024)
§ 33.29 EVENTS.
   This section shall govern the process of scheduling, planning and
cancellation of town events.
   (A)   Planning of public events.
      (1)   Events that require the use of town staff, resources, property or
buildings shall be coordinated through the Town Manager (or their designee) in
accordance with the town’s event policy, which requires appointed bodies and
committees to submit their written event plan to the Town Manager at least two
months before the event to best ensure proper county licenses and permits may
be obtained.
      (2)   The Town Manager may waive this submission deadline, but if two or
more event plans are received for overlapping times or areas, then the event
plan received first will be honored by the town and the town will suggest
alternative times and/or locations for the later one(s). A late submission may
also preclude the ability of the appointed body or committee to offer certain
activities.
   (C)   Cancellation of event. There may be a need to cancel or suspend public
events due to weather, emergency situations, staffing issues or other
unforeseen circumstances.
      (1)   For Berwyn Heights Day or similar large-scale events, the Town
Manager, in coordination with the Mayor and President of the Recreation
Commission (or their respective designees), shall make the determination if the
event is to be canceled.
      (2)   Events sponsored by a town department may be canceled by the
department head in consultation with the Town Manager.
      (3)   Smaller events coordinated by the Recreation Commission or any
other organization may be canceled by a decision of the event planner(s) with
notification made to the Town Manager and Town Council liaison.
      (4)   (a)   The Town Manager holds the ability to cancel or postpone any
town events or gatherings in the interest of protecting public health, safety
and welfare.
         (b)   This decision may be appealed to the Town Council in accordance
with the current event policy.
(Ord. 113, passed 5-5-2024)
§ 33.30 INITIATION/DISSOLUTION.
   (A)   New appointed bodies are created by ordinance. New committees are
established by Town Council resolution. Persons interested in having their
assemblies or NPOs recognized by a resolution of the Town Council should
contact the Town Manager for guidance on this process.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that a town appointed body should cease to
function, either by self-dissolution or by inactivity demonstrated by the
failure to carry out their duties, the Town Council must either:
         (a)   Appoint new members to carry out the mission; or
         (b)   Amend the respective ordinance to reflect the situation, if
permitted by law.
      (2)   In the event that a Town Committee should cease to function, either
by self-dissolution or by inactivity demonstrated by the failure to conduct
three scheduled regular meetings, the Town Council may either:
         (a)   Recruit new members to carry out the mission;
         (b)   Place the committee into an inactive state by a Town Council
vote; or
         (c)   Formally dissolve the committee by resolution. An assembly or
NPO that does not abide by the general rules outlined in this subchapter may
lose its town privileges, if so determined by the Town Council.
(Ord. 113, passed 5-5-2024)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of §§
33.01 through
33.06 by an exempt or career employee, except Town Councilmembers, may result
in disciplinary action on the part of the Town Council up to and including
suspension or dismissal. Town Councilmembers may be disciplined or dismissed
only in accordance with the Town Charter, §§ 305 or 310.
(Ord. 115, passed 6-10-1981)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
34.01   Authority
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   Liens of authority, duties and responsibilities
   
34.04   Employees
   
34.05   Eligibility
   
34.06   Appointments
Cross-reference:
Traffic safety enforcement program, see §
70.03
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.01 AUTHORITY.
   We, the Mayor and Council, by virtue of the power and authority vested by
Town Charter, §§ 401 and 706.5, do hereby create and establish the following
rules, regulations and procedures for the Town Police Department.
(Ord. 116, passed 9-9-1981)
§ 34.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHIEF. Any person who is duly sworn in, charged with and assigned to
police work as a peace officer of the Department.
      COUNCILMEMBER. The Councilmember for public safety and health for the
town.
      DEPARTMENT. The Town Police Department.
      MAYOR AND COUNCIL. The elected Mayor and Council of the town.
      THE LAW. All applicable laws of the USA, state, county and the town.
      TOWN. The area within the corporate limits of the Town of Berwyn Heights,
Prince George’s County, Maryland.
   (B)   The singular shall include the plural; the masculine shall include the
feminine.
(Ord. 116, passed 9-9-1981)
§ 34.03 LIENS OF AUTHORITY, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Mayor and Council shall be responsible for the efficient operation
of the Police Department. The Councilmember in charge of Public Safety and
Health shall establish orders, rules and regulations which the Chief of Police
shall be subject to. The Chief of Police shall be the administrative head of
the Police Department.
   (B)   The Councilmember shall take such measures as will ensure prompt and
vigorous enforcement of all criminal statues, laws, regulations and ordinances,
he or she enforcement of which comes properly within the scope of the police
function and power.
   (C)   The Councilmember shall promulgate all orders, rules and regulations
of the Mayor and Council which pertain to the work of the Police Department and
shall issue such departmental instructions and promulgate such orders, rules
and regulations, not inconsistent with the law.
   (D)   The Councilmember shall, within the limits of any appropriation made
for such purpose, appoint such police officers to the Department as are deemed
necessary by him or her for the efficient administration of the Department.
   (E)   The Chief of Police, with the approval of the Mayor and Council, shall
establish a Police Operations Manual relating to the appearance, decorum,
method of dealing with the public, use of firearms, tour of duty and other
matters relating to police functions.
   (F)   The Chief of Police may act within the provisions of laws and town
policy in all matters regarding discipline. Before any final action is taken on
a police employee, after proper Trial Board procedure by the Chief of Police,
in writing, of his or her intention. The Councilmember shall advise the Mayor
and Council of the proposed action. The Mayor and Town Council shall advise, in
writing, the Chief of Police if the dismissal is unacceptable to them, and make
recommendations for alternative action.
   (G)   The town shall provide the police officers of the Department the
uniforms and equipment necessary for the performance of their respective
duties, but all such uniforms and equipment shall remain the property of the
town. The Councilmember shall have authority to destroy such uniforms and sell
or dispose of such equipment as shall have become unfit for use and all monies
received therefrom shall be paid into the Town Treasury.
   (H)   The Councilmember shall have full power and authority to delegate to
the Chief such authority as he or she may deem necessary and proper for the
efficient operation of the Department; provided such authority shall not be
inconsistent with this subchapter or the law.
(Ord. 116, passed 9-9-1981)
§ 34.04 EMPLOYEES.
   The Town Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and such
number of officers as provided for by the Town Council. The police force shall
include one full-time employee.
(Ord. 116, passed 9-9-1981)
§ 34.05 ELIGIBILITY.
   To be eligible for appointment as a police officer of the town, the
applicant must meet all the requirements as prescribed by the State Police
Training Commission.
(Ord. 116, passed 9-9-1981)
§ 34.06 APPOINTMENTS.
   Applications for appointment to the Police Department shall be made on forms
furnished by the Department. Appointments to the Police Department are for a
probationary period of one year.
(Ord. 116, passed 9-9-1981)
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
Residential Property Tax Credit Program
   
35.01   Residential real property tax credit allowed
   
35.02   Eligibility
   
35.03   Amount and duration of credit
   
35.04   Administration
   
35.05   Approval
   
35.06   Application
Public Safety Taxing District
   
35.20   Special taxing district; defined
   
35.21   Special taxing district; authority and boundaries
   
35.22   Special taxing district; hearing and notice
   
35.23   Special taxing district; district administration
   
35.24   Special taxing district; budget and appropriation
   
35.25   Special taxing district; tax levy
   
35.26   District Advisory Committee established
   
35.27   Refund of excess revenues; definition
   
35.28   Refund of excess revenues; refund of special assessment tax levies
   
35.29   Refund of excess revenues; interest
   
35.30   Refund of excess revenues; calculation of refund
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY TAX CREDIT PROGRAM
§ 35.01 RESIDENTIAL REAL PROPERTY TAX CREDIT ALLOWED.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of the Md. Code, Tax-Property Art.,
§ 9-215, local supplement to Homeowner’s Property Tax Credit Program-Municipal
Corporation, the town shall allow a real property tax credit against town real
property taxes imposed on a dwelling unit located into the town that is owned
by a town resident, if that resident is otherwise qualified and receives the
credit authorized under of the Maryland Property Tax Art., § 9-104 “Homeowner’s
Property Tax Credit.”
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a DWELLING has the meaning stated in
the Md. Code, Tax-Property Article.
(Ord. 180, passed 9-11-2019)
§ 35.02 ELIGIBILITY.
   A property owner is eligible to receive a tax credit hereunder if the
individual qualifies and receives a credit under the State Homeowner’s Property
Tax Credit Program. The property that is subject to the tax credit shall remain
in compliance with the town’s Property Maintenance Code for the duration of the
tax credit.
(Ord. 180, passed 9-11-2019)
§ 35.03 AMOUNT AND DURATION OF CREDIT.
   In any taxable year, the credit allowed under this section shall be 10% of
the town real property tax imposed on the dwelling. However, in no event shall
the amount of the credit exceed the amount of property tax imposed on the
dwelling. If the amount of the credit exceeds the amount of the property tax
imposed, then the credit shall equal the amount of the real property tax. The
credit shall be granted if the individual remains eligible for the credit. It
is the responsibility of the owner to apply for the credit annually and to
prove his or her eligibility.
(Ord. 180, passed 9-11-2019)
§ 35.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   In accordance with the Md. Code, Tax-Property Art., § 9-215, the tax credit
authorized by this section shall be administered by the town. The town is
responsible for the administrative duties that relate to the application and
determination of eligibility for a property tax credit under this section.
(Ord. 180, passed 9-11-2019)
§ 35.05 APPROVAL.
   The approval and granting of tax credits under this section shall be done on
a first-come, first-served basis. Application shall be due no later than
December 1. Approval and granting of awards shall be done beginning on February
1 of each year of the program with the total cumulative amount to be awarded
under the program not to exceed the total amount appropriated by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 180, passed 9-11-2019)
§ 35.06 APPLICATION.
   Application for tax credit established herein shall be made under oath on an
application provided by the Town Manager, or his or her designee. The applicant
shall provide a legal description of the property, the property owner’s name,
proof of permanent residency in the town, a copy of the owner’s application to
the State Homeowner’s Tax Credit Program and written verification that the same
was granted and awarded to the owner and confirmation from the Code Compliance
Department that the property does not have any active or open violations of the
town’s Property Maintenance Code or owe any related fines for current or past
violations.
(Ord. 180, passed 9-11-2019)
PUBLIC SAFETY TAXING DISTRICT
§ 35.20 SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT; DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT. An area within the corporate limits of the town
created by town ordinance for the purpose of financing projects, systems,
facilities, programs or activities of special benefit to the district, through
an ad valorem tax levied on real and/or personal property located within the
special district.
(Ord. 132, passed 7-1-2005)
§ 35.21 SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT; AUTHORITY AND BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Pursuant to the Md. Code, Local Govt. Art., § 10-314, a special taxing
district is hereby created to finance the capital and operating costs to
enhance police, fire protection and rescue services within the district. These
costs are to be financed by levying on all real and personal property within
the district an ad valorem tax at a rate sufficient to provide adequate annual
revenues to pay the principal and interest on obligations incurred for the
district and the costs of operating and maintaining district facilities and
activities. The special taxing district thus established shall be governed by
the provisions of the Md. Code, Art. 23A, §44.
   (B)   The boundaries of the special taxing district shall be as follows: all
properties on 55th Avenue between Berwyn Road and City of College Park city
line; 5411 Berwyn Road; all properties on Ballew Avenue between Berwyn Road and
Branchville Road; all properties on Branchville Road between Ballew Avenue and
Greenbelt Road; all commercial properties in the 8800 block of Cunningham
Drive; all properties in the 8900 block of Edmonston Road; all properties in
the 5500, 5600, 5700, 5800, 5900, 6000, 6100, 6200 and 6300 blocks of Greenbelt
Road; all commercial properties in the 8900 block of 60th Avenue; and all
commercial properties in the 8900 block of 62nd Avenue.
(Ord. 132, passed 7-1-2005)
§ 35.22 SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT; HEARING AND NOTICE.
   (A)   A public hearing shall be held on the proposed adoption of the
subchapter. Not less than ten days, but not more than 30 days prior to the
hearing, the Town Manager shall send a notice of the hearing to the owners on
record of all property within the proposed district, and to all persons in
whose name the property is assessed, by certified or registered mail, and shall
also publish a copy of the notice, at least once, in a newspaper of general
circulation in the town.
   (B)   The notice shall include: the date, time and place of the hearing;
identification of the area to be included in the district; the purpose of the
district; a description of the facilities or programs to be provided within the
district; and the ad valorem tax to be levied within the district to pay the
costs of the facilities or programs. The Town Manager shall present at the
hearing a certificate of publication and mailing of copies of the notice, which
certificate shall be deemed proof of notice, but failure of any owner to
receive the mailed copy shall not invalidate the proceedings.
(Ord. 132, passed 7-1-2005)
§ 35.23 SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT; DISTRICT ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Manager shall administer the district and systems, as well as the
facilities, programs and activities operated and maintained as a part thereof,
and take all actions necessary for the effective and efficient management of
the district including, without limitation:
   (A)   Establishing policies and issuing regulations;
   (B)   Proposing an annual budget and tax levy which shall provide sufficient
revenues to pay the costs as they come due of any bonds or obligations, and the
costs of operating and maintaining the facilities or activities, including
reserves for restoration, repair and replacement;
   (C)   Contracting for the provision of materials and services in accordance
with the Town Charter and subject to the availability of budgeted and
appropriated funds for the district; and
   (D)   Providing for the consolidation of programs and activities and the
sharing of systems, facilities and funds among the districts and the town for
the benefit of the district involved.
(Ord. 132, passed 7-1-2005)
§ 35.24 SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT; BUDGET AND APPROPRIATION.
   The Town Council shall adopt annual budgets for the district, which shall
include the costs of paying the principal and interest on obligations incurred
for the district as they become due, and the costs of designing, constructing,
acquiring, establishing, extending, altering, operating and maintaining
district facilities, including land acquisition costs; the cost of
administrative, professional or support services provided by the town; and any
other item of cost which may reasonably be attributed to the district. Funds
for the district shall be budgeted and appropriated in the same manner as for
the town generally and may be done concurrently with the town’s budget and
appropriation process.
(Ord. 132, passed 7-1-2005)
§ 35.25 SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT; TAX LEVY.
   As provided in this subchapter establishing the district’s annual budget, an
ad valorem tax may be levied annually on all the real and/or personal property
in the district at a rate sufficient to provide adequate revenues to pay for
the budgeted costs of the district. The tax shall be levied in the same manner,
upon the same assessments, and for the same periods, and shall be collected and
enforced as other town taxes.
(Ord. 132, passed 7-1-2005)
§ 35.26 DISTRICT ADVISORY COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby established a District Advisory Committee.
      (2)   Its function shall be to advise the Town Manager on:
         (a)   The establishment of the District;
         (b)   The cost of developing, operating and maintaining the District;
         (c)   The budget for the administration of the District;
         (d)   The policies and regulations governing the District; and
         (e)   The regulations relating to tax exemptions and reductions.
   (B)   The Town Manager, with approval of the Mayor and Town Council, will
establish a policy for appointing members to the district and setting up terms,
as well as establish rules and regulations for the Committee.
(Ord. 132, passed 7-1-2005)
§ 35.27 REFUND OF EXCESS REVENUES; DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXCESS SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT REVENUES. Revenues produced from an annual
levy within a special taxing district in excess of 115% of the amount budgeted
and appropriated in the annual budget ordinance for the district to retire the
debt on bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness, and to maintain and
operate the activities and facilities funded by the special district taxes.
(Ord. 132, passed 7-1-2005)
§ 35.28 REFUND OF EXCESS REVENUES; REFUND OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT TAX LEVIES.
   The Mayor and Council may authorize the refund of excess special taxing
district revenues upon making the following finding:
   (A)   An application for a refund has been submitted to the Town Manager;
   (B)   The revenues produced by the special district tax levy exceed 115% of
the budgeted and appropriated expenditures for the facilities and activities
financed by the special district tax;
   (C)   The refund of excess special taxing district revenues will not impair
the fiscal stability and integrity of the special taxing district and the
facilities and activities funded thereby;
   (D)   The refund to be made is from tax payments actually received by the
town; and
   (E)   The taxpayer who has applied for the refund has paid all sums owed by
that taxpayer to the town for any reason, including interest and penalties if
any.
(Ord. 132, passed 7-1-2005)
§ 35.29 REFUND OF EXCESS REVENUES; INTEREST.
   No interest shall be paid on any refund authorized for excess special
district taxes.
(Ord. 132, passed 7-1-2005)
§ 35.30 REFUND OF EXCESS REVENUES; CALCULATION OF REFUND.
   The Town Manager will calculate the refund authorized by this subchapter so
that, upon proper application and approval, each taxpayer entitled to a refund
will receive an amount which bears the same proportion to the total special
taxing district excess revenues as the taxpayer’s assessable base bears to the
total assessable base of the special taxing district.
(Ord. 132, passed 7-1-2005)
CHAPTER 36: POLICIES
Section
Conduct Guidelines for Elected Officials
   
36.01   Purpose; theme
   
36.02   Overview of roles and responsibilities
   
36.03   Policies and protocol related to conduct
   
36.04   Council conduct with one another
   
36.05   Council conduct with town staff
   
36.06   Council conduct with public
   
36.07   Council conduct with other public agencies
   
36.08   Council conduct with boards, clubs, committees and commissions and
organizations
   
36.09   Council conduct with the media
   
36.10   Sanctions
   
36.11   Principles of proper conduct
   
36.12   Checklist for monitoring conduct
   
36.13   Glossary of terms
Ethics
   
36.25   Short title
   
36.26   Applicability and definitions
   
36.27   Ethics Commission
   
36.28   Conflicts of interest
   
36.29   Financial disclosure; local elected officials and candidates-to-be
local elected officials
   
36.30   Financial disclosure; employees and appointed officials
   
36.31   Lobbying
   
36.32   Exemptions and modifications
   
36.33   Enforcement
 
   
36.99   Penalty
CONDUCT GUIDELINES FOR ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 36.01 PURPOSE; THEME.
   (A)   This Code of Conduct is designed to describe the manner in which
Councilmembers should treat one another, town staff, constituents and others
they come into contact with in representing the town. It reflects the work of
the Town Council to define more clearly the behavior, manners and courtesies
that are suitable for various occasions.
   (B)   The constant and consistent theme through all of the conduct
guidelines is “respect.” Councilmembers experience huge workloads and
tremendous stress in making decisions that could impact thousands of lives.
Despite these pressures, elected officials are called upon to exhibit
appropriate behavior at all times. Demonstrating respect for each individual
through words and actions is the touchstone that can help guide Councilmembers
to do the right thing in even the most difficult situations.
(Ord. 124, passed 1-8-2003)
§ 36.02 OVERVIEW OF ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Other resources that are helpful in defining the roles and responsibilities
of elected officials can be found in the Town Charter and Town Council rules.
   (A)   Mayor:
      (1)   Acts as the official head of the town for all ceremonial purposes;
      (2)   Chairs Council meetings and sets agenda, based on recommendations
from Councilmembers;
      (3)   Calls for special meetings;
      (4)   Recommends committees as appropriate for Town Council approval;
      (5)   Recognized as spokesperson for the town;
      (6)   Signs documents on behalf of the town;
      (7)   Makes on proclamations, special orders of the day and the like; and
      (8)   Strives to lead the Town Council into an effective, cohesive
working team.
   (B)   Mayor Pro Tem:
      (1)   Performs the duties of the Mayor if the Mayor is unable to perform
his or her duties;
      (2)   Chairs Council meetings at the request of the Mayor; and
      (3)   Represents the town at ceremonial functions in the absence of the
Mayor.
   (C)   All Councilmembers.
      (1)   All members of the Town Council, including those serving as Mayor
and Mayor Pro-Tem, have equal votes. No Councilmember has more power than any
other Councilmember, and all should be treated with equal respect.
      (2)   All Councilmembers should strive to:
         (a)   Fully participate in Town Council meetings and other public
forums while demonstrating respect, kindness, consideration and courtesy to
others;
         (b)   Prepare in advance of Town Council meetings and be familiar with
issues on the agenda;
         (c)   Represent the town at ceremonial functions at the request of the
Mayor;
         (d)   Place activities and events on the Town Council’s weekly
activities calendar that invite official participation of all Councilmembers;
         (e)   Be respectful of other people’s time. Stay focused and act
efficiently during public meetings;
         (f)   Serve as a model of leadership and civility to the community;
         (g)   Inspire public confidence in town government;
         (h)   Provide contact information with the Town Council in case an
emergency or urgent situation arises while the Councilmember is out of town;
         (i)   Demonstrate honesty and integrity in every action and statement;
and
         (j)   Participate in scheduled activities to increase team
effectiveness and review Town Council procedures, such as this Code of Conduct.
(Ord. 124, passed 1-8-2003)
§ 36.03 POLICIES AND PROTOCOL RELATED TO CONDUCT.
   (A)   Ceremonial events. The Mayor will serve as the designated town
representative at ceremonial events. If the Mayor is unavailable, then the
Mayor will recommend which Councilmember should be asked to serve as a
substitute. Invitations received at Town Hall are presumed to be for official
town representation. Invitations addressed to Councilmembers at their homes are
presumed to be for unofficial, personal consideration.
   (B)   Correspondence signatures.
      (1)   Councilmembers do not need to acknowledge the receipt of
correspondence, or copies of correspondence, during Town Council meetings. Town
staff will prepare official letters in response to public inquiries and
concerns.
      (2)   These letters will carry the signature of the Mayor unless the
Mayor requests that another Councilmember or a member of the town staff sign
them. If correspondence is addressed only to one Councilmember, that
Councilmember should check with the Mayor on the best way to respond to the
sender.
   (C)   Endorsement of candidates. Councilmembers have the right to support
candidates for any office. It is inappropriate to endorse a candidate by using
an official town title.
   (D)   Public hearings. Councilmembers will not express opinions during the
public hearing portion of the meeting except to ask pertinent questions of the
speaker or staff. “I think” and “I feel” comments by Councilmembers are not
appropriate until after the close of the public hearing. Councilmembers should
refrain from debating with the public during a public hearing and shall always
show respect for different points of view.
   (E)   Town meetings. Main motions may be followed by amendments, followed by
substitute motions. Any Councilmember can call for a point of order. Only
Councilmembers who voted on the prevailing side may make motions to reconsider.
Councilmembers, who desire to make the first motion in a town meeting on issues
that they feel strongly about, will discuss their intention with the Chair in
advance (no later than the close of normal business) of the worksession or
meeting.
(Ord. 124, passed 1-8-2003)
§ 36.04 COUNCIL CONDUCT WITH ONE ANOTHER.
   Councils are composed of individuals with a wide variety of backgrounds,
personalities, values, opinions and goals. Despite this diversity, all have
chosen to serve in public office in order to preserve and protect the present
and the future of the community. In all cases, this common goal should be
acknowledged even as Council may “agree to disagree” on contentious issues.
   (A)   In public meetings.
      (1)   Use formal titles. The Council should refer to one another formally
during public meetings as Mayor or Councilmember followed by the individual’s
last name.
      (2)   Practice civility and decorum in discussions and debate. Difficult
questions, tough challenges to a particular point of view and criticism of
ideas and information are legitimate elements of a free democracy in action.
This does not allow, however, Councilmembers to make belligerent, personal,
impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive or disparaging comments. No
shouting or physical actions that could be construed as threatening will be
tolerated.
      (3)   Honor the role of the Chair in maintaining order. It is the
responsibility of the Chair to keep the comments of Councilmembers on track
during public meetings. Councilmembers should honor efforts by the Chair to
focus discussion on current agenda items. If there is disagreement about the
agenda or the Chair’s actions, those objections should be voiced politely and
with reason, following procedures outlined in Robert’s Rules of Order for
parliamentary procedure.
      (4)   Avoid personal comments that could offend other Councilmembers. If
a Councilmember is personally offended by the remarks of another Councilmember,
the offended Councilmember should make notes of the actual words used and call
for a “point of personal privilege” that challenges the other Councilmember to
justify or apologize for the language used. The Chair will maintain control of
this discussion.
      (5)   Strive to demonstrate effective problem-solving approaches.
Councilmembers have a public stage to show how individuals with disparate
points of view can find common ground and seek a compromise that benefits the
community as a whole.
   (B)   In private encounters.
      (1)   Policy making. No binding policy decisions shall be made outside of
a public meeting. The use of official town e-mail is reviewable in a public
information request or through a subpoena in a lawsuit. Therefore, a file
should be maintained just like any other correspondence. The sender should
avoid sending to multiple recipients to eliminate the perception of an
electronic meeting. The use of private e-mail does not come under the same
scrutiny. However, Councilmembers should exercise discretion in discussing town
business. None of these issues arise with regards to telephone calls or
personal conversations.
      (2)   Be aware of the insecurity of written notes, voicemail messages and
e-mail.
         (a)   Technology allows words written or said without much forethought
to be distributed wide and far. Written notes, voicemail messages and e-mail
should be treated as potentially “public” communication. Councilmembers should
be mindful of all recipients. Even though private communication cannot be
prohibited from distribution, the use of a disclaimer, verbal or written, can
act to protect the sender and should be respected.
         (b)   The litmus test should be: Would you feel comfortable if this
voicemail/fax/e-mail message appeared in the newspaper verbatim? How would that
reflect on the town?
      (3)   Even private conversations can have a public presence. Elected
officials are always on display; people around them that they may not know will
monitor their actions, mannerisms and language. Lunch table conversations will
be eavesdropped upon, parking lot debates will be watched and casual comments
between individuals before and after public meetings noted.
      (4)   Guiding principles for Councilmember collaboration on legislation.
         (a)   Collaboration between two Councilmembers to develop proposed
legislation, policy or ideas is acceptable. Bear in mind, three members
constitutes a quorum.
         (b)   The legislation should be relevant to the department in which
one of the Councilmembers is the department head. Otherwise, department head
consent should be ascertained.
         (c)   It must be understood that no binding decisions can be made and
that the proposal shall come before the whole Council for consideration in
full, open discussion at a public meeting. Councilmember’s records on the
subject could be subject to a public information request and may possibly be
discoverable in litigation.
(Ord. 124, passed 1-8-2003)
§ 36.05 COUNCIL CONDUCT WITH TOWN STAFF.
   Governance of a town relies on the cooperative efforts of elected officials,
who set policy, and town staff, who implement and administer the Council’s
policies. Therefore, every effort should be made to be cooperative and show
mutual respect for the contributions made by each individual for the good of
the community.
   (A)   Treat all staff as professionals. Clear, honest communication that
respects the abilities, experience and dignity of each individual is expected.
Poor behavior towards staff is not acceptable.
   (B)   Limit contact to specific town staff.
      (1)   Questions of town staff and/or requests for additional background
information should be directed to the proper department head, the Town Manager
or the Mayor. Each should be copied on appropriate questions, comments or
requests. Requests for follow-up or directions to staff should be made only
through the appropriate chain of command. When in doubt about what staff
contact is appropriate, Councilmembers should ask the Mayor or the Town Manager
for direction.
      (2)   Materials supplied to a Councilmember in response to a request will
be made available to all members of the Town Council so that all have equal
access to information.
   (C)   Do not disrupt town staff from their jobs. Councilmembers should not
disrupt town staff while they are in meetings on the phone or engrossed in
performing their job functions in order to have their individual needs met.
   (D)   Never publicly criticize an individual employee. Town Council should
never express concerns about the performance of a town employee in public, to
the employee directly or to the employee’s manager. Comments about staff
performance should only be made to the department head through private
correspondence or conversation.
   (E)   Do not get involved in administrative functions. Councilmembers must
not attempt to influence town staff on the making of appointments, awarding of
contracts, selecting of consultants, processing of development applications or
granting of town licenses and permits.
   (F)   Check with town staff on correspondence before taking action. Before
sending correspondence, Councilmembers should check with town staff to see if
an official town response has already been sent or is in progress. The Town
Manager should see that previous official correspondence is kept in a binder
that is always accessible to all Councilmembers.
   (G)   Do not attend meetings with town staff unless requested by staff. Even
if the Councilmember does not say anything, the Councilmember’s presence
implies support, shows partiality, intimidates staff and hampers staff’s
ability to do their job objectively.
   (H)   Limit requests for staff support. Routine secretarial support will be
provided to all Councilmembers by the Administration Department. Requests for
additional staff support – even in high priority or emergency situations –
should be made to the Town Manager, who is responsible for allocating town
resources in order to maintain a professional, well-run town government.
   (I)   Do not solicit political support from staff.
      (1)   Councilmembers should not solicit any type of political support
(financial contributions, display of posters or lawn signs, name on support
list and the like) from town staff.
      (2)   Town staff may, as private citizens with constitutional rights,
support political candidates but all such activities must be done away from the
workplace.
(Ord. 124, passed 1-8-2003)
§ 36.06 COUNCIL CONDUCT WITH PUBLIC.
   (A)   In public meetings. Making the public feel welcome is an important
part of the democratic process. No signs of partiality, prejudice or disrespect
should be evident on the part of individual Councilmembers toward an individual
participating in a public forum. Every effort should be made to be fair and
impartial in listening to public testimony.
      (1)   Be fair and equitable in allocating public meeting time to
individual speakers. The Chair will determine and announce limits on speakers
at the start of the public meeting process. The Mayor will advise speakers to
state their name and address for the record and to address their comments to
the Council. Generally, each speaker will be allocated two to three minutes
with applicants and appellants, or his or her designated representatives,
allowed more time. If many speakers are anticipated, the Chair may shorten the
time limit and/or ask speakers to limit themselves to new information and
points of view not already covered by previous speakers. No speaker will be
turned away unless he or she exhibits inappropriate behavior.
      (2)   Give the appearance of active listening. It is disconcerting to
speakers to have Councilmembers not look at them when they are speaking. It is
fine to look down at documents or to make notes, but reading for a long period
or time gazing around the room gives the appearance of disinterest. Be aware of
facial expressions, especially those that could be interpreted as “smirking,”
disbelief, anger or boredom.
      (3)   Ask for clarification, but avoid debate and argument with the
public.
         (a)   Only the Chair – not individual Councilmembers – can interrupt a
speaker during a presentation. However, a Councilmember can ask the Chair for a
point of order or point of information if the speaker is off topic or
exhibiting behavior or language the Councilmember finds disturbing, or would
like further information from the speaker.
         (b)   If speakers become flustered or defensive by Council questions,
it is the responsibility of the Chair to calm and focus the speaker and to
maintain the order and decorum of the meeting. Questions by Councilmembers to
members of the public testifying should seek to clarify or expand information.
         (c)   It is never appropriate to belligerently challenge or belittle
the speaker. Councilmembers’ personal opinions or inclinations about upcoming
votes should not be revealed until after the public hearing is closed.
      (4)   No personal attacks of any kind, under any circumstance.
Councilmembers should be aware that their body language and tone of voice, as
well as the words they use, could appear to be intimidating or aggressive.
   (B)   In unofficial settings.
      (1)   Make no promises on behalf of the Town Council. Councilmembers will
frequently be asked to explain a Council action or to give their opinion about
an issue as they meet and talk with constituents in the community.
         (a)   It is appropriate to give a brief overview of town policy and to
refer to town staff for further information.
         (b)   It is inappropriate to overtly or implicitly promise Town
Council action, or to promise town staff will do something specific (fix a
pothole, remove a library book, plant new flowers in the median and the like).
      (2)   Make no personal comments about other Councilmembers. It is
acceptable to publicly disagree about an issue, but it is unacceptable to make
derogatory comments about other Councilmembers, their opinions and actions.
      (3)   Remember that the town is a small town. The community is constantly
observing Councilmembers every day that they serve in office. Their behaviors
and comments serve as models for proper deportment in the town. Honesty and
respect for the dignity of each individual should be reflected in every word
and action taken by Councilmembers, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. It is a
serious and continuous responsibility.
(Ord. 124, passed 1-8-2003)
§ 36.07 COUNCIL CONDUCT WITH OTHER PUBLIC AGENCIES.
   (A)   Be clear about representing the town or personal interests. If a
Councilmember appears before another governmental agency or organization to
give a statement on an issue, the Councilmember must clearly state if his or
her statement reflects personal opinion or is the official stance of the town.
   (B)   If the Councilmember is representing the town, the Councilmember must
support and advocate
the official town position on an issue, not a personal viewpoint. If the
Councilmember is representing another organization whose position is different
from the town, the Councilmember should withdraw from voting on the issue if it
significantly impacts or is detrimental to the town’s interest. Councilmembers
should be clear about which organizations they represent and inform the Mayor
and Town Council of their involvement.
   (C)   Correspondence also should be equally clear about representation. Town
letterhead is not to be used for correspondence of Councilmembers representing
a personal point of view, or a dissenting point of view from an official Town
Council position.
(Ord. 124, passed 1-8-2003)
§ 36.08 COUNCIL CONDUCT WITH BOARDS, CLUBS, COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS AND
ORGANIZATIONS.
   The town has established several Boards, Committees and Commissions as a
means of gathering more community input. Members who serve on these bodies
become more involved in government and serve as advisors to the Town Council.
They are a valuable resource to the town’s leadership and should be treated
with appreciation and respect.
   (A)   If attending a Board, Committee or Commission meeting, be careful to
only express personal
opinions. Councilmembers may attend any Board, Committee or Commission meeting,
which are always open to any member of the public. However, they should be
sensitive to the way their participation – especially if it is on behalf of an
individual, business or developer – could be viewed as unfairly affecting the
process. Any public comments by a Councilmember at a Board, Committee or
Commission meeting
should be clearly made as individual opinion and not a representation of the
feelings of the entire Town Council.
   (B)   Limit contact with Board, Committee and Commission members to
questions of clarification. It is inappropriate for a Councilmember to contact
a Board, Committee or Commission member to lobby on behalf of an individual,
business or developer. It is acceptable for Councilmembers to contact Board,
Committee or Commission members in order to clarify a position taken by the
Board, Committee or Commission.
   (C)   Remember that Boards, Committees and Commissions serve the community,
not individual Councilmembers. The Town Council appoints individuals to serve
on Boards, Committees and Commissions and the like and it is the responsibility
of Boards, Committees and Commissions to follow policy established by the
Council. But Board, Committee and Commission members do not report to
individual Councilmembers, nor should Councilmembers feel they have the power
or right to threaten Board, Committee and Commission members with removal if
they disagree about an issue. Appointment and re-appointment to a Board,
Committee or Commission should be based on such criteria as expertise, ability
to work with staff and the public and commitment to fulfilling official duties.
A Board, Committee or Commission appointment should not be used as a political
“reward.”
   (D)   Be respectful of diverse opinions. A primary role of Boards,
Committees and Commissions is to represent many points of view in the community
and to provide the Council with advice based on a full spectrum of concerns and
perspectives. Councilmembers may have a closer working relationship with some
individuals serving on Boards, Committees and Commissions, but must be fair and
respectful of all citizens serving on Boards, Committees and Commissions.
   (E)   Keep political support away from public forums. Board, Committee and
Commission members may offer political support to a Councilmember, but not in a
public forum while conducting official duties. Conversely, Councilmembers may
support Board, Committee and Commission members who are running for office, but
not in an official forum in their capacity as a Councilmember.
   (F)   Inappropriate behavior can lead to removal. Inappropriate behavior by
a Board member, appointed by the Mayor and Council, should be addressed by the
Chair and/or the members of the body.
      (1)   If a member’s conduct continues to be unbecoming, the Chair shall
notify the Mayor, and the Mayor should counsel the offending member.
      (2)   If inappropriate behavior continues, the Mayor should bring the
situation to the attention of the Council and the individual is subject to
removal from the Board, Committee or Commission.
(Ord. 124, passed 1-8-2003)
§ 36.09 COUNCIL CONDUCT WITH THE MEDIA.
   Councilmembers are frequently contacted by the media for background and
quotes.
   (A)   The best advice for dealing with the media is to never go “off the
record.” Most members of the media represent the highest levels of journalistic
integrity and ethics, and can be trusted to keep their word. Words that are not
said cannot be quoted.
   (B)   The Mayor is the official spokesperson for the representative on town
position. The Mayor is the designated representative of the Council to present
and speak on the official town position. If the media contacts an individual
Councilmember, the Councilmember should be clear about whether their comments
represent the official town position or a personal viewpoint.
   (C)   Choose words carefully and cautiously. Comments taken out of context
can cause problems. Be especially cautious about humor, sardonic asides,
sarcasm or word play. It is never appropriate to use personal slurs or swear
words when talking with the media.
(Ord. 124, passed 1-8-2003)
§ 36.10 SANCTIONS.
   (A)   Proper conduct.
      (1)   Although the Council should seldom have occasion to discipline its
members, the Council has the right to make and enforce its own rules and to
require that Councilmembers, town staff and the public refrain from conduct
injurious to the accomplishment of Council business.
      (2)   Town Councilmembers who intentionally and repeatedly do not follow
proper conduct may be reprimanded or formally censured by the Council. Serious
infractions of the Code of Conduct could lead to other sanctions as deemed
appropriate by the Council.
   (B)   Councilmembers’ behavior and conduct in public meetings.
      (1)   All those present at Council meetings have an obligation to obey
the legitimate orders of Robert’s Rules of Order, the Charter and Council
rules, as well as the authority of the presiding officer of the meeting. It is
the responsibility of the meeting Chair to initiate action if a Councilmember’s
behavior may warrant sanction. If the Chair takes no action, the alleged
violation(s) can be brought up with the full Council at a public meeting,
including a town meeting.
      (2)   When a Councilmember breaches this Code of Conduct during a public
meeting, the following progressive actions are appropriate (note: the nature of
the offense may warrant any level of sanction).
         (a)   Request for order. If the breach is slight, the Chair of the
meeting shall rap the gavel and ask the offending member to follow the rules of
order and good conduct. If the Mayor is the individual whose actions are being
challenged, then the matter should be referred to the Mayor Pro Tem.
         (b)   Call to order.
            1.   If the offense is more serious, such as when a Councilmember:
               a.   Repeatedly interrupts or disrupts the meeting, whether
verbally or otherwise;
               b.   Questions the motives of or attacks with accusatory
comments other Councilmembers;
               c.   Persists in speaking out of turn or on an irrelevant matter
during discussion on an agenda item;
               d.   Makes comments to or converses with another Councilmember
while not having the floor; and
               e.   Uses disrespectful, coarse or profane language, tone or
gestures unbecoming to a Councilmember, town employee or any other meeting
participant.
            2.   Then in any such instance, the meeting Chair will normally
first warn the offender that such conduct is in breach of order; but, with or
without such warning, the meeting Chair, or any other Councilmember, may call
the Councilmember to order by stating, at any time, “point of order” and
explaining how the offender’s behavior breaches the rules. If the Chair finds
the point well-taken, the Chair shall declare the offender to be out of order
and request that the offender cease such unacceptable behavior immediately with
a reminder of further consequences if the offending Councilmember’s behavior
continues.
            3.   If the Chair declares out of order a Councilmember who has the
floor at the time of the offense, the meeting Chair, after clearly stating the
breach of conduct, may rule that the offending member has forfeited the floor
at that time.
         (c)   Recording the offense in the minutes. If the disruptive conduct
continues, despite the ruling of the Chair that such behavior is out of order
and this is to be discontinued, the fact and the specific offensive conduct
should be recorded in the official minutes by order of the Chair. If the member
discontinues the offending behavior, the Chair may drop the matter.
         (d)   Censure.
            1.   If the disruption continues, any member may move to censure
the offending member for disrupting a lawful meeting of the Town Council. Such
censure motion shall be adopted upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the
remaining Councilmembers, excluding the offending member.
            2.   The censure may be put forth to encompass only the discussion
at hand, or, if the offending behavior is more serious, the Councilmember may
be censured for the remainder of that meeting or all subsequent future
meetings. The offending Councilmember shall remain silent throughout the
remainder of the discussion or meeting, and shall not disrupt the meeting
verbally or with other physical distractions, such as gestures or facial
expressions.
         (e)   Expulsion. If the member continues such offending behavior, the
Chair or any Councilmember may move that the offending member be expelled from
the meeting for disorderly conduct. Such expulsion motion shall be adopted upon
the affirmative vote of a majority of those remaining Councilmembers, excluding
the offending member. If the offending member refuses to leave after a motion
for expulsion has passed, police employed by the town can carry out the
expulsion order at the direction of the Mayor.
         (f)   Recess to another time. When disruptive conduct by a
Councilmember continues, the Chair may, at his or her discretion, at any stage,
call for a motion to immediately recess the meeting to reconvene at a fixed
time and place, which shall be publicly posted.
   (C)   Councilmembers behavior and conduct outside of public meetings.
      (1)   If a violation of this document occurs outside of a public meeting,
the alleged violation should be referred to the Mayor. If the Mayor perpetrated
the alleged breach, the Mayor Pro Tem will be contacted.
      (2)   The Mayor/Mayor Pro Tem should ask the Town Manager and Town
Attorney when appropriate to investigate the allegation and report the findings
to the Council. It is the Mayor/Mayor Pro Tem’s responsibility to take the next
appropriate action according to the sanctions above.
   (D)   Inappropriate staff behavior.
      (1)   Councilmembers should refer to the appropriate department head any
town staff that does not follow proper conduct in their dealings with
Councilmembers, other town staff or the public.
      (2)   These employees may be disciplined in accordance with standard town
procedures for such actions. (Please refer to the section on Council conduct
with town staff for more details on interaction with staff.) Where appropriate,
any discipline of police officers will be conducted as mandated by the Law
Enforcement Officers Bill of Rights, being Md. Code, Public Safety Art., Title
3, Subtitle 1.
(Ord. 124, passed 1-8-2003)
§ 36.11 PRINCIPLES OF PROPER CONDUCT.
   (A)   Proper conduct is:
      (1)   Keeping promises;
      (2)   Being dependable;
      (3)   Building a solid reputation;
      (4)   Participating and being available;
      (5)   Demonstrating patience;
      (6)   Showing empathy;
      (7)   Holding onto ethical principles under stress;
      (8)   Listening attentively;
      (9)   Studying thoroughly;
      (10)   Keeping integrity intact;
      (11)   Overcoming discouragement;
      (12)   Going above and beyond, time and time again; and
      (13)   Modeling a professional manner.
   (B)   Proper conduct is not:
      (1)   Showing antagonism or hostility;
      (2)   Deliberately lying or misleading;
      (3)   Being sarcastic or rude;
      (4)   Speaking recklessly;
      (5)   Spreading rumors;
      (6)   Stirring up bad feelings, divisiveness; and
      (7)   Acting in a self-righteous manner.
   (C)   It all comes down to respect. Respect for one another as individuals…
respect for the validity of different opinions… respect for the democratic
process… respect for the community that we serve.
(Ord. 124, passed 1-8-2003)
§ 36.12 CHECKLIST FOR MONITORING CONDUCT.
   (A)   Will my decision/statement/action violate the trust, rights or good
will of others?
   (B)   What are my interior motives and the spirit behind my actions?
   (C)   If I have to justify my conduct in public tomorrow, will I do so with
pride or shame?
   (D)   How would my conduct be evaluated by people whose integrity and
character I respect?
   (E)   Even if my conduct is not illegal or unethical, is it done at someone
else’s painful expense? Will it destroy their trust in me? Will it harm their
reputation?
   (F)   Is my conduct fair? Just? Morally right?
   (G)   If I were on the receiving end of my conduct, would I approve and
agree, or would I take offense?
   (H)   Does my conduct give others reason to trust or distrust me?
   (I)   Am I willing to take an ethical stand when it is called for? Am I
willing to make my ethical beliefs public in a way that makes it clear what I
stand for?
   (J)   Do I exhibit the same conduct in my private life as I do in my public
life?
   (K)   Can I take legitimate pride in the way I conduct myself and the
example I set?
   (L)   Do I listen and understand the views of others?
   (M)   Do I question and confront different points of view in a constructive
manner?
   (N)   Do I work to resolve differences and come to mutual agreement?
   (O)   Do I support others and show respect for their ideas?
   (P)   Will my conduct cause public embarrassment to someone else?
(Ord. 124, passed 1-8-2003)
§ 36.13 GLOSSARY OF TERMS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTITUDE. The manner in which one shows one’s dispositions, opinions and
feelings.
   BEHAVIOR. External appearance or action; manner of behaving; carriage of
oneself.
   CIVILITY. Politeness, consideration and courtesy.
   CONDUCT. The way one acts; personal behavior.
   COURTESY. Politeness connected with kindness.
   DECORUM. Suitable; proper; good taste in behavior.
   MANNERS. A way of acting; a style, method or form; the way in which thing
are done.
   POINT OF ORDER. An interruption of a meeting to question whether rules or
bylaws are being broken, such as the speaker has strayed from the motion
currently under consideration.
   POINT OF PERSONAL PRIVILEGE. A challenge to a speaker to defend or apologize
for comments that a fellow Councilmember considers offensive.
   PROPRIETY. Conforming to acceptable standards of behavior.
   PROTOCOL. The courtesies that are established as proper and correct.
   RESPECT. The act of noticing with attention; holding in esteem; courteous
regard.
(Ord. 124, passed 1-8-2003)
ETHICS
§ 36.25 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be cited as the “Town of Berwyn Heights Public Ethics
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 110, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 36.26 APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter apply to all town elected officials,
employees and appointees to boards and commissions of town.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESIGNATED SECOND HOME. Includes:
         (a)    If an individual owns one second home, the individual’s second
home; or
         (b)   If an individual owns more than one second home, any one second
home the individual identifies to the Ethics Commission as the individual’s
designated second home.
      HOME ADDRESS. The address of an individual’s:
         (a) Principal home; and
         (b) Designated second home, if any.
      PRINCIPAL HOME. The sole residential property that an individual occupies
as the individual’s primary residence, whether owned or rented by the
individual.
      QUASI-GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY. A entity that is created by state statute,
that performs a public function, and that is supported in whole or in part by
the state, but is privately managed.
      SECOND HOME. A residential property that:
         (a) An individual occupies for some portion of the filing year; and
         (b) Is not a rental property or a time share.
(Ord. 110, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 36.27 ETHICS COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is a town Ethics Commission that consists of three members
appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   The Ethics Commission shall:
      (1)   Devise, receive and maintain all forms required by this subchapter;
      (2)   Develop procedures and policies for advisory opinion requests and
provide published advisory opinions to persons subject to this subchapter
regarding the applicability of the provisions of this subchapter to them;
      (3)   Develop procedures and policies for the processing of complaints to
make appropriate determinations regarding complaints filed by any person
alleging violations of this subchapter; and
      (4)   Conduct a public information program regarding the purposes and
application of this subchapter.
   (C)   The Town Attorney shall advise the Ethics Commission.
   (D)   The Ethics Commission shall certify to the State Ethics Commission on
or before October 1 of each year that the town is in compliance with the
requirements of Md. Code, State Govt. Art., Title 15, Subtitle 8 for elected
local officials.
   (E)   The Ethics Commission shall determine if changes to this subchapter
are required to be in compliance with the requirements of Md. Code, State Govt.
Art., Title 15, Subtitle 8 and shall forward any recommended changes and
amendments to Town Council for enactment.
   (f) The Ethics Commission may adopt other policies and procedures to assist
in the implementation of the Ethics Commission’s programs established in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 110, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 36.28 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   In this section, QUALIFIED RELATIVE means a spouse, parent, child or
sibling.
   (B)   All town elected officials, officials appointed to town boards and
commissions subject to this subchapter and employees are subject to this
section.
   (C)   Participation prohibitions.
      (1)   Except as permitted by Ethics Commission regulation or opinion, an
official or employee may not participate in:
         (a)   Except in the exercise of an administrative or ministerial duty
that does not affect the disposition or decision of the matter, any matter in
which, to the knowledge of the official or employee, the official or employee,
or a qualified relative of the official or employee has an interest; or
         (b)   Except in the exercise of an administrative or ministerial duty
that does not affect the disposition or decision with respect to the matter,
any matter in which any of the following is a party:
            1.   A business entity in which the official or employee has a
direct financial interest of which the official or employee may reasonably be
expected to know;
            2.   A business entity for which the official, employee or a
qualified relative of the official or employee is an officer, director,
trustee, partner or employee;
            3.   A business entity with which the official or employee or, to
the knowledge of the official or employee, a qualified relative is negotiating
employment or has any arrangement concerning prospective employment;
            4.   If the contract reasonably could be expected to result in a
conflict between the private interests of the official or employee and the
official duties of the official or employee, a business entity that is a party
to an existing contract with the official or employee, or which, to the
knowledge of the official or employee, is a party to a contract with a
qualified relative;
            5.   An entity, doing business with the town in which a direct
financial interest is owned by another entity in which the official or employee
has a direct financial interest, if the official or employee may be reasonably
expected to know of both direct financial interests; or
            6. A business entity that:
               a.   The official or employee knows is a creditor or obligee of
the official or employee or a qualified relative of the official or employee
with respect to a thing of economic value; and
               b.   As a creditor or obligee, is in a position to directly and
substantially affect the interest of the official or employee or a qualified
relative of the official or employee.
      (2)   A person who is disqualified from participating under (C)(1)(a) and
(b) above shall disclose the nature and circumstances of the conflict and may
participate or act if:
         (a)   The disqualification leaves a body with less than a quorum
capable of acting;
         (b)   The disqualified official or employee is required by law to act;
or
         (c)   The disqualified official or employee is the only person
authorized to act.
      (3)   The prohibitions of divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above do not apply
if participation is allowed by regulation or opinion of the Ethics Commission.
      (4)   A former regulated lobbyist who is or becomes subject to this
subchapter as an employee or official, other than an elected official or an
appointed official, may not participate in a case, contract or other specific
matter as an employee or official, other than an elected official or appointed
official, for one calendar year after the termination of the registration of
the former regulated lobbyist if the former regulated lobbyist previously
assisted or represented another party for compensation in the matter.
   (D)   Employment and financial interest restrictions.
      (1)   Except as permitted by regulation of the Ethics Commission when the
interest is disclosed or when the employment does not create a conflict of
interest or appearance of conflict, an official or employee may not:
         (a)   Be employed by or have a financial interest in any entity:
            1.   Subject to the authority of the official or employee or the
town agency, board or commission with which the official or employee is
affiliated; or
            2.   That is negotiating or has entered a contract with the agency,
board or commission with which the official or employee is affiliated.
         (b)   Hold any other employment relationship that would impair the
impartiality or independence of judgment of the official or employee.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to:
         (a)   An official or employee who is appointed to a regulatory or
licensing authority pursuant to a statutory requirement that persons subject to
the jurisdiction of the authority be represented in appointments to the
authority;
         (b)   Subject to other provisions of law, a member of a board or
commission in regard to a financial interest or employment held at the time of
appointment, provided the financial interest or employment is publicly
disclosed to the appointing authority and the Ethics Commission;
         (c)   An official or employee whose duties are ministerial, if the
private employment or financial interest does not create a conflict of interest
or the appearance of a conflict of interest, as permitted by and in accordance
with regulations adopted by the Ethics Commission; or
         (d)   Employment or financial interests allowed by regulation of the
Ethics Commission if the employment does not create a conflict of interest or
the appearance of a conflict of interest or the financial interest is
disclosed.
   (E)   Post-employment limitations and restrictions.
      (1)   A former official or employee may not assist or represent any party
other than the town for compensation in a case, contract or other specific
matter involving the town if that matter is one in which the former official or
employee significantly participated as an official or employee.
      (2)   A former elected official may not assist or represent another party
for compensation in a matter that is the subject of legislative action for one
calendar year after the elected official leaves office.
   (F)   Contingent compensation. Except in a judicial or quasi-judicial
proceeding, an official or employee may not assist or represent a party for
contingent compensation in any matter before or involving the town.
   (G)   Use of prestige of office.
      (1)   (a)   An official or employee may not intentionally use the
prestige of office or public position:
            1.   For the private gain of that official or employee or the
private gain of another; or
            2.   To influence, except as part of the official duties of the
official or employee or as a usual and customary constituent service without
additional compensation, the award of a state or local contract to a specific
person.
         (b)   An official may not directly or indirectly initiate a
solicitation for a person to retain the compensated services of a particular
regulated lobbyist or lobbying firm.
      (2)   This subsection does not prohibit the performance of usual and
customary constituent services by an elected local official without additional
compensation.
      (3)   (a)   An official, other than an elected official, or employee may
not use public resources or the title of the official or employee to solicit a
contribution as that term is defined in the Election Law Article.
         (b)   An elected official may not use public resources to solicit a
contribution as that term is defined in the Election Law Article.
   (H)   Solicitation and acceptance of gifts.
      (1)   An official or employee may not solicit any gift.
      (2)   An official or employee may not directly solicit or facilitate the
solicitation of a gift, on behalf of another person, from an individual
regulated lobbyist.
      (3)   An official or employee may not knowingly accept any gift, directly
or indirectly, from a person that the official or employee knows or has reason
to know:
         (a)   Is doing business with or seeking to do business with the town
office, agency, board or commission with which the official or employee is
affiliated;
         (b)   Has financial interests that may be substantially and materially
affected, in a manner distinguishable from the public generally, by the
performance or non-performance of the official duties of the official or
employee;
         (c)   Is engaged in an activity regulated or controlled by the
official’s or employee’s governmental unit;
         (d)   Is a lobbyist with respect to matters within the jurisdiction of
the official or employee; or
         (e)   Is an association or any entity acting on behalf of an
association that is engaged only in representing counties or municipal
corporations.
      (4)   Division (H)(5) below does not apply to a gift:
         (a)   That would tend to impair the impartiality and the independence
of judgment of the official or employee receiving the gift;
         (b)   Of significant value that would give the appearance of impairing
the impartiality and independence of judgment of the official or employee; or
         (c)   Of significant value that the recipient official or employee
believes or has reason to believe is designed to impair the impartiality and
independence of judgment of the official or employee.
      (5)   Notwithstanding division (H)(3) above, an official or employee may
accept the following:
         (a)   Meals and beverages consumed in the presence of the donor or
sponsoring entity;
         (b)   Ceremonial gifts or awards that have insignificant monetary
value;
         (c)   Unsolicited gifts of nominal value that do not exceed $20 in
cost or trivial items of informational value;
         (d)   Reasonable expenses for food, travel, lodging and scheduled
entertainment of the official or the employee at a meeting which is given in
return for the participation of the official or employee in a panel or speaking
engagement at the meeting;
         (e)   Gifts of tickets or free admission extended to an elected local
official to attend a charitable, cultural or political event, if the purpose of
this gift or admission is a courtesy or ceremony extended to the elected
official’s office;
         (f)   A specific gift or class of gifts that the Ethics Commission
exempts from the operation of this subsection upon a finding, in writing, that
acceptance of the gift or class of gifts would not be detrimental to the
impartial conduct of the business of the town and that the gift is purely
personal and private in nature;
         (g)   Gifts from a person related to the official or employee by blood
or marriage, or any other individual who is a member of the household of the
official or employee; or
         (h)   Honoraria for speaking to or participating in a meeting,
provided that the offering of the honorarium is not related in any way to the
official’s or employee’s official position.
   (I)   Disclosure of confidential information. Other than in the discharge of
official duties, an official or employee or former official or employee may not
disclose or use confidential information, that the official or employee
acquired by reason of the individual’s public or former public position and
that is not available to the public, for the economic benefit of the official
or employee or that of another person.
   (J)   An official or employee may not retaliate against an individual for
reporting or participating in an investigation of a potential violation of the
local ethics law or ordinance.
(Ord. 110, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 36.29 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE; LOCAL ELECTED OFFICIALS AND CANDIDATES-TO-BE
LOCAL ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   (1)   This section applies to all local elected officials and
candidates to be local elected officials.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B) below, a local elected official
or a candidate to be a local elected official shall file the financial
disclosure statement required under this section:
         (a)   On a form provided by the Ethics Commission;
         (b)   Under oath or affirmation; and
         (c)   With the Ethics Commission.
      (3)   Deadlines for filing statements.
         (a)   1.   An incumbent local elected official shall file a financial
disclosure statement annually no later than April 30 of each year for the
preceding calendar year.
            2.   An individual who is appointed to fill a vacancy in an office
for which a financial disclosure statement is required and who has not already
filed a financial disclosure statement shall file a statement for the preceding
calendar year within 30 days after appointment.
         (b)   An individual who, other than by reason of death, leaves an
office for which a statement is required shall file a statement within 60 days
after leaving the office. The statement shall cover:
            1.   The calendar year immediately preceding the year in which the
individual left office, unless a statement covering that year has already been
filed by the individual; and
            2.   The portion of the current calendar year during which the
individual held the office.
   (B)   Candidates to be local elected officials.
      (1)   Except for an official who has filed a financial disclosure
statement under another provision of this section for the reporting period, a
candidate to be an elected local official shall file a financial disclosure
statement each year beginning with the year in which the certificate of
candidacy is filed through the year of the election.
      (2)   A candidate to be an elected local official shall file a statement
required under this section:
         (a)   In the year the certificate of candidacy is filed, no later than
the filing of the certificate of candidacy;
         (b)   In the year of the election, on or before the earlier of April
30 or the last day for the withdrawal of candidacy; and
         (c)   In all other years for which a statement is required, on or
before April 30.
      (3)   A candidate to be an elected official:
         (a)   May file the statement required under division (B)(2)(a) with
the Town Clerk or Board of Election Supervisors with the certificate of
candidacy or with the Ethics Commission prior to filing the certificate of
candidacy; and
         (b) Shall file the statements required under divisions (B)(2)(b) and
(B)(2)(c) with the Ethics Commission.
      (4)   If a statement required to be filed by a candidate is overdue and
not filed within eight days after written notice of the failure to file is
provided by the Town Clerk or Board of Election Supervisor, the candidate is
deemed to have withdrawn the candidacy.
      (5)   The Town Clerk or Board of Election Supervisors may not accept any
certificate of candidacy unless a statement has been filed in proper form.
      (6)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a statement required under this
section, the Town Clerk or Board of Election Supervisors shall forward the
statement to the Commission or the office designated by the Ethics Commission.
   (C)   Public record.
      (1)   The Ethics Commission or office designated by the Ethics Commission
shall maintain all financial disclosure statements filed under this section.
      (2)   Financial disclosure statements shall be made available during
normal office hours for examination and copying by the public subject to
reasonable fees and administrative procedures established by the Ethics
Commission.
      (3)   If an individual examines or copies a financial disclosure
statement, the Ethics Commission or the office designated by the Ethics
Commission shall record:
         (a)   The name and home address of the individual reviewing or copying
the statement; and
         (b)   The name of the person whose financial disclosure statement was
examined or copied.
      (4)   Upon request by the official or employee whose financial disclosure
statement was examined or copied, the Ethics Commission or the office
designated by the Ethics Commission shall provide the official with a copy of
the name and home address of the person who reviewed the official’s financial
disclosure statement.
      (5)   For statements filed after January 1, 2019, the Ethics Commission
or the office designated by the Ethics Commission may not provide public access
to an individual’s home address that the individual has designated as the
individual’s home address.
      (6)   The Ethics Commission or office designated by the Ethics Commission
shall not provide public access information to consideration received from:
         (a)   The University of Maryland Medical System;
         (b)   A governmental entity of the state or local government in the
state; or
         (c)   A quasi-governmental entity of the state or local government in
the state.
   (D)   Retention requirements. The Ethics Commission or the office designated
by the Ethics Commission shall retain financial disclosure statements for four
years from the date of receipt.
   (E)   An individual who is required to disclose the name of a business under
this section shall disclose any other names that the business is trading as or
doing business as.
   (F)   Contents of statement.
      (1)   Interests in real property.
         (a)   A statement filed under this section shall include a schedule of
all interests in real property wherever located.
         (b)   For each interest in real property, the schedule shall include:
            1.   The nature of the property and the location by street address,
mailing address or legal description of the property;
            2.   The nature and extent of the interest held, including any
conditions and encumbrances on the interest;
            3.   The date when, the manner in which and the identity of the
person from whom the interest was acquired;
            4.   The nature and amount of the consideration given in exchange
for the interest or, if acquired other than by purchase, the fair market value
of the interest at the time acquired;
            5.   If any interest was transferred, in whole or in part, at any
time during the reporting period, a description of the interest transferred,
the nature and amount of the consideration received for the interest, and the
identity of the person to whom the interest was transferred; and
            6.   The identity of any other person with an interest in the
property.
      (2)   Interests in corporations and partnerships.
         (a)   A statement filed under this section shall include a schedule of
all interests in any corporation, partnership, limited liability partnership or
limited liability corporation, regardless of whether the corporation or
partnership does business with the town.
         (b)   For each interest reported under this paragraph, the schedule
shall include:
            1.   The name and address of the principal office of the
corporation, partnership, limited liability partnership or limited liability
corporation;
            2.   The nature and amount of the interest held, including any
conditions and encumbrances on the interest;
            3.   With respect to any interest transferred, in whole or in part,
at any time during the reporting period, a description of the interest
transferred, the nature and amount of the consideration received for the
interest, and, if known, the identity of the person to whom the interest was
transferred; and
            4.   With respect to any interest acquired during the reporting
period:
               a.   The date when, the manner in which, and the identity of the
person from whom the interest was acquired; and
               b.   The nature and the amount of the consideration given in
exchange for the interest or, if acquired other than by purchase, the fair
market value of the interest at the time acquired.
         (c)   An individual may satisfy the requirement to report the amount
of the interest held under item (F)(2)(b)2. of this paragraph by reporting,
instead of a dollar amount:
            1.   For an equity interest in a corporation, the number of shares
held and, unless the corporation’s stock is publicly traded, the percentage of
equity interest held; or
            2.   For an equity interest in a partnership, the percentage of
equity interest held.
      (3)   Interests in business entities doing business with the town.
         (a)   A statement filed under this section shall include a schedule of
all interests in any business entity that does business with the town other
than interests reported under division (F)(3)(b) below.
         (b)   For each interest reported under this paragraph, the schedule
shall include:
            1.   The name and address of the principal office of the business
entity;
            2.   The nature and amount of the interest held, including any
conditions to and encumbrances on the interest;
            3.   With respect to any interest transferred, in whole or in part,
at any time during the reporting period, a description of the interest
transferred, the nature and amount of the consideration received in exchange
for the interest, and, if known, the identity of the person to whom the
interest was transferred; and
            4.   With respect to any interest acquired during the reporting
period:
               a.   The date when, the manner in which, and the identity of the
person from whom the interest was acquired; and
               b.   The nature and the amount of the consideration given in
exchange for the interest or, if acquired other than by purchase, the fair
market value of the interest at the time acquired.
      (4)   Gifts.
         (a)   A statement filed under this section shall include a schedule of
each gift in excess of $20 in value or a series of gifts totaling $100 or more
received during the reporting period from or on behalf of, directly or
indirectly, any one person who does business with the town, or from an
association, or any entity acting on behalf on an association that is engaged
only in representing counties or municipal corporations.
         (b)   For each gift reported, the schedule shall include:
            1.   A description of the nature and value of the gift; and
            2.   The identity of the person from whom, or on behalf of whom,
directly or indirectly, the gift was received.
      (5)   Employment with or interests in entities doing business with town.
         (a)   A statement filed under this section shall include a schedule of
all offices, directorships and salaried employment by the individual or member
of the immediate family of the individual held at any time during the reporting
period with entities doing business with the town.
         (b)   For each position reported under this paragraph, the schedule
shall include:
            1.   The name and address of the principal office of the business
entity;
            2.   The title and nature of the office, directorship or salaried
employment held and the date it commenced; and
            3.   The name of each town agency with which the entity is
involved.
      (6)   Indebtedness to entities doing business with or regulated by the
individual’s town unit or department.
         (a)   A statement filed under this section shall include a schedule of
all liabilities, excluding retail credit accounts, to persons doing business
with or regulated by the individual’s town unit or department owed at any time
during the reporting period:
            1.   By the individual; or
            2.   By a member of the immediate family of the individual if the
individual was involved in the transaction giving rise to the liability.
         (b)   For each liability reported under this paragraph, the schedule
shall include:
            1.   The identity of the person to whom the liability was owed and
the date the liability was incurred;
            2.   The amount of the liability owed as of the end of the
reporting period;
            3.   The terms of payment of the liability and the extent to which
the principal amount of the liability was increased or reduced during the year;
and
            4.   The security given, if any, for the liability.
      (7)   A statement filed under this section shall include a schedule of
the immediate family members of the individual employed by the town in any
capacity at any time during the reporting period.
      (8)   Sources of earned income.
         (a)   A statement filed under this section shall include a schedule of
the name and address of each place of employment and of each business entity of
which the individual or a member of the individual’s immediate family was a
sole or partial owner and from which the individual or member of the
individual’s immediate family received earned income, at any time during the
reporting period.
         (b)   A minor child’s employment or business ownership need not be
disclosed if the agency that employs the individual does not regulate, exercise
authority over or contract with the place of employment or business entity of
the minor child.
         (c)   For a statement filed on or after January 1, 2019, if the
individual’s spouse is a lobbyist regulated by the town, the individual shall
disclose the entity that has engaged the spouse for lobbying purposes.
      (9)   Relationship with the University of Maryland Medical System, state
or local government, or quasi-governmental entity.
         (a)   An individual shall disclose the information specified in Md.
Code, General Provisions Art. § 5-607(j)(1), for any financial or contractual
relationship with:
            1.   The University of Maryland Medical System;
            2.   A governmental entity of the state or a local government in
the state; or
            3.   A quasi-governmental entity of the state or local government
in the state.
         (b)   For each financial or contractual relationship reported, the
schedule shall include:
            1.   A description of the relationship;
            2.   The subject matter of the relationship; and
            3.   The consideration.
      (10)   A statement filed under this section may also include a schedule
of additional interests or information that the individual making the statement
wishes to disclose.
   (G)   For the purposes of division (F)(1), (F)(2) and (F)(3) above, the
following interests are considered to be the interests of the individual making
the statement.
      (1)   An interest held by a member of the individual’s immediate family,
if the interest was, at any time during the reporting period, directly or
indirectly controlled by the individual.
      (2)   An interest held, at any time during the applicable period, by:
         (a)   A business entity in which the individual held a 10% or greater
interest;
         (b)   A business entity described in (G)(2)(a) above in which the
business entity held a 25% or greater interest;
         (c)   A business entity described in (G)(2)(b) above in which the
business held a 50% or greater interest; and
         (d)   A business entity in which the individual directly or
indirectly, through the interest of one or a combination of entities, holds a
10% or greater interest.
      (3)   An interest held by a trust or an estate in which, at any time
during the reporting period:
         (a)   The individual held a reversionary interest or was a
beneficiary; or
         (b)   If a revocable trust, the individual was a settler.
   (H)   The Ethics Commission shall review the financial disclosure statements
submitted under this section for compliance with the provisions of this section
and shall notify an individual submitting the statement of any omissions or
deficiencies. The Ethics Commission may take appropriate enforcement action to
ensure compliance with this section.
(Ord. 110, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 36.30 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE; EMPLOYEES AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   This section only applies to the following appointed officials and
employees: Town Manager; Chief of Police; Director of Code Compliance; Director
of Public Works; and Town Treasurer.
   (B)   A statement filed under this section shall be filed with the Ethics
Commission under oath or affirmation.
   (C)   On or before April 30 of each year during which an official or
employee holds office, an official or employee shall file a statement
disclosing gifts received during the preceding calendar year from any person
that contracts with or is regulated by town, including the name of the donor of
the gift and the approximate retail value at the time of receipt.
   (D)   An official or employee shall disclose employment and interests that
raise conflicts of interest or potential conflicts of interest in connection
with a specific proposed action by the employee or official sufficiently in
advance of the action to provide adequate disclosure to the public.
   (E)   An individual who is required to disclose the name of a business under
this section shall disclose any other names that the business is trading as or
doing business as.
   (F)   (1)   Relationship with University of Maryland Medical System, state
or local government, or quasi-governmental entity. An individual shall disclose
the information specified in Md. Code, General Provisions Art., § 5-607(j)(1),
for any financial or contractual relationship with:
         (a)   The University of Maryland Medical System;
         (b)   A governmental entity of the state or a local government in the
state; or
         (c)   A quasi-governmental entity of the state or local government in
the state.
      (2)   For each financial or contractual relationship reported, the
schedule shall include:
         (a)   A description of the relationship;
         (b)   The subject matter of the relationship; and
         (c)   The consideration.
   (G)   The Ethics Commission shall maintain all disclosure statements filed
under this section as public records available for public inspection and
copying as provided in §
36.29(C) and (D).
(Ord. 110, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 36.31 LOBBYING.
   (A)   A person shall file a lobbying registration statement with the Ethics
Commission if the person:
      (1)   Personally appears before a town official or employee with the
intent to influence that person in performance of the official duties of the
official or employee; and
      (2)   In connection with the intent to influence, expends or reasonably
expects to expend in a given calendar year in excess of $100 on food,
entertainment or other gifts for officials or employees of town.
   (B)   A person shall file a registration statement required under this
section on or before the later of January 15 of the calendar year or within
five days after first performing an act that requires registration in the
calendar year.
   (C)   (1)   The registration statement shall identify:
         (a)   The registrant;
         (b)   Any other person on whose behalf the registrant acts; and
         (c)   The subject matter on which the registrant proposes to make
appearances specified in division (A) above.
      (2)   The registration statement shall cover a defined registration
period not to exceed one calendar year.
   (D)   Within 30 days after the end of any calendar year during which a
person was registered under this section, the person shall file a report with
the Ethics Commission disclosing:
      (1)   The value, date and nature of any food, entertainment or other gift
provided to a town official or employee; and
      (2)   If a gift or series of gifts to a single official or employee
exceeds $100 in value, the identity of the official or employee.
   (E)   The Ethics Commission shall maintain the registrations and reports
filed under this section as public records available for public inspection and
copying for four years after receipt by the Ethics Commission.
(Ord. 110, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 36.32 EXEMPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   The Ethics Commission may grant exemptions and modifications to the
provisions of §§
36.28 and
36.30 to employees and to appointed members of town boards and commissions,
when the Ethics Commission finds that an exemption or modification would not be
contrary to the purposes of this subchapter, and the application of this
subchapter would:
   (A)   Constitute an unreasonable invasion of privacy; and
   (B)   Significantly reduce the availability of qualified persons for public
service.
(Ord. 110, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 36.33 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Ethics Commission may:
      (1)   Assess a late fee of $5 per day up to a maximum of $500 for a
failure to timely file a financial disclosure statement required under §§
36.29 or
36.30 of this subchapter;
      (2)   Assess a late fee of $10 per day up to a maximum of $1,000 for a
failure to file a timely lobbyist registration or lobbyist report required
under §
36.31 of this subchapter; and
      (3)   Issue a cease and desist order against any person found to be in
violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   Upon a finding of a violation of any provision of this
subchapter, the Ethics Commission may:
         (a)   Issue an order of compliance directing the respondent to cease
and desist from the violation;
         (b)   Issue a reprimand; or
         (c)   Recommend to the appropriate authority other appropriate
discipline of the respondent, including censure or removal if that discipline
is authorized by law.
      (2)   If the Commission finds that a respondent has violated §
36.31, the Ethics Commission may:
         (a)   Require a respondent who is a registered lobbyist to file any
additional reports or information that reasonably relates to the information
that is required under §
36.31;
         (b)   Impose a fine as detailed in §
36.99 for each violation; and
         (c)   Suspend the registration of an individual registered lobbyist if
the Ethics Commission finds that the lobbyist has knowingly and willfully
violated §
36.31 or has been convicted of a criminal offense arising from lobbying
activities.
   (C)   (1)   Upon request of the Ethics Commission, the Town Attorney may
file a petition for injunctive or other relief in the circuit court of county,
or in any other court having proper venue for the purpose of requiring
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   (a)   The court may:
            1.   Issue an order to cease and desist from the violation;
            2.   Except as provided in (C)(2)(b) below, void an official action
taken by an official or employee with a conflict of interest prohibited by this
subchapter when the action arises from or concerns the subject matter of the
conflict and if the legal action is brought within 90 days of the occurrence of
the official action, if the court deems voiding the action to be in the best
interest of the public; or
            3.   Impose a fine as detailed in §
36.99 for any violation of the provisions of this subchapter, with each day
upon which the violation occurs constituting a separate offense.
         (b)   A court may not void any official action appropriating public
funds, levying taxes or providing for the issuance of bonds, notes or other
evidences of public obligations.
   (D)   In addition to any other enforcement provisions in this subchapter, a
person who the Ethics Commission or a court finds has violated this subchapter:
      (1)   Is subject to termination or other disciplinary action; and
      (2)   May be suspended from receiving payment of salary or other
compensation pending full compliance with the terms of an order of the Ethics
Commission or a court.
   (E)   A town official or employee found to have violated this subchapter is
subject to disciplinary or other appropriate personnel action, including
removal from office, disciplinary action, suspension of salary or other
sanction.
   (G)   A finding of a violation of this subchapter by the Ethics Commission
is public information.
(Ord. 110, passed 1-10-2023; Ord. 179, passed 8-14-2019) Penalty, see §
36.99
Cross-reference:
   Comprehensive fee and fine schedules, see §
30.01
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   As described in §
36.33(B)(2), if the Ethics Commission finds that a respondent has violated §
36.31, the Ethics Commission may impose a fine not exceeding $5,000 for each
violation.
   (C)   As described in §
36.33(C)(2)(a), the court may impose a fine of up to $5,000 for any violation
of the provisions of this subchapter, with each day upon which the violation
occurs constituting a separate offense.
   (D)   Violation of §
36.31 shall be a misdemeanor subject to a fine of up to $10,000 or imprisonment
of up to one year.
(Ord. 110, passed 1-10-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Purpose and authority
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Refuse collection categories, schedule and fee
   
50.04   Duties and responsibilities of property owners and occupants
   
50.05   Adoption of refuse collection categories, collection schedule; fees and
fine
   
50.06   Safeguards for collectors
   
50.07   Accessibility of items placed for collection
   
50.08   Collection license
   
50.09   Enforcement
   
50.10   Right to appeal
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Comprehensive fee and fine schedules, see §
30.01
§ 50.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations for the collection
of refuse and recyclables within the town. The Town Charter, § 402, vests the
authority in the Town Council to enact such rules.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-12-2010)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLIANCES. Appliances, such as clothes dryers, clothes washers, compactors,
dish washers, furnaces, garbage disposals, hot water heaters, microwave ovens,
stoves and appliances containing Freon, R-12 or any other refrigerant,
including, but not limited to, central air conditioning units, dehumidifiers,
freezers, refrigerators and window air conditioning units.
   BAMBOO. Classified as household refuse. Therefore, BAMBOO placed at the curb
for collection shall be no longer than four feet in length, no greater than
four inches in diameter and tied in bundles with string or twine not exceeding
two and one-half feet in diameter and weighing no more than 50 pounds. The
bundle of BAMBOO placed at the curb for collection shall be set apart from
other waste that is at the curb for collection.
   BUILDING, CONSTRUCTION OR REMODELING MATERIALS, WASTE OR DEBRIS. Substances
accumulated or generated from building, remodeling or repairs to a home
including, but not limited to, bricks, broken concrete, cinder blocks, dirt,
electrical wiring, flooring, heating and air conditioning materials, lumber,
plumbing materials, rocks or stones, sheet rock, shingles, siding, wall board
and wallpaper or any other construction related material and equipment.
   BULK REFUSE. Including, but not limited to, BBQs, bedding, carpeting, chain
saws, chairs, doors, end tables, furniture, lawn mowers, mattresses, rugs,
sofas (excluding sofa type beds), stuffed chairs, weed eaters or other small
powered equipment (emptied of all gasoline, oil or other fluids) not to exceed
four feet in length and 50 pounds in weight, windows, window and door screens
and such other items as town may designate as bulk refuse on a case by case
basis, total volume not to exceed three cubic yards.
   CLEAN-OUTS. The process of a total removal of personal belongings of tenants
or occupant(s) by the landlord, mortgage-holder, occupant, property owner or
tenant, including, but not limited to, clothing, furniture, house wares and the
like onto the property front, side or rear yard; or by an eviction order by the
district court, circuit court, owner, landlord or mortgage holder.
   COMPOST. Decaying organic matter contained in a compost bin or pile for the
purpose of biodegradation and production of fertilizer, including, but not
limited to, food or kitchen scraps, grass and plant clippings, leaves and the
like.
   ELECTRONICS or ELECTRONIC RECYCLABLES. Computers, computer keyboards,
computer monitors, CD and DVD players and recorders, laptop computers,
printers, stereos/radios, telephone systems, televisions, VCRs and other
electronic and digital equipment.
   FISH AND ANIMAL CARCASSES. Crab, fish and animal carcasses and skins shall
be sealed in a heavy duty plastic bag before placing the carcass in the refuse
container. Residents are encouraged to take cat, dog and other pet carcasses to
a veterinarian for disposal.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal, food and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and/or consumption of food.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS OR WASTE. Any material or item, the handling of which
could cause harm to the collection crew, the public or the environment, or is
unacceptable for solid waste disposal, including, but not limited to, acids,
ammunition, automotive fluids, car batteries, caustics, cleaning agents,
driveway, basketball court and tennis court sealants, explosives, fire
extinguishers, gasoline and motor oils, herbicides, household batteries,
insecticides and fertilizers, mercury, motor oil and anti-freeze containers,
oil paint, photographic chemicals, poisons, solvents, swimming pool chemicals,
toxins, varnishes and stains and such other items as may be designated from
time to time by the state, the county, the town or other solid waste disposal
providers.
   HOUSEHOLD REFUSE. Animal, food and vegetable waste, refuse and trash
normally generated from running a household, which can be stored in a container
until the scheduled collection day. HOUSEHOLD REFUSE shall not include
appliances, building, construction or remodeling materials, bulk refuse items,
electronics or electronic recyclables, hazardous materials or waste,
recyclables or YARD WASTE as defined in this chapter.
   IMPORTED REFUSE. Items brought into town from other locations, either in the
normal course of doing business in town, or a property owner’s or resident’s
residency or work, or by contract for disposal by the town or for storage.
   LITTER.
      (1)   Appliances, building, construction or remodeling materials, waste
or debris, bulk refuse, electronics or electronic recyclables, garbage,
hazardous material or waste, household refuse, refuse, rubbish, trash and yard
waste, as defined herein, that is thrown, deposited or stored in or on public
places or is thrown, deposited or stored on private property and creates a
nuisance or a threat to public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   Organic compost piles shall be exempted from this definition.
   LOOSE LEAVES. Leaves that fall from trees and are collected by a vacuum-type
leaf collection machine during the designated loose leaf curb-side collection
season.
   MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS AND ACCESSORIES. Motor vehicle parts and accessories.
   PRESSURED CONTAINERS. Pressured containers such as acetylene, fire
extinguisher, propane and helium tanks.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all alleys, drainage swales, public rights-of-way,
sidewalks, streets, any and all public buildings and grounds, open spaces,
parks and any and all privately owned parking lots or open space.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Any and all materials that can be separated,
collected, processed and returned to the manufacturing stream in the form of
raw materials or products such as aluminum, bi-metal, tin-plated and steel food
and beverage cans; mixed paper, including newspapers, magazines, office paper,
mail and corrugated cardboard; glass bottles and jars; HDPE (high density
polyethylene) plastic containers or jugs; PET (polyethylene terephthalate)
containers; and such other items as may be designated or undesignated from time
to time by the state, the county, the town or a recycling collection or
processing facility. Motor oil and anti-freeze containers have been declared
hazardous and cannot be recycled.
   RECYCLING RECEPTACLE. Any bin, box, container, structure or device
designated and authorized by the town into which only recyclable materials are
placed for collection.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid waste normally generated
from running a household.
   REFUSE CONTAINER. A heavy-duty, commercially available container with a
tight fitting lid of a 45-gallon capacity, or a capacity established from time
to time by the town, which is used only to store garbage, household refuse,
rubbish or trash and is placed at the curb for collection.
   RUBBISH. All non-putrescible combustible or non-combustible solid waste
normally generated from running a household.
   SPECIAL BULK REFUSE COLLECTION. Bulk refuse items, the volume of which
exceeds three cubic yards, except appliances, and is collected by appointment
only. Appliance pick-ups are a separate collection and by appointment only.
   TIRES. Car, truck and bike tires.
   YARD WASTE. Grass clippings, lawn rakings, garden weeds and trimmings,
brush, shrub and hedge cuttings (excluding bamboo, which is collected as
household waste; see definition of BAMBOO for disposal instructions), bagged
leaves, tree parts, tree trunks, limbs or branches that are not longer than
four feet in length, no greater than four inches in diameter and tied in
bundles with string or twine, not exceeding two and one-half feet in diameter,
and weighing no more than 50 pounds.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-12-2010)
§ 50.03 REFUSE COLLECTION CATEGORIES, SCHEDULE AND FEE.
   Refuse collection categories, schedules and fees shall be set from time to
time by resolution of the Town Council.
   (A)   The following refuse categories may have a fixed collection schedule
and/or fee: bulk refuse, electronics or electronic recyclables, household
refuse, loose leaves, recyclable materials and yard waste.
   (B)   The following refuse categories require special arrangements:
      (1)   By appointment and prepaid through town administration.
         (a)   Appointments for collection and payment of collection pick-up
fee are made through the town administration office for the following refuse
categories:
            1.   Appliances; and
            2.   Tires.
         (b)   Fees must be paid prior to pick-up.
      (2)   By appointment and prepaid through Public Works Department.
         (a)   Appointments for determining the collection pick-up fee and date
for pick-up are made through the Public Works Department office for the
following refuse categories:
            1.   Minor home repair remodeling waste and debris;
            2.   Motor vehicle parts and accessories; and
            3.   Special bulk refuse collection.
         (b)   Fees must be paid at the town administration office prior to
pick-up.
      (3)   By appointment and prepaid through code and Public Works
Department. Appointments for determining the collection pick-up fee and date of
pick-up for the following refuse category are made through the code and Public
Works Departments: clean-outs.
   (C)   Refuse categories sole responsibility of property owner. The disposal
of the following refuse categories are the primary responsibility of the
property owner:
      (1)   Building, construction and remodeling materials, waste or debris;
      (2)   Clean-outs;
      (3)   Hazardous materials and waste;
      (4)   Imported refuse;
      (5)   Pressured containers; and
      (6)   Special bulk refuse collections items that cannot be picked-up as
determined by the Public Works Department.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-12-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF PROPERTY OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   All household refuse, rubbish and trash shall be stored neatly and
safely in an area behind the front building line of a residence’s principal
structure in a town-approved capacity, heavy duty refuse container with a tight
fitting lid.
   (B)   (1)   All refuse containers for collection shall:
         (a)   Be placed at the curb prior to 7:30 a.m. on scheduled refuse
collection day in an area easily accessible to the refuse collector or in an
area designated by the Public Works Director, or his or her designee (only one
collection area will be recognized for each residence);
         (b)   Not be placed out for collection prior to 6:00 p.m. of the night
before scheduled collection day;
         (c)   Be removed from the curb by 7:00 p.m. of the refuse collection
day; and
         (d)   Be stored in an area behind the front building line of the
residence’s principal structure.
      (2)   Residents physically unable to move refuse out for curbside pick-up
shall make a written request for assistance to the Public Works Director.
   (C)   The following are the duties and responsibilities of property owners
and occupants regarding the collection and disposal of:
      (1)   Appliances. Collected by appointment only and only after payment of
fee, as established by the Town Council, in the town administration office.
Refrigerators and freezer doors must be removed prior to being placed at the
curb for collection;
      (2)   Bamboo. Classified as household refuse. Bamboo placed at the curb
for collection shall be no longer than four feet in length, no greater than
four inches in diameter and tied in bundles with string or twine not exceeding
two and one-half feet in diameter and weighing no more than 50 pounds. Bamboo
placed at the curb for collection shall be set apart from all other refuse;
      (3)   Building, construction and remodeling materials, waste or debris.
         (a)   Disposal of building, construction or remodeling materials,
waste or debris, whether generated by the property owner, occupant or
contractor, is the responsibility of the property owner.
         (b)   Property owners, residents or occupants performing minor home
repairs may have items removed by contacting the Public Works Director, or his
or her designee, for inspection and approval of items to be disposed. Once
approved, the material must be placed at the curb on scheduled collection day
prior to 7:30 a.m. Items must be boxed, bagged or bundled in a manner which, in
the sole judgment of the Public Works Director, or his or her designee, permits
safe handling and disposal by the collection crew, and does not exceed three
cubic yards in volume and will be handled as bulk refuse. Roofing shingles will
not be collected.
      (4)   Bulk refuse. Shall be placed at the curb by 7:30 a.m. on the
scheduled day for pick-up. Bulk refuse shall not be placed at the curb for
pick-up prior to 6:00 p.m. of the night before scheduled pick-up;
      (5)   Clean-outs. Landlords, mortgage holders, occupants, property owners
and/or tenants must make prior arrangements with the Code Department to
establish a collection pick-up fee and schedule a collection pick-up date. When
prior arrangements have not been made and/or the clean-out materials have not
been removed, the Public Works Director, or his or her designee, at the request
of the Code Director, will arrange for the disposal of the clean-out refuse.
Code Department will invoice the property owner for removal cost, and in the
event of non-payment, record the unpaid amount as a lien against the property
to be collected as delinquent town taxes;
      (6)   Compost. Composting must be done in such a way as to not attract
animals and/or rodents;
      (7)   Electronics or electronic recyclables. Electronics or electronic
recyclables shall be disposed of in a manner established by Town Council, the
county, state or federal government;
      (8)   Fish and animal carcasses. Crab, fish and animal carcasses and
skins shall be sealed in a heavy-duty plastic bag before being placed in the
refuse container. Residents are encouraged to take cat, dog and other pet
carcasses to a veterinarian for disposal;
      (9)   Hazardous materials or waste. Hazardous materials or waste are not
collected by the town and must be disposed of by the property owner or resident
at the state, the county- or town-designated hazardous material disposal sites.
Contact Public Works for advice;
      (10)   Household refuse. All household refuse shall be stored for
collection and placed at the curb in a heavy-duty trash container with a tight
fitting lid not to exceed 45-gallon capacity or a capacity established by Town
Council. The refuse container cannot be overflowing and a tight fitting lid
must be in place at time of collection. Refuse containers that pose a hazard to
collectors, including, but not limited to, jagged edges, will be disposed of by
the Public Works Department after notification to the resident of the existing
condition;
      (11)   Imported refuse. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
business, property owner or resident to bring refuse, trash or waste into town
from other locations, either in the normal course of doing business or property
owner’s or resident’s residency or work or by contract for disposal by the
town. It shall also be a violation for any property owner, resident or business
to make a profit from the utilization of town disposal services, whether free
or for a fee;
      (12)   Leaves. Leaves are collected during the loose leaf curb-side
collection season or as part of the yard waste collection.
         (a)   Loose leaf curb-side collection season. The loose leaf curb-side
collection season is determined by the Town Council, during which time
residents can rake their loose leaves to the curb for collection. Residents
shall rake leaves to the curb or to the sidewalk, if one exists. Residents
shall not rake leaves in the gutter, storm drain inlets, street or onto
sidewalks, or any other public place in the town. Public Works Department will
not remove leaves from under or from behind vehicles because of limitations of
equipment.
         (b)   Leaves as yard waste. Leaves are picked up year-round if bagged
in commercially available, brown paper yard waste bags, or placed in a
commercially available, heavy-duty garbage/refuse container clearly
identifiable as “yard waste”.
         (c)   Prohibited items. Loose leaves and leaves collected as yard
waste shall be free of animal waste, large sticks, rocks, stones, debris and
litter.
         (d)   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). It
shall be a violation of this chapter and the federal, state or the county
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) statutes, regulations
or rules to deposit or cause to be deposited leaves, debris, litter or other
material in storm drain inlets harmful to the Chesapeake Bay.
      (13)   Litter. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any property
owner, resident, business or citizen to litter a “public place” or private
property, as defined in this chapter. Businesses, property owners, residents
and occupants shall be responsible to keep drainage swales, gutters and/or
sidewalks on or adjacent to their property free of litter and debris at all
times;
      (14)   Motor vehicle parts and accessories. Public Works Department will
collect motor vehicle parts and accessories provided total combined weight does
not exceed 50 pounds or contain any anti-freeze, gasoline, motor oil or fluids
of any kind. Public Works Department collects motor vehicle parts and
accessories by appointment only and only after fees are paid in the town
administration office prior to collection. Department does not collect or
dispose of motor vehicles;
      (15)   Pressured containers. Public Works Department does not collect
pressured containers. Pressured containers must be returned to point of
purchase, rental or lease;
      (16)   Recyclable materials. 
         (a)   All property owners and residents must recycle and all
recyclable materials must be separated from all other refuse and placed at the
curb on the designated collection day in either recycling receptacles,
corrugated cardboard boxes marked with an X or other acceptable containers
allowed by the town.
         (b)   There shall be no food residue in recyclables. It shall be
unlawful for any person or firm not authorized by the town to collect
recyclables;
      (17)   Special bulk refuse collection.
         (a)   Households requiring a collection of more than three cubic yards
of bulk refuse material must contact the Public Works Director, or his or her
designee, for an inspection of the materials to be disposed of prior to placing
materials at the curb for collection.
         (b)   Upon inspection, the Director shall determine if the items can
be disposed of safely without harming personnel or property and will be placed
out at the curb in a manner that complies with the regulations set forth by the
town. Once approved, a disposal fee based on volume will be paid at the town
administration office, a date for collection set and items removed;
      (18)   Tires. Tires are collected by appointment only and only after
payment of a fee, as established by the Town Council, in the town
administration office. Residents are encouraged to request the tire vendor and/
or installer to keep old tires at time of purchase; and
      (19)   Yard waste.
         (a)   Yard waste must be separated from, but placed adjacent to, bulk
refuse, household refuse or other items set out for collection. Branches, tree
limbs, tree parts, tree trunks or parts of tree trunks shall be no longer than
four feet in length and no greater than four inches in diameter, tied in
bundles with string or twine. The bundles shall not exceed two and one-half
feet in diameter and weigh more than 50 pounds.
         (b)   Leaves put out as yard waste must be bagged in commercially-
available, brown paper yard waste bags or placed in heavy-duty garbage/refuse
containers clearly identifiable as “yard waste”.
   (C)   It is a violation of this chapter to use corrugated cardboard boxes or
town-provided recycling bins to store household refuse, rubbish or trash and
place it at the curb for collection.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-12-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 ADOPTION OF REFUSE COLLECTION CATEGORIES, COLLECTION SCHEDULE; FEES AND
FINE.
   Refuse collection categories, refuse collection schedules, fees and fines
shall be set from time to time by resolution of the Town Council. The Town
Council adopted resolution is a separate document kept on file in town
administration office.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-12-2010)
§ 50.06 SAFEGUARDS FOR COLLECTORS.
   Any potentially dangerous materials, including, but not limited to, broken
glass, nails or other sharp objects must first be placed in a hard container
(e.g., glass or metal bottles, cans or jars) prior to placing in household
refuse container. The town does not collect hazardous materials.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-12-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 ACCESSIBILITY OF ITEMS PLACED FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   All refuse, recyclables and yard waste must be placed at the curb and
be accessible for collection. Refuse or recyclables will not be collected if
there is a circumstance that, in the sole discretion of the Public Works
Department, or his or her designee, hinders or impedes collection.
   (B)   Compliance with the following rules is essential in order to permit
collection.
      (1)   Animals must be confined.
      (2)   Items shall be accessible for removal, not obstructed by vehicles
or other objects that may hinder the collection of bulk refuse, household
refuse, leaves, recyclables, yard waste or any other items put out for
collection.
      (3)   Path to collectibles must be clear of snow and ice.
      (4)   Items placed in designated collection areas will be picked up as
refuse. The town is not responsible for items inadvertently left in designated
collection area.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-12-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 COLLECTION LICENSE.
   Only individuals and firms licensed, employed or contracted by the town and
the owner of the refuse are authorized to collect or sort through refuse after
it has been placed at the curb, provided items are left in suitable condition
for pick-up.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-12-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the town to enforce the
provisions of this chapter as provided herein.
   (B)   Any town code official, or designated representative(s), shall be
authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any town employee is
hereby authorized to place an appropriate warning, violation or abatement
notice on items placed at the curb for collection or on the property structure
regarding violations of this chapter or of federal, state or the county
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) statutes, ordinances or
regulations.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-12-2010)
§ 50.10 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Any person affected by a “violation notice,” “fine notice” or a fine for a
violation of this chapter may elect to appeal to the Town Council.
   (A)   Any person affected by any “violation notice,” “fine notice” or fine
that had been issued in connection with the enforcement of any provision of
this chapter may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter by the
Town Council; provided that such person shall, within ten days after service of
a “violation notice” or “fine notice,” file with the Town Council a signed,
written notice of appeal requesting a hearing and setting forth a brief
statement of the reasons therefor. Upon receipt of such notice of appeal, the
Town Council shall set a time and place for such hearing and shall determine
appeals as promptly as practicable. The Town Council, with a quorum present,
shall hear appeals.
   (B)   After such hearing, the Town Council may, with a majority of members
present, affirm, amend, modify or withdraw the “notice of violation” or fine
that has been appealed. Any person who shall fail, refuse or neglect to comply
with the decision of the Town Council shall be guilty of violating the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   In the event a person wishes to contest the decision of the Town
Council, he or she may notify the town of his or her intent within ten days
after the rendering of the decision by the Town Council. In that event, the
town shall issue a municipal infraction citation to the aggrieved person who
may request a hearing in the state’s district court, pursuant to the municipal
infraction procedure. The decision of the Town Council in such a case shall be
stayed, pending a decision by the district court. To the extent of this section
of this chapter, all violations of this chapter will be considered municipal
infractions of the town.
   (D)   Failure to pay after adjudication or request of adjudication by the
town will result in the amount of any fine imposed being recorded as a lien
against the property and collected in the same manner as delinquent town taxes.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-12-2010)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations. Any infraction or non-compliance of any provision of this
chapter and/or its conditions and specifications as described herein shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter and subject to a fine as listed in a fine
schedule that will be adopted from time to time by resolution of the Town
Council.
   (B)   Repeat violations. A property owner may be subject to an immediate
fine or abatement or both if there are repeat violations by the property owner,
resident or tenant of any provision of this chapter and/or its conditions and
specifications as described herein within the same calendar year. After ten
days from the issuance of the immediate “violation notice” or “fine notice”, or
after denial of an appeal to the Town Council, any fines and/or abatement costs
or fees that remain unpaid will be recorded as a lien against the property and
collected as delinquent town taxes.
   (C)   Fines. Any person, persons, firm or entity violating any provisions of
this chapter, except as noted below for imported refuse, may be issued, after
one warning, a “violation notice.” If the violation is not corrected or removed
within 24 hours of the “violation notice,” a code compliance official, or
designated representative(s), shall be empowered to issue a fine. Each day that
a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense. After 24 hours from
the date of the “violation notice”, the town may abate, at the owner’s expense,
any items still in violation. After ten days from the issuance of the
“violation notice”, or “fine notice”, or after denial of an appeal to the Town
Council, any fines that remain unpaid will be recorded as a lien against the
property and collected as delinquent town taxes.
   (D)   Imported refuse fines. Violation of the imported refuse provisions of
this chapter shall carry a fine for each occurrence per day and violation may
be abated by the town within 24 hours after issuance of a “violation notice.”
   (E)   Abatement. The town shall have the right, after 24 hours from the
issuance of an “abatement notice,” to remove any and all refuse, recyclables
and debris or waste of all kinds at the property owner’s and/or mortgage
holder’s expense. All costs of the abatement, fees and fines will be billed to
the owner of the property or the mortgage holder. After ten days from the
issuance of a notice of abatement, or after denial of an appeal to the Town
Council, any abatement costs, fees or fines that remain unpaid shall be
recorded as a lien against the property and collected as delinquent town taxes.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-12-2010; Ord. 179, passed 8-14-2019)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Speed Cameras
   
70.01   Purpose and authority
   
70.02   Automated traffic safety enforcement program components
   
70.03   Designation of automated traffic safety enforcement zones
   
70.04   Enforcement systems
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Comprehensive fee and fine schedules, see §
30.01
SPEED CAMERAS
§ 70.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to authorize the town to operate an
automated traffic safety enforcement program to ensure the safety of drivers
and pedestrians within the town limits, as authorized by the State
Transportation Article.
   (B)   The authority to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
residents of and visitors to the town is provided in Town Charter, § 401,
“General Powers.”
   (C)   The automated traffic safety enforcement program utilized one or
several different traffic monitoring system and enforcement cameras to ensure
the safety of pedestrians and drivers within the town limits as authorized by
law.
(Ord. 149, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 70.02 AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SAFETY ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM COMPONENTS.
   This section authorizes the town to enforce the various traffic laws listed
below by using the different automated camera and monitoring systems to issue
violations by mail to violators.
   (A)   School zone safety speed cameras. Md. Code, Transportation Art., § 21-
803.1, authorizes a municipal governing body to establish a school zone within
a half-mile radius of any school or an institution of higher education.
   (B)   Red-light camera program. Md. Code, Transportation Art., § 21-202.1,
authorizes a municipal governing to use traffic control signal monitoring
systems, also known as red light cameras, for traffic control in authorized
locations within the town as determined by the Chief of Police, subject to
approval by the Mayor and Town Council.
   (C)   Residential speed enforcement program. Md. Code, Transportation Art.,
§ 21-809, authorizes municipalities in Prince George’s County to operate speed
cameras on residential roadways with a maximum posted speed limit of 35 mph,
which speed limit was established using generally accepted traffic engineering
practices.
   (D)   Stop sign cameras. Md. Code, Transportation Art., § 21-707.1, passed
by the state via HB0364 in 2024, which authorizes the use of stop sign
monitoring systems in school zones in the county, if authorized by local law,
providing that the owner or driver of a motor vehicle recorded failing to obey
a stop sign is subject to a citation and a certain civil penalty under certain
circumstances; establishing certain defenses to a charge of an alleged
violation recorded by a stop sign monitoring system.
(Ord. 149, passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 DESIGNATION OF AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SAFETY ENFORCEMENT ZONES.
   The town, through the town’s Police Department, is authorized to operate an
automated traffic enforcement program. The Chief of Police and/or his or her
designee is charged with overseeing the administration of the program.
   (A)   All automated camera and monitoring systems shall only be placed
within authorized zones authorized by the Town Council through a resolution.
   (B)   Fifty-one percent of property owners of a block and/or blocks or a
Town Council-recognized community organization may petition the Town Council to
consider establishing additional school zone(s).
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall recommend to the Town Council, through the
Town Manager, that zones be established and edited by resolution of the Town
Council.
   (D)   After a new zone is established and after the proper traffic signage
required by law is installed, violations recorded for the first 30 calendar
days shall be enforced by the issuance of a warning citation. After the 30-
calendar day warning period, citations with fines may be issued. The town shall
also advertise new system locations in the town bulletin, social media and
website.
   (E)   A speed-monitoring system in a school zone may operate only Monday
through Friday between 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. A speed-monitoring system within
one-half mile of the grounds of a building or property used by an institution
of higher education as defined in Md. Code, Education Article,§ 10-101(f),
including the University of Maryland, or on a highway in a residential district
with a maximum posted speed limit of 35 mph may be operated 24 hours per day,
seven days a week.
(Ord. 149, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 70.04 ENFORCEMENT SYSTEMS.
   The town may utilize contractors or vendors to administer the automated
traffic safety enforcement program selected following applicable town
acquisition and procurement procedures.
(Ord. 149, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The Town Council, by recommendation of the Chief of Police through the
Town Manager, may set fees and fines for §§
70.01 through
70.04 from time to time by resolution of the Town Council.
      (1)   Any civil penalty violation that is unpaid or uncontested longer
than 45 days is eligible for a late fee, as set by resolution.
      (2)   Any civil penalty violation for state registrations unpaid or
uncontested longer than 60 days and shall be subject to a municipal flagging
fee, in addition to any State Motor Vehicle Administration fees. Non-Maryland
registrations are subject to have uncollected fees forwarded to a collection
agency.
(Ord. 149, passed 5-11-2013)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Applicability
   
71.02   Authority
   
71.03   Definitions
   
71.04   Parking of vehicles for more than 72 hours
   
71.05   Commercial vehicles; recreational vehicles
   
71.06   Abandoned vehicles
   
71.07   Construction materials
   
71.08   Emergency minor repairs
   
71.09   Standing or parking vehicles
   
71.10   Parking next to curbs
   
71.11   Truck weights
   
71.12   Private property
   
71.13   Unattended motor vehicles
   
71.14   Front and rear license plates
   
71.15   Impounding vehicles
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Comprehensive fee and fine schedules, see §
30.01
§ 71.01 APPLICABILITY.
   All persons operating, parking or storing vehicles on public streets or
public right-of-way within the corporate limits of the town shall obey and
abide by the regulations herein stated.
(Ord. 119, passed 5-13-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 AUTHORITY.
   The authority of the Mayor and Council to regulate all public streets
controlled by the town comes, in part, from the Maryland Motor Vehicles, Md.
Code, Transportation Art., Title 25, § 25-102 and the Town Charter, § 801.
(Ord. 119, passed 5-13-2015)
§ 71.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED, JUNKED, WRECKED OR NON-ROAD WORTHY MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor
vehicle which is unregistered, improperly registered or which is without
current state license tags unless the state expressly exempts such vehicles
from registration requirements; bears the license tags of another vehicle; is
disabled or inoperable; is dismantled or partially dismantled; is substantially
damaged or in disrepair; or is unable to pass inspection by the State Motor
Vehicle Administration.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle or motor vehicle, including school buses,
not qualifying as a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or PASSENGER VEHICLE, as defined in
this section, that:
      (1)   Is designed, used or maintained to carry freight, property,
merchandise or passengers for a fee, in furtherance of a commercial enterprise;
      (2)   Has more than four wheels;
      (3)   Displays commercial lettering or advertising;
      (4)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight over 7,000 pounds; or
      (5)   The manufacturer’s rate capacity is over three-fourths ton.
   CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS. Any construction or building materials, contractor’s
equipment or excavating debris, material or equipment.
   OWNER. Any person who has property in or title to the use and possession of
the vehicle, and includes any firm, association or corporation that is entitled
to the use and possession of the vehicle.
   PASSENGER VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle licensed by the state as a Class A or
Class D motor vehicle or any panel van under 300 cubic foot load space capacity
equipped for carrying passengers, not goods in the load space and any pick-up
vehicle (Class E) with a manufacturer’s rated capacity of three quarters of a
ton or less and the maximum gross vehicle weight is 7,000 pounds or less.
   PUBLIC STREET. Any street or thoroughfare of any kind dedicated as a public
right-of-way and maintained by the town.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle originally sold to a consumer by a
manufacturer or dealer for recreational purposes which is self-propelled or
capable of being towed by a motor vehicle or any vehicle which provides
facilities for temporary camping or sleeping or both, including a unit designed
to be carried by an open pickup truck. The term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE includes
camping trailer, travel trailer, camper, motor home, truck camper, boat, boat
trailer and water craft. Excluded will be pickup trucks with caps over the bed.
(Ord. 119, passed 5-13-2015)
§ 71.04 PARKING OF VEHICLES FOR MORE THAN 72 HOURS.
   No vehicle shall be parked upon any public street or public right-of-way in
the town longer than 72 consecutive hours. Exempted are legally parked and
properly licensed vehicles, operable vehicles which are parked on the public
street area directly adjacent to the property owner or resident to whom the
vehicle is registered.
(Ord. 119, passed 5-13-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES; RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   No person shall park any commercial vehicle or recreational vehicle on any
public street or public right-of-way in the town between the hours of 7:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. Mondays through Fridays, or at any time on weekends or holidays.
Exempted are vehicles in the process of making deliveries which do not park for
more than a two-hour period. Exempted are vehicles for which a written permit
for the same shall have been obtained from the Town Manager. Such permit shall
be issued only for good cause and for a period not exceeding 72 hours or unless
a written permit for a longer period shall have been granted by action of the
Mayor and Council. In cases of unusual circumstances, the Mayor and Council may
grant a long-term permit for a period not exceeding one year, and such permit
may be renewed only by action of the Mayor and Council.
(Ord. 119, passed 5-13-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any motor vehicle in town, nor permit any abandoned
vehicles to remain on his or her property. Exempted are vehicles within an
enclosed structure or covered by a tarpaulin.
(Ord. 119, passed 5-13-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.
   No construction materials of any kind shall be placed or stored on any
public street or public right-of-way within town. Exempted are items required
by a contractor, building or public utility company working on a project where
permission or necessary permits have been obtained from the town. Also exempted
are public utility companies making emergency repairs. No construction
equipment shall be parked or construction materials stored overnight without
Town Council approval.
(Ord. 119, passed 5-13-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 EMERGENCY MINOR REPAIRS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall service any motor vehicle on any public
street or public right-of-way of the town. Exempted are emergency minor repairs
such as brakes, electrical or fuel systems and tire repairs. All other repairs
shall be considered major repairs.
(Ord. 119, passed 5-13-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 STANDING OR PARKING VEHICLES.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle on any public street or public
right-of-way in town under the following conditions:
   (A)   Driveway entrances. In front of a private driveway which provides
access to a public street without the consent of the owner or occupant of the
premises;
   (B)   Fire hydrant. Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (C)   Crosswalk. Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   (D)   Traffic control devices. Within 30 feet on the approach to any
flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or traffic-control signal located at the
side of a roadway;
   (E)   Signs prohibiting parking. At any place where standing or parking is
prohibited by an official sign;
   (F)   Handicapped zone. In a space or zone marked as restricted for the use
of handicapped individuals, unless displaying a handicapped license plate or
window sticker;
   (G)   Sidewalk. On any sidewalk;
   (H)   Fire lane. At any fire lane marked by posted sign, or by yellow or red
curbing;
   (I)   Bridge. On any bridge or elevated structure;
   (J)   Double parking. A person may not stand or park a vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle that is stopped or parked at the edge or curb
of a roadway;
   (K)   Travel portion of roadway. A person may not stop, park or leave
standing on the roadway any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, if it is
practical to stop, park or leave the vehicle to stop, park or leave the vehicle
standing off the roadway. A person may not leave any vehicle standing without
providing an unobstructed width of the roadway opposite the standing vehicle
for the free passage of other vehicles; and
   (L)   Private or public driveways. A person may not stop, stand or park a
vehicle partially in a private or public driveway, and partially into the
roadway. Vehicles must not extend the property line of the driveway into the
roadway.
(Ord. 119, passed 5-13-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 PARKING NEXT TO CURBS.
   All standing or parked vehicles must be placed with the right side parallel
to and within 12 inches of the curb or improved surface on the right-hand side
of the public street. On public streets where traffic is permitted to move in
one direction only, cars may park with either side parallel to the curb in the
direction and flow of traffic. Excluded shall be parking within the
circumference of cul-de-sacs where front-end parking is permitted.
(Ord. 119, passed 5-13-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 TRUCK WEIGHTS.
   (A)   No owner shall stop, stand or park on an public street or public
right-of-way any truck within the town limits that falls into the following
classes: FA, FB, FD, EPF and any Class E dump service vehicle or Class E
registered vehicle with a gross weight limit in excess of 20,000 pounds.
   (B)   No owner shall operate, or allow to be operated, through town any
vehicle that falls under this section. Exemptions to this restriction are any
owner who is performing work or making commercial deliveries within town.
(Ord. 119, passed 5-13-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   A person may not stop, stand or park a vehicle on any private property not
owned by the owner or driver of the vehicle unless the person has expressed or
implied permission from the property owner, his or her tenant or his or her
agent to stop, stand or park the vehicle, as the case may be.
(Ord. 119, passed 5-13-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   A person driving or otherwise in charge of a motor vehicle may not leave it
unattended until the engine is stopped, the ignition locked, the key removed
and the brake effectively set. This section does not apply when an animal is
left in the unattended vehicle of an on-duty law enforcement or animal control
officer.
(Ord. 119, passed 5-13-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14 FRONT AND REAR LICENSE PLATES.
   For a vehicle for which two registration plates are required, one plate
shall be attached on the front and rear of the vehicle. Each registration plate
shall be securely fastened in a horizontal position and maintained free from
foreign materials so as to be clearly legible.
(Ord. 119, passed 5-13-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.15 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Town police are authorized to remove vehicles which have been issued
an official traffic citation from public streets or public rights-of-way under
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Disabled vehicles. When a vehicle is so disabled as to be incapable
of being driven;
      (2)   Incapacitated operator. When the person in charge of the vehicle is
incapacitated, incarcerated, unlicensed or absent, thereby being unable to
provide for its custody or removal;
      (3)   Hazard or obstruction. When a vehicle is parked illegally so as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to traffic;
      (4)   Unattended in restricted area. When a vehicle is left unattended on
a public street or public right-of-way within an area sign posted to prohibit
parking during an emergency or special activity; and
      (5)   Parked for more than 72 hours (three days). When a vehicle remains
on a public street or public right-of-way in violation for a continuous period
exceeding 72 hours (three days).
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle has been impounded, the police officer shall notify
the registered owner by mail of any action taken.
(Ord. 119, passed 5-13-2015)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Misdemeanor. Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
deemed a misdemeanor and any person convicted of such violation shall be fined.
   (B)   Town citations. Any town citation which is unpaid longer than 30 days
following issuance shall double. Citations which are unpaid for 60 days shall
double again. All unpaid parking citations are subject to the State Flagging
Program.
   (C)   Payment to town. A person who elects to pay the charges of a town
citation shall do so directly to the town.
   (D)   Election to stand trial. A person who receives a town citation has the
option to stand trial for the violation. An election to stand trial shall be
made by sending a notice of intent to the Town Police Department within five
days of the date the citation was issued. If a person desires the presence at
trial of the police officer who issued the citation, he or she shall so
indicate when notifying the police of intention to stand trial. If proper
notification is not given, the police officer need not appear at trial, and a
copy of the citation bearing the certification of the officer is prima facie
evidence of the facts stated therein.
   (E)   Fees and fines. Fees and fines shall be set from time to time by
resolution of the Town Council. The Town Council adopted resolution is a
separate document kept on file in the town administration office.
(Ord. 119, passed 5-13-2015; Ord. 179, passed 8-14-2019)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
72.01   Authority
   
72.02   Definitions
   
72.03   Vehicle laws
BICYCLES
§ 72.01 AUTHORITY.
   Authorization for the enactment of this subchapter is provided for and
required in the Md. Code, Transportation Art., Title 21, Subtitle 12.
(Ord. 102, passed 3-31-1975)
§ 72.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLES, PLAY VEHICLES and UNICYCLES. Defined as in the Md. Code,
Transportation Art., Title 11, § 11-104, with additional emphasis and the
regulation that all such vehicles must be propelled exclusively by human power.
(Ord. 102, passed 3-31-1975)
§ 72.03 VEHICLE LAWS.
   (A)   Bicycles, as defined in this subchapter, may be ridden only upon
sidewalk areas designated by the Town Council for that purpose.
   (B)   The Town Council recognizes the right-of-way construction of a State
Highway Administration constructed bikeway adjacent to Maryland Route 193,
within the corporate limits of the town, and will assist in the control of this
bikeway as may be necessary to ensure the safety and welfare of bicyclists,
pedestrians and operators of motor vehicles.
   (C)   The Town Council shall provide for the erection and control of traffic
signs within the public rights-of-way as may be necessary to ensure the safety
of pedestrians, bicyclists and operators of other motor vehicles; provided that
no signs shall be erected on State Highways without approval of the State
Highway Administration, and within approval of the State Highway
Administration, and within bikeways established and designated by the State
National Capital Park and Planning Commission without approval of the
Commission.
(Ord. 102, passed 3-31-1975)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NOISE
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Authority
   
90.03   Scope
   
90.04   Definitions
   
90.05   Applicable selected county codes
   
90.06   Standards
   
90.07   Enforcement
   
90.08   Right to appeal
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of the Town Council to establish the following chapter
designed to protect town residents from the risks and nuisances posed by public
nuisance animals and public nuisance conditions and to promote the health,
safety and welfare of animals within town boundaries.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-10-2024)
§ 90.02 AUTHORITY.
   The authority is provided for in the Town Charter, § 402. The town shall
operate in conjunction with and support of the animal control program of the
county and its current or successor management authorities.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-10-2024)
§ 90.03 SCOPE.
   This chapter places certain responsibilities on animal owners and custodians
as well as on property owners or occupants. Certain activities, or the lack of
performing certain activities, are deemed to be violations of this chapter. A
process of issuing notices of violation is defined, as are the procedural steps
that the town may use to enforce such violation notices. The town will include
observations of animal activities in its regular patrols and respond to citizen
complaints received regarding animals.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-10-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Every non-human species, both domesticated and wild, including, but
not limited to, dogs, cats, livestock and fowl.
   ANIMAL FIGHTING. Any event that involves a fight conducted or to be
conducted between at least two animals for purposes of sport, wagering or
entertainment; for example, dogfighting or cockfighting.
   ANIMAL OWNER OR CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   A person who keeps, has temporary or permanent custody, possesses,
harbors, exercises control over or has a property right in any animal.
      (2)   The parent(s) or guardian(s) of a minor shall be deemed to be the
OWNER of an animal owned or in the possession and control of the minor child
for purposes of this chapter and shall be liable for all damages caused by the
animal.
   AT LARGE. An animal not under physical restraint of a leash and off the
premises of its owner or custodian.
   ATTACK DOG. A dog trained to attack on command.
   CAT. Any member of the domesticated feline species. The term CAT shall not
include wild or exotic felines.
   COMMISSION. The County Commission for Animal Control or a hearing officer
designated by the county or its successor body.
   DISPOSITION or TO “DISPOSE OF.” The adoption or placement as a pet in an
approved home, humane administration of euthanasia or, in the case of a wild
animal, release into a suitable habitat.
   DOG. Any member of the domesticated canine species. The term DOG shall not
include wild or exotic canines.
   DOMESTICATED ANIMAL. An animal of a species that has been bred, raised and
is accustomed to living in or about the habitation of humans, and is dependent
on humans for food or shelter.
   FOWL. Any and all birds, domesticated and wild, that are used for food.
   KEEPING or HARBORING. The act of or the permitting by a property owner or
occupant of feeding or sheltering any domesticated animal on the premises.
   LIVESTOCK. All domestic or domesticated bovine animals, equine animals,
ovine animals, porcine animals, cervid animals, caprid animals, camelid animals
and enclosed domesticated rabbits or hares raised for human food or fiber.
   PET. A domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility. PETS
include, but are not limited to, dogs, cats, birds, fish, reptiles and other
animals, which, by habit or training, live in association with humans.
   PROPERTY OWNER or OCCUPANT.
      (1)   Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
      (2)   OCCUPANT means any individual living or sleeping in a building, or
having possession of a space within a building.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal that endangers the life or health of other animals or
humans; or that substantially interferes with the rights of citizens, other
than its owner, to enjoyment of life or property.
      (2)   The term PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL shall mean and include, but is not
limited to, any animal that:
         (a)   Is repeatedly found at large;
         (b)   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner or
custodian;
         (c)   Molests or intimidates pedestrians or passersby;
         (d)   Chases vehicles;
         (e)   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited
to, continued and repeated howling, barking, whining or other utterances
causing reasonable annoyance, disturbance or discomfort to neighbors or others
in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (6)   Causes fouling of the air by odor and causing thereby unreasonable
annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the
premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (7)   Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings where
the animal is kept or harbored;
      (8)   By virtue of the number or types of animals maintained, is
offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare;
      (9)   Has been found by the Commission for Animal Control, after notice
to its owner and a hearing, to be a public nuisance animal by virtue of being a
menace to the public health, welfare or safety; or
      (10)   Attacks other domestic animals.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE CONDITION. An unsanitary, dangerous or offensive condition
occurring on any premises caused by the size, number or types of animals
maintained, kept or harbored or due to the inadequacy of the facilities or by
reason of the manner or method of holding, confining, restraining, boarding or
training animals; for example, animal hoarding. A PUBLIC NUISANCE CONDITION
shall be deemed to exist on any premises in which any animal is maintained,
kept or harbored under conditions that constitute cruelty to such animals, or
where the animal maintained, kept or harbored is a public nuisance animal.
   SANITARY. A condition or good order and cleanliness which minimizes the
probability of transmission of disease.
   VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal that attacks, bites or injures
humans or domesticated animals without adequate provocation, or which, because
of temperament, conditioning or training, has a known propensity to attack,
bite or injure human beings or domesticated animals. An animal which has, on
one or more occasions, caused significant injury to person or domesticated
animals may be deemed to be a VICIOUS ANIMAL.
   WILD/EXOTIC ANIMALS. EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal of a species that is not
indigenous to the state and is not a domesticated animal and shall include any
hybrid animal that is part exotic animal.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal that is not included in the definition of
DOMESTICATED ANIMAL and shall include any hybrid animal that is part wild
animal.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-10-2024)
§ 90.05 APPLICABLE SELECTED COUNTY CODES.
   (A)   The County Animal Management Division enforces licensing and permits,
animal cruelty concerns and the prohibition on the keeping of wild/exotic
animals, animal fighting, attack dogs and vicious or dangerous animals.
   (B)   The County Code, Subtitle 3, Divisions 1 through 7, as may be amended
from time to time, is hereby incorporated by reference and adopted in this
chapter to the extent it is not inconsistent herewith. When a conflict exists
between the County Animal Control Code and a town ordinance, the town ordinance
shall prevail. References in the County Animal Control Code to authorized
county representatives shall be interpreted to include the applicable town
officials.
   (C)   The County Department of Permitting, Inspection and Enforcement, or
its successor agency, enforces the County Zoning Ordinance regarding animal
activities (e.g., boarding/breeding kennels, livestock, fowl and the like)
allowed within the town.
   (D)   The County Zoning Code, Subtitle 27, as may be amended from time to
time, is hereby incorporated by reference and adopted in this chapter to the
extent it is not inconsistent herewith.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-10-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 STANDARDS.
   The following are minimum standards for enforcement of anti-cruelty laws for
pets. When a conflict exists between the County Animal Management Division’s
Proper Shelter and Care Guidelines and this chapter, the more stringent
standards shall prevail.
   (A)   Food.
      (1)   Food shall be wholesome, palatable and free from contamination.
      (2)   Food shall be of sufficient quantity and nutritive value to
maintain all animals in good health.
      (3)   The diet shall be prepared with consideration for the age, species,
condition, size and type of animal.
      (4)   Animals shall be fed at least once a day except as dictated by
hibernation, veterinary advice or other professionally accepted practices for
the safety and well-being of the animal.
      (5)   All food receptacles shall be kept clean and sanitary.
      (6)   If more than one animal is fed at one time or in one place, it
shall be the responsibility of the animal owner/custodian to ensure each animal
receives enough.
   (B)   Drink.
      (1)   Proper drink shall mean clean, potable water available at all
times.
      (2)   Exceptions shall be determined by a veterinarian.
      (3)   All water receptacles shall be kept clean and sanitary.
   (C)   Air. Holding areas shall be constructed to allow the free flow of
fresh air.
   (D)   Space.
      (1)   All animals must be able to stand to their full height, stretch
out, turn around, lie and make normal postural and social adjustments
comfortably and with adequate freedom of movement to maintain physical
condition.
      (2)   Unless animals are allowed to exercise freely twice a day for
periods of at least one hour, the square footage of the area of confinement
must equal the length of the animal multiplied by six. The area must be of
sufficient height to allow the animal to stretch to its full height.
      (3)   If an animal is confined by a chain or tether, the length of the
chain or tether shall be 15 feet and shall be arranged so that it cannot become
entangled.
      (4)   The above space standards may not be sufficient for certain
animals. Inadequate space may be indicated by evidence of poor physical
condition and stress or abnormal behavior patterns such as pacing or circling
within the area of confinement.
   (E)   Light.
      (1)   All animals must have five hours of light every day, except as
dictated by hibernation, veterinary advice or professionally accepted practices
for the safety and well-being of the animal.
      (2)   Lighting of primary enclosures shall be designed to protect the
animals from excessive illumination.
      (3)   The duration of illumination shall be appropriate for the species
involved.
   (F)   Indoor shelter.
      (1)   Facilities shall be sufficiently regulated by heating or cooling,
if necessary, to protect animals from extremes of temperature and to provide
for their health and comfort.
      (2)   The ambient temperature shall not be allowed to fall below or rise
above temperatures compatible with the health and comfort of the animal.
      (3)   Facilities shall be adequately ventilated by natural or mechanical
means to provide for the health of and to prevent the discomfort of the animal
at all times.
      (4)   Such facilities shall be provided with fresh air either by means of
windows, doors, vents, fans or air conditioning and shall be ventilated so as
to minimize drafts, odors and moisture condensation.
   (G)   Outdoor shelter (general).
      (1)   Dogs and cats kept outdoors must be acclimated to the temperatures
prevalent in the area. Certain breeds of dogs or cats that cannot tolerate the
prevalent temperatures in the area without stress or discomfort (such as short-
haired breeds in cold climates) and sick, infirm, aged or young dogs or cats
should not be kept in outdoor facilities, unless that practice is specifically
approved by a veterinarian.
      (2)   All animals must have access to shade from the sun.
      (3)   All animals kept outdoors must have access to a weatherproof
shelter, that is, a structure of no less than three sides, a roof and floor.
The shelter must contain clean, dry bedding material (such as cedar chips, hay
or straw) if the ambient temperature is below 50°F (10°C).
      (4)   Structures shall be windproof and moisture proof.
      (5)   In cases where there is no artificial heat source, structures must
be small enough, if appropriate, to allow the animal to maintain its body heat
and to warm the interior of the structure.
      (6)   No outdoor shelters shall have any interior metal surfaces.
      (7)   The shelter for a dog shall have a solid floor raised at least two
inches from the ground. The entrance shall be covered by a flexible, windproof
material or a self-closing door.
      (8)   Cats maintained outside must be confined on their owner’s property
and provided with proper food, water and shelter.
   (H)   Veterinary care.
      (1)   Emergency treatment. An animal shall be afforded immediate
veterinary care if it is known or suspected to have suffered an accident or has
been struck by a vehicle, person or heavy object with force or frequency
sufficient to cause internal or external injury, and exhibits signs of such
injury such as vomiting, diarrhea, shock, temperature fluctuation, tremors,
swelling, broken bones, open wounds, inability to eat, blistering, irregular or
abnormal breathing, partial or total paralysis, irrational behavior, discharge
or bleeding from any orifice or other such sign. Animals exhibiting symptoms of
bloat shall receive immediate veterinary care.
      (2)   Treatment within 48 hours. An animal shall be afforded veterinary
care if it has exhibited any sign of illness, severe parasitic infestation or
disease such as infection, orificial bleeding or discharge, failure to void,
loss of appetite, moaning, weight loss, abnormal skin condition or hair loss,
tremors, temperature fluctuation, crying, vomiting, diarrhea or any other such
sign over a period of 48 hours or more.
      (3)   Incidental. If an animal has an abnormal growth of a size or weight
or in such a position as to impede the animal in any way, such condition shall
be brought to the attention of a veterinarian.
   (I)   Sanitation.
      (1)   Indoor enclosures shall receive cleanings as necessary to remove
excreta, dirt and debris so as to minimize disease hazards, odor and danger to
the animal.
      (2)   Exterior property areas shall be maintained free from imminent
threats such as domestic animals in a contaminated or soiled environment;
hazardous threats such as an excessive accumulation of domestic animal feces;
and kept in a reasonably clean and sanitary condition in accordance with §§
152.01 through
152.08.
      (3)   No owner or custodian of a domestic animal shall permit excrement
of such animal to remain on public property at any time or to remain on private
property without consent of the owner or occupant thereof. Failure of the
animal owner or custodian to immediately remove the animal’s excrement shall be
a violation of this chapter.
      (4)   The animal owner or custodian shall be liable for any damages.
      (5)   Any violation of this division shall be a municipal infraction.
   (J)   Grooming. Animals with coats requiring grooming to prevent severe
matting, filth accumulation and/or skin diseases shall be groomed in accordance
with normal and accepted grooming practices.
   (K)   Restraint.
      (1)   Dogs and cats are not allowed to be maintained on a balcony or to
be on a balcony unless accompanied by a human adult.
      (2)   Animal owners or custodians within the municipal limits of the town
must confine his or her animal securely on his or her property or place of
residence. Animals not on the property must be accompanied by a responsible
person and effectively restrained by a leash no longer than eight feet in
length to prevent such animal from running at large, molesting any person or
defiling any property. No animal running at large by accident with a person in
immediate pursuit of it shall be deemed to be at large, running at large or a
stray. An animal undergoing obedience training or securely confined within a
motor vehicle is deemed to be effectively restrained and will not be deemed to
be at large or running at large. The owner or custodian of any animal found at
large or running at large will be held liable for any damages caused by such an
animal.
   (L)   Noise.
      (1)   Sounds from dogs, birds or other animals that cause frequent or
sustained noise are prohibited if they produce audible sound beyond the
property line of the property on which these activities are being conducted or
from the public right-of-way, and exceed the decibel levels for the time period
set forth and specified in
Chapter 91.
      (2)   Animals that cause frequent or continued noise will not be allowed
to disturb the comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity. Any person
disturbed by a noisy animal must advise the owner. If the public nuisance
condition is not abated, the person may then notify the Commission to file a
complaint.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-10-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Code Official, or other designated town representative,
determines there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been, or is,
a violation of any provision of this chapter or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, the Code Official, or designated representative, may
give notice of such alleged violation to the person or persons responsible.
Section
90.06(I)(2) and (L)(1) refer to other applicable town ordinances and notice
provisions in those town ordinances may be enforced accordingly.
      (1)   Such notice shall:
         (a)   Be verbal or in writing;
         (b)   Include a description of the animal and/or real property
sufficient for identification; and
         (c)   Include a statement of the reason why the notice is being issued
with reference to the section of this chapter violated.
      (2)   Delivery of the notice shall be to the animal owner, custodian,
property owner or occupant shall be by any of the following means:
         (a)   Personally, or by leaving the notice at the usual place of abode
of the property owner or occupant with a person of suitable age and discretion
who shall be informed of the intent thereof;
         (b)   By appropriate means of mail addressed to the animal owner or
custodian, property owner or occupant, at the address whereon the alleged
violation was observed; or
         (c)   By posting a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place on the
premises affected by such notice.
   (B)   The Code Official, or other designated town representative, may
contact the county animal control to investigate any animal kept in violation
of this chapter, or to impound any animal found running at large, or vicious or
dangerous animal. Any animal turned over to the proper county authorities will
be disposed of according to county law. Any investigation by county authorities
will be handled in accordance with county law.
   (C)   Any animal that is found at large or running at large and, in the
judgment of an animal control officer or police officer is deemed to be an
immediate and actual threat to the health and safety of any person (i.e., an
animal that is vicious or dangerous, and cannot be immediately captured,
tranquilized and impounded) may be destroyed by a county animal control officer
or any police officer.
   (D)   The timeframes for issuing the initial notice, subsequent notices and
assessing penalties and fines for any person or persons found violating §§
152.01 through
152.08 or
Chapter 91 shall be as stated in those sections.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-10-2024)
§ 90.08 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice of violation or levying of a fine
may elect to appeal to the District Court of the state.
   (B)   Failure to pay after adjudication or request of adjudication by the
town will result in the amount of any fine imposed being recorded as a lien
against the property and collected in the same manner as delinquent taxes.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-10-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Fines for failure to take remedial action, as described in §
90.07, shall be established by resolution of the Town Council and shall not
exceed the amount of $1,000. Failure to pay fine(s) will result in the amount
of any fine(s) imposed to be collected in the same manner as delinquent town
taxes.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-10-2024)
CHAPTER 91: NOISE
Section
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Notification to state of effect on state standards
   
91.04   Responsibility for violation
   
91.05   General violations
   
91.06   Maximum allowable sound levels
   
91.07   Exceptions enumerated
   
91.08   Coordinate exchange of noise control information
   
91.09   Enforcement
   
91.10   Notice of violations
   
91.11   Right to appeal
   
91.12   Copies of ordinance to be provided
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Comprehensive fee and fine schedules, see §
30.01
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   The Town Council hereby finds and declares that the occurrence of those
activities prescribed in this chapter is contrary to the health, safety and
well being of the residents of the town, and all such activities are hereby
declared to be nuisances which are to be specifically controlled and abated
pursuant to this chapter, county ordinances and/or state statutes.
(Ord. 153, passed 3-9-2011)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT or LICENSEE. A person who has been expressly authorized by another
person (called the “principal”) to act for the principal. An AGENT or LICENSEE
shall include an employee acting within the actual or apparent scope of his or
her employment for his or her employer; an officer of a corporation or other
legal entity acting within the scope of his or her actual or apparent
authority; and a person who is expressly placed in a position of, or allowed to
act in, temporary control of property by a person who has the legal right to
control or occupy the property.
   ANSI. The American National Standards Institute, or its successor bodies.
   CODE COMPLIANCE OFFICIAL. A person or persons appointed or designated by the
Town Council to enforce this chapter.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any site preparation, assembly, erection, repair, alteration
or similar activity.
   dBA. The abbreviation for the sound level in decibels determined by the A-
weighting network of a sound-level meter or by calculation from octave band or
one-third octave band.
   DECIBEL (DB). A unit of measure, on a logarithmic scale, or the ratio of a
particular sound pressure squared to a standard reference pressure squared. For
the purpose of this chapter, 20 micro pascals shall be the standard reference
pressure.
   DEMOLITION. Any dismantling, destruction or removal activities.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Code Compliance, Construction
and Transportation.
   EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage, which demands immediate action.
   ENVIRONMENTAL NOISE. The noise that exists at any location from all sources.
   ENVIRONMENTAL NOISE STANDARDS. The goals for environmental noise, the
attainment and maintenance of which, in defined areas and under specific
conditions, are necessary to protect public health and general welfare.
   HOWLING OR BARKING DOGS. Loud and sustained barking or howling of dogs or
other animal noises that disturb the comfort, repose or quiet of any person or
persons in the vicinity.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any sworn police officer of the town, the Sheriff
and any Deputy Sheriff of the county, or a sworn member of the county or state
police.
   NOISE. The intensity, frequency, duration and character of sound, including
sound and vibration of sub-audible frequencies.
   NOISE POLLUTION . The presence of noise of sufficient loudness and
character, from a single source or from multiple sources, which is, or may be
predicted with reasonable certainty to be, injurious to health or which
unreasonably interferes with the proper enjoyment of property or with any
lawful business activity.
   PERIODIC NOISE. Noise possessing a repetitive on-and-off characteristic with
a rapid rise to maximum and short delay not exceeding two seconds, such as car
alarms.
   PERSON. Any individual, natural person, legal entity, joint stock company,
partnership, voluntary association, society, club, firm, company, corporation,
business trust, organization, owner, occupant or any other group acting as a
unit, principal or agent, or the manager, lessor, lessee, agent, servant,
partner, member, administrator, trustee, receiver or other representative
appointed according to law.
   PROPERTY. Any tract, lot or parcel of land and any dwelling or other
structure erected or located thereon.
   SOUND. A vibration of sufficient intensity to cause another person to be
aware of such vibration by the sense of hearing.
   SOUND AMPLIFIER. Any radio receiving set, microphone, musical instrument,
phonograph, speaker(s) or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound.
   SOUND LEVEL.
      (1)   In decibels, the weighted sound-pressure level measured by the use
of a sound-level meter satisfying the requirements of ANSI S1.4, Part 2 - 2014
R19 edition Specifications for Sound-Level Meters, or successor requirements.
      (2)   SOUND LEVEL and NOISE LEVEL are synonymous.
   SOUND-LEVEL METER. An instrument meeting International Electrotechnical
Commission and ANSI S1.4, Part 2 - 2014 R19 edition Specifications for Sound-
Level Meters, comprising a microphone, an amplifier, an output meter and a
frequency-weighting network or networks that is used for the measurement of
sound-pressure levels in a specified manner or successor ANSI specifications or
as required by the state.
   SOUND PRESSURE. Minute fluctuations in atmospheric pressure which accompany
the passage of a sound wave.
   SOUND-PRESSURE LEVEL. In decibels, 20 times the logarithm to the base ten of
the ratio of sound pressure to the reference sound pressure of 20 micro pascals
(20 micro newtons per square meter). In the absence of any modifier, the level
is to be that of a root mean square pressure
   SOURCE. Any person or property, real or personal, contributing to noise
pollution.
   TOWN MANAGER. The person appointed by the Town Council to monitor the
enforcement of all ordinances and regulations of the town.
   VIBRATION. Any oscillatory motion of solid bodies.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A general land use category as defined by the County Zoning
Ordinance as to land that is zoned commercial, industrial and residential.
(Ord. 153, passed 3-9-2011)
§ 91.03 NOTIFICATION TO STATE OF EFFECT ON STATE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Nothing herein shall be construed as promulgating a standard less
stringent than the environmental noise standards and sound-level limits adopted
under Md. Code, Environment Art., Title 3, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   In accordance with Md. Code, Environment Article, Title 3, the town
shall send to the State Department of the Environment a copy of each noise
control ordinance, rule or regulation that it adopts and identify on each
zoning map, comprehensive plan or other appropriate document the sound-level
limits that are adopted.
(Ord. 153, passed 3-9-2011)
§ 91.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATION.
   Whenever a disturbing noise or sound is made, created or continued, whether
generated by animal, human or mechanical means, in violation of the provisions
of this chapter, the owner, or his or her licensee or agent in control of the
property, shall be held responsible for the violation regardless of whether the
disturbing noise was made, created or continued by the owner, licensee, agent,
occupant, tenant, subtenant, guest or invitee. In the event the owner, or his
or her licensee or agent, is absent, the code compliance official, law
enforcement officer or designated town employee is authorized to order the
persons who are not living at the property to disperse and leave the property.
Failure to do so by any person or persons can be in and of itself an infraction
or violation of applicable county or town ordinances or state statutes.
(Ord. 153, passed 3-9-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 GENERAL VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, his or her licensee or
agent, occupant, tenant, subtenant, guest or invitee or for any person or
persons in the public right-of-way to make, or cause to be made; permit to be
made; or assist in making any sound that exceeds the noise levels specified in
§
91.06. For the purpose of this chapter, sound shall include vibrations caused
by animal, human or mechanical means.
      (2)   A person shall not be in violation of this chapter unless such
sound is perceived on another property or from the public right-of-way, it
being the intent of this chapter to prohibit sounds that exceed the maximum
allowable sound levels in §
91.06 during the times set forth in this chapter from carrying from one
property to an adjacent or a nearby property or into or from the public right-
of-way.
   (B)   Examples of noise that are prohibited if they produce audible sound
beyond the property line of the property on which these activities are being
conducted or from the public right-of-way, and exceed the noise levels
specified in §
91.06, include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Sound amplifiers;
      (2)   Yelling, shouting or the making of loud or disturbing noises;
      (3)   Dogs, birds or other animals that cause frequent or sustained
noise;
      (4)   Any automobile or vehicle operated in such a manner as to create
loud and unnecessary noise; and
      (5)   (a)   Car alarms will be subject to the aforementioned decibel
level as follows: If the town receives at least three complaints within any 30-
day period about a car alarm sounding, the owner of the vehicle will be subject
to sanctions enumerated in this chapter for excessive noise.
         (b)   The owner may produce as a defense to the violation an official
police report showing that at least one of the alarms was the result of actual
illegal activity. In that case, the owner will not be subject to sanctions.
Unless otherwise noted in this chapter, any violation reoccurring with a six-
month period shall be considered a repeat of the original violation. Repeated
occurrences within the succeeding six months will be treated as violations of
this chapter.
   (B)   In the commercial office, commercial shopping center, district
overlay, light industrial and mixed use transportation oriented land use zones
as defined, now or in the future, by the County Government Zoning Ordinance,
the owner, occupant person or persons shall comply with Table 1 in §
91.06(A).
(Ord. 153, passed 3-9-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE SOUND LEVELS.
   (A)   With the exception of those specific acts and circumstances described
in §
91.07, any sound produced, reproduced or amplified at a level that exceeds the
limits of Table 1 below is hereby declared to be noise pollution.
 
Table 1
Maximum Allowable Noise Level (dBA) for Receiving Land Use Categories
      Industrial Commercial Residential
Day   75         67         65
Night 75         62         55
 
   (B)   The following table displays when “day” and “night” starts for the
industrial, commercial and residential land use zones.
 
Table 2
Daytime and Nighttime Starting Times
      Industrial Commercial Residential   Residential Residential Residential
                            Mon. - Thurs. Friday      Saturday    Sunday
Day   7:00 a.m.  7:00 a.m.  8:00 a.m.     8:00 a.m.   9:00 a.m.   9:00 a.m.
Night 10:00 p.m. 10:00 p.m. 9:00 p.m.     10:00 p.m.  10:00 p.m.  9:00 p.m.
 
   (C)   Measurements to determine compliance with the limits in Table 1 in
division (A) above shall be as below, unless otherwise stated in §§
91.05 or
91.07:
      (1)   Employ an instrument meeting International Electrotechnical
Commission and ANSI S1.4, Part 2 - 2014 R19 edition Specifications for Sound-
Level Meters or successor specifications;
      (2)   Employ sound level meters set to the A-weighing network for all
measurements;
      (3)   If the source of the sound is in a residential land use zone,
multiple measurements shall be taken from different locations along the
property line of the sending property, as close as possible to the noise
source, or at the curb line of the sending property or other properties;
      (4)   If the source of the sound is in a non-residential zoning district,
multiple measurements shall be taken from different locations along the
property line of the sending property or at the boundary of the zoning district
as close as possible to the sound source. Additional measurements may be taken
from points farther away; and
      (5)   Measurements may be taken on any property reached by the sound
provided permission of the owner or occupant to enter upon said property has
been sought.
(Ord. 153, passed 3-9-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 EXCEPTIONS ENUMERATED.
   The following activities and their related noise are excepted from the
provisions of this chapter to the extent noted below:
   (A)   Activities or operations of governmental units or agencies;
   (B)   Testing of authorized emergency equipment or devices used for the
purpose of warning, protecting or alerting the public of the existence of a
danger, an emergency situation or a crime, such as ambulances, fire trucks,
police cruisers and the like, except car alarms. Car alarms are subject to
aforementioned decibel limitations;
   (C)   Emergency operation work necessary to restore property to a safe
condition following an accident, fire or natural disaster; restore public
utilities or protect persons or property from an imminent danger;
   (D)   Amusement, entertainment or sporting events, and other public
gatherings operating under permit or permission of the town between 7:00 a.m.
and midnight. This exemption includes, but is not limited to, athletic
contests, amusement park carnivals, fairs at fairgrounds, parades and other
public celebrations;
   (E)   Church bells and chimes;
   (F)   Motor vehicles on public roads;
   (G)   Rapid rail transit vehicles and railroads;
   (H)   Operation of hand and power tools, or household appliances and the
like, shall be permitted for normal usage during daytime hours;
   (I)   Operation of leaf blowers, power lawn mowers, other lawn care
equipment and snow removal equipment shall be permitted for normal usage during
day-time hours;
   (J)   Air conditioning and heat pump equipment used to cool or heat housing
on residential property. A person may not cause or permit noise levels that
exceed 70 dBA for air conditioning units at receiving residential property and
75 decibels for heat pump equipment that exceed 75 dBA at receiving residential
property;
   (K)   Construction and repair work on public property;
   (L)   Pile driving equipment during daytime hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Monday through Saturday only, provided noise levels do not exceed 90 dBA;
   (M)   Blasting operations for construction, demolition and mining or
quarrying during the daytime hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through
Saturday only; provided noise levels do not exceed 90 dBA;
   (N)   Commercial contractors’ operation of tools, equipment and machinery
for excavation, grading, dredging, erection, demolition, alteration, renovation
or repair of any premises, street, building or structure on Mondays through
Fridays between 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and on Saturdays during the day time
hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., or such similar activities as may be required
during other times under emergency conditions; provided noise levels do not
exceed 90 decibels A-weighted; and
   (O)   Commercial loading or unloading of any truck or vehicle, or the
opening and closing of garbage, refuse and rubbish containers between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., Mondays through Fridays, and between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays.
(Ord. 153, passed 3-9-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 COORDINATE EXCHANGE OF NOISE CONTROL INFORMATION.
   The Director of Code Compliance shall assist and advise the town in its
noise control efforts; and coordinate the exchange of noise control information
with the State Department of Health and Mental Hygiene and other public bodies,
agencies or commissions.
(Ord. 153, passed 3-9-2011)
§ 91.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the town to enforce the
provisions of this chapter as herein provided.
   (A)   Generally, the Director of Code Compliance shall be responsible for
the administration of the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Any code compliance official, sworn police officer or Town Council
designated employee is hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Whenever a code compliance official, sworn police officer or
designated Town Council employee has determined, based upon the results of a
test conducted using a calibrated sound-level meter, that the noise being
generated is in violation of this chapter, said person may issue a verbal
warning or a written citation to the violator. In the event that more than one
owner, occupant and/or guest or invitee of the property is alleged to have
violated this chapter, a verbal warning or a written citation may be issued to
each alleged violator. Upon issuance of a verbal warning or written citation, a
record of the action shall be forwarded to the Code Compliance Department, or
Town Council designated employee.
   (C)   (1)   Upon issuing a verbal warning or written citation to a violator,
or receiving a written report of the action of a sworn police officer, the code
compliance official, or Town Council designated employee, shall issue a formal
warning notice for initial violation.
      (2)   After a warning notice for the initial violation has been issued,
the code compliance official, or Town Council designated employee, at his or
her discretion, may issue a second warning or an immediate fine pursuant to §
91.10, or, after the third violation issue an immediate fine.
      (3)   After a warning notice has been issued for a second documented
violation, or the violation continues for an extended period of time; or if a
person has received multiple warnings or written citations, the code compliance
official, or Town Council designated employee, shall issue an immediate fine in
accordance with the Noise Ordinance Fine Schedule Resolution (§
30.01).
   (D)   Unless otherwise noted in this chapter, any violations reoccurring
within the subsequent six-month period shall be considered a repeat of the
original violation. A repeat violation may be subject to an immediate fine in
accordance with the Noise Ordinance Fine Schedule Resolution (§
30.01).
   (E)   A person or persons receiving a fine notice for violating this chapter
may appeal the fine to the Town Council. If unsuccessful, the appellant may ask
the Code Compliance Department to issue a municipal infraction to appeal the
fine in district court.
   (F)   Whenever three or more households within 500 feet of an offending
property petition the Town Council that noise is being or has been generated in
violation of this chapter to the Town Manager or Town Clerk or postmarked
within 30 days of the alleged violation, the Town Council shall schedule a
hearing and give notice of the alleged violation to the complainants and to the
owner(s) and/or occupants(s) of the property upon which said violation
allegedly occurred.
(Ord. 153, passed 3-9-2011)
§ 91.10 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the code compliance official determines that there has
been or is a violation of any provision of this chapter, or of any rule or
regulation adopted pursuant hereto, the code compliance official shall give
notice of such alleged violation to the owner, his or her licensee or agent,
occupant, tenant, subtenant, guest or invitee or person or persons responsible
therefor, as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   Such notice shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Include a description of the real property sufficient for
identification.;
         (c)   Include a statement of the reason why it is being issued;
         (d)   Be served upon the owner, his or her licensee or agent and/or
the occupant of the property upon which the alleged violation occurred; and
         (e)   Such notice shall:
            1.   Contain an outline of remedial action, if any, which, if
taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter and with
rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto; and
            2.   Contain the amount of the fine, which shall be assessed
according to a schedule established by resolution of the Town Council and which
shall not exceed $1,000 per violation.
   (B)   Failure to pay fine(s) will result in the amount of any fine(s)
imposed being recorded as a lien against the property and collected in the same
manner as delinquent taxes.
   (C)   Service of notice that dwelling is in violation shall be as follows:
      (1)   By delivery to the owner personally or by leaving the notice at the
usual place of abode of the owner with a person of suitable age and discretion
who shall be informed of the intent thereof;
      (2)   By certified or registered mail, return receipt requested,
addressed to the owner at the address provided to the town by the owner as
required by this chapter with postage pre-paid thereon with return receipt
requested, or if said letter is returned with receipt showing non-delivery; or
      (3)   (a)   By posting a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place on the
premises affected by such notice; and
         (b)   Whenever possible, notification of the violation will be sent to
the owner, his or her licensee or agent and to the occupant(s).
   (D)   The town shall inform the legal owner of record or an authorized
licensee and/or agent of the property owner, in writing, of all written
verified complaints pertaining to the property.
(Ord. 153, passed 3-9-2011)
§ 91.11 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice of violation or levying of a fine
may elect to appeal to the Town Council.
      (1)   Any person affected by any notice of violation or levying of a fine
which has been issued in connection with the enforcement of any provision of
this chapter may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter by the
Town Council; provided that such person shall, within 21 days after service of
a notice of violation or issuance of a fine, file with the Town Council a
signed written notice of appeal, requesting a hearing and setting forth a brief
statement of the reasons therefor. Upon receipt of such notice of appeal, Town
Council shall set a time and place for such hearing and shall determine appeals
as promptly as practicable. The Town Council, with a quorum present, shall hear
appeals.
      (2)   After such hearing, the Town Council may, by a majority vote of the
members present, affirm, amend, modify or withdraw the notice of violation or
fine that is being appealed. Any person who shall fail, refuse or neglect to
comply with the decision of the Town Council shall be guilty of violating the
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   (a)   In the event a person wishes to contest the decision of the
Town Council, he or she may notify the town of his or her intent within ten
days after the rendering of the decision by the Town Council. In that event,
the town shall issue a municipal infraction to the aggrieved person who may
request a hearing in the district court of the state pursuant to the municipal
infraction procedure.
         (b)   The decision of the Town Council in such a case shall be stayed,
pending a decision by the district court. To the extent of this section of this
chapter, all violations of this chapter will be considered municipal
infractions of the town.
   (B)   Failure to pay after adjudication or request of adjudication by the
town will result in the amount of any fine imposed being recorded as a lien
against the property and collected in the same manner as delinquent taxes.
   (C)   In the event the occupant, tenant, subtenant, guest or invitee is
charged with the violation and fails to pay the fine, then the burden of
payment of the fine falls to the owner(s) of the real property and in the event
the owner(s) fail to pay the fine, the town will record a lien against the
property and collect in the same manner as delinquent taxes.
(Ord. 153, passed 3-9-2011)
§ 91.12 COPIES OF ORDINANCE TO BE PROVIDED.
   (A)   Owners of rental housing shall ensure that a copy of this chapter is
furnished to each tenant.
   (B)   The town shall make available a copy of this chapter to each applicant
for an annual rental license and/or owners or tenants of commercial/industrial
zoned property where appropriate.
(Ord. 153, passed 3-9-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Violation fines and penalties will be set from time to time by resolution of
the Town Council.
(Ord. 153, passed 3-9-2011)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Parks and Public Property Regulations
   
92.01   Applicability
   
92.02   Hours of use
   
92.03   Unlawful acts
   
92.04   Removal of signs
Cross-reference:
Comprehensive fee and fine schedules, see §
30.01
Recreation Commission, see §
33.21
PARKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY REGULATIONS
§ 92.01 APPLICABILITY.
   Park and public property shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
   (A)   Any and all property owned by the town; and
   (B)   Any public street right-of-way.
(Ord. 112, passed 10-4-1983)
§ 92.02 HOURS OF USE.
   All park property under the town jurisdiction shall be open for public use
between dawn and dusk unless otherwise provided. At all other times, the park
shall be closed to the public, and it shall be unlawful for any person to be in
the park during such hours as it is closed to the public.
(Ord. 112, passed 10-4-1983) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person or corporation to do any
of the acts hereinafter so specified within the limits of any of the public
parks or any public property within the town:
   (A)   To drink any alcoholic beverages unless required permits have been
obtained;
   (B)   To carry or discharge any firearm or fireworks of any type;
   (C)   To damage or deface in any manner any vegetation or property, or to
remove said vegetation or property from the premises;
   (D)   To catch or harm, in any way, birds, squirrels or any other wild
animal, or the young of any such bird or animal;
   (E)   To distribute or post any handbills or circulars or advertising
material of any kind. To sell, or offer to sell, any merchandise without the
consent of the Town Council. To solicit contributions without the consent of
the Town Council;
   (F)   To make a fire for any purpose, except in designated areas or when
appropriate permits have been obtained. To camp or lodge therein without
special exception granted, in writing, by the Town Council;
   (G)   To in any way engage in threatening, indecent, abusive or riotous
behavior;
   (H)   To throw or leave any type of garbage or rubbish anywhere except in
receptacles provided for that purpose. To dump any type of waste material on
park or public property;
   (I)   To construct or erect any building or structure except after obtaining
the appropriate permits;
   (J)   State motor vehicle laws shall apply to all park areas. It shall be
unlawful to drive or park on any area except those areas so designated. It
shall be unlawful to repair or wash vehicles except emergency repairs; and
   (K)   To play games except in areas set apart for such forms of recreation.
(Ord. 112, passed 10-4-1983) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 REMOVAL OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Yard sale signs must be removed within 48 hours.
   (B)   Not for profit community activities signs must be removed within the
48 hours after event.
   (C)   Lost pets signs must be removed within 30 days.
(Res. 96-30, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.03 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine and/or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 30
days or both, in the discretion of the court.
   (C)   Failure to comply with §
92.04 and the above exceptions will result in the issuance of a warning notice.
Failure to comply within 48 hours after warning notice will be considered a
misdemeanor and will be subject to issuance of a $50 citation.
(Ord. 112, passed 10-4-1983; Ord. 179, passed 8-14-2019; Res. 96-30, passed - -
)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
      
112.   CABLE TELEVISION
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Purpose and authority
   
110.02   Business licenses required
   
110.03   Annual renewal of licenses
   
110.04   Fees
   
110.05   Business license application
   
110.06   Property owner, property manager and/or rental agent notification
   
110.07   Annual gross receipts statement required
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Comprehensive fee and fine schedules, see §
30.01
§ 110.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to license any and all
associations, corporations, industrial, institutional, rental, research, retail
or service business establishments, limited liability corporations or
partnerships and professional associations or corporations doing business in
the town.
   (B)   Authority. The authority to license business entities operating within
the town is provided for in the Town Charter, § 401.
(Ord. 105, passed 5-10-2006)
§ 110.02 BUSINESS LICENSES REQUIRED.
   No association, business entity, commercial or residential property
management association, corporation, entity, industrial, institutional, rental,
retail or service business establishment, limited liability association,
corporation or partnership, organization, person or professional association,
corporation or partnership shall sell, offer for sale or otherwise dispose of
for any valuable consideration any goods or services or engage in the
dispensation of professional services within the town without first obtaining a
business license for such purpose. Excepted are activities conducted by town
organizations for fundraising, exclusively religious, charitable or educational
fundraising organizations, yard sales and home businesses operating in
compliance with municipal, county and state laws.
(Ord. 105, passed 5-10-2006) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 ANNUAL RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   Business licenses shall be valid for one year, from July 1 through June 30,
and must be renewed annually. The town shall notify all business establishments
operating within the town of the business license application requirement and
fee in writing. An application not filed and/or fees not paid within 30 days
from the date of the letter sent to the business establishment will be subject
to a penalty and will be subject to an additional penalty for each month or
partial month the business license application is not filed and/or fee is not
paid after 60 days from the date of the letter sent to the business
establishment. Any business establishment that fails to file an application or
pay the business license fee can be reported to the State Office of the
Comptroller, State Department of Assessment and Taxation Personal Property Tax
Division and the Clerk of the Circuit Court in the county. A business license
is not transferable to a new owner or operator of an existing business.
Licenses granted for a period after December 31 will be prorated at one-half
the scheduled rate.
(Ord. 105, passed 5-10-2006; Ord. 179, passed 8-14-2019) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 FEES.
   (A)   The fee schedule for this chapter will be set from time to time by
resolution of Mayor and Town Council.
   (B)   The business license fee for all other business entities or
establishments, associations, commercial or residential property management
associations, corporations or partnerships, industrial, institutional, rental,
retail or services establishments, limited liability associations, corporations
or partnerships including professional associations or corporations shall be
based on the Gross Receipts Fee Schedule in §
30.01.
   (C)   The fee schedule shall become effective July 1, 2006 for the business
licensing year beginning July 1, 2006.
(Ord. 105, passed 5-10-2006)
§ 110.05 BUSINESS LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Each business establishment, subject to the provisions of this
chapter, shall file a business license application as part of the licensing
procedure and shall provide on the application its State Department of
Assessment and Taxation (SDAT) number and its federal employer identification
number. Failure to provide this information shall be considered a violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   Each business establishment subject to the provisions of this chapter
that owns the property from which the business is operated and fails to file a
business license application and/or pay business license fees, fines or
penalties imposed will result in the amount of any fee, fine or penalty imposed
being recorded as a lien against the property and collected in the same manner
as delinquent taxes.
(Ord. 105, passed 5-10-2006) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 PROPERTY OWNER, PROPERTY MANAGER AND/OR RENTAL AGENT NOTIFICATION.
   The property owner or duly authorized property manager or agent shall be
required to notify the town of the name, address, telephone number and date a
new tenant moves in or an existing tenant relocates to another location owned
by the property owner or of the date when a tenant ceases to be a tenant.
Failure of the property owner to provide this information within 30 days of the
event will be in default and subject to a reasonable penalty as provided in §
110.99 and failure to pay any fine or penalty imposed will result in the amount
of any fine or penalty imposed being recorded as a lien against the property
and colleted in the same manner as delinquent taxes.
(Ord. 105, passed 5-10-2006) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 ANNUAL GROSS RECEIPTS STATEMENT REQUIRED.
   Any business whose license fee is based on annual gross receipts shall
furnish the Town Manager a financial statement or such other proof of gross
receipts as the Town Council may require at the time of filing application for
a license. In the event of failure or inability to furnish proof of gross
receipts within 15 days after application for license has been filed, the fee
shall be based on the highest gross receipts level or a mutually agreed upon
level.
(Ord. 105, passed 5-10-2006) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a municipal infraction.
There shall be a penalty for each violation for each initial offense and a
separate penalty for each repeat offense. Failure to apply for this license and
pay the required fees within the specified timeframe as indicated in this
chapter shall constitute a violation. Such violation shall not be considered
corrected until the required application is filed and proper fee paid. If an
application has not been filed, nor the proper fees paid after the elapse of a
30-day period following the initial due date as stated in the letter of
notification, this shall constitute a separate offense. The Mayor and Town
Council reserve the authority to change the penalties of this chapter from time
to time by resolution.
(Ord. 105, passed 5-10-2006; Ord. 179, passed 8-14-2019)
CHAPTER 111: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
Section
   
111.01   Scope
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   General standards for wireless telecommunications facilities in the
rights-of-way
   
111.04   Application submission requirements and final inspection
   
111.05   Termination of permit/breach
   
111.06   Infrastructure owned or controlled by the town
   
111.07   Insurance
   
111.08   Make-ready work
   
111.09   Rights-of-way repair
   
111.10   Facilities no longer needed
   
111.11   Surety bonds
   
111.12   Fees
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Comprehensive fee and fine schedules, see §
30.01
§ 111.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   In general. Unless exempted, every person who desires to place a small
wireless telecommunications facility in town rights-of-way, to include
deployment of personal wireless service infrastructure or modify an existing
wireless telecommunications facility, including without limitation for the:
      (1)   Collocation of a small wireless facility;
      (2)   Attachment of a small wireless facility to a pole owned by an
authority;
      (3)   Installation of a pole; and
      (4)   Modification of a small wireless facility or a pole must obtain a
wireless placement permit authorizing the placement or modification.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following are exempted from the requirements of this
chapter:
      (1)   The placement or modification of wireless telecommunications
facilities on supporting structures owned, or under the control of, the town,
the use of which is subject to a contract for use of the facility between the
town and the entity or entities that own or control the wireless
telecommunications facility;
      (2)   The placement or modification of wireless facilities by the town or
by any other agency of the state solely for public safety purposes;
      (3)   Modifications to an existing wireless telecommunications facility
that makes no material change to the footprint of a facility or to the surface
or subsurface of a public street if the activity does not disrupt or impede
traffic in the traveled portion of a street, and if the work activity does not
change the visual or audible characteristics of the wireless telecommunications
facility. The town, by regulation, may also exempt wireless telecommunications
facilities that otherwise are subject to the provisions of this section from
the obligation to obtain a permit to install or modify a wireless
telecommunications facility where it is determined that, because of the
physical characteristics of the proposed facilities, and the work associated
with them, such a permit is not required to protect the public health, welfare
or safety; to maintain the character of a neighborhood or corridor; or to
otherwise serve the purposes of this chapter;
      (4)   Installation of a mobile cell facility or a similar structure for a
temporary period in connection with an emergency or event, but no longer than
required for the emergency or event; provided that installation does not
involve excavation, movement or removal of existing facilities, and that at
least 30 days prior written notification is provided to the town, and consent
for placement is granted; and
      (5)   A micro wireless facility strung between two utility poles, as
defined in §
111.02, and provided, further, that the installation does not require
replacement of the strand, or excavation, modification or replacement of the
utility poles.
   (C)   Other applicable requirements. In addition to the wireless
telecommunications permit required herein, the placement of a wireless
telecommunications facility in the public rights-of-way requires the persons
who will own or control those facilities to obtain the franchises, license
agreements and permits required by applicable law, and to comply with
applicable law, including, but not limited to, applicable law governing radio
frequency (“rf”) emissions. Nothing in this chapter precludes the town from
applying its generally applicable health, safety and welfare regulations when
granting consent for a small cell facility or wireless support structure in the
town’s right-of-way.
   (D)   Public use. Except as otherwise provided by state law, any use of the
right-of-way authorized pursuant to this chapter will be subordinate to the
town’s use and use by the public.
(Ord. 125, passed 3-13-2019)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person filing an application for placement or modification of a
wireless telecommunications facility in the rights-of-way.
   APPLICATION. A formal request, including all required and requested
documentation and information submitted by an applicant to the town for a
wireless placement permit.
   ANTENNA. An apparatus designed to emit radio frequency (“rf”) and operate
from a fixed location to provide wireless services.
   ANTENNA EQUIPMENT. Equipment, switches, wiring, cabling, power sources,
shelters or cabinets associated with an antenna, located at the same fixed
location as the antenna, and, when collocated on a structure, is mounted or
installed at the same time as such antenna.
   APPLICABLE LAWS/CODES.
      (1)   Uniform building, fire, safety, electrical, plumbing or mechanical
codes adopted by a recognized national code organization to the extent such
codes have been adopted by the town, including any amendments adopted by the
town, or otherwise are applicable in the jurisdiction.
      (2)   The term includes the regulations of the Federal Communications
Commission and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, as well as
any local standards or regulations governing the use of rights-of-way.
   BASE STATION. The term base station shall have the same meaning as in 47
C.F.R. § 1.40001.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION. A document that is required from and issued by
the town confirming that all work described in the application, as approved:
      (1)   Was properly permitted, including, without limitation, all required
permits for building, electrical work, street or curb cutting and excavation;
      (2)   Was done in compliance with and fulfillment of all conditions of
all permits, including all stated deadlines;
      (3)   Was fully constructed and/or placed as approved and permitted; and
      (4)   Was finally inspected by the town, and was approved by the town
after said final inspection.
   COLLOCATE. To install or mount a small wireless facility in the public row
on an existing support structure, an existing tower or on an existing pole to
which a small wireless facility is attached at the time of the application.
COLLOCATION has a corresponding meaning.
   MAKE-READY WORK. Work that an authority reasonably determines to be required
to accommodate a wireless infrastructure provider’s installation under this
chapter and to comply with all applicable standards. The work may include, but
is not limited to, repair, rearrangement, replacement and construction of pole;
inspections; engineering work and certification; permitting work; tree trimming
(other than tree trimming performed for normal maintenance purposes); site
preparation; and electrical power configuration. The term does not include a
wireless infrastructure provider’s routine maintenance.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility having dimensions no
larger than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width and 12 inches in height and
an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any portion of any street, road or public way which the town
has the responsibility to maintain or manage.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. Consistent with Subpart U, Part 1 of Title 47,
“State and Local Government Regulation of the Placement, Construction and
Modification of Personal Wireless Service Facilities,” a facility that meets
each of the following conditions:
      (1)   The structure on which antenna facilities are mounted:
         (a)   Is 50 feet or less in height;
         (c)   Is no more than 10% taller than other adjacent structures; or
         (c)   Is not extended to a height of more than 10% above its
preexisting height as a result of the collocation of new antenna facilities;
      (2)   Each antenna (excluding associated antenna equipment) is no more
than three cubic feet in volume;
      (3)   All antenna equipment associated with the facility (excluding
antennas) are cumulatively no more than 28 cubic feet in volume;
      (4)   The facility does not require antenna structure registration; and
      (5)   The facility does not result in human exposure to radio frequency
radiation in excess of the applicable safety standards specified by federal
law.
   SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any structure capable of supporting a base station.
   TOWER. Any structure built for the sole or primary purpose of supporting any
FCC-licensed or authorized antennas and their associated facilities, including
structures that are constructed for wireless communications services,
including, but not limited to, private, broadcast and public safety services,
as well as unlicensed wireless services and fixed wireless services such as
microwave backhaul, and the associated site. This definition does not include
utility poles.
   UTILITY POLE. A structure in the rights-of-way designed to support electric,
telephone and similar utility lines. A tower is not a UTILITY POLE.
   WIRELESS PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to this chapter and authorizing
the placement or modification of a wireless telecommunications facility of a
design specified in the permit at a particular location within the rights-of-
way; and the modification of any existing support structure to which the
wireless telecommunications facility is proposed to be attached.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. A person that owns, controls, operates or
manages a wireless telecommunication facility or portion thereof within the
right-of-way.
   WIRELESS REGULATIONS. Those regulations adopted to implement the provisions
of this section.
   WIRELESS SERVICE PROVIDER. An entity that provides wireless services to end
users.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY or FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed
location that enables wireless communications between user equipment and a
communications network including, without limitation, radio transceivers,
antennas, base station, underground wiring, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
(Ord. 125, passed 3-13-2019)
§ 111.03 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES IN THE
RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Generally. Wireless telecommunications facilities shall meet the
minimum requirements set forth in this chapter and the wireless regulations
approved by the Mayor and Council, in addition to the requirements of any other
applicable law.
   (B)   Regulations. The wireless regulations and administrative decisions on
applications for placement of wireless telecommunications facilities in the
rights-of-way shall, at a minimum, ensure that the requirements of this section
are satisfied, unless it is determined that the applicant has established that
denial of an application would, within the meaning of federal law, prohibit or
effectively prohibit the provision of personal wireless services, or otherwise
violate applicable laws or regulations. If that determination is made, the
requirements of this chapter and any town wireless regulations may be waived,
but only to the minimum extent required to avoid the prohibition.
   (C)   Standards. Wireless telecommunications facilities shall be installed
and modified in a manner that:
      (1)   Minimizes risks to public safety, avoids placement of aboveground
facilities in underground areas, avoids installation of new support structures
or equipment cabinets in the public rights-of-way and maximizes use of existing
structures and poles, avoids placement in residential areas when commercial
areas are reasonably available and otherwise maintains the integrity and
character of the neighborhoods and corridors in which the facilities are
located;
      (2)   Ensures that installations are subject to periodic review to
minimize the intrusion on the rights-of-way;
      (3)   Unless approved by the town, any telecommunications facility must
be located no closer than:
         (a)   Two feet from any curb, sidewalk or other improvement within the
right-of-way; and
         (b)   Five feet from any driveway apron and be otherwise located to
avoid interference with pedestrian and motorist sightlines and use.
      (4)   Ensures that the town bears no risk or liability as a result of the
installations, and that such use does not inconvenience the public, interfere
with the legal uses of the public rights-of-way or public assets by others or
hinder the ability of the town or other government agencies to improve, modify,
relocate, abandon or vacate the public rights-of-way or any portion thereof or
to cause the improvement, modification, relocation, vacation or abandonment of
facilities in the rights-of-way; and
      (5)   Ensures that location of facilities on existing poles or structures
is within the tolerance of those poles or structures.
   (D)   Concealment. Permits for wireless telecommunications facilities shall
incorporate specific concealment elements to minimize visual impacts and design
requirements ensuring compliance with all standards for noise emissions. Unless
it is determined that another design is less intrusive or placement is required
under applicable law, the following apply.
      (1)   Antennas located at the top of support structures shall be
incorporated into the structure or placed within shrouds of a size such that
the antenna appears to be part of the support structure.
      (2)   Antennas placed elsewhere on a support structure shall be
integrated into the structure or be designed and placed to minimize visual
impact.
      (3)   Radio units or equipment cabinets holding radio units and mounted
on a utility pole shall be placed as high as possible on a support structure;
located to avoid interfering with, or creating any hazard to, any other use of
the public rights-of-way; and located on one side of the utility pole. Unless
the radio units or equipment cabinets can be concealed by appropriate traffic
signage, radio units or equipment cabinets mounted below the communications
space on utility poles shall be designed so that the largest dimension is
vertical, and the width is such that the radio units or equipment cabinets are
minimally visible from the opposite side of the support structure on which they
are placed;
      (4)   Wiring and cabling shall be neat and concealed within or flush to
the support structure, ensuring concealment of these components to the greatest
extent possible.
      (5)   Ground-mounted equipment associated with a wireless
telecommunications facility shall be permitted only where consistent with the
portion of the corridor in which it is to be placed, and may be required to be
underground, located in alleys or otherwise shielded. In no event may ground-
mounted equipment interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
      (6)   No permit shall be issued or effective unless it is shown that the
wireless telecommunications facility will comply with Federal Communication
Commission (“FCC”) regulations governing radio frequency (“rf”) emissions.
Every wireless facility shall, at all times, comply with applicable FCC
regulations governing rf emissions, and failure to comply therewith shall be a
treated as a material violation of the terms of any permit or lease.
      (7)   No towers shall be permitted in the public rights-of-way, and no
wireless telecommunications facilities shall be permitted above-ground in
underground areas; provided that the town may permit placements where all
elements of the wireless telecommunications facility are concealed, and the
facility does not appear to a casual observer to be a wireless
telecommunications facility.
      (8)   No permit shall issue except to wireless service providers with
immediate plans for use of the proposed wireless telecommunications facility;
or wireless infrastructure providers with contracts with wireless service
providers which require the service provider immediately to use the proposed
wireless telecommunications facility.
      (9)   Unless appropriately placed and concealed so that the size of the
facility cannot be increased except with the discretionary approval of the
town, no wireless telecommunications facility is permitted in rights-of-way in
alleys.
      (10)   No wireless telecommunications facility is permitted in any local
historic district without the approval of the County Historic Preservation
Commission.
(Ord. 125, passed 3-13-2019) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 APPLICATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS AND FINAL INSPECTION.
   (A)   Submission. Applicant shall submit a paper copy and an electronic copy
of any application, amendments or supplements to an application, or responses
to requests for information regarding an application, to the designated town
department.
   (B)   Content. An application must contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant, its telephone number and contact
information and, if the applicant is a wireless infrastructure provider, the
name and contact information for the wireless service provider that will be
using the wireless telecommunications facility;
      (2)   A complete description of the proposed wireless telecommunications
facility and the work that will be required to install or modify it, including,
but not limited to, detail regarding proposed excavations, if any; detailed
site plans showing the location of the wireless telecommunications facility, a
pre-construction survey; a proposed schedule for completion, certified by a
licensed professional engineer; a certification by a radio frequency engineer
that the telecommunications facility will comply with the radio frequency
radiation emission standards adopted by the federal communications commission;
and a description of the distance to the nearest residential dwelling unit and
any contributing historical structure within 500 feet of the facility. Before
and after 360-degree photo simulations must be provided. The electronic version
of an application must be in a standard format that can be easily uploaded on a
web page for review by the public. All engineers must be licensed in the state;
      (3)   An application for modification of an eligible support structure
must contain information sufficient to show that the application qualifies
under of 47 C.F.R. § 1.40001. The application must relate to an existing
wireless telecommunications facility that has been approved by the town
pursuant to this section. Before and after 360-degree photo simulations must be
provided with detailed specifications demonstrating that the modification does
not substantially change the physical dimensions of the existing approved
structure;
      (4)   An application for a permit shall be submitted in the format and
manner specified by the designated department. Applications must contain all
information required herein and by any wireless regulations to demonstrate that
applicant is entitled to the permit requested;
      (5)   Applicant must provide any information upon which it relies in
support of a claim that denial of the application would prohibit or effectively
prohibit the provision of service in violation of federal law, or otherwise
violate applicable law. Applicants are not permitted to supplement this showing
if doing so would prevent town from complying with any deadline for action on
an application;
      (6)   Proof that notice has been mailed to owners of all property, and
the resident manager for any multi-family dwelling unit that includes ten or
more units, within 300 feet of the proposed wireless telecommunications
facility;
      (7)   A copy of any pole or structure attachment agreement must be
provided, as well as sufficient information to determine that the installation
can be supported by and does not exceed the tolerances of the pole or structure
and specifications for each element of the wireless telecommunications
facility, clearly describing the site and all structures and facilities at the
site before and after installation or modification; a structural report
performed by a duly licensed engineer evidencing that the pole, tower or
support structure can adequately support the collocation (or that the pole,
tower or support structure will be modified to meet structural requirements) in
accordance with applicable codes;
      (8)   Payment of any required fees; and
      (9)   Before a permit is issued, a concurrent agreement to any required
franchise, access or license agreement must be provided.
   (C)   Fees. Applicant must provide an application fee and shall be required
to pay all costs reasonably incurred by town in reviewing the application,
including costs incurred in retaining outside consultants. Applicant shall also
pay an access fee. Fees shall be reviewed periodically and raised or lowered
based on costs the town expects to incur.
   (D)   Public hearing. The town may elect to provide public notice of an
application and hold a public hearing prior to the approval of an application.
If the town elects to hold a public hearing on an application, the applicant
shall be represented at the public hearing and be available to answer inquiries
about the application.
   (E)   Requirement. As part of the permit process, the town may require a
wireless facility to be fully operational within a specified period after the
date the last or final permit is issued, unless the town and the applicant
agree to extend the period.
   (F)   Waivers. Requests for waivers from any requirement of this section
shall be made, in writing, to the Town Manager, or his or her designee. The
same may grant a request for waiver if it is demonstrated that, notwithstanding
the issuance of a waiver, the town will be provided all information necessary
to understand the nature of the construction or other activity to be conducted
pursuant to the permit sought.
   (G)   Processing of applications. For small wireless facilities; personal
wireless facilities, as those terms are defined under federal law; and eligible
facilities requests, as that term is defined under federal law, applications
will be processed in conformity with state, local and federal law, as amended.
Currently, the FCC has required that such applications be processed within 60
days of receipt of a completed application for facilities that will be
collocated on pre-existing structures, and 90 days for new construction.
   (H)   Rejection for incompleteness. Notices of incompleteness shall be
provided in conformity with state and local and federal law. If such an
application is incomplete, it may be rejected by a written order specifying the
material omitted from the application, or the town may notify the applicant of
the material omitted and provide an opportunity to submit the missing material.
The time imposed by federal, state or local law for the processing of an
application does not begin to run until an application is complete.
   (I)   Final inspection. Upon completion of the approved work, the applicant
must file a statement of the professional opinion by an independent, qualified
engineer licensed in the state that indicates that the installation, based upon
his or her actual inspections, in his or her opinion and to the best of his or
her knowledge, meets the requirements of the approved plan documents, this
section and other applicable law. Certifications must be signed and sealed by
the qualified engineer making the statement. Upon receipt of the statement, and
any required town inspection, the work may be accepted, and a certificate of
completion may be issued by the town.
(Ord. 125, passed 3-13-2019) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 TERMINATION OF PERMIT/BREACH.
   (A)   For breach. A wireless telecommunications permit may be revoked for
failure to comply with the conditions of the permit, franchise, license or
applicable law. Upon revocation, the wireless telecommunications facility must
be removed within 30 days of written notice; provided that removal of support
structure owned by town, a utility or another entity authorized to maintain a
support structure in the right-of-way need not be removed, but must be restored
to its prior condition, except as specifically permitted by the town. All costs
incurred by the town in connection with the revocation and removal shall be
paid by entities who own or control any part of the wireless telecommunications
facility.
   (B)   For installation without a permit. A wireless telecommunications
facility installed without a wireless permit (except for those exempted by this
section) must be removed within 30 days of written notice; provided that
removal of support structure owned by town, a utility or another entity
authorized to maintain a support structure in the right-of-way need not be
removed, but must be restored to its prior condition, except as specifically
permitted by the town. All costs incurred by the town in connection with the
revocation and removal shall be paid by entities who own or control any part of
the wireless telecommunications facility.
   (C)   Term. A wireless permit, other than a permit issued pursuant to an
eligible facilities request, shall be valid for a period of five years. An
eligible facilities permit shall expire at the same time the permit for the
underlying existing wireless telecommunications facility expires. A person
holding a wireless telecommunications permit must either remove the wireless
telecommunications facility upon expiration (provided that removal of support
structure owned by town, a utility or another entity authorized to maintain a
support structure in the right-of-way need not be removed, but must be restored
to its prior condition, except as specifically permitted by the town); or, at
least 90 days prior to expiration, must submit an application to renew the
permit, which application must demonstrate that the impact of the wireless
telecommunications facility cannot be reduced. The wireless telecommunications
facility must remain in place until it is acted upon by the town, and any
appeals from the town’s decision are exhausted.
(Ord. 125, passed 3-13-2019) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 INFRASTRUCTURE OWNED OR CONTROLLED BY THE TOWN.
   The town may negotiate agreements for use of town owned or controlled light
standards and traffic signals in the public rights-of-way for placement of
wireless telecommunications facilities on those structures. The agreement shall
specify the compensation to the town for use of the structures. The person
seeking the agreement shall additionally reimburse the town for all costs the
town incurs in connection with its review of, and action upon, the person’s
request for an agreement.
(Ord. 125, passed 3-13-2019)
§ 111.07 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The town shall require a wireless infrastructure provider to indemnify
and hold harmless the town and its officials, officers and employees against
any loss, damage or liability to the extent that it is caused by the negligent
or willful act or omission of the wireless infrastructure provider who owns or
operates small wireless facilities or poles in the right-of-way, its agents,
officers, directors, representatives, employees, affiliates or subcontractors
or their respective officers, agents, employees, directors or representatives.
   (B)   During the period in which the facilities of a wireless infrastructure
provider are located on or attached to the town’s assets or rights-of-way, the
town may require a wireless infrastructure provider to carry, at the wireless
infrastructure provider’s sole cost and expense, the following types of third-
party insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Workers’ compensation insurance, as required by law;
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on town improvements or rights-of-way to afford protection with
limits not inconsistent with its requirements of other users of town
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage; and
      (4)   Include the town as an additional insured on the commercial general
liability policy and provide certification and documentation of inclusion of
the town in a commercial general liability policy as reasonably required by the
town.
(Ord. 125, passed 3-13-2019) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 MAKE-READY WORK.
   (A)   The town may provide a wireless infrastructure provider the option of
either having the wireless infrastructure provider perform any necessary make-
ready work through the use of qualified contractors authorized by the town, or
having the town perform any necessary make-ready work at the sole cost of the
wireless infrastructure provider.
   (B)   Upon completion of the make-ready work performed by the town at the
request of a wireless infrastructure provider, the wireless infrastructure
provider shall reimburse the town for the town’s actual and documented cost of
the make-ready work.
(Ord. 125, passed 3-13-2019) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 RIGHTS-OF-WAY REPAIR.
   A wireless infrastructure provider shall be required to promptly:
   (A)   Repair any damage to the public right-of-way or any damages to
facilities in the right-of-way directly caused by the activities of the
wireless infrastructure provider and return the right-of-way to the right-of-
way’s condition prior to the damages caused by the wireless infrastructure
provider;
   (B)   (1)   Remove and relocate the permitted small cell facility and/or
wireless support structure at the wireless infrastructure provider’s sole
expense to accommodate construction of a public improvement project by the
town.
      (2)   If the wireless infrastructure provider fails to remove or relocate
the small cell facility and/or wireless support structure or portion thereof,
as requested by the town within 120 days of the town’s notice, then the town
shall be entitled to remove the small cell facility and/or wireless support
structure, or portion thereof at the wireless infrastructure provider’s sole
cost and expense, without further notice to the wireless infrastructure
provider.
      (3)   The wireless infrastructure provider shall, within 30 days
following issuance of invoice for the same, reimburse the town for its
reasonable expenses incurred in the removal (including, without limitation,
overhead and storage expenses) of the small cell facilities and/or wireless
support structure, or portion thereof; and
   (C)   (1)   At its sole cost and expense, promptly disconnect, remove or
relocate the applicable small cell facility and/or wireless support structure
within the timeframe and in the manner required by the town if the town
reasonably determines that the disconnection, removal or relocation of any part
of a small cell facility and/or wireless support structure:
         (a)   Is necessary to protect the public health, safety, welfare or
town property; or
         (b)   The wireless infrastructure provider fails to obtain all
applicable licenses, permits and certifications required by law for its small
cell facility and/or wireless support structure.
      (2)   If the town reasonably determines that there is imminent danger to
the public, then the town may immediately disconnect, remove or relocate the
applicable small cell facility and/or wireless support structure at the
wireless infrastructure provider’s sole cost and expense.
(Ord. 125, passed 3-13-2019) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 FACILITIES NO LONGER NEEDED.
   (A)   A wireless infrastructure provider shall promptly notify the town of a
decision to remove from service a wireless facility located on a public right-
of-way.
   (B)   A wireless infrastructure provider shall remove a wireless facility
that is no longer needed for service and located on a public right-of-way at
the sole cost and expense of the wireless infrastructure provider.
   (C)   If the town concludes that a wireless facility has been abandoned in
place, the town may remove the wireless facility and invoice the wireless
infrastructure provider for the actual and documented cost incurred by the town
for removal.
   (D)   Until a wireless facility that is located on public right-of-way is
removed from the public right-of-way, a wireless infrastructure provider shall
pay all fees and charges due the town, regardless of whether a wireless
facility is operational.
(Ord. 125, passed 3-13-2019) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 SURETY BONDS.
   (A)   The town may require a surety bonding for wireless infrastructure
providers.
   (B)   The purpose of a surety bond required under division (A) above shall
be to:
      (1)   Provide for the removal of abandoned or improperly maintained small
wireless facilities, including those that the town requires to be removed to
protect public health, safety or welfare, and restore the rights-of-way; and
      (2)   Recoup rates or fees that have not been paid by a wireless
infrastructure provider, subject to 30 days prior written notice to the
wireless infrastructure provider and the opportunity to pay the rates or fees
outstanding.
(Ord. 125, passed 3-13-2019)
§ 111.12 FEES.
   (A)   The fee and fine schedule for this chapter will be set from time to
time by resolution of the Town Council.
   (B)   The following enumerations are the current fees and charges under this
section.
 
Fee Type                                 Amount
Access fee                               $270 per small wireless facility per
                                         year
Application fee
Wireless communications facilities and    
related overhead and underground wiring,  
cable,                                    
hoses, pipes and similar facilities:      
Up to 5                                  $500
Each additional                          $100
Each new pole                            $1,000
Actual cost to review applications, if
in excess of set fees
 
(Ord. 125, passed 3-13-2019; Res. 6-2019, passed - -)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a municipal
infraction and is subject to a fine of $100 per day.
(Ord. 125, passed 3-13-2019; Res. 6-2019, passed - -)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
112.01   General provisions
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Grant of franchise
   
112.04   Franchise applications
   
112.05   Filing fees
   
112.06   Provision of cable services
   
112.07   Design and construction
   
112.08   Channels and facilities for public, education and governmental use
   
112.09   Consumer protection
   
112.10   Rate regulation
   
112.11   Franchise fee
   
112.12   Reports and records
   
112.13   Insurance, surety and indemnification
   
112.14   Performance guarantees
   
112.15   Transfers
   
112.16   Open video systems
   
112.17   Rights of individuals protected
   
112.18   Theft of service
   
112.19   Administration
   
112.20   Miscellaneous provisions
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Title. The ordinance incorporated herein this chapter shall be known
and may be cited as the “Town Cable Communications Regulatory Code.”
   (B)   Effective date and repealer. This chapter shall take effect and be in
force from and after passage. All prior ordinances or parts of ordinances in
conflict with the provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed.
   (C)   Findings and purpose.
      (1)   The Town of Berwyn Heights, Maryland (“town”) finds that the
further development of cable communications may result in great benefits for
the people of the town. Cable technology is rapidly changing, and cable plays
an essential role as part of the town’s basic infrastructure. Cable television
systems occupy and extensively make use of scarce and valuable public rights-
of-way, in a manner different from the way in which the general public uses
them, and in a manner reserved primarily for those who provide essential
services to the public subject to special public interest obligations, such as
utility companies. The town finds that public convenience, safety and general
welfare can best be served by establishing regulatory powers vested in the town
or such persons as the town so designates to protect the public and to ensure
that any franchise granted is operated in the public interest.
      (2)   Further, it is recognized that cable systems have the capacity to
provide not only entertainment and information services to the town’s
residents, but can provide a variety of broadband, interactive communications
services to institutions and individuals.
      (3)   In light of the foregoing, the following goals, among others,
underlie the provisions set forth in this chapter.
         (a)   Cable service should be available to as many town residents as
possible.
         (b)   A cable system should be capable of accommodating both present
and reasonably foreseeable future cable-related needs of the town.
         (c)   A cable system should be constructed and maintained during a
franchise term so that changes in technology may be integrated to the maximum
extent possible into existing system facilities.
         (d)   A cable system should be responsive to the needs and interests
of the local community, and shall provide a diversity of information sources
and service to the public.
         (e)   A cable operator should pay fair compensation to the town for
the use of local public rights-of-way.
      (4)   The town intends that all provisions set forth in this chapter be
construed to serve the public interest and the foregoing public purposes, and
that any franchise issued pursuant to this chapter be construed to include the
foregoing findings and public purposes as integral parts thereof.
   (D)   Delegation of powers. The town may delegate the performance of any
act, duty or obligation, or the exercise of any power, under this chapter or
any franchise agreement, to any employee, officer, department or agency, except
where prohibited by applicable law.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
abbreviations shall have the meanings given herein, unless otherwise expressly
stated. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense
include the future tense; words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number include the plural number; and the
masculine gender includes the feminine gender. The words “shall” and “will” are
mandatory, and “may” is permissive. Unless otherwise expressly stated, words
not defined herein shall be given the meaning set forth in U.S.C. Title 47, as
amended, and, if not defined therein, their common and ordinary meaning.
   ACCESS CHANNEL. Any channel on a cable system set aside by a franchisee for
public, educational or governmental use.
   AFFILIATE. Any person who owns or controls, is owned or controlled by or is
under common ownership or control with a franchisee.
   BASIC SERVICE. Any service tier that includes the retransmission of local
television broadcast signals and/or public, educational and governmental access
signals.
   CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et
seq., as amended from time to time.
   CABLE SERVICE.
      (1)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
other programming services; and
      (2)   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection
or use of such video programming or other programming service.
   CABLE SYSTEM or SYSTEM.
      (1)   A facility consisting of a set of closed transmission paths and
associated signal generation, reception and control equipment that is designed
to provide cable television service which includes video programming and which
is provided to multiple subscribers within the town, but such term does not
include:
         (a)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals
of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   A facility that serves subscribers without using any public
rights-of-way;
         (c)   A facility of a common carrier which is subject, in whole or in
part, to the provisions of Title II of the Communications Act, except that such
facility shall be considered a cable system if such facility is used in the
transmission of video programming directly to subscribers;
         (d)   An open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 573; or
         (e)   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
      (2)   A reference to a cable system refers to any part thereof,
including, without limitation, converters. The foregoing definition of CABLE
SYSTEM shall not be deemed to circumscribe or limit the valid authority of the
town to regulate or franchise the activities of any other communications system
or provider of communications services to the full extent permitted by law. Any
franchise agreement shall define the services any franchisee is authorized to
use the public rights-of-way to provide.
   CHANNEL. A six megahertz (MHZ) frequency band, or equivalent capacity, which
is capable of carrying either one standard video signal, a number of audio,
digital or other non-video signals or some combination of such signals.
   CONVERTER. An electronic device which may serve as an interface between a
system and a subscriber’s television receiver or other terminal equipment, and
which may perform a variety of functions, including signal security,
descrambling, electronic polling, frequency conversion and channel selection.
   COUNCIL. The governing body of the town.
   CUSTOMER. Same as SUBSCRIBER.
   EDUCATIONAL ACCESS CHANNEL or EDUCATIONAL CHANNEL. Any channel on a cable
system set aside by a franchisee for educational use.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission, its designee or any successor
governmental entity thereto.
   FRANCHISE. A non-exclusive authorization granted pursuant to this chapter to
construct, operate and maintain a cable system along the public rights-of-way
to provide cable service within all or a specified area of the town. Any such
authorization, in whatever form granted, shall not mean or include any general
license or permit required for the privilege of transacting and carrying on a
business within the town as required by the ordinances and laws of the town, or
for attaching devices to poles or other structures, whether owned by the town
or a private entity, or for excavating or performing other work in or along
public rights-of-way.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. A contract entered into pursuant to this chapter
between the town and a franchisee that sets forth, subject to this chapter, the
terms and conditions under which a franchise will be granted and exercised.
   FRANCHISE AREA. The area of the town that a franchisee is authorized to
serve by its franchise agreement.
   FRANCHISEE. A natural person, partnership, domestic or foreign corporation,
association, joint venture or organization of any kind that has been granted a
franchise by the town.
   GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS CHANNEL or GOVERNMENTAL CHANNEL. Any channel on a cable
system set aside by a franchisee for government use.
   INSTALLATION. The connection of system services to subscribers’ television
receivers or other subscriber-owned or -provided terminal equipment.
   LEASED ACCESS CHANNEL or COMMERCIAL ACCESS CHANNEL. Any channel on a cable
system designated or dedicated for use by a person unaffiliated with the
franchisee.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the Town of Berwyn Heights, Maryland, or his or her
designee.
   NET PROFIT. The amount remaining after deducting from gross revenues all of
the actual, direct and indirect, expenses associated with operating the cable
system, including the franchise fee, interest, depreciation and federal or
state income taxes.
   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS. Those hours during which most similar businesses in
the community are open to serve customers, including some evening hours at
least one night per week and/or some weekend hours.
   NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS. Those service conditions that are within the
control of a franchisee. Conditions that are not within the control of a
franchisee include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, civil
disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages and severe weather
conditions. Conditions that are ordinarily within the control of a franchisee
include, but are not limited to, special promotions, pay-per-view events, rate
increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods and maintenance or upgrade
of a cable system.
   OVS. An open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 653, as amended.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, association, joint stock company,
organization, corporation or any lawful successor thereto or transferee
thereof, but such term does not include the town.
   PROGRAMMER. Any person or entity that produces or otherwise provides program
material or information for transmission by video, audio, digital or other
signals, either live or from recorded traces or other storage media, to users
or subscribers by means of a cable system.
   PUBLIC ACCESS CHANNEL. Any channel on a cable system set aside by a
franchisee for use by the general public, including groups and individuals, and
which is available for such use on a non-discriminatory basis.
   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The surface, the air space above the surface and the
area below the surface of any public street, highway, lane, path, alley,
sidewalk, boulevard, drive, bridge, tunnel, park, parkway, waterway, easement
or similar property within the town, which, consistent with the purposes for
which it was dedicated, may be used for the purpose of installing and
maintaining a cable system. No reference herein, or in any franchise agreement,
to a PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY shall be deemed to be a representation or guarantee by
the town that its interest or other right to control the use of such property
is sufficient to permit its use for such purposes, and a franchisee shall be
deemed to gain only those rights to use as are properly in the town and as the
town may have the undisputed right and power to give.
   SECURITY FUND. A performance bond, letter of credit or cash deposit, or any
or all of these, to the extent required by a franchise agreement.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION. Loss of picture or sound on one or more cable
channels, as described in FCC regulations as of December 1, 1998.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who legally receives any service delivered over a
cable system.
   TOWN. The Town of Berwyn Heights, Maryland, and any agency, department or
agent thereof.
   USER. A person or organization using a channel or equipment and facilities
for purposes of producing or transmitting material, as contrasted with the
receipt thereof in the capacity of a subscriber.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022)
§ 112.03 GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Grant.
      (1)   The town may grant one or more cable franchises, and each such
franchise shall be awarded in accordance with and subject to the provisions of
this chapter.
      (2)   Franchises shall be granted by action of the Town Council pursuant
to applicable law.
      (3)   No person may construct or operate a cable system without a
franchise granted by the town. No person may be granted a franchise without
having entered into a franchise agreement with the town pursuant to this
chapter.
   (B)   Term of franchise. No franchise shall be granted for a period of more
than 15 years, except that a franchisee may apply for renewal or extension
pursuant to applicable law.
   (C)   Franchise characteristics.
      (1)   A franchise authorizes use of public rights-of-way for installing
cables, wires, lines, optical fiber, underground conduit and other devices
necessary and appurtenant to the operation of a cable system to provide cable
service within a franchise area, but does not expressly or implicitly authorize
a franchisee to provide service to, or install a cable system on, private
property without owner consent (except for use of compatible easements pursuant
to § 621 of the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 541(a)(2) and common law), or to use
publicly or privately owned conduits without a separate agreement with the
owners.
      (2)   A franchise shall constitute both a right and an obligation to
provide the cable services regulated by the provisions of this chapter and the
franchise agreement.
      (3)   A franchise is non-exclusive and will not explicitly or implicitly
preclude the issuance of other franchises to operate cable systems within the
town; affect the town’s right to authorize use of public rights-of-way by other
persons to operate cable systems or for other purposes as it determines
appropriate; or affect the town’s right to itself construct, operate or
maintain a cable system, with or without a franchise.
      (4)   All privileges prescribed by a franchise shall be subordinate to
(without limitation) the town’s use and any prior lawful occupancy of the
public rights-of-way.
      (5)   The town reserves the right to reasonably designate where a
franchisee’s facilities are to be placed within the public rights-of-way and to
resolve any disputes among users of the public rights-of-way.
   (D)   Franchisee subject to other laws, police power.
      (1)   A franchisee shall, at all times, be subject to and shall comply
with all applicable federal, state and local laws. A franchisee shall, at all
times, be subject to all lawful exercise of the police power of the town,
including all rights the town may have under 47 U.S.C. § 552. Nothing in a
franchise agreement shall be deemed to waive the requirements of the various
codes and ordinances of the town regarding permits, fees to be paid or manner
of construction.
      (2)   No course of dealing between a franchisee and the town, or any
delay on the part of the town in exercising any rights hereunder, or any
acquiescence by the town in the actions of a franchisee that are in
contravention of such rights (except to the extent such rights are expressly
waived by the town) shall operate as a waiver of any such rights of the town.
      (3)   The town may from time to time issue such reasonable rules and
regulations concerning cable systems as are consistent with applicable law.
   (E)   Interpretation of franchise terms.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter and any franchise agreement will be
liberally construed in favor of the town in order to effectuate their purposes
and objectives and to promote the public interest.
      (2)   Subject to federal law or regulation, a franchise agreement will be
governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the state.
   (F)   Operation of a cable system without a franchise. Any person who
occupies the public rights-of-way of the town for the purpose of operating or
constructing a cable system or an OVS and who does not hold a valid franchise
(or other authority allowing such entity to be in the public rights-of-way to
provide video services) from the town shall nonetheless, to the extent
allowable by law, be subject to all provisions of this chapter, including, but
not limited to, its provisions regarding construction and technical standards
and franchise fees. Such person shall apply for a franchise within 30 days of
receipt of a written notice by the town that a franchise agreement is required.
The town may, in its discretion, require such person to remove its property and
restore the area to a condition satisfactory to the town within a reasonable
time period, as the town shall determine; remove the property itself and
restore the area to a satisfactory condition and charge the person the costs
therefor; and/or take any other action it is entitled to take under applicable
law, including filing for and seeking damages under trespass. In no event shall
a franchise be created unless it is issued by action of the town and subject to
a written franchise agreement.
   (G)   Acts at franchisee’s expense. Any act that a franchisee is or may be
required to perform under this chapter, a franchise agreement or applicable
law, including, but not limited to, removal, replacement or modification of the
installation of any of its facilities and restoration to town standards and
specifications of any damage or disturbance caused to the public rights-of-way
as a result of its operations or construction on its behalf, shall be performed
at the franchisee’s expense, unless expressly provided to the contrary in this
chapter, the franchise agreement or applicable law.
   (H)   Eminent domain. Nothing herein shall be deemed or construed to impair
or affect, in any way or to any extent, the town’s rights of eminent domain to
the extent to which they may apply to any public utility or cable system.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Application required.
      (1)   A written application shall be filed with the town for grant of an
initial franchise or modification of a franchise agreement pursuant to 47
U.S.C. § 545.
      (2)   To be acceptable for filing, a signed original of the application
shall be submitted together with 12 copies. The application must be accompanied
by any required application filing fee, conform to any applicable request for
proposals and contain all required information. All applications shall include
the names and addresses of persons authorized to act on behalf of all
applicants with respect to the application.
      (3)   All applications accepted for filing shall be made available by the
town for public inspection.
   (B)   Application for grant of an initial franchise.
      (1)   (a)   A person may apply for an initial franchise by submitting an
application containing the information required in division (C) below.
         (b)   Upon receipt of such an application, the town may either:
            1.   Evaluate the application pursuant to division (B)(3) below,
conducting such investigations as it deems necessary; or
            2.   Issue a request for proposals (“RFP”), after conducting, if
necessary, a proceeding to identify the future cable-related needs and
interests of the community.
         (c)   Any such RFP shall be mailed to the person requesting its
issuance and made available to any other interested party. The RFP may contain
a proposed franchise agreement.
      (2)   An applicant shall respond to a RFP by filing an application within
the time directed by the town, providing the information and material set forth
in division (C) below. The procedures, instructions and requirements set forth
in the RFP shall be followed by each applicant. Any applicant that has already
filed materials pursuant to division (B)(1) above need not refile the same
materials with its RFP response, but must amplify its application to include
any additional or different materials required by the RFP. The town, or its
designee, may seek additional information from any applicant and establish
deadlines for the submission of such information.
      (3)   In evaluating an application for a franchise, the town shall
consider, among other things, the following factors:
         (a)   The extent to which the applicant has substantially complied
with the applicable law and the material terms of any existing cable franchise
for the town;
         (b)   Whether the quality of the applicant’s service under any
existing franchise in the town, including signal quality, response to customer
complaints, billing practices and the like, has been reasonable in light of the
needs and interests of the communities served;
         (c)   Whether the applicant has the financial, technical and legal
qualifications to provide cable service;
         (d)   Whether the application satisfies any minimum requirements
established by the town and is otherwise reasonable to meet the future cable-
related needs and interests of the community, taking into account the cost of
meeting such needs and interests;
         (e)   Whether, to the extent not considered under division (B)(3)(d)
above, the applicant will provide adequate public, educational and governmental
access channel capacity, facilities or financial support;
         (f)   Whether issuance of a franchise is warranted in the public
interest considering the immediate and future effect on the public rights-of-
way and private property that would be used by the cable system, including the
extent to which installation or maintenance as planned would require
replacement of property or involve disruption of property, public services or
use of the public rights-of-way; the effect of granting a franchise on the
ability of cable to meet the cable-related needs and interests of the
community; and the comparative superiority or inferiority of competing
applications; and
         (g)   What effects a grant of the application may have on competition
in the delivery of cable service in the town.
      (4)   If the town finds that it is in the public interest to issue a
franchise considering, without limitation, the factors set forth above, and
subject to the applicant’s entry into an appropriate franchise agreement, it
shall issue a franchise. If the town denies a franchise, it will issue a
written decision explaining why the franchise was denied. Prior to deciding
whether or not to issue a franchise, the town may hold one or more public
hearings or implement other procedures under which comments from the public on
an application may be received. The town also may grant or deny a request for a
franchise based on its review of an application without further proceedings and
may reject any application that is incomplete or fails to respond to an RFP.
This chapter is not intended and shall not be interpreted to grant any party
standing to challenge the denial of an application or the issuance of a
franchise unless such standing is necessary to enforce a party’s rights under
its franchise agreement or applicable law.
   (C)   Contents of application. An RFP for the grant of an initial franchise
shall require, and any such application shall contain, at a minimum, the
following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant and identification of the
ownership and control of the applicant, including the names and addresses of
the ten largest holders of an ownership interest in the applicant and
affiliates of the applicant, and all persons with 5% or more ownership interest
in the applicant and its affiliates; the persons who control the applicant and
its affiliates; all officers and directors of the applicant and its affiliates;
and any other business affiliation and cable system ownership interest of each
named person;
      (2)   A demonstration of the applicant’s technical ability to construct
and/or operate the proposed cable system, including identification of key
personnel;
      (3)   (a)   A demonstration of the applicant’s legal qualifications to
construct and/or operate the proposed cable system, including, but not limited
to, the following factors.
            1.   The town shall consider whether an applicant has had previous
requests for a franchise denied by the town or other franchising authorities.
            2.   The applicant must have the necessary authority under state
law to operate a cable system.
            3.   The applicant must have the necessary authority under federal
law to hold the franchise and operate a cable system. An applicant must have,
or show that it is qualified to obtain, any necessary federal franchises or
waivers required to operate the system proposed.
            4.   The town shall consider whether, at any time during the ten
years preceding the submission of the application, the applicant was convicted
of any act or omission of such character that the applicant cannot be relied
upon to deal truthfully with the town and the subscribers of the cable system,
or to substantially comply with its lawful obligations under applicable law,
including obligations under consumer protection laws and laws prohibiting
anticompetitive acts, fraud, racketeering or other similar conduct.
            5.   The town shall consider whether an applicant files materially
misleading information in its application or intentionally withholds
information that the applicant lawfully is required to provide.
            6.   The town shall consider whether any elected official of the
town holds a controlling interest in the applicant or an affiliate of the
applicant.
         (b)   The town shall provide an opportunity to an applicant to show
that it would be inappropriate to deny it a franchise by virtue of the
particular circumstances surrounding the matter and the steps taken by the
applicant to cure all harms flowing therefrom and prevent their recurrence, the
lack of involvement of the applicant’s principals or the remoteness of the
matter from the operation of cable systems.
      (4)   A demonstration of financial qualifications to complete the
construction and operation of the cable system proposed;
      (5)   A description of any prior experience in cable system ownership,
construction and operation, and identification of communities in which the
applicant or any of its principals have, or have had, a cable franchise or any
interest therein;
      (6)   Identification of the area of the town to be served by the proposed
cable system, including a description of the proposed franchise area’s
boundaries;
      (7)   A detailed description of the physical facilities proposed,
including channel capacity, technical design, performance characteristics,
headend and access facilities;
      (8)   Where applicable, a description of the construction of the proposed
system, including an estimate of plant mileage and its location; the proposed
construction schedule; and a description, where appropriate, of how services
will be converted from existing facilities to new facilities;
      (9)   A demonstration of how the applicant will reasonably meet the
future cable-related needs and interests of the community, including public,
educational and governmental access channel capacity, facilities or financial
support to meet the community’s needs and interests;
      (10)   If necessary at the town’s discretion, pro forma financial
projections for the proposed franchise term, including a statement of projected
income, and a schedule of planned capital additions, with all significant
assumptions explained in notes or supporting schedules;
      (11)   Any other information that may be reasonably necessary to
demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this chapter;
      (12)   Any additional information that the town may reasonably request of
the applicant that is relevant to the town’s consideration of the application;
      (13)   An affidavit or declaration of the applicant or authorized officer
certifying the truth and accuracy of the information in the application,
acknowledging the enforceability of application commitments and certifying that
the application meets all federal and state law requirements; and
      (14)   The town may, at its discretion and upon request of an applicant,
waive in writing the provision of any of the information required by this
division (C).
   (D)   Application for grant of a renewal franchise. The renewal of any
franchise to provide cable service shall be conducted in a manner consistent
with § 626 of the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 546, as from time to time amended.
   (E)   Application for modification of a franchise. An application for
modification of a franchise agreement shall include, at minimum, the following
information:
      (1)   The specific modification requested;
      (2)   The justification for the requested modification, including the
impact of the requested modification on subscribers and others, and the
financial impact on the applicant if the modification is approved or
disapproved, demonstrated through, inter alia, submission of financial pro
formas;
      (3)   A statement whether the modification is sought pursuant to § 625 of
the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 545, and, if so, a demonstration that the requested
modification meets the standards set forth in 47 U.S.C. § 545;
      (4)   Any other information that the applicant believes is necessary for
the town to make an informed determination on the application for modification;
and
      (5)   An affidavit or declaration of the applicant or authorized officer
certifying the truth and accuracy of the information in the application, and
certifying that the application is consistent with all federal and state law
requirements.
   (F)   Public hearings. An applicant shall be notified of any public hearings
held in connection with the evaluation of its application and shall be given an
opportunity to be heard. In addition, prior to the issuance of a franchise, the
town shall provide for the holding of a public hearing within the proposed
franchise area, following reasonable notice to the public, at which every
applicant and its applications shall be examined and the public and all
interested parties afforded a reasonable opportunity to be heard.
   (G)   Acceptance of franchise. Following approval by the town, any franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter, and the rights, privileges and authority
granted by a franchise agreement, shall take effect and be in force from and
after the first date on which both the franchisee and the town have accepted
and signed the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 FILING FEES.
   (A)   To be acceptable for filing, any application of the type listed below
submitted after the effective date of this chapter shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable filing fee, payable to the town, to cover costs incidental to the
awarding or enforcement of the franchise, as appropriate:
      (1)   Application for an initial franchise or for issuance of an RFP;
      (2)   Application for renewal of a franchise;
      (3)   Application for modification of a franchise agreement; and
      (4)   Application for approval of a transfer.
   (B)   To the extent consistent with applicable law:
      (1)   The town may require the franchisee, or, where applicable, a
transferor or transferee, to reimburse the town for its reasonable out-of-
pocket expenses in considering the application, including consultants’ fees;
and
      (2)   No payments made hereunder shall be considered a franchise fee, but
fall within one or more of the exceptions in 47 U.S.C. § 542(g)(2).
(Ord. 106, passed 3-10-1999; Ord. 179, passed 8-14-2019) Penalty, see §
112.99
Cross-reference:
Comprehensive fee and fine schedules, see §
30.01
§ 112.06 PROVISION OF CABLE SERVICES.
   (A)   Availability of cable service. A franchisee shall construct and
operate its system so as to provide service to all parts of its franchise area
having a density of at least 20 residences per mile of system. In addition, all
areas which reach such density, at any time, during the franchise term shall be
provided service upon reaching the minimum density.
   (B)   Line extension requirement.
      (1)   Except as federal law may otherwise require and, subject to the
minimum density requirement specified in division (A) above, a franchisee
shall, upon request:
         (a)   Extend its trunk and distribution system to any subscriber
located within 250 feet of a main distribution cable located in the public
rights-of-way at its standard installation charge, unless the franchisee
demonstrates to the town’s satisfaction that extraordinary circumstances exist;
and
         (b)   Extend its trunk and distribution system to any potential
subscriber outside the 250-foot limit; provided that the franchisee may charge
the potential subscriber for the cost of the actual length of the installed
drop, or the shortest distance to the point where the franchisee would be
required to extend its distribution system, whichever is shorter, except where
the franchisee has demonstrated to the town’s satisfaction that extraordinary
circumstances exist.
      (2)   In areas where the minimum density requirement is not met or where
extraordinary circumstances exist, a franchisee shall, upon request, extend its
cable system to a potential subscriber; provided that the subscriber shall pay
the additional extension costs.
   (C)   Cost sharing.
      (1)   ADDITIONAL EXTENSION COSTS, as used in division (B) above, shall
mean a subscriber’s pro rata share of: a franchisee’s total construction costs
at the actual density of affected potential subscribers, less the total
construction costs that the franchisee would incur if it were extending its
system to make service available to the same number of potential subscribers at
a density of 20 residences per mile.
      (2)   TOTAL CONSTRUCTION COSTS are defined for purposes of this division
(C) as the actual turnkey cost to construct the entire extension, including
electronics, pole make-ready charges and labor, but not the cost of the house
drop.
   (D)   Continuity of service.
      (1)   It is the right of all subscribers in the franchise area to receive
all available services from a franchisee, as those services become available,
as long as their financial and other obligations to the franchisee are
satisfied.
      (2)   A franchisee shall ensure that all subscribers receive continuous
uninterrupted service. At the town’s request, a franchisee shall, as trustee
for its successor in interest, operate its system for a temporary period (the
“transition period”) following the termination, sale or transfer of its
franchise as necessary to maintain service to subscribers, and shall cooperate
with the town to assure an orderly transition from it to another franchisee.
      (3)   During such transition period, a franchisee shall not sell any of
the system assets, nor make any physical, material, administrative or
operational change that would tend to reduce the quality of service to
subscribers, decrease the system’s income or materially increase expenses
without the express permission, in writing, of the town.
      (4)   The town may seek legal and/or equitable relief to enforce the
provisions of this section.
      (5)   The transition period shall be no longer than the reasonable period
required to ensure that cable service will be available to subscribers, and
shall not be longer than 36 months, unless extended by the town for good cause.
During the transition period, a franchisee will continue to be obligated to
comply with the terms and conditions of the agreement and applicable laws and
regulations.
      (6)   If a franchisee abandons its system during the franchise term or
fails to operate its system in accordance with the terms of its franchise
agreement during any transition period, the town, at its option, may operate
the system, designate another entity to operate the system temporarily until
the franchisee restores service under conditions acceptable to the town or
until the franchise is revoked and a new franchisee selected by the town is
providing service or obtain an injunction requiring the franchisee to continue
operations. If the town is required to operate or designate another entity to
operate the cable system, the franchisee shall reimburse the town, or its
designee, for all reasonable costs and damages incurred that are in excess of
the revenues from the cable system.
      (7)   A franchisee shall forfeit its rights to notice and hearing, and
the Town Council may, by resolution, declare its franchise immediately
terminated, in addition to any other relief or remedies it may have under its
franchise agreement, this chapter or other applicable law, if:
         (a)   The franchisee fails to provide cable service in accordance with
its franchise over a substantial portion of the franchise area for 96
consecutive hours, unless the town authorizes a longer interruption of service
or the failure is due to force majeure as characterized in its franchise
agreement; or
         (b)   The franchisee, for any period, willfully and without cause
refuses to provide cable service in accordance with its franchise over a
substantial portion of the franchise area.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   System construction schedule. Every franchise agreement shall specify
the construction schedule that will apply to any required construction, upgrade
or rebuild of the cable system.
   (B)   Construction procedures.
      (1)   A franchisee shall construct, operate and maintain its cable system
in strict compliance with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations, including, but not limited to, the National Electrical Safety Code
and the National Fire Protection Association National Electrical Code, as such
may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   The system, and all parts thereof, shall be subject to the right of
periodic inspection by the town.
      (3)   No construction, reconstruction, installation or relocation of the
system or any part thereof within the public rights-of-way shall be commenced
until all applicable written permits have been obtained from the proper town
officials. In any permit so issued, such officials may impose such conditions
and regulations as a condition of the granting of the permit as are necessary
for the purpose of protecting any structures in the public rights-of-way and
for the proper restoration of such public rights-of-way and structures, and for
the protection of the public and the continuity of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic.
      (4)   A franchisee shall, by a time specified by the town, protect,
support, temporarily disconnect, relocate or remove any of its property when
required by the town by reason of traffic conditions; public safety; public
right-of-way construction; public right-of-way maintenance or repair (including
resurfacing or widening); change of public right-of-way grade; construction,
installation or repair of sewers, drains, water pipes, power lines, signal
lines, tracks or any other type of government owned communications system,
public work or improvement or any government-owned utility; public right-of-way
vacation; or for any other purpose where the convenience of the town would be
served thereby; provided, however, that a franchisee shall, in all such cases,
have the privilege of abandoning any property in place, after obtaining
permission from the town.
      (5)   If any removal, relaying or relocation is required to accommodate
the construction, operation or repair of the facilities of another person that
is authorized to use the public rights-of-way, a franchisee shall, after
reasonable advance written notice, take action to effect the necessary changes
requested by the responsible entity. The town may resolve disputes as to
responsibility for costs associated with the removal, relaying or relocation of
facilities as among entities authorized to install facilities in the public
rights-of-way if the parties are unable to do so themselves, and if the matter
is not governed by a valid contract between the parties or a state or federal
law or regulation.
      (6)   In the event of an emergency, or where a cable system creates or is
contributing to an imminent danger to health, safety or property, the town may
remove, relay or relocate any or all parts of that cable system without prior
notice.
      (7)   A franchisee shall, on the request of any person holding a building
moving permit issued by the town, temporarily raise or lower its wires to
permit the moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary removal or
raising or lowering of wires shall be paid by the person requesting same, and a
franchisee shall have the authority to require such payment in advance, except
in the case where the requesting person is the town, in which case no such
payment shall be required. A franchisee shall be given not less than 72 hours’
advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
      (8)   A franchisee shall participate in any “Ms. Utility” program active
in its franchise area with regard to giving and receiving notice of the
location of facilities and excavations.
   (C)   Restoration.
      (1)   Any and all public rights-of-way, public property or private
property that is disturbed or damaged during the construction, repair,
replacement, relocation, operation, maintenance or construction of a cable
system shall be repaired, replaced and restored, as appropriate, in
substantially the same condition and in a good, workpersonlike, timely manner,
in accordance with the standards for such work set by the town.
      (2)   With respect to damage or disturbances to public rights-of-way or
public property, all repairs and restoration shall be performed in accordance
with applicable law. All repairs, replacements and restoration shall be
undertaken within no more than 30 days after the damage is incurred, and shall
be completed as soon as reasonably possible thereafter.
      (3)   A franchisee shall guarantee and maintain such restoration for at
least one year against defective materials or workpersonship.
   (D)   Use of public property.
      (1)   Should the grades or lines of the public rights-of-way that the
franchisee is authorized by a franchise to use and occupy be changed at any
time during the term of a franchise, the franchisee shall, if necessary,
relocate or change its system so as to conform with the new grades or lines.
      (2)   Any alteration to the water mains, sewerage or drainage system or
to any town, state or other public structures in the public rights-of-way
required on account of the presence of a franchisee’s system in the public
rights-of-way shall be made at the sole cost and expense of the franchisee.
During any work of constructing, operating or maintaining of a system, the
franchisee shall also protect any and all existing structures belonging to the
town and any other person. All work performed by the franchisee shall be done
in the manner prescribed by the town or other officials having jurisdiction
therein.
   (E)   Interference with public projects. Nothing in this chapter or any
franchise agreement shall be in preference or hindrance to the right of the
town and any board, authority, commission or public service corporation to
perform or carry on any public works or public improvements of any description,
and should a franchisee’s system in any way interfere with the construction,
maintenance or repair of such public works or public improvements, the
franchisee shall protect or relocate its system, or part thereof, as reasonably
directed by any town official, board, authority, commission or public service
corporation.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 CHANNELS AND FACILITIES FOR PUBLIC, EDUCATION AND GOVERNMENTAL USE.
   (A)   Management of channels.
      (1)   The town may designate one or more entities, including a non-profit
access management corporation, to perform any or all of the following
functions:
         (a)   To manage any necessary scheduling or allocation of capacity on
the Institutional Network; and/or
         (b)   On the town’s behalf, to program any public, educational or
governmental access channel.
      (2)   Educational and public access channels shall not be managed by the
same entity; provided, however, that until such entities have been designated,
the town shall be responsible for these functions.
   (B)   Public access programming rules. For any public access channel, the
entity managing such channel shall establish:
      (1)   Rules that prohibit the presentation of any advertising material
designed to promote the sale of commercial products or services (including
advertising by or on behalf of candidates for public office), lottery
information and obscene matter;
      (2)   Rules requiring first-come, nondiscriminatory access; and
      (3)   Rules permitting public inspection of the complete record of the
names and addresses of all persons and groups requesting access time. Such a
record shall be retained for a period of two years.
   (C)   Use of access channels. Governmental access channel(s) shall be for
the noncommercial use of the town and/or other governmental entities.
Educational access channel(s) shall be for the noncommercial use of the
educational community.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 CONSUMER PROTECTION.
   (A)   General provisions. This section sets forth customer service standards
that a franchisee must satisfy. In addition, the franchisee shall, at all
times, satisfy any additional or stricter requirements established by FCC
regulations, or other applicable federal, state or local law or regulation, as
the same may be amended from time to time.
      (1)   Nothing in this chapter may be construed to prevent or prohibit:
         (a)   The town and a franchisee from agreeing to customer service
requirements that exceed the standards set forth in this chapter;
         (b)   The town from enforcing, through the end of a franchise term,
pre-existing customer service requirements that exceed the standards set forth
in this chapter and are contained in current franchise agreements;
         (c)   The town from enacting or enforcing any customer service or
consumer protection laws or regulations; or
         (d)   The town from waiving, for good cause, requirements established
in this section.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter in any way relieves a franchisee of its
obligation to comply with other applicable consumer protection laws and its
franchise agreement.
   (B)   Installations, connections and other franchisee services.
      (1)   Installation of drops. A subscriber’s preference as to the point of
entry into a residence shall be observed whenever feasible. Runs in building
interiors shall be as unobtrusive as possible. A franchisee shall use due care
in the process of installation and shall repair any damage to a subscriber’s
property caused by said installation. Such restoration shall be undertaken
within 30 days after the damage is incurred and shall be completed as soon as
reasonably possible thereafter.
      (2)   Location of drops. In locations where a franchisee’s system must be
underground, drops must be placed underground as well. In all cases where new
developments and subdivisions are to be constructed and to be served in whole
or in part by underground power and telephone utilities, the owner or developer
of such areas shall provide reasonable notice to the franchisee of the
availability of trenches, backfill and specifications of all necessary
substructures in order that the franchisee may install all necessary cable
facilities. In no event shall such undergrounding be at any cost or expense to
the town.
      (3)   Time for extension/installation. Where a franchisee is required
under §
112.06 to provide service to a person that resides within 250 feet from the
franchisee’s distribution system, the franchisee must provide such service
within seven business days of the person’s request. If the person resides more
than 125 feet from the franchisee’s distribution system, the town may waive
this seven-day requirement upon a showing of good cause by the franchisee and
provided the franchisee specifies the time period within which service will be
provided. This standard shall be met 95% of the time, measured on a quarterly
basis.
      (4)   Antennas and antenna switches. A franchisee shall adhere to FCC
regulations regarding antenna switches. A franchisee shall not, as a condition
to providing cable service, require any subscriber or potential subscriber to
remove any existing antenna structures for the receipt of over-the-air
television signals.
      (5)   Delinquent accounts. A franchisee shall use its best efforts to
collect on delinquent subscriber accounts before terminating service. In all
cases, the franchisee shall provide the customer with at least ten working
days’ written notice prior to disconnection.
   (C)   Telephone and office availability.
      (1)   Each franchisee shall maintain offices at convenient locations
within the county, as specified in its franchise agreement, that shall be open
during normal business hours to allow subscribers to request service, pay bills
and conduct other business.
      (2)   Each franchisee will maintain at least one local, toll-free or
collect call telephone access line which will be available to subscribers 24
hours a day, seven days a week. Trained representatives of a franchisee shall
be available to respond to subscriber telephone inquiries during normal
business hours.
      (3)   Each franchisee shall be subject to the following standards, except
that such franchisee shall not be subject to penalty as long as it meets such
standards under normal operating conditions at least 90% of the time, measured
quarterly.
         (a)   Telephone answering time shall not exceed 30 seconds, and the
time to transfer the call to a customer service representative (including hold
time) shall not exceed an additional 30 seconds.
         (b)   A customer will receive a busy signal less than 3% of the time.
         (c)   When the business office is closed, an answering service where a
person receives and records service complaints and inquiries shall be employed.
Inquiries received after hours must be responded to by a trained representative
of a franchisee on the next business day. To the extent possible, the after-
hours answering service shall comply with the same telephone answer time
standard set forth in this section.
      (4)   In any case, at all times, a franchisee shall provide an answering
machine so that callers will have the option to leave messages.
      (5)   A franchisee must hire sufficient competent customer service
representatives and repair technicians so that it can adequately respond to
customer inquiries, complaints and requests for service in its office, over the
phone and at a subscriber’s residence; provide prompt and effective service to
subscribers; and, as a rule, complete repairs within a subscriber’s home upon a
single visit.
   (D)   Scheduling and completing service. Under normal operating conditions,
each of the following standards shall be met by all franchisees at least 95% of
the time, as measured on a quarterly basis.
      (1)   Prompt service. Excluding conditions beyond the control of the
franchisee, repairs and maintenance for service interruptions must begin
promptly and in no event later than 24 hours after the subscriber reports the
problem to the franchisee or its representative or the interruption or need for
repairs otherwise becomes known to the franchisee. All such work must be
completed within three days from the date of the initial request, except
installation requests; provided that a franchisee shall complete the work in
the shortest time possible where, for reasons beyond the franchisee’s control,
the work could not be completed in those time periods even with the exercise of
all due diligence; the failure of a franchisee to hire sufficient staff or to
properly train its staff shall not justify a franchisee’s failure to comply
with this provision.
      (2)   Service times. Each franchisee shall perform service calls,
installations and disconnects at least during normal business hours. In
addition, maintenance service capability enabling the prompt location and
correction of major system malfunctions shall be available Monday through
Friday from the end of normal business hours until 12:30 a.m. and from 8:00
a.m. until 12:30 a.m. on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
      (3)   Appointments. The appointment window for installations, service
calls and other installation activities will be either a specific time or, at
maximum, a two-hour time block during normal business hours, or such greater
time as the town may authorize. Where a subscriber cannot conveniently arrange
for a service call or installation during normal business hours, a franchisee
shall also schedule service and installation calls outside normal business
hours for the express convenience of the subscriber.
      (4)   Cancellations. A franchisee may not cancel an appointment with a
subscriber after the close of business on the business day preceding the
appointment. If a franchisee’s representative is running late for an
appointment with a subscriber and will not be able to keep the appointment as
scheduled, the subscriber will be contacted and the appointment rescheduled, as
necessary, at a time which is convenient for the subscriber.
      (5)   Emergency maintenance. A franchisee shall keep an emergency system
maintenance and repair staff, capable of responding to and repairing system
malfunctions or interruptions, on a 24-hour basis.
      (6)   Other inquiries. Under normal operating conditions, billing
inquiries and requests for service, repair and maintenance not involving
service interruptions must be acknowledged by a trained customer service
representative within 24 hours, or prior to the end of the next business day,
whichever is earlier. A franchisee shall respond to all other inquiries within
five business days of the inquiry or complaint.
      (7)   Missed appointment. If a subscriber experiences a missed
appointment due to the fault of a franchisee, the franchisee shall credit the
subscriber’s account $20 for each missed appointment or grant the subscriber
such other equivalent remedy as the subscriber and franchisee may agree. This
is in addition to any other penalties or liquidated damages.
      (8)   Pick-up or replacement. Upon subscriber request, each franchisee
shall arrange for pick-up and/or replacement of converters or other franchisee
equipment at the subscriber’s address or by a satisfactory equivalent (such as
the provision of a postage-prepaid mailer). At a subscriber’s request, a
franchisee shall make such pick-up or replacement at the same time as any
disconnection or other related service call, so as to avoid an additional
visit. If a franchisee charges a fee for such pick-up or replacement, such fee
shall be clearly disclosed at the time of the subscriber’s request.
   (E)   Interruptions of service.
      (1)   A franchisee shall, when practicable, schedule and conduct
maintenance on its cable system so that interruption of service is minimized
and occurs during periods of minimum subscriber use of the cable system. The
franchisee shall provide reasonable prior notice to subscribers and the town
before interrupting service for planned maintenance or construction, except
where such interruption is expected to be one hour or less in duration. Such
notice shall be provided by methods reasonably calculated to give subscribers
actual notice of the planned interruption.
      (2)   A franchisee may intentionally interrupt service on the cable
system after 7:00 a.m. and before 1:00 a.m. only with good cause and for the
shortest time possible and, except in emergency situations, only after
publishing notice of service interruption at least 24 hours in advance of the
service interruption. Service may be intentionally interrupted between 1:00
a.m. and 7:00 a.m. for routine testing, maintenance and repair, without
notification, any night except Friday, Saturday or Sunday or the night
preceding a holiday.
   (F)   Notice to subscribers.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided for herein, a franchisee shall provide
the following materials to each subscriber at the time cable service is
installed, at least annually thereafter, and at any time upon request. Copies
of all such materials provided to subscribers shall also be provided to the
town:
         (a)   A written description of products and services offered,
including a schedule of rates and charges; a list of channel positions; and a
description of programming services, options and conditions;
         (b)   A written description of the franchisee’s installation and
service maintenance policies, delinquent subscriber disconnect and reconnect
procedures and any other of its policies applicable to its subscribers;
         (c)   Written instructions on how to use the cable service;
         (d)   Written instructions for placing a service call;
         (e)   A written description of the franchisee’s billing and complaint
procedures, including the address and telephone number of the town office
responsible for receiving subscriber complaints;
         (f)   A copy of the service contract, if any (at installation or on
request, but need not be provided annually);
         (g)   Notice regarding subscribers’ privacy rights pursuant to 47
U.S.C. § 551; and
         (h)   Notice of the availability of universal remote controls and
other compatible equipment (a list of which, specifying brands and models,
shall be provided to any subscriber upon request).
      (2)   Subscribers will be notified of any changes in rates, programming
services or channel positions and any significant changes in any other
information required to be provided by this section, as soon as possible in
writing, unless such notice is waived by operation of applicable law. Notice
must be given to subscribers a minimum of 30 days in advance of such changes if
the change is within the control of the cable operator. Notwithstanding the
above, a cable operator shall not be required to provide prior notice of any
rate change that is the result of a regulatory fee, franchise fee or any other
fee, tax, assessment or charge of any kind imposed by any federal agency, state
or franchising authority on the transaction between the operator and the
subscriber.
      (3)   All franchisee promotional materials, announcements and advertising
of residential cable service to subscribers and the general public, where price
information is listed in any manner, shall clearly and accurately disclose
price terms. In the case of pay-per-view or pay-per-event programming, all
promotional materials must clearly and accurately disclose price terms and in
the case of telephone orders, a franchisee shall take appropriate steps to
ensure that price terms are clearly and accurately disclosed to potential
customers before the order is accepted.
      (4)   Copies of all notices provided to subscribers under these customer
service standards, as well as all promotional or special offers made to
subscribers, and of any agreements used with subscribers, shall be filed
promptly with the town.
   (G)   Billing.
      (1)   Bills shall be clear, concise and understandable. Bills must be
fully itemized with itemizations, including, but not limited to, basic service,
cable programming service and premium service charges and all equipment
charges. Bills shall clearly delineate all activity during the billing period,
including optional charges, rebates and credits.
      (2)   Refund checks to subscribers shall be issued promptly, but no later
than the later of - -:
         (a)   The subscriber’s next billing cycle, or 30 days, following
resolution of the refund request, whichever is earlier; or
         (b)   The return of all equipment supplied by the franchisee, if
service is terminated.
      (3)   Credits for service shall be issued no later than the subscriber’s
next billing cycle following the determination that a credit is warranted.
      (4)   A franchisee’s first billing statement after a new installation or
service change shall be prorated as appropriate and shall reflect any security
deposit.
      (5)   Late fees will not be assessed for payments after the due date
until 45 days after the beginning of the service period for which the payment
is to be rendered. In addition, subscribers will receive the benefit of any
change in the late fee amount, and of any increases in the time allowed before
assessment of late fees, that may result from litigation over late fees pending
as of the effective date of this chapter.
      (6)   A franchisee must notify the subscriber that he or she can remit
payment in person at the franchisee’s business office and inform the subscriber
of the address of that office.
      (7)   Subscribers shall not be charged a late fee or otherwise penalized
for any failure by a franchisee, including failure to timely or correctly bill
the subscriber or failure to properly credit the subscriber for a payment
timely made.
      (8)   (a)   A subscriber who asks a franchisee for credit for an outage
shall receive credit for the actual time period of the outage as a pro rata
fraction of the monthly charges for any outage lasting between two and six
hours, without reference to the time the subscriber contacts the franchisee. A
subscriber shall receive credit for one full day’s monthly charges for any
outage of between six and 24 hours, whether or not the subscriber reports such
an outages, if the franchisee becomes aware of such outages, either through
reports by subscribers or otherwise.
         (b)   Each franchisee shall place a message in subscribers’ bills at
least quarterly, explaining how to report an outage, how to obtain a credit and
under what conditions credits are available. A franchisee shall also establish
a mechanism by which subscribers may reliably and immediately contact the
franchisee by telephone and report an outage for credit purposes, either by
ensuring that they can reliably and immediately reach a live person or by
another method (for example, by leaving a voice message or entering the
subscriber’s telephone number).
         (c)   Upon receiving such reports, the franchisee shall promptly
contact the subscriber to confirm that the report has been received, and apply
the credit to the subscriber’s bill unless the franchisee reasonably concludes
that the subscriber’s report is false.
      (9)   Franchisee shall respond to all written billing complaints from
subscribers within 30 days.
   (H)   Disconnection/downgrades.
      (1)   A subscriber may terminate service at any time.
      (2)   A franchisee shall promptly disconnect or downgrade any subscriber.
No period of notice prior to voluntary termination or downgrade of service may
be required of subscribers by any franchisee. So long as the subscriber
returns, or permits the franchisee to retrieve, any equipment necessary to
receive a service within five business days of the disconnection, no charge may
be imposed by any franchisee for any cable service delivered after the date of
the disconnect request.
      (3)   A subscriber may be asked, but not required, to disconnect a
franchisee’s equipment and return it to the business office.
      (4)   Any funds due the subscriber shall be refunded on disconnected
accounts after any customer premises equipment provided by the franchisee has
been recovered by the franchisee. The refund must be made within 30 days or by
the end of the next billing cycle, whichever is earlier, from the date
disconnection was requested (or, if later, the date on which any customer
premises equipment provided by the franchisee is returned).
      (5)   If a subscriber fails to pay a monthly subscriber fee or other fee
or charge, a franchisee may disconnect the subscriber’s service; however, such
disconnection shall not be effected until at least 45 days after the bill is
due, plus at least ten days’ advance written notice to the subscriber in
question of intent to disconnect, but in no event before the date when the
franchisee would be entitled to charge a late fee. If the subscriber pays all
amounts due, including late charges, before the date scheduled for
disconnection, the franchisee shall not disconnect service. After
disconnection, upon payment by the subscriber in full of all proper fees or
charges, including the payment of the reconnection charge, if any, the
franchisee shall promptly reinstate service.
      (6)   A franchisee may immediately disconnect a subscriber if the
subscriber is damaging or destroying the franchisee’s cable system or
equipment. After disconnection, the franchisee shall restore service after the
subscriber provides adequate assurance that it has ceased the practices that
led to disconnection and paid all proper fees and charges, including any
reconnect fees and amounts owed the franchisee for damage to its cable system
or equipment.
      (7)   A franchisee may also disconnect a subscriber that causes signal
leakage in excess of federal limits. A franchisee may disconnect a subscriber
without notice where signal leakage is detected originating from the
subscriber’s premises in excess of federal limits; provided that the franchisee
shall immediately notify the subscriber of the problem and, once the problem is
corrected, reconnect the subscriber.
      (8)   The disposition of cable home wiring in residential single-family
homes shall be governed by FCC rules regarding cable home wiring as of December
1, 1998.
      (9)   A franchisee shall reconnect service to customers wishing
restoration of service; provided such a customer shall first satisfy any
previous obligations owed.
   (I)   Changes in service.
      (1)   At the time a franchisee alters the service it provides to a class
of subscribers, it must provide each subscriber 30 days’ notice, explain the
substance and full effect of the alteration and provide the subscriber the
right to opt to receive any combination of services thereafter offered by
franchisee.
      (2)   No charge may be made for any service or product that the
subscriber has not affirmatively indicated it wishes to receive.
   (J)   Parental control option. A franchisee shall make available to any
subscribers upon request the option of blocking the video or audio portion of
any channel or channels of programming entering the subscriber’s home. The
control option described herein shall be made available to all subscribers
requesting it when any cable service is provided, or reasonably soon
thereafter.
   (K)   Enforcement.
      (1)   A franchisee shall keep such records as are necessary to show
compliance with these customer service standards and FCC customer service
standards. The town shall have the right to observe and inspect a franchisee’s
customer service procedures.
      (2)   Except as prohibited by federal law, a franchisee shall be subject
to penalties, forfeitures and any other remedies or sanctions available under
federal, state or local law, including, without limitation, this chapter and a
franchisee’s franchise with the town, if it fails to comply with the standards
herein.
      (3)   A franchisee shall not be subject to penalties or liquidated
damages as a result of any violations of these customer service standards that
are due to force majeure as characterized in its franchise agreement.
   (L)   Anticompetitive acts prohibited.
      (1)   No franchisee or OVS operator shall demand the exclusive right to
provide cable service to a person or location as a condition of extending cable
service or a cable system. This provision is not intended and shall not be
interpreted:
         (a)   To prohibit voluntary exclusive agreements to provide cable
service;
         (b)   To create any private cause of action for any person; or
         (c)   To prohibit exclusive agreements permitted by federal law.
      (2)   No franchisee or OVS operator shall engage in unfair methods of
competition or unfair or deceptive acts or practices, the purpose or effect of
which is to hinder significantly or to prevent any multichannel video
programming distributor, as defined in federal law, from providing cable
service or services similar to cable service in the town. This provision does
not apply to methods, acts or practices allowed by federal or state law. Any
allegation that a franchisee has engaged in methods, acts or practices that
would be prohibited by this division (L)(2) will be considered by the town only
after exhaustion of federal remedies. This division (L)(2) is not intended to
create a private cause of action.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 RATE REGULATION.
   (A)   General authority. The town reserves the right to regulate all rates
and charges except to the extent it is prohibited from doing so by law.
[Rules for review of rate filings are currently in effect in Berwyn Heights (§
112.19). It will be necessary to preserve those existing rules, pending any
amendment. Thus, any general repealer when this chapter is adopted should
exclude the currently existing rate regulation provisions, wherever in the Code
they are found; such provisions may be codified at this point if they are
currently found among the cable provisions.]
   (B)   Nondiscrimination.
      (1)   Nondiscriminatory rates.
         (a)   Subject to applicable law, a franchisee shall establish rates
that are nondiscriminatory within the same general class of subscribers and
which must be applied fairly and uniformly to all subscribers in the franchise
area for all services.
         (b)   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit a franchisee from
offering, by way of illustration and not limitation:
            1.   Discounts to senior citizens or economically disadvantaged
groups;
            2.   Discounts to commercial and multiple family dwelling
subscribers billed on a bulk basis;
            3.   Promotional discounts; or
            4.   Reduced installation rates for subscribers who have multiple
services.
      (2)   Applicability. The provisions of this division (B) shall apply to
all rates, whether or not they are otherwise subject to rate regulation, except
to the extent specifically prohibited by law.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   Finding. The town finds that public rights-of-way of the town to be
used by a franchisee for the operation of a cable system are valuable public
property acquired and maintained by the town. The town further finds that the
grant of a franchise to use public rights-of-way is a valuable property right
without which a franchisee would be required to invest substantial capital.
   (B)   Payment of franchise fee. Each franchisee shall pay a franchise fee of
5% of gross revenues.
   (C)   Method of payment. The franchisee shall file with the town, within 30
days after the expiration of each of the franchisee’s fiscal quarters, a
financial statement clearly showing the gross revenues received by the
franchisee during the preceding quarter. The quarterly portion of the franchise
fee shall be payable to the town at the time such statement is filed.
   (D)   Not a tax or in lieu of any other tax or fee.
      (1)   Payment of the franchise fee shall not be considered in the nature
of a tax or in lieu of other taxes or fees of general applicability imposed by
the town.
      (2)   The franchise fee is in addition to all other taxes and payments
that a franchisee may be required to pay under its franchise agreement or any
federal, state or local law, and to any other tax, fee or assessment imposed by
utilities and cable operators for use of their services, facilities or
equipment, including any applicable amusement taxes, except to the extent that
such fees, taxes or assessments must be treated as a franchise fee under § 642
of the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 522.
      (3)   No franchisee may designate the franchise fee as a tax in any
communication to a subscriber.
   (E)   Late payments. In the event any franchise fee payment or recomputation
amount is not made on or before the required date, the franchisee shall pay
additional compensation and interest charges computed from such due date, at an
annual rate equal to the commercial prime interest rate of the town’s primary
depository bank during the period such unpaid amount is owed, in addition to
any applicable penalties or liquidated damages.
   (F)   Audit.
      (1)   The town shall have the right to inspect records, to require a
franchisee to provide copies of records at the franchisee’s expense and to
audit and to recompute any amounts determined to be payable, whether the
records are held by the franchisee, an affiliate or any other entity that
collects or receives funds related to the franchisee’s operation in the town,
including, by way of illustration and not limitation, any entity that sells
advertising on the franchisee’s behalf, for a period of five years from the
date a payment was made or, if no payment was made, from the date the town
believes payment was owed, after which time all payments are final.
      (2)   A franchisee shall be responsible for providing to the town all
records necessary to confirm the accurate payment of franchise fees, without
regard to by whom they are held. Such records shall be made available pursuant
to the requirements of this chapter. The franchisee shall maintain such records
for the term of its franchise agreement and any renewals or extensions thereof.
      (3)   The town’s audit expenses shall be borne by the town unless the
audit discloses an underpayment of 5% or more of the amount due, in which case
the costs of the audit shall be borne by the franchisee as a cost incidental to
the enforcement of the franchise. Any additional amounts due to the town as a
result of the audit shall be paid within 30 days following written notice to
the franchisee by the town of the underpayment, which notice shall include a
copy of the audit report. If re-computation results in additional revenue to be
paid to the town, such amount shall be subject to a 10% interest charge.
   (G)   No accord or satisfaction. No acceptance of any payment by the town
shall be construed as a release or an accord and satisfaction of any claim the
town may have for further or additional sums due or for the performance of any
other obligation of a franchisee, or as an acknowledgment that the amount paid
is the correct amount due.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 REPORTS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   Open books and records.
      (1)   (a)   The town shall have the right to inspect records and to
require a franchisee to provide copies of records at the franchisee’s expense,
at any time, during normal business hours at the town cable system office for
all books, receipts, maps, plans, contracts, service complaint logs,
performance test results, records of requests for service, computer records,
disks or other storage media and other like material which the town deems
appropriate in order to monitor compliance with the terms of this chapter, its
franchise agreement or applicable law. This includes not only the books and
records of a franchisee, but any books and records the town reasonably deems
relevant held by an affiliate, a cable operator of the cable system or any
contractor, subcontractor or any person holding any form of management contract
for the cable system.
         (b)   A franchisee is responsible for collecting the information and
producing it at the location specified above, and by accepting its franchise it
affirms that it can and will do so. A franchisee will be given reasonable
advance written notice of any inspection request, which shall serve as notice
that any or all of the above materials may be inspected.
      (2)   A franchisee shall maintain financial records that allow analysis
and review of its operations in each individual franchise area.
      (3)   (a)   Access to a franchisee’s records shall not be denied by such
franchisee on the basis that said records contain “proprietary” information.
Refusal to provide information required herein to the town shall be grounds for
revocation.
         (b)   All confidential information received by the town shall remain
confidential insofar as permitted by law.
      (4)   A franchisee shall maintain a file of records open to public
inspection in accordance with applicable FCC rules and regulations.
      (5)   Each report filed by a franchisee pursuant to this chapter shall be
certified by a corporate officer as accurate or complete.
   (B)   Communication with regulatory agencies.
      (1)   If and to the extent requested by the town, a franchisee shall file
with the town in a form acceptable to the town all reports and materials
submitted to the FCC, the Security and Exchange Commission or any other federal
or state regulatory commission or agency, including, but not limited to, any
proof of performance tests and results, Equal Employment Opportunity reports
and all petitions, applications and communications of all types regarding the
cable system or a group of cable systems of which the franchisee’s cable system
is a part, submitted by the franchisee, an affiliate or any other person on the
behalf of the franchisee.
      (2)   Materials filed with the town pursuant to division (B)(1) above
shall be filed as follows: materials submitted by the franchisee, an affiliate
or any other person on the behalf of a franchisee shall be filed with the town
at the time they are submitted to the receiving agency.
   (C)   Annual report. Unless this requirement is waived in whole or in part
by the town by April 1 of each year for the previous calendar year, a
franchisee shall submit a written report to the town, in a form directed by the
town, which shall include:
      (1)   A summary of the previous year’s activities in development of the
cable system, including, but not limited to, descriptions of services begun or
dropped, the number of subscribers gained or lost for each category of service,
the number of pay units sold, the amount collected annually from users of the
system and the character and extent of the services rendered to such users,
including leased access channel users;
      (2)   A summary of complaints, identifying both the number and nature of
the complaints received and an explanation of their dispositions, to the extent
such records are kept by the franchisee. Where complaints involve recurrent
system problems, the nature of each problem and the corrective measures taken
shall be identified;
      (3)   A report showing the number of service calls received by type
during the prior quarter and the percentage of service calls compared to the
subscriber base by type of complaint;
      (4)   A certification of compliance with applicable customer service
standards. If a franchisee is in non-compliance with any standard during any
calendar quarter, it shall include, in its annual filing, a statement
specifying areas of non-compliance, the reason for the non-compliance and a
remedial plan;
      (5)   A copy of the franchisee’s rules and regulations applicable to
subscribers of the cable system;
      (6)   An annual statement showing the yearly gross revenues, prepared and
audited by a certified public accountant acceptable to the town;
      (7)   An annual financial report for the previous calendar year, audited
and certified by an independent certified public accountant, including year-end
balance sheet; income statement showing subscriber revenue from each category
of service and every source of non-subscriber revenue, line item operating
expenses, depreciation expense, interest expense and taxes paid; statement of
sources and applications of funds; capital expenditures; and depreciation
schedule;
      (8)   An annual list of officers and members of the Board of Directors or
similar controlling body of the franchisee and any affiliates;
      (9)   An organizational chart showing all corporations or partnerships
with more than a 5% ownership interest in the franchisee, and the nature of
that ownership interest (limited partner, general partner, preferred
shareholder and the like); and showing the same information for each
corporation or partnership that holds such an interest in the corporations or
partnerships so identified and so on until the ultimate corporate and
partnership interests are identified;
      (10)   An annual report and SEC 10(k) filing for each entity identified
in division (C)(8) above that generates such documents;
      (11)   A summary of the results of and/or, at the franchisee’s option,
copies of the system’s technical tests and measurements performed during the
past year;
      (12)   A detailed copy of updated maps depicting the location of all
cable plant, showing areas served and locations of all trunk lines and feeder
lines in the town and including changes in all such items for the period
covered by the report;
      (13)   A full schedule of all subscriber and other user rates, fees and
charges; and
      (14)   Such other information as the town may direct.
   (D)   Monthly report. Unless this requirement is waived in whole or in part
by the town, no later than ten days after the end of each month, a franchisee
shall submit a written report to the town regarding the preceding month, in a
form acceptable to the town, which shall include:
      (1)   The active system plant in miles, specifying aerial and underground
mileage;
      (2)   The new system segments built, in miles, if any, specifying aerial
and underground mileage;
      (3)   The number of subscribers and the penetration rate for each type of
service and equipment offered;
      (4)   The number of disconnects;
      (5)   The number of outages, identifying separately:
         (a)   Each outage, whether planned or unplanned; the time it occurred,
its duration, when the franchisee responded and when the outage was corrected;
the estimated area and a description of the subscribers affected;
         (b)   In addition, for each unplanned outage: its cause, the number of
subscribers affected; and
         (c)   The total hours of outages as a percentage of total hours of
cable system operation.
      (6)   The number of cases in which installation was not provided within
the time established in this chapter;
      (7)   The average telephone answering and hold times, and the number of
instances in which those telephone answering and hold times exceeded the time
limits established in this chapter;
      (8)   The percentage of customer calls that received a busy signal;
      (9)   The average and minimum number of customer service representatives
on the franchisee’s staff for telephone answering purposes;
      (10)   The number of times in which interruptions of service under §
112.09(E) was not in compliance with the times established in this chapter; and
      (11)   The number of times scheduling and completing customer service did
not occur in accordance with §
112.09(D)(3).
   (E)   Special reports. Unless this requirement is waived in whole or in part
by the town, the franchisee shall deliver the following special reports to the
town.
      (1)   (a)   A franchisee shall submit quarterly construction reports to
the town after the franchise is awarded for any construction undertaken during
the term of the franchise until such construction is complete, including any
rebuild that may be specified in the franchise. The franchisee must submit to
the town as part of the quarterly construction report, or make available for
inspection with notice of their availability as part of the quarterly
construction report, updated as-built system design maps depicting construction
completed in the previous quarter.
         (b)   The maps shall be developed on the basis of post-construction
inspection by the franchisee and construction personnel to assess compliance
with system design. Any departures from design must be indicated on the as-
built maps to assist the town in assessing operator compliance with its
obligations.
      (2)   (a)   A franchisee must submit a copy of any notice of deficiency,
forfeiture or other document issued by any state or federal agency instituting
any investigation or civil or criminal proceeding regarding the cable system,
the franchisee or any affiliate of the franchisee, to the extent the same may
affect or bear on operations in the town.
         (b)   This material shall be submitted in accordance with the
deadlines specified in division (B)(2) above.
      (3)   The franchisee must submit a copy of any request for protection
under bankruptcy laws, or any judgment related to a declaration of bankruptcy
by the franchisee or by any partnership or corporation that owns or controls
the franchisee directly or indirectly. This material shall be submitted in
accordance with the deadlines specified in division (B)(2) above.
   (F)   Additional reports. A franchisee shall provide such other information
or reports as the town may request for the purpose of enforcing any provision
of the franchise agreement or this chapter.
   (G)   Records required.
      (1)   The franchisee shall, at all times, maintain:
         (a)   Records of all complaints received. The term COMPLAINTS as used
herein and throughout an agreement refers to complaints about any aspect of the
cable system or the franchisee’s operations, including, without limitation,
complaints about employee courtesy. Complaints recorded may not be limited to
complaints requiring an employee service call;
         (b)   A full and complete set of plans, records and “as built” maps
showing the exact location of all system equipment installed or in use in the
town, exclusive of subscriber service drops;
         (c)   A comprehensive record of all personnel transactions and
utilization of contractors, subcontractors, vendors and suppliers by race and
sex;
         (d)   Records of outages, indicating date, duration, area and the
subscribers affected, type of outage and cause;
         (e)   Records of service calls for repair and maintenance indicating
the date and time service was required, the date of acknowledgment and date and
time service was scheduled (if it was scheduled), and the date and time service
was provided, and (if different) the date and time the problem was solved;
         (f)   Records of installation/reconnection and requests for service
extension, indicating date of request, date of acknowledgment and the date and
time service was extended; and
         (g)   A public file showing its plan and timetable for construction of
the cable system.
   (H)   Performance evaluation.
      (1)   The town may, at its discretion, hold performance evaluation
sessions. All such evaluation sessions shall be open to the public. The
franchisee may be required by the town to notify subscribers of all such
evaluation sessions by announcement on a designated local access channel on the
system between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. for five consecutive days
preceding each session.
      (2)   Topics that may be discussed at any evaluation session may include,
but are not limited to, system performance and construction, franchisee
compliance with this chapter and its franchise agreement, customer service and
complaint response, subscriber privacy, services provided, programming offered,
service rate structures, franchise fees, penalties, free or discounted
services, applications of new technologies, judicial and FCC filings and line
extensions.
      (3)   During the evaluation process, the franchisee shall fully cooperate
with the town and shall provide such information and documents as the town may
need to reasonably perform its review, including information and documents that
may be considered proprietary or confidential.
   (I)   Voluminous materials. If any books, records, maps or plans, or other
requested documents are too voluminous, or for security reasons cannot be
copied and moved, then the franchisee may request that the inspection take
place at some other location, provided that:
      (1)   The franchisee must make necessary arrangements for copying
documents selected by the town after review; and
      (2)   The franchisee must pay all travel and additional copying expenses
incurred by the town in inspecting those documents or having those documents
inspected by its designee.
   (J)   Retention of records; relation to privacy rights. 
      (1)   The franchisee shall take all steps that may be required to ensure
that it is able to provide the town all information which must be provided or
may be requested under this chapter or its franchise agreement, including by
providing appropriate subscriber privacy notices.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be read to require the franchisee to
violate 47 U.S.C. § 551. Each franchisee shall be responsible for redacting any
data that federal law prevents it from providing to the town. The town retains
the right to question any such redaction and to challenge it in any forum
having jurisdiction over such a challenge. Records shall be kept for at least
five years.
   (K)   Waiver of reporting requirements. The town may, at its discretion,
waive, in writing, the requirement of any particular report specified in this
section.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 INSURANCE, SURETY AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Insurance required.
      (1)   The franchisee shall maintain, and by its acceptance of the
franchise specifically agrees that it will maintain, throughout the entire
length of the franchise period, at least the following liability insurance
coverage insuring the town and the franchisee: worker’s compensation and
employer liability insurance to meet all requirements of the state law and
comprehensive general liability insurance with respect to the construction,
operation and maintenance of the cable system, and the conduct of the
franchisee’s business in the town, in the following minimum amounts, but in any
event no less than the liability limits specified by the Local Government Tort
Claims Act:
         (a)   Five hundred thousand dollars for property damage resulting from
any one accident; $1,000,000 for property damage aggregate;
         (b)   One million dollars for personal bodily injury or death for one
person; $2,000,000 for bodily aggregate per single accident and occurrence;
         (c)   A general comprehensive public liability policy indemnifying,
defending and saving harmless the town, its officers, boards, commissions,
agents or employees, from any and all claims by any person whatsoever on
account of injury to or death of a person or persons occasioned by the
operations of the franchisee under the franchise herein granted or alleged to
have been so caused or occurred, with a minimum liability of $1,000,000 per
personal injury or death of any one person and $2,000,000 for personal injury
or death of two or more persons in any one occurrence;
         (d)   Two million dollars for all other types of liability; and
         (e)   Automobile liability insurance for owned or leased vehicles in
the minimum amount of $2,000,000 for bodily injury and consequent death per
occurrence, $1,000,000 for bodily injury and consequent death to any one person
and $500,000 for property damage per occurrence.
      (2)   Such general liability insurance must include coverage for all of
the following: all risks form, premises-operations, explosion and collapse
hazard, underground hazard, products/completed operations hazard, contractual
insurance, broad form property damage and personal injury.
      (3)   The town may review these amounts no more than once a year and may
require reasonable adjustments to them consistent with the public interest.
   (B)   Endorsements.
      (1)   All insurance policies and certificates maintained pursuant to a
franchise agreement shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this insurance coverage may not be
canceled by the insurance company nor the intention not to renew be stated by
the insurance company until 30 days after receipt by the Town’s Secretary or
Clerk, by registered mail, of a written notice of such intention to cancel or
not to renew.
      (2)   All contractual liability insurance policies and certificates
maintained pursuant to a franchise agreement shall include the provision of the
following hold harmless clause:
The Company agrees to indemnify, save harmless and defend each municipality,
its agents, servants, and employees, and each of them against and hold it and
them harmless from any or all lawsuits, claims, demands, liabilities, losses
and expenses, including court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees for or on
account of nay injury to any person, or any death at any time resulting from
such injury, or any damage to any property, which may arise or which may be
alleged to have risen out of or in connection with the work covered by this
Agreement. The foregoing indemnity shall apply except if such injury, death or
damage is caused directly by the negligence or other fault of the Town, its
agents, servants, or employees or any other person indemnified hereunder.
   (C)   Qualifications of sureties. All insurance policies shall be with
sureties qualified to do business in the state, with an A-1 or better rating of
insurance by Best’s Key Rating Guide, Property/Casualty Edition, and in a form
acceptable to the town.
   (D)   Policies available for review. All insurance policies shall be
available for review by the town, and the franchisee shall keep on file with
the town certificates of insurance.
   (E)   Additional insureds; prior notice of policy cancellation. All general
liability insurance policies shall name the town, its officers, boards,
commissions, commissioners, agents and employees as additional insureds and
shall further provide that any cancellation or reduction in coverage shall not
be effective unless 30 days’ prior written notice thereof has been given to the
town. A franchisee shall not cancel any required insurance policy without
submission of proof that it has obtained alternative insurance satisfactory to
the town which complies with its franchise agreement.
   (F)   Failure constitutes material violation. Failure to comply with the
insurance requirements set forth in this section shall constitute a material
violation of a franchise.
   (G)   Indemnification.
      (1)   A franchisee shall, at its sole cost and expense, indemnify, hold
harmless and defend the town, its officials, boards, commissions,
commissioners, agents and employees, against any and all claims, suits, causes
of action, proceedings and judgments for damages arising out of the
construction, maintenance or operation of its cable system; copyright
infringements or a failure by the franchisee to secure consents from the
owners, authorized distributors or franchisees of programs to be delivered by
the cable system; the conduct of the franchisee’s business in the town; or in
any way arising out of the franchisee’s enjoyment or exercise of the franchise,
regardless of whether the act or omission complained of is authorized, allowed
or prohibited by this chapter or its franchise agreement.
      (2)   (a)   Specifically, a franchisee shall fully indemnify, defend and
hold harmless the town, and in its capacity as such, the officers, agents and
employees thereof, from and against any and all claims, suits, actions,
liability and judgments for damages or otherwise subject to 47 U.S.C. § 558,
arising out of or alleged to arise out of the installation, construction,
operation or maintenance of the system, including, but not limited to, any
claim against the franchisee for invasion of the right of privacy, defamation
of any person, firm or corporation, or the violation or infringement of any
copyright, trade mark, trade name, service mark or patent or of any other right
of any person, firm or corporation.
         (b)   This indemnity does not apply to programming carried on any
channel set aside for PEG use, or channels leased pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 532,
except that this indemnity shall apply to any actions taken by a franchisee
pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 531(e) or 47 U.S.C. § 532(c)(2) concerning the
programming carried on PEG or leased access channels or an institutional
network.
      (3)   The indemnity provision includes, but is not limited to, the town’s
reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred in defending against any such claim, suit
or proceeding, in addition to the reasonable value of any services rendered by
the Town Attorney or town staff or employees.
   (H)   No limit of liability. Neither the provisions of this section nor any
damages recovered by the town shall be construed to limit the liability of the
franchisee for damages under the franchise.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.14 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   (A)   Termination on account of certain assignments or appointments.
      (1)   Any franchise shall be deemed revoked 120 calendar days after an
assignment for the benefit of creditors or the appointment of a receiver or
trustee to take over the business of a franchisee, whether in a receivership,
reorganization, bankruptcy assignment for the benefit of creditors or other
action or proceeding. Provided, however, that a franchise may be reinstated at
the town’s sole discretion if, within that 120-day period:
         (a)   Such assignment, receivership or trusteeship has been vacated;
or
         (b)   Such assignee, receiver or trustee has fully complied with the
terms and conditions of this chapter and the applicable franchise agreement and
has executed an agreement, approved by a court of competent jurisdiction, under
which it assumes and agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of this
chapter and the applicable franchise agreement, and such other conditions as
may be established or as are required by applicable law.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of foreclosure or other
judicial sale of any of the facilities, equipment or property of a franchisee,
the town may revoke the franchise, following a public hearing, by serving
notice on the franchisee and the successful bidder, in which event the
franchise and all rights and privileges of the franchise will be revoked and
will terminate 30 calendar days after serving such notice, unless:
         (a)   The town has approved the transfer of the franchise to the
successful bidder; and
         (b)   The successful bidder has covenanted and agreed with the town to
assume and be bound by the terms and conditions of the franchise agreement and
this chapter, and such other conditions as may be established or as are
required pursuant to this chapter or a franchise agreement.
   (B)   Remedies cumulative. All remedies under this chapter and the franchise
agreement are cumulative unless otherwise expressly stated. The exercise of a
remedy or the payment of liquidated damages or penalties shall not relieve a
franchisee of its obligations to comply with its franchise or applicable law.
   (C)   Relation to insurance and indemnity requirements. Recovery by the town
of any amounts under insurance, the security fund, the performance bond or
letter of credit, or otherwise does not limit a franchisee’s duty to indemnify
the town in any way; nor shall such recovery relieve a franchisee of its
obligations under a franchise, limit the amounts owed to the town or in any
respect prevent the town from exercising any other right or remedy it may have.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.15 TRANSFERS.
   (A)   Town approval required.
      (1)   A franchise granted under this chapter shall be a privilege to be
held in personal trust by the franchisee.
      (2)   No transfer of a franchise, franchisee or cable system, or of
control over the same (including, but not limited to, transfer by forced or
voluntary sale, merger, consolidation, receivership or any other means) shall
occur unless prior application is made by the franchisee to the town and the
town’s prior written consent is obtained, pursuant to this chapter and the
franchise agreement, and only then upon such terms and conditions as the town
deems necessary and proper. Any such transfer without the prior written consent
of the town shall be considered to impair the town’s assurance of due
performance. The granting of approval for a transfer in one instance shall not
render unnecessary approval of any subsequent transfer.
   (B)   Approval does not constitute waiver. Approval by the town of a
transfer does not constitute a waiver or release of any of the rights of the
town under this chapter or a franchise agreement, whether arising before or
after the date of the transfer.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 OPEN VIDEO SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Applicability of ordinance.
      (1)   This chapter shall apply to open video systems that comply with 47
U.S.C. § 573 to the extent permitted by applicable law, except that the
following sections shall not apply: § 3(a) through 3(c) (regarding grant of
franchise), § 4 (franchise applications), § 5 (filing fees), § 6 (provision of
service), § 7(a) (construction schedule), § 10 (rate regulation), § 11(b)
through 11(c) (regarding franchise fees), § 13(f) (failure to comply with
insurance requirements a material violation of franchise), §§ 14(a)(1)(B)
through 14(a)(1)(C) and 14(a)(1)(H) (certain penalties) and § 14(b) (franchise
termination due to bankruptcy).
      (2)   In applying this chapter to an open video system, FRANCHISEE shall
be taken to refer to the open video system operator, CABLE SYSTEM to the open
video system and similar terms shall apply similarly.
   (B)   Fee in lieu of franchise fee. An open video system operator shall pay
to the town a fee in lieu of the franchise fee required in §
112.11(B), pursuant to the procedures and conditions specified in §
112.11 and generally herein.
   (C)   Public, educational and governmental access obligations. An open video
system operator shall be subject to obligations pertaining to public,
educational and governmental access pursuant to applicable law and to the
requirements herein.
   (D)   Right-of-way usage. An open video system operator shall be subject to
all requirements of state and local law regarding authorization to use or
occupy the public rights-of-way, except to the extent specifically prohibited
by federal law. FCC approval of an open video system operator’s certification
pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 573 shall not be taken to confer upon such operator any
authority to use or occupy the public rights-of-way that such operator would
not otherwise possess.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.17 RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS PROTECTED.
   (A)   Discriminatory practices prohibited.
      (1)   A franchisee shall not deny service, deny access or otherwise
discriminate against subscribers, programmers or residents of the town on the
basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex or age.
      (2)   A franchisee shall not discriminate among persons or take any
retaliatory action against a person because of that person’s exercise of any
right it may have under federal, state or local law, nor may the franchisee
require a person to waive such rights as a condition of taking service.
      (3)   A franchisee shall not deny access or levy different rates and
charges on any group of potential residential cable subscribers because of the
income of the residents of the local area in which such group resides.
      (4)   Subject to applicable law and except to the extent the town may
waive such a requirement, a franchisee is prohibited from discriminating in its
rates or charges or from granting undue preferences to any subscriber,
potential subscriber or group of subscribers or potential subscribers;
provided, however, that a franchisee may offer temporary, bona fide promotional
discounts in order to attract or maintain subscribers, so long as such
discounts are offered on a non-discriminatory basis to similar classes of
subscribers throughout the town; and a franchisee may offer discounts for the
elderly, the handicapped, not-for-profit persons or organizations or the
economically disadvantaged and other discounts in conformance with federal law,
if such discounts are applied in a consistent and nondiscriminatory manner, and
provided that a franchisee may provide such other bulk discounts as are
permitted by the cable uniform rate structure provisions of federal law as they
may exist from time to time. A franchisee shall comply, at all times, with all
applicable federal, state and town laws and all executive and administrative
orders relating to non-discrimination.
      (5)   Each document required to be maintained, filed or submitted under
the provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement, except those
specifically designated as confidential by a franchisee, subject to the town’s
review, pursuant to applicable law, is a public document, available for public
inspection and copying at the requestor’s expense, at the office of the
franchisee or the town during normal business hours.
   (B)   Equal Employment Opportunity. A franchisee shall not refuse to employ,
discharge from employment or discriminate against any person in compensation or
in terms, conditions or privileges of employment because of race, color,
religion, national origin, sex or age. A franchisee shall comply with all
federal, state and local laws and regulations governing equal employment
opportunities, as the same may be from time to time amended.
   (C)   Subscriber privacy.
      (1)   A franchisee shall, at all times, protect the privacy rights of all
subscribers, including, but not limited to, those rights secured by the
provisions of § 631 of the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 551.
      (2)   (a)   The franchisee shall not permit the transmission of any
signal, aural, visual or digital, including “polling” the channel selection,
from any subscriber’s premises without first obtaining such subscriber’s valid
authorization. Neither the franchisee nor any other person shall initiate, in
any form, the discovery of any information on or about an individual
subscriber’s premises without prior valid authorization from the subscriber
potentially affected.
         (b)   This provision is not intended to prohibit the transmission of
signals useful only for the control or measurement of system performance or for
detection of theft of service.
      (3)   The franchisee shall not permit the installation of any special
terminal equipment in any subscriber’s premises that will permit transmission
from such subscriber’s premises of two-way services utilizing aural, visual or
digital signals without such subscriber’s prior valid authorization.
      (4)   The franchisee shall strictly observe and protect the rights of
privacy and property rights of subscribers and users at all times. Individual
subscriber preferences of any kind, viewing habits, political, social or
economic philosophies, beliefs, creeds, religions or names, addresses or
telephone numbers shall not be revealed to any person, governmental unit,
police department or investigating agency, unless upon the authority of a court
of law, a valid search warrant or subpoena, or upon prior voluntary valid
authorization of the subscriber or as may be permitted by operation of law.
      (5)   The franchisee shall not tabulate any test results that would
reveal the commercial product preferences or opinions of individual
subscribers, members of their families or their invitees, licensees or
employees, nor permit the use of the system for such tabulation, without the
subscriber’s prior valid authorization.
      (6)   A subscriber may, at any time, revoke any valid authorization to
release information by delivering to the franchisee, in writing, by mail or
otherwise, the subscriber’s decision to revoke the authorization. Any such
revocation shall be effective upon receipt by the franchisee.
      (7)   A franchisee shall not condition subscriber service on the
subscriber’s valid authorization or grant or denial of permission to collect,
maintain or disclose personally identifiable information, except to the extent
that such information is necessary for credit check or billing purposes.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.18 THEFT OF SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to attach or affix, or to cause to be
attached or affixed, any equipment or device that allows access or use of the
cable system without lawful payment to the franchise for same.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.19 ADMINISTRATION.
   [Any necessary administrative provisions may be inserted here.]
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022)
§ 112.20 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with laws. Each franchisee shall comply with all federal,
state and local laws and regulations heretofore and hereafter adopted or
established during the entire term of its franchise.
   (B)   No recourse against the town. Without limiting such immunities as the
town or other persons may have under applicable law, a franchisee shall have no
recourse whatsoever against the town or its officials, boards, commissions,
agents or employees for any loss, costs, expense or damage arising out of any
provision or requirement of this chapter or because of the enforcement of this
chapter or the town’s exercise of its authority pursuant to this chapter, a
franchise agreement or other applicable law, unless the same shall be caused by
criminal acts or by willful or gross negligence.
   (C)   Rights and remedies.
      (1)   The rights and remedies reserved to the town by this chapter are
cumulative and shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other
rights and remedies which the town may have with respect to the subject matter
of this chapter.
      (2)   The town hereby reserves to itself the right to intervene in any
suit, action or proceeding involving any provision of this chapter or a
franchise agreement.
      (3)   Specific mention of the materiality of any of the provisions herein
is not intended to be exclusive of any others for the purpose of determining
whether any failure of compliance hereunder is material and substantial.
      (4)   No franchisee shall be relieved of its obligation to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement by reason of any
failure of the town to enforce prompt compliance. Nor shall any inaction by the
town be deemed to waive or void any provision of this chapter or a franchise
agreement.
   (D)   Amendments to this chapter. Notwithstanding any other provision in
this chapter or a franchise agreement, nothing in this chapter or a franchise
agreement shall preclude the town from exercising its police powers to enact,
amend or supplement any law or regulation governing cable communications within
the town.
   (E)   Public emergency. In the event of a major public emergency or disaster
as determined by the County Executive, a franchisee shall immediately make the
entire cable system, employees and property, as may be necessary, available for
use by the town or other civil defense or governmental agency designated by the
town to operate the system for the term of such emergency or disaster for the
emergency purposes. In the event of such use, a franchisee shall waive any
claim that such use by the town constitutes a use of eminent domain; provided
that the town shall return use of the entire system, employees and property to
the franchisee after the emergency or disaster has ended or has been dealt
with.
   (F)   Connections to system; use of antennae.
      (1)   Subscribers shall have the right to attach devices to a
franchisee’s system and the right to use their own remote control devices and
converters and other similar equipment, consistent with FCC equipment
compatibility rules and other applicable law, and a franchisee shall provide
information to consumers which will allow them to adjust such devices so that
they may be used with the franchisee’s system.
      (2)   A franchisee shall not, as a condition of providing service,
require a subscriber or potential subscriber to remove any existing antenna or
disconnect an antenna, or prohibit or discourage a subscriber from installing
an antenna switch; provided that such equipment and installations are
consistent with applicable codes and technically able to shield the cable
system from any interference.
   (G)   Calculation of time. Unless otherwise indicated, when the performance
or doing of any act, duty, matter or payment is required under this chapter or
any franchise agreement, and a period of time or duration for the fulfillment
of doing thereof is prescribed and is fixed herein, the time shall be computed
so as to exclude the first and include the last day of the prescribed or fixed
period of duration time.
   (H)   Severability. If any term, condition or provision of this chapter
shall, to any extent, be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder
hereof shall be valid in all other respects and continue to be effective. In
the event of a subsequent change in applicable law so that the provision which
had been held invalid is no longer invalid, said provision shall thereupon
return to full force and effect without further action by the town and shall
thereafter be binding on the franchisee and the town.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   For violation of provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement
entered into pursuant to this chapter, penalties shall be assessable against a
franchisee and shall be chargeable to the franchisee’s security fund in any
amount up to the limits specified below, at the town’s discretion:
      (1)   For failure to submit any required plans indicating expected dates
of installation of various parts of the system: $400 per day for each violation
for each day the violation continues;
      (2)   For failure to commence operations in accordance with the
requirements of the franchise agreement: $1,000 per day for each violation for
each day the violation continues after a 30-day cure period, if the franchisee
has not undertaken substantial corrective action to cure the violation within
that 30-day period;
      (3)   For failure to substantially complete construction in accordance
with a franchisee’s franchise agreement: $1,000 per day for each violation for
each day the violation continues after a 30-day cure period, if the franchisee
has not undertaken substantial corrective action to cure the violation within
that 30-day period;
      (4)   For transferring the franchise without approval: $2,000 per day for
each violation for each day the violation continues;
      (5)   For failure to comply with requirements for public, educational and
governmental use of the system: $1,000 per day for each violation for each day
the violation continues after a 14-day cure period, if the franchisee has not
undertaken substantial corrective action to cure the violation within that 14-
day period;
      (6)   For failure to supply information, reports or filings lawfully
required under the franchise agreement or applicable law or by the town: $500
per day for each violation for each day the violation continues after a 30-day
cure period, which shall begin to run on the due date of any regularly
scheduled report and on the date of a deadline reasonably set by the town for
any report or information request not regularly scheduled, unless the
franchisee shows that it was not in fact aware of the requirement in question,
in which case the 30-day cure period shall begin to run upon written notice of
such requirement by the town to the franchisee;
      (7)   For violation of customer service standards or failure to file a
compliance certification or noncompliance statement as required herein: $200
per day or per event, as applicable;
      (8)   For failure to pay franchise fees or liquidated damages: $100 per
day, in addition to any monetary payment due under a franchise agreement or
this chapter, for each violation for each day the violation continues after a
seven-day cure period, if the franchisee has failed to make payment within that
seven-day period; provided that these penalties shall be in addition to any
late fees that may apply;
      (9)   For failure to file, obtain or maintain any required security fund
in a timely fashion: $200 per day;
      (10)   For failure to restore damaged property: $200 per day, in addition
to the cost of the restoration and any other penalties or fees as required
elsewhere herein or in a franchise agreement, for each day the violation
continues after a 30-day cure period, if the franchisee has not undertaken
substantial corrective action to cure the violation within that 30-day period;
      (11)   For violation of technical standards established by the FCC: $100
per day for each day the violation continues after a 30-day cure period after
the town gives the franchisee notice of such violation;
      (12)   For knowingly and intentionally signing a false report or
statement: $1,000 per report or document; and
      (13)   For any other violations of this chapter, a franchise agreement or
other applicable law: $500 per day for each violation for each day the
violation continues.
   (B)   The franchisee shall pay any penalty assessed in accordance with this
chapter within 14 days after receipt of notice from the town of such penalty.
   (C)   To the extent that penalties are applied to a franchisee under this
section, a franchisee shall not be subject to liquidated damages payable to the
town for the same violation.
   (D)   The town may reduce or waive any of the above-listed penalties for
good cause shown.
   (E)   Pending litigation or any appeal to any regulatory body or court
having jurisdiction over a franchisee shall not excuse the franchisee from the
performance of its obligations under this chapter or its franchise agreement
unless a stay is obtained or the franchisee is otherwise excused from
performance by operation of law. Failure of the franchisee to perform such
obligations because of pending litigation or petition, in the absence of a stay
issued by a forum of competent jurisdiction, may result in forfeiture or
revocation pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and/or its franchise
agreement.
(Ord. 106, passed 1-3-2022)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
130.01   Throwing objects
   
130.02   Loud noises
   
130.03   Disorderly conduct
   
130.04   Public drinking
   
130.05   Soliciting
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Comprehensive fee and fine schedules, see §
30.01
§ 130.01 THROWING OBJECTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any object in the town that, in
any way, is likely to do harm or injury to any person or property.
(Ord. 114, passed 8-12-1992) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 LOUD NOISES.
   It shall be unlawful to cause unreasonable annoyance to others or disturb
the peace or quiet of any neighborhood by causing loud noise. The use of mobile
sound trucks may be authorized by the Town Council where it determines that the
material being disseminated is in the public interest and the hours of use will
not unduly offend the citizens of the town.
(Ord. 114, passed 8-12-1992) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in disorderly conduct by
making loud noises, by fighting, by using vulgar language, by indecent exposure
or by drawing graffiti.
(Ord. 114, passed 8-12-1992) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 PUBLIC DRINKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink any alcoholic beverage on any
street, park or other public property within the town, unless written consent
is granted by the town.
(Ord. 114, passed 8-12-1992) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 SOLICITING.
   It shall be unlawful to solicit in the town without first obtaining
appropriate town and county licenses.
(Ord. 114, passed 8-12-1992) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a municipal infraction.
(Ord. 114, passed 8-12-1992; Ord. 179, passed 8-14-2019)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   ZONING
      
152.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
153.   RENTAL PROPERTY
      
154.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
155.   TREES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Purpose and authority
   
150.02   Department of Code Enforcement, construction and transportation
   
150.03   Powers, duties and functions
   
150.04   Building code
   
150.05   Building permits
   
150.06   Roll-off container permits
   
150.07   Portable temporary storage unit permits
   
150.08   Schedule of fees, deposits and penalties
   
150.09   Enforcement
   
150.10   Right of appeal
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Comprehensive fee and fine schedules, see §
30.01
§ 150.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   By the authority vested in the Town Charter, § 401, “General Powers” and §
402, “Specific Powers,” the Town Council presents the following chapter
designed to regulate construction within the town; make reasonable regulations
with regard to buildings to be erected, constructed or modified in the town;
and to regulate the placement and permitting of roll-off container type
dumpsters and portable temporary storage units.
(Ord. 104, passed 11-14-2007)
§ 150.02 DEPARTMENT OF CODE ENFORCEMENT, CONSTRUCTION AND TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   The administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter
is assigned to the Department of Code Enforcement, Construction and
Transportation.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Official, or designated representative, shall be
the authorized person responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter, including the assessing of fees, fines and penalties for violations of
the provisions of the chapter and the costs incurred to repair damage to town
aprons, curbs, gutters, sidewalks or streets.
(Ord. 104, passed 11-14-2007)
§ 150.03 POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS.
   The Code Enforcement Official, or designated representative, shall have the
following powers, duties and functions:
   (A)   Review plans and specifications required to be filed with the
application for a town building permit; advise the Councilmember in charge of
the Department whether a building permit should be issued or denied and advise
the Town Manager as to the number of curb sections surrounding property;
   (B)   In the event the Code Enforcement Official, or designated
representative, after due consideration, recommends to the Council that a
building permit should not be issued and the reason therefor shall be stated in
writing;
   (C)   Upon issuance of a town building permit, the Code Enforcement
Official, or designated representative, shall inspect all construction projects
and ensure strict adherence to the approved plans and specifications;
   (D)   In the event of violation, deviation or irregularity, the Code
Enforcement Official, or designated representative, shall:
      (1)   Notify and consult with the Councilmember in charge of the
Department;
      (2)   Advise the property owner and/or contractor of the infraction and
specify the time by which said infraction shall be corrected;
      (3)   Issue a stop-work order should the infraction not be corrected
within the specified time;
      (4)   Suspend the building permit upon issuance of a stop-work order; and
      (5)   Re-issue building permit and remove stop-work order when reason for
stop-work order has been corrected.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Official, in conjunction with the Town
Administrative staff, shall keep on file all applications, plans and other
pertinent building records associated with the issuance of a building permit;
and
   (F)   The Code Enforcement Official, or designated representative, shall
have the right, upon proper identification, to enter upon private property so
far as is necessary for the performance of duties.
(Ord. 104, passed 11-14-2007)
§ 150.04 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The building code of the town shall be the current building code of
the county.
   (B)   The Building Officials and Code Administrators (BOCA) Energy
Conservation Code, or its successor code, as amended from time to time, shall
apply to all buildings being constructed in the town.
(Ord. 104, passed 11-14-2007)
§ 150.05 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   A town building permit shall be required whenever a county permit is
required.
   (B)   Applications for permits shall be made, in writing, by the property
owner, or his or her duly authorized representatives, on forms provided by the
town.
   (C)   With each application an applicant must furnish:
      (1)   Evidence of a valid permit issued by the county;
      (2)   One set of plans showing architectural and structural details, plus
plats showing present and proposed construction; and
      (3)   Applications which do not conform to the above shall not be
accepted.
   (D)   Permits shall be valid and in force for a period not to exceed 24
months. Once a permit has been issued, work must begin within six months from
the date of issuance; otherwise, the permit is null and void. Work started
within this six-month period and continuously underway extending beyond this
period may proceed to completion within a reasonable time under authority of
the original permit.
   (E)   Building permits must be posted in full view on the property where
work is being performed.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to deviate in any manner from the approved
building permit unless written approval is obtained from the Code Enforcement
Official, or designated representative.
(Ord. 104, passed 11-14-2007) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 ROLL-OFF CONTAINER PERMITS.
   (A)   A town roll-off container permit shall be required whenever a ten, 20,
30 or cubic yard roll-off container type dumpster is placed on private
commercial, industrial or residential property or in the public right-of-way or
on a public street for every 15 days or portion thereof for a maximum period of
60 days. Roll-off container type dumpster unit permits shall be displayed
either on the front exterior of the roll-off container in a plastic liner or in
the front window of a residence or front window of the premises’ principal
structure. Placement of a roll-off container in excess of 60 days shall require
an exemption and approved conditions of the Town Council.
   (B)   The roll-off container unit must be sited on asphalt, concrete, gravel
or hard paved surface. The roll-off container cannot encroach on neighboring
property or on town property or on town right-of-way, sidewalk or street
without the prior approval of the town.
   (C)   Any roll-off container unit placed on a property or on town property
or town right-of-way or town street without the issuance of a permit shall be
subject to a fine and/or late fee for every 15 days or portion thereof.
   (D)   The roll-off container unit may only be used to temporarily store
existing building or construction debris, other materials or waste removed from
the building or premises on which the roll-off container unit is sited. The
roll-off container unit may not be used as a transfer station to which building
or construction debris, other materials or waste is brought from another site
and deposited into the roll-off container unit sited on a property situated in
the town.
(Ord. 104, passed 11-14-2007) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07 PORTABLE TEMPORARY STORAGE UNIT PERMITS.
   (A)   A town portable temporary storage unit permit shall be required
whenever a portable temporary storage unit is placed on private commercial,
industrial or residential property for every 30 days or portion thereof for a
maximum period of 60 days. The permit holder may, due to special circumstances,
apply to the Town Council for an extension of the placement of a portable
temporary storage unit in excess of 60 days; provided the extension request is
filed with the Town Council prior to the expiration of the 60-day period of the
permit. The permit holder may, due to special circumstances, apply to the Town
Council for an exemption from the portable temporary storage unit placement
requirements. The Town Council, when considering the request for an extension
of the allowed 60-day period or an exemption from the portable temporary
placement requirements, may set conditions of approval and establish a special
fee.
   (B)   The maximum size of any portable temporary storage unit shall not
exceed eight feet in width, eight feet in height and 16 feet in length. The
maximum number of placements is two per calendar year for a maximum number of
60 consecutive days per placement or 120 days per calendar year. The maximum
number of portable temporary storage units that can be on-site is one unless an
exemption and approved conditions are secured from the Town Council.
   (C)   (1)   The portable temporary storage unit cannot encroach on town
property, town right-of-way, neighboring property, sidewalk or be placed in the
street. The unit must be sited on an asphalt, concrete, gravel or hard paved
surface between the front property line and the rear building line of the
principal structure.
      (2)   The site distance between the portable temporary storage unit and
the side yard property line is four feet or upon the approval of the Town Code
Enforcement Official, or designated representative. The four foot side yard set
back may be waived if the applicant’s neighbor(s) consent to a side yard
setback placement that is less than four feet and the Code Enforcement Official
confirms the neighbor’s consent.
   (D)   All portable temporary storage units shall be free of rust, peeling
paint or other visible forms of deterioration.
   (E)   (1)   Portable temporary storage units shall only be allowed upon the
issuance of a permit. The permit shall be displayed either on the front
exterior surface of the unit in a plastic liner or in the front window of the
residence or front window of the premises’ principal structure.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Official, or designated representative, shall
have the discretion to grant a grace period not to exceed five days for a new,
first time residential property owner or residential tenant.
   (F)   Any portable temporary storage unit placed on a property without the
issuance of a permit shall be subject to a fine and/or late fee for every 15
days or portion thereof.
(Ord. 104, passed 11-14-2007) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08 SCHEDULE OF FEES, DEPOSITS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The fee for a building permit shall be set from time to time by
resolution of the Town Council. A late filing fee shall be charged in addition
to this fee if work is started without issuance of a valid town building
permit, said late fee amount being set from time to time by resolution of the
Town Council.
   (B)   A town permit fee for every 15 days on-site or portion thereof for a
maximum period of 60 days shall be assessed for all roll-off container type
dumpster units and said fee shall be set from time to time by resolution of the
Town Council. Roll-off container type dumpsters used in excess of 60 days shall
require an exemption and approved conditions by the Town Council.
   (C)   A town permit fee for every 30 days on-site or portion thereof for a
maximum period of 60 days shall be assessed for all portable temporary storage
units and said fee shall be set from time to time by resolution of the Town
Council. Portable temporary storage units used in excess of 60 days shall
require an exemption and approved conditions of the Town Council.
   (D)   In any case where building permits have been issued, but no work has
begun within a six-month period, the applicant may apply for a refund. The Code
Enforcement Official shall determine the validity of such requests for refunds.
   (E)   A cash deposit, set from time to time by resolution of the Town
Council, may be required for each building, roll-off container type dumpster or
portable temporary storage unit permit issued and shall be subject to the
following conditions. (See §
154.01.)
      (1)   Said deposit will be used for repair of town property such as
aprons, curbs, gutters, sidewalks or streets, which are damaged by a particular
construction project or placement of a roll-off container type dumpster or
portable temporary storage unit.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Official, or designated representative, will
inspect and document the condition of town property, as described in §
150.06(C).
      (3)   Upon completion of construction, the applicant shall apply to the
town office for an inspection by the Code Enforcement Official, or designated
representative, and for any refund of deposit due.
      (4)   Said inspection shall compare the condition of town property prior
to construction with the condition of town property subsequent to construction
and shall be documented.
      (5)   If the deposit is refunded, the Code Enforcement Official shall
note this by signature on the building application permit form.
      (6)   If the deposit refund is denied, the town office shall notify the
applicant within 45 days of the applicant’s request for refund by certified
mail of the specific damage, which has prevented the deposit from being
refunded.
   (F)   Where the cost to repair the damage exceeds the amount of the deposit,
the town shall notify the property owner by certified mail of the cost to
repair such damages and the balance due the town to cover such cost.
   (G)   When a deposit is not required with a town building permit, but damage
to town results from a construction project, the town shall notify the property
owner by certified mail of said damage and the cost to repair such damage.
   (H)   In all cases, if any charges remain unpaid after ten days from date of
notification, said charges shall constitute a lien against the property and
shall be collected in the same manner as delinquent taxes.
(Ord. 104, passed 11-14-2007)
§ 150.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the town to enforce the
provisions of this chapter as herein provided.
(Ord. 104, passed 11-14-2007)
§ 150.10 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person or persons, firm or corporation aggrieved by a decision of
the Code Enforcement Official, or designated representative, shall have a right
of appeal to the Town Council.
      (1)   Any person affected by any notice of violation which has been
issued in connection with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter may
request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter by the Town Council;
provided such person shall, within ten days after service of a notice of
violation, file with the Town Council a signed written notice of appeal,
requesting a hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the reasons
therefor. Upon receipt of such notice of appeal, the Town Council shall set a
time and place for such hearing and shall decide appeals as promptly as
practicable. The Town Council, with a quorum present, shall hear appeals.
      (2)   After such hearing, the Town Council may, by a majority of members
present, affirm, amend, modify or withdraw the notice of violation that has
been appealed. Any person who shall fail, refuse or neglect to comply with the
decision of the Town Council shall be guilty of violating the provisions of
this chapter.
      (3)   In the event a person wishes to contest the decision of the Town
Council, he or she may notify the town of his or her intent within ten days
after the rendering of the decision by the Town Council. In that event, the
town shall issue a municipal infraction citation to the aggrieved person who
may request a hearing in the district court of the state, pursuant to the
municipal infraction procedure. The decision of the Town Council, in such a
case, shall be stayed, pending a decision by the district court. To the extent
of this section, all violations of this chapter will be considered municipal
infractions of the town.
   (B)   Failure to pay after adjudication or request of adjudication by the
town will result in the amount of any fine imposed being recorded as a lien
against the property and collected in the same manner as delinquent town taxes.
(Ord. 104, passed 11-14-2007)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine and/or
penalty, which shall be set from time to time by resolution of the Town
Council. Failure to pay a fee(s), a fine(s), a late fee(s) and/or costs
incurred to repair damage to town property such as aprons, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks or streets will result in the amount of any fine(s) or late fee(s) or
repair costs incurred being recorded as a lien against the property and
collected in the same manner as delinquent taxes.
(Ord. 104, passed 11-14-2007)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING
Section
Commercial District
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Boundaries
   
151.04   Commercial District management
   
151.05   License required; fee; transferability
   
151.06   Collection and distribution of fees
   
151.07   Penalties and interest
   
151.08   Other applicable provisions
   
151.09   Rules and regulations
   
151.10   Funds to be used for purposes stated
   
151.11   Competition with private sector prohibited
   
151.12   Licensing period; bills
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. Any retail, service, rental, industrial,
institutional, research or professional business entity, association,
corporation or limited liability corporation or partnership.
   COMMERCIAL DISTRICT MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY or AUTHORITY. The incorporated
organization of persons who operate retail, service, rental or professional
businesses or are the associated property owners of said businesses within the
Commercial District. This organization will provide management and promotional
services for the Commercial District.
   DISTRICT. The Commercial District.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership or joint venture.
   PRIVATE BUSINESS SECTOR. The separation of the Business District from the
government.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-27-2016)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Commercial District Management Authority hereby
established shall be as provided in Md. Code, Local Govt. Art., Titles 9
through 15, as follows:
   (A)   Promotion;
   (B)   Marketing; and
   (C)   Providing security, maintenance and/or amenities within the District.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-27-2016)
§ 151.03 BOUNDARIES.
   The Commercial District Management Authority Commercial District, for
purposes of this subchapter, shall include all businesses within the following
boundary: all properties on 55th Avenue between Berwyn Road and the City of
College Park city line; 5411 Berwyn Road; all properties on Ballew Avenue
between Berwyn Road and Branchville Road; all properties on Branchville Road
between Ballew Avenue and Greenbelt Road; all properties on the north side of
Greenbelt Road from the bridge over the railroad tracks to Branchville Road;
all properties on the south side of Greenbelt Road from the bridge over the
railroad tracks, going eastbound on Greenbelt Road, in the 5500, 5600, 5700,
5800, 5900, 6000, 6100, 6200 and 6300 blocks of Greenbelt Road to Edmonston
Road; Edmonston Road southbound to Seminole Street; westbound on the north side
of Seminole Street to 57th Avenue; northbound on 57th Avenue, and returning to
Greenbelt Road; and any other areas as may be amended from time to time. The
Commercial District Management Authority Commercial District specifically
excludes any residential properties which may be within its boundaries.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-27-2016)
§ 151.04 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT MANAGEMENT.
   A business management authority of the Commercial District comprised of the
licensees of the District shall be incorporated under the laws of the state,
and a copy of its Charter and bylaws shall be filed with the town.
   (A)   (1)   The Authority shall be governed by a seven-member Board of
Directors, which shall meet at least quarterly. Four members shall be business
owners or operators or the commercial property owners or their designees
appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the Town Council; one member shall
be a Town Councilmember as appointed by the Mayor; one member shall be a
resident of the town appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the Town
Council; one member shall be appointed at large by the Mayor with the consent
of the Town Council. The CDMA Administrator, as designated by the Town Council,
shall serve as an ex-officio member of the Board.
      (2)   Members shall be appointed to serve three years with any vacancies
to be filled as directed above.
   (B)   One hundred percent of any District taxes or District fees collected
pursuant to §§
151.05 and
151.06 shall be expended by the Authority.
   (C)   The Authority shall submit for final approval an annual budget to the
Mayor and Town Council by March 1 of each year. The Town Council shall accept
or reject the proposed budget without amendment. All advertising contracted
for, by the Authority, shall be at least 50% generic, in that it advertises the
District as a whole. This requirement shall be met on a yearly basis and does
not necessarily apply to individual advertisements. The sum to be determined by
dividing the total generic advertising cost by the total budget for
advertising. Any disputes in calculations shall be settled by the Mayor and
Town Council.
   (D)   Insofar as the town is the tax collecting authority for the District,
any special tax or fee increase levied by the Authority shall remain invalid
until approved by the Mayor and Town Council.
   (E)   Any amendments to the Charter or bylaws contrary to the provisions of
this chapter are invalid until approved by the Mayor and Town Council.
   (F)   The Commercial District Management Authority Board of Directors shall
serve and fulfill the duties and responsibilities of District Advisory
Committee of the Special Public Safety Taxing District as set forth in §§
35.20 through
35.30.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-27-2016)
§ 151.05 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; TRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any business establishment within the
District without obtaining an annual business license from the town.
      (2)   Business licenses are governed under
Chapter 110 and any fees collected under the provisions of
Chapter 110 shall continue to be deposited in the town’s General Fund. Business
licensing fees assessed in addition to the requirements of
Chapter 110 shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any fee or District tax for the Commercial District shall be as set
forth on file in the office of the Town Manager. The annual fee schedule may be
amended by the Mayor and Town Council on the advice of the Authority’s Board of
Directors.
   (C)   (1)   The CDMA Administrator shall collect any fees from the
responsible person of each business establishment. Any special tax or levy
applied to the District shall be levied by the Town Council, as prescribed by
the Maryland Annotated Code.
      (2)   Subject to all applicable provisions of other ordinances of the
town, statutes of the state and laws of the federal government, the Commercial
District fees shall be transferable, upon written notice to the CDMA
Administrator, and shall be renewable from year to year during the continuous
operation of the District Authority.
   (D)   In the event that any person commences business operation in the
Commercial District subsequent to July 1 in any year, the CDMA Administrator
may prorate the amount of the fee due and payable based on the number of months
of operation during the licensing year.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-27-2016)
§ 151.06 COLLECTION AND DISTRIBUTION OF FEES.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall maintain a special fund account for the Commercial
District Management Authority, and said special fund shall be for receipt of
funds collected by the town for CDMA expenses.
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer, with the approval of the Mayor and Town Council,
may set a reasonable fee to be charged to the District’s special fund for the
collection, accounting and administrative services performed by the town, in an
amount not to exceed the actual cost of services.
      (2)   The CDMA Administrator will transfer credits to the special fund
from the CDMA account for any actual costs incurred.
   (C)   The CDMA Administrator shall maintain a checking account for the
Commercial District Management Authority, and said account be credited with the
fundraising revenues and state grant funds.
   (D)   The fund comprised of the license fees collected for the District in
accordance with this subchapter shall be utilized solely for the purposes
determined by the licensees, subject to the District’s annual budget and
guidelines in §
151.04.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-27-2016)
§ 151.07 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   Any person liable to pay the Commercial District fee who fails to pay the
same within 30 days after it is due and payable shall be subject to a civil
penalty of 10% of the fee and to interest at the rate of 1.5% per month, or a
fraction thereof, in addition to the annual license fee. Failure to pay said
penalty and interest when due shall subject the violator to civil prosecution,
including possible resulting liens, payment of court costs and reasonable
attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-27-2016)
§ 151.08 OTHER APPLICABLE PROVISIONS.
   Any person who owns or operates a business in the Commercial District shall
be subject to all applicable provisions of all other ordinances of the town,
statutes of the state and the laws of the federal government.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-27-2016)
§ 151.09 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Mayor and Town Council are hereby authorized and empowered to make,
adopt, promulgate and amend from time to time such rules and regulations as the
Mayor and Town Council deem necessary or proper to carry out and enforce the
provisions of this subchapter and to define or construe any of the terms or
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-27-2016)
§ 151.10 FUNDS TO BE USED FOR PURPOSES STATED.
   Any fees imposed under this subchapter shall be used only for the purpose
stated in this subchapter and may not revert to the General Fund of the town so
long as the CDMA remains in operation as approved by the Mayor and Town Council
under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-27-2016)
§ 151.11 COMPETITION WITH PRIVATE SECTOR PROHIBITED.
   The Authority established pursuant to this subchapter may not exercise the
power of eminent domain or purchase, sell, construct or, as a landlord, lease
office or retail space or, except as otherwise authorized by law, engage in
competition with the private sector, as defined in §
151.01.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-27-2016)
§ 151.12 LICENSING PERIOD; BILLS.
   For the purpose of the Commercial Business District specified in this
subchapter, the licensing period shall be July 1 through June 30 of each year.
Bills for fees shall be issued at least 30 days prior to July 1 of each year or
as far in advance of July 1 as possible and shall be due and payable 30 days
from the date of billing.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-27-2016)
CHAPTER 152: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
Residential Clean Lot
   
152.01   Purpose and authority
   
152.02   Applicability of ordinance
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Violations
   
152.05   Enforcement
   
152.06   Notice of violation of standards; penalty for violations
   
152.07   Repeat violations
   
152.08   Right to appeal
Commercial Clean Lot
   
152.20   Purpose and authority
   
152.21   Applicability of ordinance
   
152.22   County zoning ordinance and regulatory agencies
   
152.23   Adoption of standards by reference
   
152.24   Definitions
   
152.25   Violations
   
152.26   Enforcement
   
152.27   Notice of violation of standards; penalty for violations
   
152.28   Repeat violations
   
152.29   Fines
   
152.30   Right to appeal
   
152.31   Interpretation and waiver
Cross-reference:
Comprehensive fee and fine schedules, see §
30.01
RESIDENTIAL CLEAN LOT
§ 152.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The purposes of this subchapter are to establish standards for the
maintenance of residential properties in the town, and to prevent conditions
that threaten public health, safety or welfare of residents of, or visitors to,
the town. The subchapter also establishes a system of notifications and
penalties for violations to enforce the standards and a process to appeal any
penalties imposed.
   (B)   The authority to provide for the protection of health, safety,
comfort, convenience and welfare of town residents and visitors is provided in
Town Charter, § 401, “General Powers.”
   (C)   The authority to enact such regulations is provided in Town Charter, §
402, “Specific Powers.”
   (D)   The authority to impose fees and penalties for violating the
regulations is provided in Town Charter, § 403, “Enforcement.”
(Ord. 107, passed 3-11-2015)
§ 152.02 APPLICABILITY OF ORDINANCE.
   The provisions herein shall apply to all residentially zoned real property
located within the corporate limits of the town, whether improved or
unimproved.
(Ord. 107, passed 3-11-2015)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED, JUNKED, WRECKED OR NON-ROAD WORTHY MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor
vehicle which is unregistered, improperly registered or which is without
current state license tags unless the state expressly exempts such vehicles
from registration requirements; bears the license tags of another vehicle; is
disabled or inoperable; is dismantled or partially dismantled; is substantially
damaged or in disrepair; or is unable to pass inspection by the State Motor
Vehicle Administration.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A building or structure, retaining wall, wall or fence
that is incidental to the main building, located on the property.
   AGENT. Any person or company designated by the property owner to act for
them.
   BAMBOO. Any of the tall, fast-growing grasses with woody stems found in
tropical and subtropical to mild temperate regions that make up the subfamily
Bambusoideae, family Poaceae.
   DEBRIS. Any quantity or combination of litter, rubbish, garbage, tree limbs
or branches or motor vehicle parts.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREA. All areas external to improvements on the property
or on unimproved property, including the town right-of-way and adjacent street
curb and gutter. EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREA specifically excludes any trees along
the town right-of-way.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal, food and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking or consumption of food.
   HAZARD. A situation, condition or action by a person that creates an
environment that is unsafe or threatens public health, safety or welfare.
   IMMINENT THREAT. A situation, condition or action by a person that creates
an environment that immediately threatens public health, safety or welfare if
not immediately remedied.
   INVASIVE PLANT SPECIES. A species that is non-native to the ecosystem under
consideration and whose introduction causes or is likely to cause economic or
environmental harm, or harm to human health as the National Invasive Species
Council, the State Invasive Species Council or any other state-established list
the Town Manager may determine is appropriate or the U.S. Department of
Agriculture may so identify.
   LITTER. All combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage;
and the term shall include, but not be limited to, appliances, building,
construction or remodeling materials or waste, bulk refuse, electronics or
electronic recyclables, hazardous material or waste, household refuse, refuse,
trash and yard waste, excluding organic compost piles, that is thrown,
deposited or stored in or on private property or creates a nuisance or a threat
to public health, safety and welfare.
   MULTIPLE REPEAT VIOLATOR. Any person that has been noticed for three or more
violations of this subchapter in an 18-month period.
   PAVED PARKING AREA. Any asphalt, bluestone, bricks, brick pavers, pervious
pavers, crushed gravel, poured concrete, other hard rock surface or other
masonry-like material completed in a professional manner, rolled to a smooth or
level surface and maintained free of loose materials or excessive vegetative
growth, situated on the property behind the property line and located and
accessed in accordance with the provisions of the County Zoning Ordinance.
   PERSON. Any individual, natural person, legal entity, joint stock company,
partnership, voluntary association, society, club, firm, company, corporation,
business trust, organization, owner, occupant or any other group acting as a
unit, principal or agent or the manager, lessor, lessee, agent, servant,
partner, member, director, officer or employee of any of them, including an
executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or other representative appointed
according to law.
   PROPERTY OWNER.
      (1)   One who has complete dominion over a particular property and in
whom legal or equitable title rests, when applied to a building or land.
      (2)   PROPERTY OWNER means any part owner, joint tenant in common, tenant
by the entireties or joint tenant of the whole or part of such building or
land.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. A situation, condition or action whereby a person creates
an environment that is unsafe or threatens public health and welfare of the
surrounding area or disturbs public peace.
   REPEAT VIOLATOR. Any person that has been noticed for two violations of this
subchapter in an 18-month period.
   RUBBISH. All non-putrescible combustible or non-combustible solid waste
normally generated from running a household.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council for Berwyn Heights.
   VACANT PROPERTY. A residence that is not occupied on a regular and habitual
basis by the property owner or any other person for the usual and customary
purposes for which the residence is designed and lawfully permitted.
   WEEDS. Brush, plants or any noxious growth that is injurious to public
health, agriculture, recreation, wildlife or property. This definition excludes
properly tended trees, ornamental plants, flowers, vegetable plants or
undisturbed woodland, not otherwise in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 107, passed 3-11-2015)
§ 152.04 VIOLATIONS.
   The following are considered violations of this subchapter:
   (A)   Condition of exterior property areas.
      (1)   Imminent threat. All exterior property areas shall be maintained
free from imminent threats. Examples of imminent threats include, but are not
limited to, imminent fire hazards; spilled or improperly stored hazardous or
toxic chemicals; domestic animals in a contaminated or soiled environment; and
protruding nails.
      (2)   Hazard. All exterior property areas shall be maintained free from
hazards. Examples of a hazard include, but are not limited to, spilled or
improperly stored potentially harmful substances or pesticides; excessive
accumulation of domestic animal feces; and a leaning fence.
      (3)   Non-hazard. All exterior property areas shall be maintained in a
reasonably clean and sanitary condition, free from any accumulation of debris.
If pests are found, the property owner shall initiate the extermination process
which shall not be injurious to the health of humans or domestic animals.
   (B)   Tall grass and weeds. All exterior property areas shall be properly
maintained and no grass or weeds more than ten inches tall, other than annual
or perennial cultivated flowers, and plants, bushes, shrubs, garden and yard
plantings, and trees properly maintained by the property owner or agent shall
be allowed to accumulate or grow on any private property. No vegetation shall
be allowed to grow in, or into, the public curb or gutter.
   (C)   Invasive plant species and bamboo. Invasive plant species and bamboo
plants are permitted provided that such invasive plant species and bamboo do
not spread any closer than two feet from the property owner’s property line and
are contained in such a manner as to not spread to any other public or private
property. Should any property owner or agent permit invasive plant species or
bamboo to spread to any other public or private property, the property owner or
agent from where the invasive plant species or bamboo has spread shall be
responsible for the expense of its removal.
   (D)   Discarded vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to discard any
vehicle on any residential lot within the corporate limits of the town.
   (E)   Vehicle condition and storage.
      (1)   No property owner or agent shall permit any vehicle to remain on
such property in a condition that causes environmental harm or constitutes a
breeding ground or habitat for mosquitoes, rats or other vermin or pests.
      (2)   No property owner or agent shall permit an abandoned, junked,
wrecked or non-road worthy vehicle, as defined in this subchapter, to remain on
such property, except enclosed in a garage; if such vehicle is in a driveway,
it shall be properly and completely covered with a make, model and year custom-
fitted or universal tightly fitted cover. Such vehicles, not enclosed in a
garage, shall be limited to two per residence.
      (3)   The Code Compliance Department and the Police Department are
authorized to tow, impound and send to a scrap processor a motor vehicle that
has been declared an abandoned, junked, wrecked or non-road worthy vehicle, as
defined in this subchapter, only after notifying the property owner or agent of
the property on which the vehicle is located and the motor vehicle owner, if
known, by attaching a notice on the presumed abandoned, junked, wrecked or non-
road worthy vehicle. The property owner or agent where the vehicle is located
shall be responsible for all towing, storage, preservation and any other
charges related to the towing, impounding and disposition of the vehicle.
   (F)   Motor vehicle parts. Exterior property areas shall not be utilized for
the storage of motor vehicle parts.
   (G)   Building materials. Exterior property areas shall not be utilized for
the open storage of building materials, bathroom or kitchen fixtures, furniture
or lawn and garden equipment, irrespective of age or condition, except for
routine garden maintenance equipment, outdoor lawn furniture or materials used
in construction or renovation projects with the appropriate county and town
permits.
   (H)   Wood storage. The storage of wood and other materials not prescribed
by this subchapter, including organic compost piles, shall be accomplished in a
manner designed to avoid rodents, termites and other insect infestation. Wood
shall be stored at least six inches above the ground.
   (I)   Vegetation. All vegetation located on exterior property areas shall be
maintained in such a way so as not to pose a danger or obstruction to adjoining
property, pedestrians or vision of any motorist.
   (J)   Parking surfaces.
      (1)   A paved parking area must be accessed by a curb cut unless granted
an exception by the Town Council. The curb cut shall be constructed of poured
concrete completed in a professional manner, situated totally within the public
right-of-way, where applicable, constructed in accordance with the building
code of the county and located in accordance with the County Zoning Ordinance.
Grassy yards or other unpaved areas shall not be used for the parking of boats,
motorcycles, motor vehicles of any type, trailers or similar items on a
residential property, except during a “snow emergency.” All wheels of said
vehicle(s) must be parked on an approved paved parking area in order to be in
compliance with this subchapter.
      (2)   Vehicles, such as boats, trailers or other currently registered
seasonal or recreational vehicles, are exempted from this division (J) when the
vehicle’s owner obtains a permit from the Town Manager. Such permit shall be
issued only for good cause and for a period of time not to exceed 72 hours.
Only through action of the Mayor and Council may a permit be issued for a
period of time that exceeds 72 hours. If there are extenuating circumstances,
the Mayor and Council may grant a long-term permit for a period not to exceed
one year and such permit may be renewed only by action of the Mayor and
Council.
   (K)   Building security. No property owner or agent shall allow vacant
structures or property to become a public nuisance, safety or health hazard, or
be in a condition that could encourage trespassing.
   (L)   Accessory structures. No accessory structure shall pose a public
health or safety hazard. All accessory structures shall comply with county and
town ordinances and any improvements to such accessory structures shall be duly
permitted.
      (1)   A Code Official, or other town designated representative, may
require a property owner, at the property owner’s expense, to repair or replace
a fence not in compliance with the County Zoning Ordinance. Any fence repair or
replacement shall comply with provisions regarding location, height and
material in the Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   A Code Official, or other town designated representative, may
require a property owner, at the property owner’s expense, to repair or install
a retaining wall along their property line if the Town Manager makes a
determination that rainwater or stormwater run-off discharging from their
property is causing erosion or damage to adjoining properties or structures.
   (M)   Premises identification. All premises shall have approved address
numbers placed in a position to be plainly legible and visible from the street
or road fronting the property.
(Ord. 107, passed 3-11-2015) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 152.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the town to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter as herein provided.
   (B)   The Mayor and Council may waive applicability of this subchapter to a
property on application of the property owner or agent if:
      (1)   Adequate notice is given in a form and manner specified by the
town;
      (2)   The property owner or agent is afforded an opportunity to comment
on the complaint either in writing or in person; and
      (3)   The waiver would not threaten the health, safety or welfare of any
resident or visitor.
(Ord. 107, passed 3-11-2015)
§ 152.06 NOTICE OF VIOLATION OF STANDARDS; PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice requirements.
      (1)   Whenever the Code Official, or other designated town
representative, determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that
there has been or is a violation of any provision of this subchapter or of any
rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, the Code Official, or designated
representative, shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person or
persons responsible therefor, as hereinafter provided unless otherwise noted in
this subchapter.
      (2)   Such notice shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Include a description of the real property sufficient for
identification;
         (c)   Include a statement of the reason why the notice is being issued
with reference to the section of this subchapter violated;
         (d)   Allow time, as set forth in this subchapter, for the remedial
action required to correct the violation; and
         (e)   Contain:
            1.   An outline of the remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and with the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto; and
            2.   The requirement that the violation must be fully corrected
within the timeframe, as specified in division (E) below. For each additional
prescribed period that the violation is not fully corrected, notice will be
issued of the fine amount as due and payable to the town. Fines for failure to
take remedial action shall be established by resolution of the Town Council and
shall not exceed the amount of the allowable municipal infraction allowed by
the state. Failure to pay fine(s) will result in the amount of any fine(s)
imposed to be collected in the same manner as delinquent town taxes.
   (B)   Service of notice. Service of notice that a dwelling is in violation
shall be as follows:
      (1)   By delivery to the property owner or agent personally or by leaving
the notice at the usual place of abode of the property owner or office of the
agent with a person of suitable age and discretion who shall be informed of the
intent thereof;
      (2)   By appropriate means of mail addressed to the property owner or
agent at the address provided to the town by the property owner or agent with
postage prepaid thereon with return receipt requested, or if said letter is
returned with receipt showing non-delivery; or
      (3)   By posting a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place on the
premises affected by such notice.
   (C)   Town abatement. The town shall have the right, after 30 days of
continued violation, to enter onto the premises of the property in violation to
abate any violation. The costs of such abatement shall be charged to the
property owner and be collected in the same manner as delinquent town taxes.
Abatement by the town does not constitute compliance with this subchapter. The
town’s abatement procedure pursuant to §
152.04(L) may include the boarding up or razing of buildings or structures on
the premises. Where a clean lot problem is refuse improperly put out for
collection, the right to abate and collect costs will be as prescribed in
Chapter 50.
   (D)   Vacant property.
      (1)   Hazardous situation. If a Code Official, or other town designated
representative, has determined that the condition of a vacant property is
hazardous to public health, safety or welfare, the town shall have the right to
immediately enter upon the premises of the property in violation to abate any
and all violations after complying with the notification provisions set forth
in this subchapter. Failure of the property owner to pay the town for the cost
of abatement within ten days shall result in collection by the same manner as
delinquent town taxes.
      (2)   Non-hazardous situation. If a Code Official, or other town
designated representative, determines the condition of a vacant property
constitutes a violation, a person shall be notified of the violation of this
subchapter by certified mail and have ten days to correct the violation. If,
after ten days from the date of notification, the violation has not been
corrected, the town shall have the right to enter upon the premises of the
property in violation to abate any and all violations. Failure of the property
owner to pay the town for the cost of abatement within ten days shall result in
collection by the same manner as delinquent town taxes.
      (3)   List. The Code Compliance Department shall maintain a list of
vacant residential property located within the town.
   (E)   Timeframe for notice of violation and penalties. The definitions below
and the following table provide categories of timeframes for issuing the
initial violation notice, a subsequent violation notice and assessment of
penalties and fines.
      (1)   IMMEDIATE means a person shall be subject to an immediate fine, or
have 24 hours from the time the correction notice was issued to correct the
violation at the discretion of a Code Official, or other designated town
representative, only if the person is not a repeat violator or multiple repeat
violator. If, after 24 hours, the violation has not been corrected, another
notice to correct which imposes a fine shall be issued. A recurring fine and
notice to correct shall be issued in 24 hour intervals thereafter until the
violation is corrected.
      (2)   TIME SENSITIVE means a person shall have seven days from the time
the correction notice was issued to correct the violation. If, after seven
days, the violation has not been corrected, another notice to correct which
imposes a fine shall be issued. A recurring fine and notice to correct shall be
issued in seven day intervals thereafter until the violation is corrected.
      (3)   REGULAR ORDER means a person shall have 15 days from the time the
correction notice was issued to correct the violation. If, after fifteen (7)
days, the violation has not been corrected, another notice to correct which
imposes a fine shall be issued. A recurring fine and notice to correct shall be
issued in fifteen (7) day intervals thereafter until the violation is
corrected.
      (4)   STRUCTURAL means a person shall have 45 days from the time the
correction notice was issued to provide to an adequate plan to the Code
Compliance Department to correct the violation. If, after 45 days, a person has
not provided an adequate plan to the Code Compliance Department to correct the
violation, another notice to correct which imposes a fine and affords the
person 30 days to provide the plan shall be issued. A recurring fine and notice
to correct shall be issued in 30 day intervals thereafter until the violation
is corrected.
Category of Violation and
Timeframes for Notice and Immediate Time Sensitive Regular Order Structural
Violation
Category of Violation and
Timeframes for Notice and  Immediate Time Sensitive Regular Order Structural
Violation
A. Condition of exterior
property areas
1. Imminent threat         x         x              x
2. Hazardous
3. Non-hazardous
B. Tall grass and weeds              x
C. Invasive species and                             x
bamboo
D. Discarded vehicles      x
E. Vehicle condition and                            x
storage
F. Motor vehicle parts               x
G. Building materials                x
H. Wood storage                                     x
I. Vegetation                                       x
J. Parking surfaces        x
K. Building security                 x
L. Accessory structures                                           x
M. Premises identification                          x
 
(Ord. 107, passed 3-11-2015; Ord. 179, passed 8-14-2019)
§ 152.07 REPEAT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise noted in this subchapter, any two violations
occurring within an 18-month period shall be considered a repeat of any
previous violation and the property owner or agent shall be deemed a repeat
violator. Any repeat violations will be treated as a time sensitive violation,
with the exception of a violation deemed to be an immediate violation, pursuant
to §
152.06. Repeat violations are subject to town abatement if not corrected within
21 days. The costs of such abatement shall be charged to the property owner and
be collected in the same manner as delinquent town taxes.
   (B)   Unless otherwise noted in this subchapter, any three violations, with
the exception of a violation of §
152.04(K), occurring within an 18-month period shall be considered repeats of
any previous violation and the property owner or agent shall be deemed a
multiple repeat violator. Any repeat violations will be treated as an immediate
violation pursuant to §
152.06. Multiple repeat violations are subject to immediate town abatement. The
costs of such abatement shall be charged to the property owner and be collected
in the same manner as delinquent town taxes.
(Ord. 107, passed 3-11-2015)
§ 152.08 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice of violation may elect to appeal to
the Town Council.
      (1)   Any person affected by any notice of violation which had been
issued in connection with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter may
request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter by the Town Council;
provided that such person shall, within ten days after service of a notice of
violation, file with the Town Council a signed written notice of appeal,
requesting a hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the reasons
therefor. Upon receipt of such notice of appeal, the Town Council shall set a
time and place for such hearing and shall determine appeals as promptly as
practicable. The Town Council, with a quorum present, shall hear appeals.
      (2)   After such hearing, the Town Council may, by a majority of members
present, affirm, amend, modify or withdraw the notice of violation that has
been appealed. Any person who shall fail, refuse or neglect to comply with the
decision of the Town Council shall be guilty of violating the provisions of
this chapter.
      (3)   In the event a person wishes to contest the decision of the Town
Council, he or she may notify the town of his or her intent within ten days
after the rendering of the decision by the Town Council. In that event, the
town shall issue a municipal infraction citation to the aggrieved person who
may request a hearing in the district court of the state pursuant to the
municipal infraction procedure. The decision of the Town Council, in such a
case, shall be stayed, pending a resolution by the district court. To the
extent of this section, all violations of this chapter will be considered
municipal infractions of the town.
   (B)   Failure to pay after adjudication or request of adjudication by the
town will result in the amount of any fine imposed and be collected in the same
manner as delinquent town taxes.
(Ord. 107, passed 3-11-2015)
COMMERCIAL CLEAN LOT
§ 152.20 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public health, safety
and welfare of residents and visitors from excessive accumulation of debris and
weeds on any improved or unimproved real property in the commercial, or
industrial, or mixed-use zone, as defined in the County Zoning Ordinance, or on
any improved or unimproved real property assessed or taxed as commercial or
industrial property; require owners of same to maintain the appearance, upkeep
and good repair of structures on said property and the equipment on the
structures and surrounding grounds; require owners to maintain the appearance,
upkeep and good repair of surrounding grounds, parking lots, compactor,
commercial garbage or refuse container or dumpster and garbage, refuse or
recycling areas, enclosed or screened or not, including the aprons, curb,
gutter and sidewalk in the state or town right-of-way, and the line striping of
directional arrows, handicap parking stalls, parking stalls and painting of
curbs on-site; and require owners to keep property free of abandoned, junked,
wrecked, untagged or unlicensed motor vehicles.
   (B)   The authority to provide for the protection of health, safety,
comfort, convenience and welfare of town residents and visitors is provided in
Town Charter, § 401, “General Powers.”
   (C)   The authority to enact such regulations is provided in Town Charter, §
402, “Specific Powers.”
   (D)   The authority to impose fees and penalties for violating the
regulations is provided in Town Charter, § 403, “Enforcement.”
(Ord. 134, passed 5-13-2015)
§ 152.21 APPLICABILITY OF ORDINANCE.
   The provisions herein shall apply to any improved or unimproved real
property in the commercial, or industrial, or mixed-use zone, as defined in the
County Zoning Ordinance or to any improved or unimproved real property assessed
or taxed as commercial, industrial or mixed-use property located within the
corporate limits of the town, including the abutting state or town right-of-way
and adjacent apron, curb, gutter and sidewalk.
(Ord. 134, passed 5-13-2015)
§ 152.22 COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE AND REGULATORY AGENCIES.
   (A)   All provisions of the County Zoning Ordinance, as may be amended,
shall be taken into consideration when enforcing this subchapter. The
commercial zones in the town are C-O (Commercial Office), C-S-C (Commercial
Shopping Center) and DDO (District Development Overlay). The industrial zone in
the town is I-1 (Light Industrial) and the mixed- use zone is M-X-T (Mixed Use
Transportation Oriented).
   (B)   The County Zoning Ordinance permitted uses permitted in for the
commercial zones are listed in the uses permitted table of part 6, § 27-461 of
the zoning ordinance; for the industrial zones in the uses permitted table of
part 7, § 27-473; and the mixed use – transportation oriented zone in the uses
permitted table of part 10, § 27-547, as may be amended.
   (C)   The rules and regulations of the state or county shall be taken into
consideration when enforcing this subchapter.
(Ord. 134, passed 5-13-2015)
§ 152.23 ADOPTION OF STANDARDS BY REFERENCE.
   The International Code Council International Building Code, as amended from
time to time, and the Maryland Rehabilitation Code, being COMAR 09.12.58, as
amended from time to time, and as adopted by the state, shall be the official
building codes of the town, as applicable to the commercial, industrial and
mixed-use zoned properties.
(Ord. 134, passed 5-13-2015) Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.24 DEFINITIONS.
   In this subchapter, the following words have the meanings indicated. Where
terms are not defined, they shall have their ordinarily accepted meanings such
as the context may imply. Words used in the present tense include the future;
words used in the masculine gender include feminine and neuter; and the
singular includes the plural and the plural the singular.
   ABANDONED, JUNKED OR WRECKED OR NON-ROAD WORTHY MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor
vehicle or not-over-the-road construction, grass cutting or like equipment,
which is unregistered, improperly registered or which is without current state
license tags unless the state expressly exempts such vehicles from registration
requirements; bears the license tag of another vehicle; is disabled or
inoperable; is dismantled or partially dismantled; is substantially damaged or
in disrepair; or is unable to pass inspection by the State Motor Vehicle
Administration.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A building or structure, retaining wall, wall or fence
that is incidental to the main building located on the property.
   AGENT. Any person or company designated by the property owner to act for
them.
   APPURTENANCE or APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. All exterior decorative, aesthetic or
other devices, such as, but not limited to, cupolas, flower boxes and signage,
that are attached to walls or railings, other parts of the structure and
exterior of the structure, which shall be maintained in a safe and weather-
resistant condition.
   BAMBOO. Any of the tall, fast-growing grasses with woody stems found in
tropical and subtropical to mild temperate regions that make up the subfamily
Bambusoideae, family Poaceae.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS. All areas external to improvements on the property
or on unimproved real property, including the state or town right-of-way and
adjacent street curb, gutter, driveway apron and sidewalk. EXTERIOR PROPERTY
AREA specifically excludes any trees along or in the state or town right-of-way
unless the property owner planted the trees.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rats or other pests
by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that serve as their food; spraying, fumigating and trapping; or
through any other elimination methods.
   DEBRIS. Any quantity or combination of litter, rubbish, garbage, tree limbs
or branches or motor vehicle parts.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal, food and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and/or consumption of food.
   GRAFFITI. The drawings or inscriptions that have been scratched, painted,
rubbed, etched, gouged, cut or engraved, or built on any property, buildings or
surface, which mar, blemish, deface, disfigure, blight, cause deterioration,
damage, loss, erosion, mutilation, corrosion or tarnish to said property,
building or surface.
   HAZARD. A situation, condition or action by a person that creates an
environment that is unsafe or threatens public health, safety or welfare.
   IMMINENT THREAT. A situation, condition or action by a person that creates
an environment that immediately threatens public health, safety or welfare if
not immediately remedied.
   INFESTATION. The presence within, or contiguous to, a structure or premises
of insects, rats, vermin or other pests.
   INVASIVE PLANT SPECIES. A species that is non-native to the ecosystem under
consideration and whose introduction causes or is likely to cause economic or
environmental harm, or harm to human health as the National Invasive Species
Council, the State Invasive Species Council or any other state-established list
the Town Manager may determine is appropriate or the U.S. Department of
Agriculture may so identify.
   LITTER. All combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage;
and the term shall include, but not be limited to, appliances, building,
construction or remodeling materials or waste, bulk refuse, electronics or
electronic recyclables, hazardous material or waste, household refuse, refuse,
trash and yard waste, excluding organic compost piles, that is thrown,
deposited or stored in or on public places or is thrown, deposited or stored on
private property and creates a nuisance or a threat to public health, safety
and welfare.
   PAVED PARKING AREA. Any asphalt, bluestone, bricks, brick pavers, pervious
pavers, crushed gravel, poured concrete, other hard rock surface or other
masonry-like material completed in a professional manner, rolled to a smooth or
level surface and maintained free of loose materials or excessive vegetative
growth, situated on the property behind the property line and located and
accessed in accordance with the provisions of the County Zoning Ordinance.
   PERSON. Any individual, natural person, legal entity, joint stock company,
partnership, voluntary association, society, club, firm, company, corporation,
business trust, organization, owner, occupant or any other group acting as a
unit, principal or agent, or the manager, lessor, lessee, agent, servant,
partner, member, director, officer or employee of any of them including an
executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or other representative appointed
according to law.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land including any structures thereon.
   PROPERTY OWNER.
      (1)   One who has complete dominion over a particular property and in
whom legal or equitable title rests, when applied to a building or land.
      (2)   PROPERTY OWNER means any part owner, joint tenant in common, tenant
by the entireties or joint tenant, of the whole or part of such building or
land.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Situation, condition or action whereby a person creates an
environment that is unsafe or threatens the public health and welfare of the
surrounding area or disturbs public peace.
   REPEAT VIOLATOR. Any person that has been noticed for two or more violations
of this subchapter in an 18-month period.
   RUBBISH. All non-putrescible combustible or non-combustible solid waste
normally generated from running a commercial or industrial business.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council for Town of Berwyn Heights.
   WEEDS. Brush, grass, plants or any noxious growth that is injurious to
public health, agriculture, recreation, wildlife or property. This definition
excludes properly tended trees, ornamental plants, flowers, vegetable plants or
undisturbed woodland, not otherwise in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 134, passed 5-13-2015)
§ 152.25 VIOLATIONS.
   The following are considered violations of this subchapter:
   (A)   Condition of exterior property areas.
      (1)   Imminent threat. All exterior property areas shall be maintained
free from imminent threats. Examples of imminent threats include, but are not
limited to, imminent fire hazards; spilled or improperly stored hazardous or
toxic chemicals; and protruding nails.
      (2)   Hazard. All exterior property areas shall be maintained free from
hazards. Examples of a hazard include, but are not limited to, spilled or
improperly stored potentially harmful substances or pesticides; overflowing
dumpsters; and a leaning fence.
      (3)   Non-hazard. All exterior property areas shall be maintained in a
reasonably clean and sanitary condition and free from any accumulation of
debris. All public rights-of-way shall be cleared of snow and ice. If pests are
found, the property owner shall initiate the extermination process which shall
not be injurious to the health of humans or domestic animals.
   (B)   Tall grass and weeds. All exterior property areas shall be properly
maintained and no grass or weeds more than six inches tall, other than annual
or perennial cultivated flowers and plants, bushes, shrubs, garden and yard
plantings and trees properly maintained by the property owner or agent, shall
be allowed to accumulate or grow on any private property. No vegetation shall
be allowed to grow in, or into, the apron, sidewalk or in the state or town
right-of-way without prior Town Manager approval.
   (C)   Invasive plant species and bamboo. Invasive plant species and bamboo
plants shall be prohibited.
   (D)   Discarded vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to discard any
vehicle on any commercial, industrial or mixed-use premises within the
corporate limits of the town.
   (E)   Vehicle condition and storage.
      (1)   No property owner or agent shall permit any vehicle to remain on
such property in a condition that causes environmental harm or constitutes a
breeding ground or habitat for mosquitoes, rats or other vermin or pests.
      (2)   No property owner or agent in the light industrial zone shall
permit an abandoned, junked, wrecked or non-road worthy motor vehicle to be
kept on the premises unless there are provisions to the contrary in the County
Zoning Ordinance or a county or state agency regulation.
      (3)   No property owner or agent shall permit an abandoned, junked,
wrecked or non-road worthy motor vehicle to remain on such property, with the
exception of those enclosed in a garage, unless the vehicle is undergoing
inspection at an authorized vehicle inspection station or is actively
undergoing service repairs at a duly authorized service facility. The Code
Compliance Department and the Police Department are authorized to tow, impound
and send to a scrap processor a motor vehicle that has been declared an
abandoned, junked, wrecked or non-road worthy vehicle, as defined in this
subchapter, only after notifying the property owner or agent of the property on
which the vehicle is located and the motor vehicle owner, if known, by
attaching a notice on the presumed abandoned, junked, wrecked or non-road
worthy vehicle. The property owner or agent where the vehicle is located shall
be responsible for all towing, storage, preservation and any other charges
related to the towing, impounding and disposition of the vehicle.
   (F)   Vegetation. All vegetation located on exterior property areas shall be
maintained in such a way so as not to pose a danger or obstruction to adjoining
property, pedestrians or vision of any motorist.
   (G)   Plantings in the right-of-way. All bushes, shrubs, trees and other
plantings on the premises or in the state or town right-of-way shall be
maintained in an attractive, presentable appearance.
   (H)   Parking surfaces.
      (1)   A paved parking area must be accessed by a curb cut unless granted
an exception by the Town Council. The curb cut shall be constructed of poured
concrete completed in a professional manner, situated totally within the public
right-of-way, where applicable, constructed in accordance with the building
code of the county and located in accordance with the County Zoning Ordinance.
Grassy yards or other unpaved areas shall not be used for the parking of boats,
motorcycles, motor vehicles of any type, trailers or similar items on a
commercial, industrial or mixed-use zoned property except during a “snow
emergency” or where the County Zoning Ordinance may permit such parking. All
wheels of said vehicle(s) must be parked on an approved paved parking area in
order to be in compliance with this subchapter.
      (2)   Vehicles, such as boats, trailers or other currently registered
seasonal or recreational vehicles, are exempted from this division (H) when the
vehicle’s owner obtains a permit from the Town Manager. Such permit shall be
issued only for good cause and for a period of time not to exceed 72 hours.
Only through action of the Mayor and Council may a permit be issued for a
period of time that exceeds 72 hours. If there are extenuating circumstances,
the Mayor and Council may grant a long-term permit for a period not to exceed
one year and such permit may be renewed only by action of the Mayor and
Council.
   (I)   Building materials. Exterior property areas shall not be utilized for
the open storage of bathroom or kitchen fixtures, building construction
materials, furniture or lawn and garden equipment, irrespective of age or
condition, except for outdoor lawn furniture or table and chairs for active
restaurant facilities, or materials used in construction or renovation projects
with the appropriate county and town permits or where otherwise permitted in
the County Zoning Ordinance.
   (J)   Motor vehicle parts. Exterior property areas shall not be utilized for
the storage of motor vehicle except where otherwise permitted in the County
Zoning Ordinance.
   (K)   Wood storage. The storage of wood and other materials not prescribed
by this subchapter, including compost piles, shall be accomplished in a manner
designed to avoid rodents, termites and other insect infestation. Wood shall be
stored at least six inches above the ground.
   (L)   Condition of public amenities. All on-site aprons, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, parking lots, parking spaces, stairs, stormwater infrastructure,
walkways and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of cleanliness, have
a maintained appearance and be in good repair and structurally sound, and
maintained free from hazardous conditions. The property owner shall maintain
the appearance and keep in good repair all on-site line stripping of
directional arrows, handicap-parking stalls, parking stalls, painted curbs and
signage.
   (M)   Structures and accessory structures.
      (1)   Conditions. All structures and accessory structures shall be kept
in a proper state of cleanliness; have a maintained appearance; be in good
repair and structurally sound; painted, if appropriate, including all equipment
on all structures, accessory structures and surrounding grounds; and including,
but not limited to, commercial garbage or refuse container or dumpster and
garbage, refuse, recycling or rubbish areas, enclosed or screened or not,
compactor, fences, garages and walls or retaining walls of any type. All
commercial garbage or refuse container or dumpster, compactor and garbage,
refuse, recycling or rubbish areas are to be screened from view of adjoining
properties or street in accordance with the County Landscape Manual.
      (2)   Compliance with rules, regulations and codes. All property owners
are required to maintain the appearance, upkeep and in good repair all
structures and accessory structures on the property and the equipment on the
structures and on the surrounding grounds in accordance with the rules and
regulations adopted from time to time by the Town Council and the provisions of
the International Code Council International Building Code of America, as may
be amended from time to time, and the Maryland Building Rehabilitation Code,
being COMAR 09.12.58, as may be amended from time to time.
   (N)   Building security. No property owner or agent shall allow unattended
vacant structures or property to become a public nuisance, safety or health
hazard or be in a condition to that could encourage trespassing.
   (O)   Premises grading. All premises shall be graded and maintained to
prevent erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water
thereon or within any structure located thereon.
   (P)   Compliance with County Zoning Ordinance. The property owner is
required to comply with all provisions and uses permitted in the County Zoning
Ordinance, as may be amended.
   (Q)   Premises identification. All premises shall have approved address
numbers placed in a position to be plainly legible and visible from the street
or road fronting the property.
   (R)   Construction safety. All equipment, tools and materials left at a
project site shall be secured in a manner to protect public health, safety and
welfare.
(Ord. 134, passed 5-13-2015) Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.26 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the town to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter as herein provided.
   (B)   The Mayor and Council may waive applicability of this subchapter to a
property on application of the property owner or agent if:
      (1)   Adequate notice is given in a form and manner specified by the
town;
      (2)   The property owner or agent is afforded an opportunity to comment
on the complaint either in writing or in person; and
      (3)   The waiver would not threaten the health, safety or welfare of any
resident or visitor.
(Ord. 134, passed 5-13-2015)
§ 152.27 NOTICE OF VIOLATION OF STANDARDS; PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice requirements.
      (1)   Whenever the Code Official, or other designated representative,
determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been or
is a violation of any provision of this subchapter or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, the Code Official, or designated representative,
shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person or persons
responsible therefore, as herein after provided unless otherwise noted in this
subchapter.
      (2)   Such notice shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Include a description of the real property sufficient for
identification;
         (c)   Include a statement of the reason why the notice is being issued
with reference to the section of this subchapter violated;
         (d)   Allow time, as set forth in this subchapter, for the remedial
action required to correct the violation; and
         (e)   Contain:
            1.   An outline of the remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and with the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto; and
            2.   The requirement that the violation must be fully corrected
within the timeframe, as specified in division (E) below. For each additional
prescribed period that the violation is not fully corrected, notice will be
issued of the fine amount as due and payable to the town. Fines for failure to
take remedial action shall be established by resolution of the Town Council and
shall not exceed the amount of $1,000. Failure to pay fine(s) will result in
the amount of any fine(s) imposed to be collected in the same manner as
delinquent town taxes.
   (B)   Service of notice. Service of notice that a premises is in violation
shall be as follows:
      (1)   By delivery to the property owner or agent personally or by leaving
the notice at the usual place of abode of the property owner or office of the
agent with a person of suitable age and discretion who shall be informed of the
intent thereof;
      (2)   By appropriate means of mail addressed to the property owner or
agent at the address provided to the town by the property owner or agent with
postage prepaid thereon with return receipt requested, or if said letter is
returned with receipt showing non-delivery; or
      (3)   By posting a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place on the
premises affected by such notice.
   (C)   Town abatement. The town shall have the right, after ten days of
continued violation, or one day for immediate violations, to enter onto the
premises of the property in violation to abate any violation. The costs of such
abatement shall be charged to the property owner and be collected in the same
manner as delinquent town taxes. Abatement by the town does not constitute
compliance with this subchapter. The town’s abatement procedure pursuant to §
152.25(N) may include the boarding up or razing of buildings or structures on
the premises.
   (D)   Vacant property.
      (1)   Hazardous situation. If a Code Official, or other town designated
representative, has determined that the condition of a vacant property is
hazardous to public health, safety or welfare, the town shall have the right to
immediately enter upon the premises of the property in violation to abate any
and all violations after complying with the notification provisions set forth
in this subchapter. Failure of the property owner to pay the town for the cost
of abatement within ten days shall result in collection by the same manner as
delinquent town taxes.
      (2)   Non-hazardous situation. If a Code Official, or other town
designated representative, determines the condition of a vacant property
constitutes a violation, a person shall be notified of the violation of this
subchapter by certified mail and have ten days to correct the violation. If,
after ten days from the date of notification, the violation has not been
corrected, the town shall have the right to enter upon the premises of the
property in violation to abate any and all violations. Failure of the property
owner to pay the town for the cost of abatement within ten days shall result in
collection by the same manner as delinquent town taxes.
      (3)   List required. The Code Compliance Department shall maintain a list
of vacant commercial, industrial and mixed-use property located within the
town.
   (E)   Timeframe for notice of violation and penalties. The definitions below
and the following table provide categories of timeframes for issuing the
initial violation notice, a subsequent violation notice and assessment of
penalties and fines.
      (1)   IMMEDIATE means a person shall be subject to an immediate fine, or
have 24 hours from the time the correction notice was issued to correct the
violation at the discretion of a Code Official, or other designated town
representative, only if the person is not a repeat violator. If, after 24
hours, the violation has not been corrected, another notice to correct which
imposes a fine shall be issued. A recurring fine and notice to correct shall be
issued in 24 hour intervals thereafter until the violation is corrected.
      (2)   REGULAR ORDER means a person shall have seven days from the time
the correction notice was issued to correct the violation. If, after seven
days, the violation has not been corrected, another notice to correct which
imposes a fine shall be issued. A recurring fine and notice to correct shall be
issued in seven-day intervals thereafter until the violation is corrected.
      (3)   STRUCTURAL means a person shall have 30 days from the time the
correction notice was issued to provide to an adequate plan to the Code
Compliance Department to correct the violation. If, after 30 days, a person has
not provided an adequate plan to the Code Compliance Department to correct the
violation, another notice to correct which imposes a fine and affords the
person 30 days to provide the plan shall be issued. A recurring fine and notice
to correct shall be issued in 30 day intervals thereafter until the violation
is corrected.
Category of Violation and Timeframe for Immediate Regular Order Structural
Notice and Violation
Category of Violation and Timeframe for    Immediate Regular Order Structural
Notice and Violation
A. Condition of exterior property areas
1. Imminent threat                         x         x
2. Hazardous                                         x
3. Non-hazardous
B. Tall grass and weeds                              x
C. Invasive species and bamboo                       x
D. Discarded vehicles                      x
E. Vehicle condition and storage                     x
F. Vegetation                                        x
G. Plantings in the right-of-way                     x
H. Parking surfaces                        x
I. Building materials                                x
J. Motor vehicle parts                               x
K. Wood storage                                      x
L. Condition of public amenities                                   x
M. Structures and accessory structures                             x
N. Building security                       x                       x
O. Premises grading                                                x
P. Compliance with County Zoning Ordinance           x
Q. Premises identification                           x
R. Construction safety                               x
 
(Ord. 134, passed 5-13-2015)
§ 152.28 REPEAT VIOLATIONS.
   Unless otherwise noted in this subchapter, any two or more violations
occurring within an 18-month period shall be considered a repeat of any
previous violation and the property owner or agent shall be deemed a repeat
violator. Any repeat violations will be treated as a regular violation, with
the exception of a violation deemed to be an immediate violation, pursuant to §
152.27. Repeat violations are subject to town abatement if not corrected within
21 days. The costs of such abatement shall be charged to the property owner and
be collected in the same manner as delinquent town taxes.
(Ord. 134, passed 5-13-2015)
§ 152.29 FINES.
   The fine schedule for this subchapter will be set from time to time by
resolution of the Town Council.
(Ord. 134, passed 5-13-2015)
§ 152.30 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice of violation may elect to appeal to
the Town Council.
   (B)   (1)   Any person affected by any notice of violation which had been
issued in connection with the enforcement of any provision of this subchapter
may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter by the Town Council;
provided that such person shall, within ten days after service of a notice of
violation, file with the Town Council a signed written notice of appeal,
requesting a hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the reasons
therefor.
      (2)   Upon receipt of such notice of appeal, Town Council shall set a
time and place for such hearing and shall determine appeals as promptly as
practicable. The Town Council, with a quorum present, shall hear appeals.
   (C)   After such hearing the Town Council may, by a majority of members
present, affirm, amend, modify or withdraw the notice of violation that has
been appealed. Any person who shall fail, refuse or neglect to comply with the
decision of the Town Council shall be guilty of violating the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (D)   In the event a person wishes to contest the decision of the Town
Council, he or she may notify the town of his or her intent within ten days
after the rendering of the decision by the Town Council. In that event, the
town shall issue a municipal infraction citation to the aggrieved person who
may request a hearing in the district court of the state, pursuant to the
municipal infraction procedure. The decision of the Town Council, in such a
case, shall be stayed, pending a resolution by the district court. To the
extent of this section, all violations of this subchapter will be considered
municipal infractions of the town.
   (E)   Failure to pay after adjudication or request of adjudication by the
town will result in the amount of any fine imposed being collected in the same
manner as delinquent town taxes.
(Ord. 134, passed 5-13-2015)
§ 152.31 INTERPRETATION AND WAIVER.
   (A)   The Mayor and Town Council shall decide questions of interpretation of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Upon written request, the Mayor and Town Council may waive or vary
particular provisions of this subchapter to the extent that the waiver is not
inconsistent with Annotated Code of Maryland if geographic differences or
unique local conditions justify the waiver and the waiver would not threaten
the health or safety of a tenant or occupant.
(Ord. 134, passed 5-13-2015)
CHAPTER 153: RENTAL PROPERTY
Section
   
153.01   Purpose and authority
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Scope
   
153.04   Rental unit licensing and renewal
   
153.05   Authority to inspect rental units
   
153.06   Adoption of select county codes
   
153.07   Standards
   
153.08   Unfit rental premises
   
153.09   Enforcement authority
   
153.10   Notice of violations; penalty for violations
   
153.11   Right to appeal
   
153.12   Interpretation and waiver
Cross-reference:
Comprehensive fee and fine schedules, see §
30.01
§ 153.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the intent of the Town Council to monitor rental units
to ensure compliance with the County Housing Code and to ensure compliance with
all safety, health and housing requirements of the town, county and the state.
This chapter shall be applied equally and fairly to ensure the public health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the town.
   (B)   Authority. The authority is provided for in Town Charter, §§ 401 and
402.
   (C)   Applicability. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all
rental units and constitute the minimum requirements and standards for
premises, structures, equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space,
heating, sanitation, protection from the elements, life safety, safety from
fire and other hazards and for safe and sanitary maintenance.
(Ord. 120, passed 3-8-2017)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. In this chapter, the following words have the meanings
indicated. Where terms are not defined, they shall have their ordinarily
accepted meanings such as the context may imply. Words used in the present
tense include the future; words used in the masculine gender include feminine
and neuter; and the singular includes the plural and the plural the singular.
The definitions may be amended from time to time, pursuant to any definitions
changed in the codes adopted pursuant to §§
153.06 and
153.07.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A building or structure, retaining wall, wall or
fence that is subordinate to the main building located on the property.
      AGENT. A person residing within 50 miles of the rental unit that the
property owner has designated to care for the rental unit and to respond to any
town violations concerning the rental unit. The AGENT may be the property
operator if the property operator resides within 50 miles of the rental unit.
      BATHROOM. A room containing plumbing fixtures, including a bathtub or
shower.
      BUILDING CODE. The County Building Code for the regulation of
construction, alteration, addition, installation, repair, removal, demolition,
use, location, occupancy and maintenance of premises, buildings and structures,
as may be amended from time to time.
      CODE OFFICIAL. The official who is charged with the administration and
enforcement of this Code, or any duly authorized representative. The CODE
OFFICIAL shall be the same as the Code Enforcement Officer as named in the Town
Charter and ordinances.
      CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for occupancy.
      DESIGNEE. A person or persons appointed or designated by the Town Manager
to enforce this chapter or a portion thereof.
      DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
      EASEMENT. The portion of land or property reserved for present or future
use by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner(s) of the property.
The EASEMENT shall be permitted to be for use under, on or above a said lot or
lots.
      ELECTRICAL CODE. The County Electrical Code for the regulation of
construction, alteration, addition, installation, repair, removal, demolition,
use, location, occupancy and maintenance of electrical wiring of premises,
buildings, structures and electrically operated or controlled appliances,
devices, lights and heating, air conditioning and ventilation systems, as may
be amended from time to time.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen occurrence or condition, or a rapid
deterioration of circumstances, necessitating immediate action to avert
imminent danger to health, safety, welfare, life or property.
      EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining
property under the control of the property owner or agent of such premises.
      GARBAGE. The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces and
similar areas are not considered HABITABLE SPACES.
      HOUSING CODE. The County Housing Code, as may be amended from time to
time.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. The property owner’s parents, child or children,
spouse, step-child and children, foster child and children, step-parents and
foster parents.
      LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit, provide or offer possession or
occupancy of a rental unit by a person who is or is not the legal owner of
record thereof, pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license
or pursuant to a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of
land.
      MAINTENANCE. Acts of repair and other acts to prevent a decline in the
condition of premises, accessory structures, structures, the rental unit, other
appurtenances and equipment such that the condition does not fall below the
standards established by this subchapter and other applicable statutes, codes
and ordinances.
      MECHANICAL CODE. The County Mechanical Code, as may be amended from time
to time.
      OCCUPANT. Any individual living or sleeping in a building, or having
possession of a space within a building.
      ORDINANCE. For the purposes of this chapter, the term ORDINANCE means
this chapter and all rules and regulations contained herein or promulgated
pursuant to authority hereunder, except as noted in §
153.07.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting
as a unit.
      PLUMBING. The practice, materials and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension and alteration of any piping, fixtures, appliances and
appurtenances within the scope of the County Plumbing Code, including, but not
limited to, all of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas pipes,
gas-burning equipment, water pipes, water heating facilities, garbage disposal
units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories,
bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins,
drains, vents and any other similar supplies or fixtures, together with all
connections to water, sewer and gas lines.
      PLUMBING CODE. The County Plumbing Code for the regulation of the
practice, materials and fixtures used in the installation, maintenance,
extension and alteration of any piping, fixtures, appliances and appurtenances
within the scope of the plumbing code, including, but not limited to, all of
the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas pipes, gas-burning
equipment, water pipes, water heating facilities, garbage disposal units, waste
pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs,
shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents
and any other similar supplies or fixtures, together with all connections to
water, sewer and gas lines, as may be amended from time to time.
      PLUMBING FIXTURE. A receptacle or device which is either permanently or
temporarily connected to the water distribution system of the premises and
demands a water supply therefrom; or discharges used water, liquid borne waste
materials or sewage, either directly or indirectly, to the drainage system of
the premises, or which requires both a water supply connection and a discharge
to the drainage system of the premises.
      PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way,
including any structures thereon.
      PROPERTY OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a
structure or premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
      PROPERTY OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a
legal or equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official
records of the state, county or municipality as holding title to the property;
or otherwise having control of the property, including the guardian of the
estate of any such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of
such person if ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
      PUBLIC NUISANCE. Situation, condition or action whereby a rental unit
tenant, occupant or property owner creates an environment that is unsafe or
threatens the health, safety or welfare of the surrounding area or disturbs the
public peace.
      PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky, which is deeded, dedicated or
otherwise permanently appropriated to the public for public use.
      RENTAL UNIT.
         (a)   Any room, or group of rooms forming a single habitable space or
unit that is let for occupancy from which the property owner expects monetary
payment or any other consideration under a written or oral agreement from a
tenant or tenants.
         (b)   A RENTAL UNIT includes those units defined as a dwelling unit, a
rooming unit, a sleeping unit and any portions thereof.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
      SLEEPING UNIT.
         (a)   A room or space in which people sleep, which can also include
permanent provisions for living, eating and either sanitation or kitchen
facilities, but not both.
         (b)   Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a dwelling unit are
not SLEEPING UNITS.
      STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed or a portion thereof.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under the control of,
the property owner or agent.
      TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
      TOILET ROOM. A room containing a water closet or urinal but not a bathtub
or shower.
      TOWN MANAGER. The person appointed by the Town Council to monitor the
enforcement of all ordinances and regulations of the town.
      VENTILATION. The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned
or unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
      YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure.
   (B)   Meaning of certain words. Whenever the words rental unit, dwelling
unit, rooming unit, sleeping unit, premises or property are used in this
subchapter, they are construed as though they were followed by the words “or
any part thereof.” Whenever the words Code Official are used in this
subchapter, they are construed as though they were followed by the words “or
designee(s) of the Town Manager.”
(Ord. 120, passed 3-8-2017)
§ 153.03 SCOPE.
   Every portion of a rental unit used or intended to be used for residential
rental purposes shall comply with the provisions of this chapter as set forth
herein regardless of when such rental unit shall have been constructed,
altered, renovated or repaired.
(Ord. 120, passed 3-8-2017)
§ 153.04 RENTAL UNIT LICENSING AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Rental license required. An annual rental license is required for all
rental units, regardless of the duration for which the property is let for
occupancy during a 12-month period of time. The property owner of every rental
unit is required to obtain and maintain a rental license.
   (B)   Rental license not required. No rental license is required when the
rental unit tenant or tenants are immediate family member(s) of the property
owner.
   (C)   License application. The property owner or agent shall submit to the
town a completed rental license application not later than 20 business days
prior to the effective date of any lease. The property owner or agent shall
submit with the application the appropriate fee for the rental license as set
by resolution of the Town Council.
   (D)   License renewal. A rental license shall run from the first day of the
month of issue. Rental licenses issued hereunder shall expire one year from the
date of issuance and shall be renewable annually at the fees set by resolution
of the Town Council. An application for a rental license renewal shall be made
at least 20 business days prior to the expiration date.
   (E)   Inspections. All rental units shall be subject to at least annual
inspection to determine compliance with this chapter prior to the issuance or
renewal of a rental license. The property owner or agent shall have ten
business days to correct items noted as failing on the Code Officials’
inspection report. Failure to correct items within the allowed time, failure to
allow entry for such inspection or failure to require any tenant not to allow
entry for such inspection shall constitute sufficient reasons for the denial or
revocation of the rental license.
   (F)   Issuance of rental license. Prior to the issuance or renewal of a
rental license, the property owner or agent must satisfy the requirements of
this chapter. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this chapter shall be
sufficient reason for denial or revocation of the rental license.
   (G)   Revocation or denial of license. The Town Manager may revoke or deny a
license if the property owner or agent, after ten business days’ notice from
the town, fails to eliminate or to initiate good faith efforts to eliminate
violations of this chapter. Repeated public nuisance violations at the same
rental unit may be cause for denial or revocation of the rental license.
Revocation or denial of a license shall be in addition to, and not in
substitution for, such other penalties as may be provided for violations
elsewhere in this chapter.
   (H)   Display of licenses. A rental license shall be produced at the request
of a tenant or prospective tenant and shall be available at reasonable times
for examination by the Code Official.
   (I)   Change of address. The property owner or agent shall promptly notify
the town of any change of address, telephone number and email address. Failure
to provide or file this information shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
   (J)   Transfer of rental license. A rental license is not transferable. In
the event of property sale, the new property owner or agent shall apply for a
new rental license within five business days of closing on the property.
Failure to obtain a rental license shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
   (K)   Compliance. The property owner shall, at all times, regardless of the
terms and conditions of any contractual arrangement between the property owner
or agent and the tenant or occupant, whether expressed or implied, be totally
responsible for compliance with the provisions of this chapter, other
applicable ordinances, applicable county codes or ordinances or statutes of the
state.
(Ord. 120, passed 3-8-2017) Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.05 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT RENTAL UNITS.
   (A)   Rental unit inspections are conducted at least annually to ensure
compliance with this chapter. The Code Official is hereby authorized to enforce
the provisions of this chapter to determine the condition of rental units and
premises in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the tenants and
occupants of a rental unit, premises or part thereof and the general public.
The Code Official is hereby authorized, upon presentation of proper
credentials, to enter, examine and survey, at all reasonable times, all
premises, or any part thereof. The property owner or agent, or tenant or
occupant of every rental unit, shall give the Code Official free access to the
rental unit and its premises, at all reasonable times, for the purpose of such
inspections, examination and survey.
   (B)   If any property owner, tenant or occupant or other person in charge of
a rental unit prevents, refuses, impedes, inhibits, interferes with, restricts
or obstructs entry and free access to any part of the structure or premises
where inspection is authorized by this chapter, subject to the provisions of
this chapter, the rental license may be revoked or denied, and any applicable
fines may be assessed.
   (C)   The Code Official is hereby authorized to enter upon the property of
all rental units to examine, inspect and survey the exterior property area to
enforce the provisions of this chapter, other applicable town ordinances, rules
or regulations, applicable state and county codes, to perform the duty of
protecting the health, safety and welfare of the tenants and occupants of a
rental unit or any part thereof and the general public.
(Ord. 120, passed 3-8-2017)
§ 153.06 ADOPTION OF SELECT COUNTY CODES.
   Adoption of the County Housing Code, NFPA Fire Code and the County Fire
Safety Law.
   (A)   The County House Code, Division 1: Subdivisions 1 and 2, as may be
amended from time to time, is hereby incorporated by reference and adopted in
this chapter to the extent it is not inconsistent herewith. When a conflict
exists between the County Housing Code and a town ordinance, the town ordinance
shall prevail. References in the County Housing Code to authorized county
representatives shall be interpreted to include the applicable town officials.
   (B)   (1)   The National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Fire Code and
the Fire Safety Law of the county, as may be amended from time to time, is
hereby incorporated by reference and adopted in this chapter to the extent it
is not inconsistent herewith.
      (2)   This section also adopts by reference Chapter 24 of the NFPA 101
Life Safety Code, as may be amended from time to time. References in the NFPA
Life Safety Code to the Fire Chief or authorized representatives shall be
interpreted to include the applicable town officials.
(Ord. 120, passed 3-8-2017) Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.07 STANDARDS.
   All rental units shall comply with the following standards:
   (A)   All town ordinances, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Ordinance 101 – Animals (
Chapter 90);
      (2)   Ordinance 107 – Clean Lot (§§
152.01 through
152.08);
      (3)   Ordinance 114 – Peace, Order and Nuisance (
Chapter 130);
      (4)   Ordinance 117 – Refuse Collection (
Chapter 50);
      (5)   Ordinance 118 – Roads and Public Rights-of-Way (§§
154.01 through
154.18);
      (6)   Ordinance 119 – Traffic and Parking (
Chapter 71); and
      (7)   Ordinance 153 – Noise (
Chapter 91).
   (B)   Compliance with the following county codes:
      (1)   Building Code;
      (2)   Electrical Code;
      (3)   Mechanical Code; and
      (4)   Plumbing Code.
   (C)   Compliance with state laws, rules and regulations, including, but not
limited to, those pertaining to lead paint for rental units. Appropriate
documentation shall be submitted to the town with the rental license
application.
   (D)   When the property owner does not reside within 50 miles of the rental
unit, a designated agent residing within 50 miles of the rental unit is
required. An agent may be the property owner’s property operator if the
property operator resides within 50 miles of the rental unit.
   (E)   Living space.
      (1)   No accessory structure shall be used for occupancy as a rental unit
unless such accessory structure is authorized in the County Zoning Code.
      (2)   No more than five unrelated tenants may occupy a rental unit.
   (F)   Fire safety requirements. Fire protection systems.
      (1)   (a)   All rental units shall be provided with a minimum of one
approved single station smoke detector and carbon monoxide detector for each
floor of the premises. The detectors shall be installed in accordance with the
manufacturer’s requirements.
         (b)   When actuated, the smoke detector and carbon monoxide detector
shall provide an alarm suitable to warn the tenants and occupants within each
rental unit.
      (2)   It is the property owner’s responsibility to provide and maintain
ten-year smoke detectors in good working order.
      (3)   Property owners must provide one portable fire extinguisher, and in
units so equipped, it shall be visible, accessible and maintained in an
efficient and safe operating condition.
(Ord. 120, passed 3-8-2017) Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.08 UNFIT RENTAL PREMISES.
   No person shall let for occupancy any rental unit, premises or part thereof,
which does not comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Dangerous structures and equipment. Any rental unit, premises or part
thereof which shall be found unsafe, unlawful or to have any of the following
defects may be condemned as unfit for human habitation and shall be so
designated by the Code Official in coordination with the Town Manager. It shall
not be re-occupied without the approval of the Code Official. Unsafe equipment
may be condemned and placed out of service pursuant to this section:
      (1)   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary and
unsafe or vermin infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health,
safety or welfare of the tenants and occupants or of the public;
      (2)   One which lacks illumination, fire protection, carbon monoxide
detection, ventilation, sanitation facilities or other essential equipment
required by this chapter adequate to protect the health, safety or welfare of
the tenants and occupants or the public;
      (3)   One which because of its general condition or location, is
unsanitary or otherwise dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the
occupants or of the public;
      (4)   One which is occupied by more persons than permitted under this
chapter or applicable law; and
      (5)   One in which the equipment is unsafe, including any boiler, heating
equipment, cooking equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or
device, flammable liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or
within the structure, which is in such disrepair or condition that it is found
by the Code Official to be a hazard to life, health, welfare, property or
safety of the tenants or occupants of the premises or structure.
   (B)   Notice to owner. Whenever the Code Official has determined that there
has been a violation of this chapter and with approval of the Town Manager has
condemned a rental unit, premises or any portion thereof as unfit for human
habitation or equipment is unfit under this chapter, the Code Official shall
give written notice to the property owner and agent, if applicable. Such notice
to the property owner or agent shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real property sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the reason why the notice is being issued by
referencing the section(s) of this chapter violated;
      (4)   State the date the tenants and occupants must vacate the rental
unit, premises or portion thereof, or equipment must be removed if the defects
have not been eliminated and the order to vacate withdrawn; and
      (5)   State that the property owner has the right to appeal the Code
Official’s decision to the Town Council in accordance with the procedures set
forth in this chapter.
   (C)   Service of notice. Service of notice that a rental unit, premises or
any portion thereof or equipment is unfit and must be vacated or equipment
placed out of service shall be as follows:
      (1)   By delivery to the property owner or agent personally; or by
leaving the notice at the address of the property owner or agent with a person
of suitable age and discretion who shall be informed of the contents thereof;
      (2)   By appropriate means of email and mail addressed to the property
owner or agent at the address provided to the town by the property owner or
agent with postage prepaid thereon with return receipt requested, or if said
letter is returned with receipt showing non-delivery; or
      (3)   By posting a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place on the
premises affected by such notice.
   (D)   Posting notice. Any rental unit, premises or portion thereof declared
as unfit for human habitation shall be posted at each entrance with a notice by
the Code Official. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such rental
unit premises or portion thereof after the date set forth in the notice to
vacate except for the reason of making the required repairs or of demolishing
the same. The notice shall include the following:
      (1)   The section under which it is issued;
      (2)   An order that the rental unit shall be vacated by a stated date and
must remain vacant until the order to vacate is withdrawn;
      (3)   The date the notice is posted;
      (4)   A statement of the penalty for defacing or removal of the notice;
      (5)   A statement saying “This building is unfit for human habitation and
its use or occupancy has been prohibited by the Town of Berwyn Heights,” and
the notice shall bear the signature of the Town Manager; and
      (6)   A statement that the property owner has the right to appeal the
Town Manager’s decision to the Town Council in accordance with the procedures
set forth in this chapter.
   (E)   Service on tenants and occupants. When a condemnation order is served
on a tenant or occupant other than the property owner or agent, a reasonable
time to vacate after noncompliance shall be stated. A property owner or agent
must vacate at the time set for correction of defects if there is failure to
comply.
   (F)   Removal of notice. No person shall deface or remove the notice from
any rental unit, premises or portion thereof which has been declared or noted
as unfit for human habitation except by authority, in writing, from the Code
Official.
   (G)   Vacating of declared buildings.
      (1)   Any rental unit, premises or any portion thereof declared as unfit
for human habitation and so designated and noted shall be vacated within a
reasonable time as ordered by the Code Official, and it shall be unlawful for
any property owner or agent to let any person inhabit said rental unit,
premises or any portion thereof which has been declared and noted by the Code
Official as unfit for human habitation after the date set forth in the notice.
      (2)   The Code Official shall remove such notice whenever the defect or
defects upon which the declaration and noted action were based have been
eliminated.
   (H)   Sealing of unfit structure.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner or agent to
remove all unsanitary or flammable material and to secure all windows and doors
to protect health, safety and welfare. In the event the property owner or agent
fails to properly seal the structure against unlawful entry, the town shall
take action to remove unsanitary or flammable waste material and to secure all
windows and doors to prevent entrance.
      (2)   The cost of said action shall become a lien on the property and be
collected in the same manner as delinquent taxes.
   (I)   Further action. If, after proper notice hereunder, the property owner
or agent fails to correct defects which have caused the rental unit, premises
or any portion thereof to be unfit for human habitation, the Town Manager may
request additional action from the appropriate state or county authority.
   (J)   Coordination of enforcement.
      (1)   Whenever, in the opinion of the Code Official initiating an
inspection under this chapter, it is deemed necessary or desirable to have
inspections by any other governmental official or agency, the Code Official
shall make a reasonable effort to arrange for the coordination of the
inspections to minimize the number of visits by inspectors.
      (2)   The Code Official shall confer with any other governmental official
or agency for the purpose of eliminating conflicting orders before any such
orders are issued.
      (3)   The Code Official may not cause the delay of the issuance of any
emergency orders by a governmental official or agency when the governmental
official or agency determines such emergency orders must be issued.
(Ord. 120, passed 3-8-2017) Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.09 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the town to enforce the
provisions of this chapter as herein provided.
   (B)   (1)   Any Code Official, or other town designee, who acts in good
faith and without malice in the discharge of duties of enforcement of this
chapter is relieved of all personal liability for, and damage that may occur
to, persons or property as a result of such acts or alleged failure to act.
      (2)   Further, the Code Official, or other town designee, shall not be
held liable for any costs in any action, suit or proceeding that may be
instituted by the Code Official, or other town designee, in the enforcement of
this chapter.
      (3)   In any of these actions, the Code Official, or other town designee,
shall be defended or represented by the Town Attorney until final termination
of the proceedings.
   (C)   A person may not be displaced by enforcement of this chapter unless
the tenant has alternate housing within a reasonable time not to exceed 30 days
unless an emergency exists affecting the health, safety and welfare of the
occupant(s) of the property or other town residents. In that case, immediate
evacuation of the rental unit may be required.
(Ord. 120, passed 3-8-2017)
§ 153.10 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Code Official determines that there has been or is
a violation of any provision of this chapter or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, the Code Official shall give notice of such violation
to the property owner or agent, if applicable, as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   Such notice shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Include a description of the real property sufficient for
identification;
         (c)   Include a statement of the reason why the notice is being issued
by referencing the section of this chapter violated;
         (d)   Allow 20 business days for the performance of any act it
requires; and
         (e)   Such notice shall:
            1.   Contain an outline of remedial action, if any, which if taken
will affect compliance with the provisions of this chapter and with any rules
and regulations adopted pursuant thereto;
            2.   In cases where remedial action is appropriate, the notice
shall contain the requirement that the violation must be fully corrected within
20 business days from the date of the notice and that, in the event the
property owner or agent fails to do so within the 20 business day period, a
second notice shall be sent advising of the imposition of a charge payable to
the town. In the event the violation is not fully corrected within 20 business
days after this second notice, a third notice shall be sent advising of the
imposition of a further charge. Each additional ten business days thereafter
that this violation exists will constitute an additional charge. For each
additional prescribed period that the violation is not fully corrected, notice
will be issued of the fine amount as due and payable to the town. Fines for
failure to take remedial action shall be established by resolution of the Town
Council and shall not exceed an amount for each violation allowable by the
Annotated Code of Maryland for a municipal infraction; and
            3.   In all other cases, contain the amount of the fine, which
shall be assessed according to a schedule established by resolution of the Town
Council and shall not exceed $1,000 for each violation pursuant to the
Annotated Code of Maryland. The town reserves the right to either revoke a
rental license or deny renewal of a rental license for violations of this
chapter.
   (B)   Failure to pay fine(s) and fee(s) will result in the amount of any
fine(s) and fee(s) imposed to be collected in the same manner as delinquent
town taxes.
   (C)   Service of notice that a rental unit is in violation shall be as
follows:
      (1)   By delivery to the property owner or agent personally or by leaving
the notice at the usual place of abode of the property owner or agent or with a
person of suitable age and discretion who shall be informed of the intent
thereof;
      (2)   By appropriate means of email and mail addressed to the property
owner or agent at the address provided to the town by the property owner or
agent with postage prepaid thereon with return receipt requested, or if said
letter is returned with receipt showing non-delivery; or
      (3)   By posting a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place on the
premises affected by such notice.
   (D)   The town shall inform the property owner or agent, in writing, of all
written verified complaints pertaining to the rental unit.
   (E)   Any town resident or town business may make a verbal or written
complaint about any rental unit to the Code Official for investigation and
resolution.
(Ord. 120, passed 3-8-2017; Ord. 179, passed 8-14-2019)
§ 153.11 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice of violation may elect to appeal to
the Town Council.
      (1)   Any person affected by any notice of violation which had been
issued in connection with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter may
request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter by the Town Council;
provided that such person shall, within ten business days after service of a
notice of violation, file with the Town Council a signed written notice of
appeal, requesting a hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the reasons
therefor. Upon receipt of such notice of appeal, the Town Council shall set a
time and place for such hearing and shall determine appeals as promptly as
practicable. The Town Council, with a quorum present, shall hear appeals.
      (2)   After such hearing, the Town Council may, by a majority vote of the
members, affirm, amend, modify or withdraw the notice of violation that has
been appealed. Any person who shall fail, refuse or neglect to comply with the
decision of the Town Council shall be guilty of violating the provisions of
this chapter.
      (3)   In the event a person wishes to contest the decision of the Town
Council, he or she may notify the town of his or her intent within ten business
days after the rendering of the decision by the Town Council. In that event,
the town shall issue a municipal infraction citation to the aggrieved person
who may request a hearing in the district court of the state pursuant to the
municipal infraction procedure. The decision of the Town Council, in such a
case, shall be stayed, pending a decision by the district court. To the extent
of this section, all violations of this chapter will be considered municipal
infractions of the town.
   (B)   Failure to pay after adjudication or request of adjudication by the
town will result in the amount of any fine imposed being recorded as a lien
against the property and be collected in the same manner as delinquent taxes.
(Ord. 120, passed 3-8-2017)
§ 153.12 INTERPRETATION AND WAIVER.
   (A)   The Town Council shall decide questions of interpretation of this
chapter.
   (B)   In the event of a conflict in the definitions or provisions in this
chapter, the more stringent provisions shall prevail.
   (C)   Upon written request, the Town Council may waive particular provisions
of this chapter to the extent that the waiver is not inconsistent with the
Annotated Code of Maryland if:
      (1)   Unique conditions of the property in question or situation
presented justify the waiver; and
      (2)   The waiver would not threaten the health, safety or welfare of any
tenant, occupant or the public. A request to waive the requirements of this
chapter shall:
         (a)   Be in writing in a form required by the town;
         (b)   Be accompanied by supporting documentation that justifies the
request, including letters, statements or test results; and
         (c)   Include, where applicable, technical documentation to
demonstrate that compliance cannot be achieved.
(Ord. 120, passed 3-8-2017)
CHAPTER 154: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Roads and Public Rights-Of-Way
   
154.01   Purpose and authority
   
154.02   Applicability of ordinance
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Standards
   
154.05   Permit
   
154.06   Permit application
   
154.07   Bonds, letters of credit or three-party bank deposit agreements
required; amount
   
154.08   Commencement of work
   
154.09   Permit duration
   
154.10   Permit extension
   
154.11   Inspections required
   
154.12   Approval and acceptance of work
   
154.13   Authority of Town Manager, Code Department and Police Department
   
154.14   Damage to public property
   
154.15   Issuance of a lien or legal action
   
154.16   Fees and fines
   
154.17   Right to appeal
   
154.18   Interpretation and waiver
 
   
154.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Comprehensive fee and fine schedules, see §
30.01
ROADS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 154.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish standards for
construction, maintenance and other activities in the town’s roads and public
rights-of-way, and to create a process of permitting, inspection and acceptance
of work on town property by persons and utilities, as well as to authorize
fines and penalties for violations of the ordinance standards.
   (B)   The authority to provide for the protection of health, safety,
comfort, convenience or welfare of residents of and visitors to the town are
provided for in Town Charter, § 401, “General Powers” and in § 402, “Specific
Powers.”
   (C)   The authority to enact penalties and fines for violating town
ordinances are provided for in Town Charter, § 403, “Enforcement.”
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013)
§ 154.02 APPLICABILITY OF ORDINANCE.
   The provisions of this subchapter and applicable rules and regulations shall
govern the altering, building, construction, grading, improvement, maintenance,
opening, patching, repair, restoration and upgrading of roads, including
bridges, catch basins, culverts, curbs, gutters, inlets, manholes, parking
courts, parking lots, sidewalks, stormwater drainage or sanitary sewage
collection facilities, underdrains and all other infrastructure; repair,
replacement and upgrading to or installation of new utility infrastructure
facilities; and vegetation management, including the trimming, pruning,
replacing or removal of trees, shrubbery, plantings or vegetation in the public
right-of-way.
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION DESIGN, SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS. The plans applicable to
the work to be covered by the permit.
   DEFAULT. The condition in which a permittee has failed to complete the work
covered within the scope of the permit, within the time prescribed in the
permit or prescribed in this subchapter or any rule or regulation promulgated
pursuant to this subchapter if not stated in the permit.
   IMPROVE. To alter, build, construct, grade, maintain, open, patch, repair or
restore any street, road, infrastructure or vegetation; repair, replacement and
upgrading to or installation of new utility infrastructure facilities; within
the public right-of-way or any part thereof, whether acquired by dedication or
by public use.
   PERMIT. An official document or certificate issued by the town authorizing
the performance of specified construction at a specified location within a
specified time, together with all supporting documents, agreements, plans and
specifications.
   PERMITTEE. A person or organization who has obtained a permit to improve any
and all infrastructure or perform vegetation management in the public right-of-
way or any part thereof, whether acquired by dedication or by public use.
   PERSON. A person, contractor, sub-contractor, corporation, partnership,
publicly or privately owned utility or agent of any of the aforementioned.
   ROAD or STREET. Any alley, avenue, highway, lane, right-of-way, road, street
or appurtenant structure, including bridges, catch basins, culverts, curbs,
gutters, inlets, manholes, parking courts, parking lots, sidewalks, stormwater
drainage or sanitary sewage collection facilities, underdrains, all other
infrastructure in the public right-of-way or any part thereof, whether acquired
by dedication or by public use.
   TOWN MANAGER. Any person appointed to that position or any person the Town
Manager designates to administer and enforce this subchapter, or parts thereof.
   UTILITY. Whether publicly or privately owned, shall mean an organization
franchised by the county or state government or authorized by law to install,
operate and maintain facilities in the public right-of-way for the purpose of
distribution of fuel or energy, for cable television or internet service, for
communications or for the distribution of a public water supply and collection
and conveyance of sanitary sewage or storm water.
   VEGETATION. Trees, shrubbery, plantings, plants, grass and other greenery
growing in or into the public right-of-way.
   VEGETATION MANAGEMENT. To trim, prune, remove or replace trees, shrubbery,
plants or vegetation in the public right-of-way or any part thereof, whether
acquired by dedication or by public use.
   WORK. To alter, build, construct, grade, improve, maintain, open, patch,
repair, restore or upgrade any street, road, infrastructure or vegetation
within the town public right-of-way or any part thereof, whether acquired by
dedication or by public use.
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013)
§ 154.04 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Construction standards. Except as otherwise provided in this
subchapter or applicable rule or regulation, in general, the construction
design, specifications and standards for road and street work shall be in
accordance with the county’s General Specifications for Highway and Street
Construction, as amended, and the county’s Policy and Specifications for
Utility Installation and Maintenance, as amended.
   (B)   Stormwater drainage and sanitary sewage standards. In general, the
design, construction or repair of stormwater drainage facilities and sanitary
sewage collections facilities shall be in accordance with the standards of the
County Department of Environmental Resources and/or State Department of
Environmental Resources, as amended, or duly designated successor agency.
   (C)   Vegetation in the right-of-way standards. In general, the management
of vegetation in the public right-of-way shall comply with the standards of the
State Department of Natural Resources, or duly designated successor, “best
practices” and the State Roadside Tree Care Regulation COMAR, Title 08,
Subtitle 07, Chapter (02), as revised and amended from time to time.
   (D)   Building or construction operations. Every person having charge of
building or construction operations shall remove, or cause to be removed, at
the expiration of each working day, from any alley, avenue, road, sidewalk,
street or other public place adjacent to such building or construction
operations, all broken brick, dirt, earth, sand, gravel, mortar, rubbish,
shavings, stones and all other litter that may have been deposited or
accumulated thereon as a result of building or construction operations.
   (E)   Grass on unpaved areas in the right-of-way. A thick stand of permanent
grass shall be obtained on unpaved areas in the right-of-way by seeding or
sodding. For seeded area, there shall be at least four inches of topsoil. For
sodded areas, the sod shall be placed on at least three inches of topsoil.
   (F)   Open ditches. All open ditches or obstructions along public roads or
property shall be protected by barricades of a design approved by the Town
Manager and shall have reflectorized portions and/or be lit to be effective at
night.
   (G)   Clean streets. No person shall dump or deposit any disposable item on
any town street or public property. No person shall drive or move any vehicle
or truck within the town, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit
upon any street, road, alley, avenue, lane or other public place mud, sticky
substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
   (H)   Growth of foliage. No person shall allow the growth of foliage to
extend its branches to cover any town signs or obstruct the vision of any
motorist and no hedges, shrubs, trees, bushes, vines or any type of plants
shall be permitted to interfere with the function of any hydrant, water or gas
meter, electric power lines, meters or transformers or any other public utility
valve or any drainage catch basin. Residents shall not trim back any vegetation
interfering with electric power lines or transformers, but notify the town to
request the electric utility, or an authorized contractor, to perform the work.
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.05 PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall undertake to do any work in any road or street, or do
any work on any public property within the corporate limits of the town, or
upon, in or within the town public right-of-way or any part thereof, whether
acquired by dedication or public use, without first obtaining a permit from the
town.
   (B)   No person shall perform any vegetation management in the town right-
of-way without first obtaining a permit from the town, other than routine yard
maintenance of adjoining property.
   (C)   The fee for the issuance of a permit shall be due upon the filing of a
permit application.
   (D)   A separate permit may be required of a utility for each new
installation, major repair or modification to the utility system located within
the paved portion of the right-of-way.
   (E)   A separate town permit shall be required for driveway aprons and
driveway entrance/access points.
   (F)   No permit shall be issued until the requirements of this subchapter
for an approved application, bond, paid fee(s), plans and an on-site, pre-
construction meeting have been met and approved by the Town Manager.
   (G)   No permit shall be transferable and may be revoked if any provisions
thereof or of this subchapter are violated. Willful refusal of any permittee to
stop construction after receiving notice of such revocation shall be deemed a
violation of this subchapter.
   (H)   A cash deposit of up to $1,000 shall accompany permit applications
which shall be returned upon completion of work acceptable to the town without
damage to public property or upon restoration of damage to public property. The
Town Manager shall have the authority to require larger deposits when
circumstances warrant.
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.06 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Application for permits required by this subchapter shall be
made on forms provided by the Town Manager and shall be filed at least 30 days
prior to the desired construction start date.
      (2)   Application shall clearly define the nature and extent of any work
to be done in the town right-of-way or on any public property; provide
construction plans showing the type and location of the work to be performed;
provide an estimated construction cost of the proposed work or project; and the
signature of the owner or authorized agent.
   (B)   Additionally, when required by the Town Manager, the application shall
be accompanied by construction specifications and suitable tracings of the
detailed plans of the work to be done.
   (C)   The Town Manager may require plans of proposed work adequate to meet
town needs, providing proposed grade, sediment control plan (when appropriate)
stormwater drainage plan, paving plan (with profiles thereof) and a vegetation
management plan (if applicable) showing the location of vegetation to be
trimmed, pruned or removed and the location and type of tree, shrubs or
vegetation proposed to be planted.
   (D)   If, after review of the application, it appears to the Town Manager
that the proposed work conforms to the town’s standards, the town shall notify
the applicant that the permit has been “approved for issuance”, state the
amount of applicable fees, required bonds and a tentative date for the on-site,
pre-construction meeting.
   (E)   The Town Manager may refuse to accept an application for a permit from
any applicant who is or was in default on a previously issued permit, or who is
the permittee listed on an expired permit which is not currently in the process
of being extended.
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.07 BONDS, LETTERS OF CREDIT OR THREE-PARTY BANK DEPOSIT AGREEMENTS
REQUIRED; AMOUNT.
   (A)   No work done in the public right-of-way requiring a permit, as
described in §
154.05, shall be issued until the applicant, when required by the Town Manager,
has posted a bond, letter of credit or three-party bank deposit agreement.
      (1)   A cash or performance security bond in favor of the town as
required herein. The amount of the performance security bond shall be equal to
the total cost of the project as estimated by the Town Manager, including an
additional 25% of the cost for contingencies, and shall be conditioned upon the
satisfactory completion of all work covered by the permit;
      (2)   A maintenance bond which guarantees for a period of two years to
indemnify against defective workpersonship or materials the work covered by the
permit required by this subchapter at the time of acceptance by the town in the
amount of 50% of the cost of the project and shall remain in full force and
effect until written issuance of bond release by the Town Manager;
      (3)   In lieu of the performance and maintenance bonds required by this
subchapter, a composite corporate or cash bond may be furnished, which will
stipulate termination of performance bond requirements and initiation of
maintenance bond requirements upon acceptance by the town of work covered by
the permit; and
      (4)   A labor or materialperson’s payment security bond for an amount not
less than 50% of the total cost of the project, as estimated by the Town
Manager, for the protection of all persons performing labor or furnishing
material or leasing equipment (to the extent of the fair rental value thereof)
in the prosecution of the work defined in the permit. The payment security may
be held for up to one year after the date of final acceptance of all work
covered by the permit.
   (B)   Security may be provided by means of:
      (1)   Cash;
      (2)   Bonds executed by surety or guarantee company qualified to transact
business in the state and acceptable to the town;
      (3)   Irrevocable letters of credit issued by a bank qualified to
transact business in the state and acceptable to the town; and
      (4)   A three-party bank deposit agreement executed by a bank qualified
to transact business in the state and acceptable to the town and evidencing the
deposit of the required sums and the funds may not be withdrawn without the
written consent of the town.
   (C)   Release of bonds or other security: bonds or other security to
guarantee completion of work that required a permit described in §
154.05 shall not be released until the work covered by such bonds and the
permit has been accepted by the Town Manager.
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.08 COMMENCEMENT OF WORK.
   (A)   No person shall begin work of any kind in the town public right-of-way
or public property until a permit for same has been issued by the Town Manager.
   (B)   Work under said permit shall commence within 60 days of the date of
the permit, unless cause to the contrary is shown, and, thereafter, continued
to the conclusion of all work pursuant to the permit.
   (C)   All permittees, including utilities, shall notify the Town Manager at
least 72 hours prior to the commencement of any work in the town public right-
of-way. In the event that there is an interruption of the work for a period of
more than five days, the permittee shall notify the Town Manager at the end of
each interruption of intent to actively resume operations.
   (D)   In case of an emergency, such as a utility cut for a water main break
or a gas line leak, notice shall be given to the Town Manager as soon as
possible, but not more than 12 hours after the commencement of work.
   (E)   A copy of the permit shall be posted by permittee in a conspicuous
place on each project site, when required by the Town Manager.
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.09 PERMIT DURATION.
   The duration of each permit will be computed on estimated project
construction cost as follows. If the permit duration cannot be computed because
the cost of the project is unknown, or is confidential, a permit for the
minimum duration of three months shall be issued and extended as needed:
 
Construction Costs       Permit Duration
Up to $50,000            3 months
From $50,001 to $100,000 4 months
From $100,000 and over   6 months
 
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.10 PERMIT EXTENSION.
   (A)   (1)   Permits shall automatically expire in accordance with the
permitting schedule contained in §
154.09, unless extended, in writing, by the Town Manager.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the permittee to apply for a
renewal at least 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit, which
application shall contain the reasons for the requested renewal. Prior to the
renewal of a permit, the permittee shall pay a permit renewal fee. Permits will
be renewed in accordance with the original permitting schedule.
   (B)   Where the Town Manager determines that an additional cash deposit or
bond amount is necessary because of inflation or other factors, the permittee
shall be required to post the additional cash deposit or bond in an amount
determined by the Town Manager before the extension of time is granted.
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.11 INSPECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Inspection of all work done in the town public right-of-way will be
conducted and maintained, at all times, by the Town Manager to assure
compliance of the work with the issued permit.
   (B)   Should the town elect to use an outside third-party inspection agency
or engineering firm to perform the inspections, the permittee shall be
responsible for payment of the third-party inspection fees. In the event the
permittee fails to pay the third-party inspection fees, the town shall withhold
final approval of the work, release of permittee’s deposit, performance
security bond, labor or materialperson’s payment, security bond, letter of
credit and/or third-party bank deposit agreements until inspection fees are
paid.
   (C)   No paving, catch basin, culvert, gutter or sidewalk construction shall
be started unless there has been a final inspection and approval of the sub-
grade and concrete form work.
   (D)   The construction work, materials, plans and specifications shall, at
all times, be open to and available for inspection by duly authorized officials
and employees of the town.
      (1)   Where permittee performs any work under or not under a permit
without an inspection, such work shall be considered improper and such conduct
on the part of the permittee or non-permittee may result in removal and
replacement of all un-inspected construction at the permittee/non-permittee’s
expense.
      (2)   Where permittee performs any work under a permit (with or without
an inspection), and work does not comply with the standards of this subchapter,
the Town Manager is empowered to issue written notice to require the work be
removed and replaced by the permittee at his or her expense.
      (3)   Permittee shall comply with all requirements of the Town Manager
directed to the permittee (either before or during the course of construction),
which are deemed necessary in the interest of public safety, to avoid
unnecessary inconvenience to the public during construction or to ensure
compliance with town standards and specifications.
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.12 APPROVAL AND ACCEPTANCE OF WORK.
   (A)   Final approval of any work in the public right-of-way under any permit
shall be given by the Town Manager, after a field inspection by the Town
Manager shows, to the Town Manager’s satisfaction, that the work conforms in
all respects with the permit, and includes all works required thereby, and the
Town Manager shall certify final approval to the Town Council.
   (B)   In the case of any utility cut in any catch basin, curb, gutter, paved
road, sidewalk or underdrains, the person or utility making the utility cut
shall be responsible to warranty and repair any defective work for a period of
two years from the date of the written notice to the Town Manager of the
completion of the work under the original permit.
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013)
§ 154.13 AUTHORITY OF TOWN MANAGER, CODE DEPARTMENT AND POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Town Manager, or designee, shall administer and enforce this
subchapter.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall recommend amendments or revisions to the
standards to the Town Council for adoption from time to time, as needed.
   (C)   The Town Manager may disapprove the issuance of a permit for all or
part of a proposed plan of work in the public right-of-way where work will
negatively impact on properties in immediate surrounding area.
   (D)   The Town Manager shall have the authority to issue an immediate “stop-
work order” if the Town Manager determines that the work being done does not
meet town standards or is creating a hazard or nuisance to the public.
   (E)   The Town Manager or any Town Code Compliance Official or uniformed
police officer is authorized to enforce §§
154.04(D) through (H).
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013)
§ 154.14 DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall damage any town street, road or public property
including trees or signs. All damage to public roads, public rights-of-way or
public property shall be a civil liability.
   (B)   (1)   If damage occurs to town property, the cost of repair will be
deducted from the cash deposit. In the event the cash deposit is insufficient
to cover any such damage, the town shall notify the person by certified mail of
such damages and the cost of repair.
      (2)   If any charges remain unpaid after 90 days from date of
notification, such charges shall constitute a lien against the property and
shall be collected as municipal taxes or recovered through legal recourse in
the event the person does not own property in the town.
   (C)   (1)   All permittees shall assume all responsibility for damages
sustained to persons or property due to the carrying out of work under the
permit and shall be responsible for all accidents to persons and property,
holding the town harmless from all damages resulting from any accidents which
may occur during construction operations.
      (2)   If town is made a party to any action because of the granting of a
permit, the permittee shall be required to pay all costs and fees incurred by
the town, including legal fees.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to take action against any bonds posted or
take legal action, including action for injunctive relief in a court of
competent jurisdiction, to cover or recover costs to repair and/or restore
damage to town or public property.
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013)
§ 154.15 ISSUANCE OF A LIEN OR LEGAL ACTION.
   Whenever the town has effected the removal of a hazard, or taken necessary
corrective action to correct a problem within or adjacent to a public right-of-
way, or has paid for the removal or corrective action, or has performed
construction which was the responsibility of the permittee, adjacent property
owner or other responsible person, the actual cost thereof, if not paid by the
permittee, owner or person within 30 days, shall be collected by initiating one
or more of the following actions:
   (A)   The recordation of a statement from the Town Manager creating a lien
against the adjacent property to be collected as delinquent taxes; or recovered
through legal recourse in the event person does not own property in the town;
   (B)   Action against any bonds posted by the responsible party where the
permittee is responsible; or
   (C)   Legal action including action for injunctive relief in a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013)
§ 154.16 FEES AND FINES.
   The fee and fine schedule for this subchapter will be set from time to time
by resolution of the Town Council.
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013)
§ 154.17 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice of violation or permit related issue
may elect to appeal to the Town Council.
      (1)   Any person affected by any notice of violation, which was issued in
connection with the enforcement of any provision of this subchapter, may
request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter by the Town Council;
provided that such person shall, within ten days after service of a notice of
violation, file with the Town Council a signed written notice of appeal,
requesting a hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the reasons
thereof. Upon receipt of such notice of appeal, Town Council shall set a time
and place for such hearing and shall hear said appeals as promptly as
practicable.
      (2)   Any person who disagrees with an action related to the issuance of
a permit by the town may request, and shall be granted, a hearing on the matter
by the Town Council, provided the appeal is filed in writing within ten days of
such action. Upon receipt of the appeal letter, the Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, which shall be scheduled as promptly as
practicable.
      (3)   The Town Council, with a quorum present, shall hear appeals. After
such a hearing, the Town Council may, by a majority of members present, affirm,
amend, modify or withdraw the notice of violation or permit-related issue that
has been appealed. Any person who shall fail, refuse or neglect to comply with
the decision of the Town Council shall be guilty of violating the provisions of
this subchapter.
      (4)   (a)   In the event a person wishes to contest the decision of the
Town Council, he or she may notify the town of his or her intent within ten
days after the rendering of the decision by the Town Council.
         (b)   If the appeal relates to a violation, the town shall issue a
municipal infraction citation to the aggrieved person who may request a hearing
in the district court of the state pursuant to the municipal infraction
procedure. If the appeal relates to a permit issue, no municipal infraction
citation will be issued and the matter will be referred to a court of competent
jurisdiction.
         (c)   The decision of the Town Council, in such a case, shall be
stayed, pending a decision by a court of competent jurisdiction. To the extent
of this section, all violations of this subchapter will be considered municipal
infractions of the town.
   (B)   Failure to pay after adjudication or request of adjudication by the
town will result in the amount of any fine imposed being recorded as a lien
against the property and collected in the same manner as delinquent town taxes.
In the event the delinquent person does not own property in the town, the town
may opt to not release any deposits, bonds or other securities deposited upon
issuance of a permit or recover through legal recourse in the event person does
not own property in the town.
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013)
§ 154.18 INTERPRETATION AND WAIVER.
   The Mayor and Town Council shall decide questions of interpretation of this
subchapter. Upon written request, the Mayor and Town Council may waive or vary
particular provisions of this subchapter to the extent that the waiver is not
inconsistent with the Annotated Code of Maryland and if the waiver would not
threaten the health or safety of a resident or visitor in the town.
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who performs any work, as described in §
154.05, in the public right-of-way, or any part thereof, without a valid permit
or the required inspections or performs work in conflict with the standards set
forth in §
154.04 or the detailed construction plans submitted and approved for work to be
performed under the permit, or creates a situation within the right-of-way that
requires corrective action, shall be in violation of §§
154.01 through
154.18.
   (C)   Any person who performs any work, as described in §
154.05, and has been found to be in violation of §§
154.01 through
154.18, shall immediately take the corrective action specified by the Town
Manager in a written notice, such as reinstating where the permit has expired
or has been suspended; obtaining a permit where none existed; correcting or
removing work that does not comply standards set forth in §
154.04; or correcting any situation that violates §§
154.01 through
154.18. Non-compliance on the part of the responsible person shall be a
violation of §§
154.01 through
154.18.
   (D)   Any person required by §§
154.01 through
154.18 to have a permit who performs work which is in violation of the
provisions of §§
154.01 through
154.18 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than
$1,000 per violation. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense and a separate fine.
   (E)   Any violation of §§
154.01 through
154.18 shall be considered a municipal infraction punishable by a fine of not
more than $1,000 per violation. Each day on which a violation continues is
deemed a separate violation and is subject to an additional citation and fine.
   (F)   The application of such penalty shall not preclude the enforced
removal, abatement or correction of the conditions which were found to be in
noncompliance. In addition, the town may take those actions necessary to
correct the situation, and all costs therefrom shall be billed to the
responsible person or be recovered through legal recourse.
   (G)   Whenever the Town Manager determines that the requirements of §§
154.01 through
154.18 have been violated, the Town Manager shall notify the responsible
person, owner or permittee, in writing, and detail the corrective action
required and the amount of time within which the corrective work must be
performed. Such notice may be delivered in person, or by the United States
Postal Service at the last known address or the address shown on the real
property tax records in the Treasurer’s office for the county. Such notice,
when delivered in person or by certified return receipt requested mail, shall
be deemed complete and sufficient.
   (H)   (1)   The permittee shall comply with all requirements of the permit,
including sediment control, if required.
      (2)   Where the permittee fails to comply with the requirements cited in
the notice of violation, the following actions may result.
         (a)   A “stop-work order” may be issued by the Town Manager. Such
“stop-work order” shall constitute a suspension of the applicable permit, and
shall prohibit the violator from doing any further work under the permit except
such work as shall bring any previous work into compliance. When the permittee
corrects the work to the satisfaction of the Town Manager, in accordance with
the applicable standards, the Town Manager shall rescind the stop-work order,
in writing, at which time the permittee may resume further work under the
permit.
         (b)   The town may complete the required work and charge the permittee
on a cost basis, including the costs of administration and overhead.
      (3)   Safety hazards, or work which is determined not to be in compliance
with the provisions of §§
154.01 through
154.18, which occurs within the public right-of-way as a result of the work
performed by the permittee and the correction of which is considered urgent by
the Town Manager, shall be resolved by contacting the permittee. If that person
cannot be contacted within 24 hours, then the Town Manager shall be authorized
to proceed with the necessary corrective action and bill the permittee
accordingly for all costs incurred. Failure of the permittee to pay the amount
billed within 30 days may be sufficient grounds for suspension or revocation of
the permit.
   (I)   Persons violating §
154.04(D) through (H) are subject to a fine.
(Ord. 118, passed 11-13-2013)
CHAPTER 155: TREES
Section
Urban Forest
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Establishment of a shade tree board
   
155.04   Public tree care
   
155.05   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
155.06   Approval required to take action affecting the urban forest
   
155.07   Review by Town Council
 
   
155.99   Penalty
URBAN FOREST
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is to protect, preserve and promote the urban forest of the
town as part of a larger ecosystem which contributes to air, noise and visual
pollution control; moderates climate extremes; promotes energy conservation;
and has aesthetic value affecting property values and the community quality of
life. This subchapter is to establish a Shade Tree Board to be responsible for
the tree program, which regulates the planting and maintenance of trees in
public places, and to advise, provide continuity, act as an advocate and
coordinate contributions and interests in urban greenery.
(Ord. 122, passed 4-12-2000)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names and all areas owned by the town, or to which the
public has free acres as a park. All street trees and PARK TREES in the public
domain in the town are considered as part of the town’s urban forest and are
subject to the provisions of this subchapter.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the town. For the purposes of this subchapter and this definition, it is
assumed that, in the absence of evidence to the contrary provided by an
affected property owner, all trees located within 25 feet of the centerline of
a town road are STREET TREES as defined herein.
(Ord. 122, passed 4-12-2000)
§ 155.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF A SHADE TREE BOARD.
   There shall be created a Board to be known and designated as Shade Tree
Board, composed of five members appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
Council. It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate,
counsel, inventory and develop and/or update and administer a written plan for
the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition
of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public areas. Such a
plan will be presented to the Town Council and, upon its acceptance and
approval, shall constitute the official comprehensive tree plan for the town.
The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations and
keep records of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum
for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 122, passed 4-12-2000)
§ 155.04 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, avenues, squares and
public grounds as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or
enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The Town Tree Board may
recommend to be removed any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe
condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric
power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public improvements, or is
affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm
or town department to top any street trees, park tree or other tree on public
property to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the
tree. It shall be unlawful for any person other than the town to cut down any
street tree or park tree without written consent of the town. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or
other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be
exempted from this subchapter at the determination of the Tree Board. Every
owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the town shall
prune the branches so that such view of any street intersection and so that
there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the street or
sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or
broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
      (2)   The town shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device
or sign. The street tree
species to be planted shall be determined by the Tree Board.
(Ord. 122, passed 4-12-2000) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.05 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The town shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the town, when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the town. The town will notify, in writing, the
owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners of such trees.
Removal shall be done by said owners at their own expense within 60 days after
the date of service of notice. In the event of failure of owners to comply with
such provisions, the town shall have the authority to remove such trees and
charge the cost of removal on the owners’ property tax notice.
(Ord. 122, passed 4-12-2000)
§ 155.06 APPROVAL REQUIRED TO TAKE ACTION AFFECTING THE URBAN FOREST.
   No person shall remove or destroy, or cause removal or destruction, of a
tree on any public property or undertake construction or other action that may
significantly and prematurely detract from the health or growth of a tree
without first having obtained written permission from the Town Manager which
shall only be issued upon the presentation of an application bearing the
approval of the State Forester assigned to the town.
(Ord. 122, passed 4-12-2000) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.07 REVIEW BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the Town Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or
order of the Town Tree Board to the Town Council who may hear the matter and
make final decision.
(Ord. 122, passed 4-12-2000)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §
155.06 shall constitute a municipal infraction for which a citation may be
issued.
(Ord. 122, passed 4-12-2000)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FUNDS AND BONDS
TABLE I: FUNDS AND BONDS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Maryland Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MARYLAND CODE
 
Md. Code Reference Code Section
Md. Code Reference                        Code Section
Art., Title 4                             31.10
Election Law Art.                         32.07;
                                          32.08
Environment Art., Title 3                 91.03
General Provisions Art., Title 3          31.10
General Provisions Art., Title 5          32.06
General Provisions Art. 5-607(j)(1)       36.29;
                                          36.30
Local Govt. Art.                          32.01
Local Govt. Art., Title 5, Subtitle 2     33.20
Local Govt. Art., Title 9 15              33.01;
                                          151.02
Local Govt. Art., 10-314                  35.21
Property Tax Art., 9-104                  35.01
Public Safety Art., Title 3, Subtitle 1   36.10
State Govt. Art., Title 15, Subtitle 8    36.26
State Govt. Art., 10-508(a)               33.26
ax-Property Art.                          35.01
ax-Property Art., 9-215                   35.01;
                                          35.04
ransportation Art., Title 11, 11-104      72.02
ransportation Art., 21-803.1              70.02
ransportation Art., 21-809                70.01
ransportation Art., Title 21, Subtitle 12 72.01
ransportation Art., Title 25, 25-102      71.02
                                          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
96-30    - -         92.04
07-2022  - -         30.01
07-2022  5-11-2022   30.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
103      - -         30.15 -
                     30.17
102      3-31-1975   72.01 -
                     72.03
                     10.30 -
111      7-9-1980    10.38;
                     10.99
                     33.01 -
115      6-10-1981   33.06;
                     33.99
116      9-9-1981    34.01 -
                     34.06
112      10-4-1983   92.01 -
                     92.03
                     130.01 -
114      8-12-1992   130.05;
                     130.99
122      4-12-2000   155.01 -
                     155.07
124      1-8-2003    36.01 -
                     36.13
132      7-1-2005    35.20 -
                     35.30
                     110.01 -
105      5-10-2006   110.07;
                     110.99
                     150.01 -
104      11-14-2007  150.10;
                     150.99
117      5-12-2010   50.01 -
                     50.10
                     91.01 -
153      3-9-2011    91.12;
                     91.99
                     154.01 -
118      11-13-2013  154.18;
                     154.99
108      5-14-2014   31.14
107      3-11-2015   152.01 -
                     152.08
                     71.01 -
119      5-13-2015   71.15;
                     71.99
134      5-13-2015   152.20 -
                     152.31
123      7-27-2016   151.01 -
                     151.12
120      3-8-2017    153.01 -
                     153.12
121      5-9-2018    31.01 -
                     31.13
177      5-9-2018    TSO Table I
                     111.01 -
125      3-13-2019   111.12;
                     111.99
                     10.31;
                     10.99;
                     30.18 -
                     30.20;
                     36.32;
                     50.99;
179      8-14-2019   71.99;
                     110.03;
                     110.99;
                     112.05;
                     130.99;
                     152.06;
                     153.10
180      9-11-2019   35.01 -
                     35.06
                     70.01 -
149      11-10-2021  70.04;
                     70.99
                     112.01 -
106      1-3-2022    112.20;
                     112.99
                     30.01;
110      2-14-2018   36.25 -
                     36.32;
                     36.99
109      11-18-2023  32.01 -
                     33.09
                     90.01 -
101      1-10-2024   90.08;
                     90.99
113      5-15-2024   33.20 -
                     33.30
                    
 
