CITY CODE
of
YERINGTON, NEVADA
2001
Code current through:
Ord. 2023-08, passed 12-11-2023
and Res. 2024-01, passed 1-8-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Yerington, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 2023-08, passed December 11, 2023, and resolution
2024-01, passed January 8, 2024. Ordinances of the City adopted after said
ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that they are in
conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in order to
ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been amended,
superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, OH
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
 
BILL NO.  426       
ORDINANCE NO.  23-01
 
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN CREATIVE HOMES INVESTMENT
GROUP, LLC A NEVADA LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY, AND THE CITY OF YERINGTON, A
MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, REGARDING THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN OFF-SITE SEWER
IMPROVEMENT FOR A SUBDIVISION LOCATED IN THE CITY OF YERINGTON AND KNOWN AS
GRAND ESTATES PHAS 2 (ASSERSORS PARCEL NUMBER 001-643-01)
 
Ordinance No. 23-01 adopting a Development Agreement between Creative Homes
Investment Group, LLC., a Nevada Limited Liability Company, and the City of Yerington, a
municipal corporation, regarding the development of an off-site sewer
improvement for a
subdivision located in the City of Yerington and known as Grand Estates Phase 2 
(Assessor Parcel Number 001-643-01).
SUMMARY
 
An ordinance adopting a Development Agreement between Creative Homes Investment
Group,
LLC., a Nevada Limited Liability Company, and the City of Yerington, a municipal corporation,
outlining the parties’ rights and obligations regarding the development of off-
site sewer
improvements for a single family residential subdivision located in the City of Yerington and
known as Grand Estates Phase 2 (APN 001-643-01), and which includes
improvements
associated with the sewer lift station and sewer lines connecting to the Lyon County
gravity
sewer system near Penrose Drive and Scarsdale Drive; and other matters properly related thereto.
The City Council of the City of Yerington, do hereby ordain:
SECTION I : The Council finds that the Development Agreement with Creative
Homes
Investment Group, LLC. for the development of off-
site sewer improvements complies with the provisions of Chapters 278 and
278A of the Nevada Revised Statutes; is consistent with the provisions
of Yerington City Code 11-7-1(b); will not be detrimental to adjacent property
owners or the community; plans are included therein to address the timing of the improvement;
and it provides a clear and substantial benefit to the residents of the City
of Yerington.
 
SECTION II :
 Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes and Yerington City Code, the Development
Agreement between Creative Homes Investment Group, LLC. and the City
of Yerington is approved upon the adoption of this ordinance’s effective date.
 
Proposed on this  24th day of  July, 2023 Proposed by: Councilman Shane
Martin   
Passed on this 28th day of August, 2023
 
Vote:   Ayes   Council Members  Frank Pizzo   
 
         Matt Galvin            
   
       Shane Martin            
 
       Jerry Bryant               
 
 
   
Nays’ Council Members                  
                           
 
 
 
John J. Garry
Mayor of the City of Yerington
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
Sheema D. Shaw, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
BILL NO. 427
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-02
AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING AND DIRECTING THE ISSUANCE OF THE CITY OF YERINGTON,
NEVADA, WASTEWATER REVENUE BOND, SERIES 2023A IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF
$8,577,000 AND THE CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA, WASTEWATER REVENUE BOND SERIES
2023B IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF $7,000,000 TO REFINANCE A SEWERAGE PROJECT, AS
DEFINED IN NRS 268.714; PROVIDING THE FORMS, TERMS, CONDITIONS AND SECURITY FOR
THE BONDS AND THE SALE TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA; PROVIDING FOR ADOPTION
AS IF AN EMERGENCY EXISTS; AND PROVIDING OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
WHEREAS, the City of Yerington in the County of Lyon and State of Nevada (the
“City,” the “County,” and the “State,” respectively) is a political subdivision
of the State a body corporate and a city duly organized as a city under the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (“NRS”) Chapter 268, Chapter 465,
Statutes of Nevada, 1971, as amended (the “Charter”), and the general laws of
the State;
WHEREAS, the City owns and operates a municipal sanitary sewer system (the
“System”);
WHEREAS, the City has received commitments from the United States Department of
Agriculture acting through the United States Department of Agriculture, Rural
Utilities Service (“RUS”) to provide loans in the aggregate amount $33,000,000
to the City for purposes of providing long-term financing for a Sewerage
Project (as defined in NRS 268.714) (the “Sewer Project”) pursuant to a Letter
of Conditions dated December 29, 2016, as amended on (collectively, the
“Letters of Conditions”);
WHEREAS, the City has previously issued the “City of Yerington Interim
Debentures, Series 2020” (the “2020 Debentures”) in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $32,830,000;
WHEREAS, the 2020 Debentures are currently outstanding in the principal amount
of $32,830,000.
WHEREAS, the 2020 Debentures are secured in part by a lien on the Pledged
Revenues;
WHEREAS, the outstanding 2020 Debentures are subject to prior redemption at the
option of the City on any date at a redemption price equal to the principal
amount thereof plus accrued interest thereon to the redemption date;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of NRS Sections 350.500 through 350.720,
and all laws amendatory thereof, cited in Section 350.500 thereof by the short
title “Local Government Securities Law” (the “Bond Act”), the City is
authorized to issue bonds in order to refund, pay and discharge certain
outstanding bonds or other obligations of the City for the purpose of reducing
interest rates and effecting other economies;
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City (the “Council”) hereby determines that it
is in the best interests of the City and the inhabits thereof to issue its
“City of Yerington, Nevada Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2023A”
and its “City of Yerington, Nevada Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds Series
2023B” (collectively, the “Bonds”) to refund, pay and discharge the outstanding
the 2020 Debentures and pay the costs associated with the issuance of the Bonds
(collectively, the “Refunding Project”);
WHEREAS, other than the 2020 Debentures, the City has not previously pledged
the Pledged Revenues derived and to be derived from the operation of the System
(as defined herein) for the repayment or redemption of any securities payable
from such revenues, or otherwise, with the result that such Pledged Revenues
may be pledged lawfully and irrevocably to secure the payment of the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds will be
secured by the Pledged Revenues; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Letters of Condition, RUS has agreed to purchase the
Bonds herein authorized at a price of par and at an interest rate of 1.375% per
annum, (provided, however, that the City may elect to accept the RUS rate
available at the date of issuance of the Bonds, if lower) (the “Interest
Rate”);
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and does hereby determine and declare
that the proposal for the purchase at private sale pursuant to NRS 350.616 of a
single Bond of each series of the Bonds by RUS, for a price consisting of the
aggregate principal amount of the Bonds, at the Interest Rate, and otherwise
maturing, being secured and otherwise being issued as herein provided,
constitutes the best proposal for the Bonds and is to the best advantage of the
City;
WHEREAS, the effective Interest Rate on the Bonds herein authorized or such
lower elected rate, does not exceed by more than 3% the “Index of Revenue
Bonds” which was most recently published before a negotiated offer was accepted
for the Bonds;
WHEREAS, the City Council hereby elects to have the Chapter 348 of NRS (the
“Supplemental Bond Act”) apply to the Bonds;
WHEREAS, the City Council hereby determines that it is necessary and advisable
that the City incur a bonded indebtedness by issuing the Bonds pursuant to the
Charter, the Project Act, the Wastewater Act, the Supplemental Bond Act, and
the Bond Act;
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and hereby declares that each of the
limitations and other conditions to the issuance of the Bonds in the Charter,
the Bond Act, the Project Act, the Supplemental Bond Act, and in any other
relevant act of the State or the federal government has been met, and pursuant
to NRS 350.708 of the Bond Act such determination of the City Council that the
limitations in the Bond Act have been met shall be conclusive in the absence of
fraud or arbitrary and gross abuse of discretion;
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and does hereby declare:
(A)   It is necessary and for the best interests of the City to effect the
Refunding Project and to issue the Bonds; and
(B)   Each of the limitations and other conditions to the issuance of the Bonds
in the Project Act, the Bond Act, the Supplemental Bond Act, and in any other
relevant act of the State or the Federal Government has been met; and pursuant
to NRS 350.708, this determination of the City Council that the limitations of
the Bond Act have been met shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud or
arbitrary or gross abuse of discretion; and
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and does hereby declare:
(A)   This Ordinance pertains to the sale, issuance and payment of the Bonds;
(B)   Such declaration shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud or gross
abuse of discretion in accordance with the provisions of Subsection 2 of NRS
350.579; and
(C)   This Ordinance may accordingly be adopted as if an emergency now exists
by an affirmative vote of all of the voting members of the City Council, and
this Ordinance may become effective at any time when an emergency ordinance of
the City may go into effect.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF CITY OF YERINGTON DOES ORDAIN:
Section 1.   Short Title . This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as
the “2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Ordinance” (herein the “Ordinance”).
Section 2.   Matter of Local Concern . The City Council has determined, and
does hereby determine, that the completion of the Refunding Project and the
pledge of the Pledged Revenues to the repayment of the Bonds is a “Matter of
local concern” as defined in NRS 268.003.
Section 3.   Definitions . The terms defined in this section, except where the
context requires otherwise, shall have the following meanings in this
Ordinance:
A.   “Bond Act” or “Act” means the Local Government Securities Law, cited as
NRS 350.500 through 350.720 and all laws amendatory thereof.
B.   “Bonds” means, collectively, the Series 2023A Bond and the Series 2023B
Bond.
C.   “Bond Account” means the “2023 Wastewater Utility Revenue Bond Account”
created in Section 27.B of this Ordinance.
D.   “Bond Act” or “Act” means the Local Government Securities Law, cited as
NRS 350.500 through 350.720 and all laws amendatory thereof.
E.   “Consulting Engineer” or “Project Engineer” means any qualified registered
or licensed professional engineer practicing under the laws of the State of
Nevada.
F.   “Fiscal Year” means the twelve months commencing July 1 of any year and
ending June 30 of the next succeeding year.
G.   “Gross Income,” “gross revenues,” “income” or “revenues” means all income
and revenue derived by the City from any rates, fees, tolls, connection
charges, stand-by charges and charges for availability of wastewater services
furnished by, or the use of, the municipal wastewater system as the same may at
any time exist to serve customers within or outside the City limits, whether
resulting from improvements, extensions, or otherwise.
H.   “Holder,” “Owner” or “Registered Owner” means a person (including the
United States Department of Agriculture, Rural Utilities Service) in possession
and the apparent owner of the Bonds
I.   “Independent Accountant” means any certified public accountant practicing
under the laws of the State of Nevada who is independent and not an officer or
employee of the municipality.
J.   “Insured Bank” means a bank defined in NRS 350.512 and qualified to accept
public deposits under state law which is a member of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation.
K.   “Interest Rate” means the interest rate for the Bonds as described in the
preambles hereto.
L.   “Net Revenues” means the Gross Revenues less the Operation and Maintenance
Expenses.
M.   “NRS” means the Nevada Revised Statutes.
N.   “Operation and Maintenance Expenses” means all reasonable and necessary
current expenses of the City, paid or accrued, for operating, maintaining and
repairing the System, as defined in NRS 350.542 including legal and overhead
expenses of the City directly related to the administration of the System,
insurance premiums, audits, charges of depository banks and paying agents,
professional services, salaries and administrative expenses, labor, and the
cost of materials and supplies for current operation, but excluding any
allowance for depreciation, any costs of improvements to the System, any
accumulation of reserves for major capital replacements (other than normal
repairs) or for the operation, maintenance or repair of the System, any
allowance for the redemption of any securities of the City, or any other ground
of legal liability not based on contract, in accordance with NRS 350.544.
O.   “Parity Securities” means any additional bonds, securities or other
obligations issued hereafter with a lien on the Pledged Revenues on a parity
with the outstanding Bond.
P.   “Paying Agent” means the Treasurer of the City or any successor thereto as
paying agent for the Bonds appointed by the City Council.
Q.   “Pledged Revenues” means all or a portion of the Net Revenues. The
designated term indicates sources of revenues and does not necessarily indicate
all or any portion or other part of such revenues in the absence of further
qualification.
R.   “Project Act” means NRS 268.672 through 268.740, inclusive, and all laws
amendatory thereof.
S.   “Purchaser” means the United States of America, acting by and through RUS.
T.   “RUS” means “the United States Department of Agriculture, acting through
the Rural Utilities Service (Rural Development Mission Area), or successor
agency.
U.   “Registrar” means the City Treasurer or any successor thereto as registrar
for the Bonds appointed by the City Council.
V.   “Refunding Project” shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the
preambles hereof.
W.   “Reserve Account” means the “2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Reserve Account”
created in Section 27.C of this Ordinance.
X.   “Series 2023A Bond” means the City of Yerington, Nevada, Wastewater
Revenue Bond, Series 2023A, issued in the stated principal amount of
$8,577,000.
Y.   “Series 2023B Bond” means the City of Yerington, Nevada, Wastewater
Revenue Bond, Series 2023B, issued in the stated principal amount of $7,000,000
Z.   “System” means all of the City's municipal wastewater system, and its
wastewater facilities and properties now owned or hereafter acquired, whether
situated within or without the City boundaries.
AA.   “Tax Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended to the
date of delivery of the Bonds.
BB.   “Wastewater Act” means NRS 350.350 through 350.490, inclusive, and all
laws amendatory thereof.
CC.   “Wastewater Project” shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the
preambles hereof.
Section 4.   Authority for This Ordinance . This Ordinance is adopted pursuant
to the Charter, the Project Act, the Wastewater Act, and the Bond Act.
Section 5.   Life of the Wastewater Project . The City Council has determined
and does hereby declare that the estimated life or estimated period of
usefulness of the Wastewater Project is not less than 40 years from the date of
issuance of the Bonds; and the Bonds shall mature at such times not exceeding
such estimated life or estimated period of usefulness of the Wastewater
Project.
Section 6.   Acceptance of Purchase Proposal for the Bonds . The proposal
submitted by the United States, by and through RUS, for the purchase of the
Series 2023A Bond in the stated principal amount of $8,577,000 and the Series
2023B Bond in the stated principal amount of $7,000,000, each bearing interest
at the Interest Rate, which was received by the City at the private sale of the
Bonds be, and the same hereby is, accepted.
Section 7.   Necessity of Project and Bonds . It is necessary and in the best
interests of the City and its inhabitants that the City effect the Refunding
Project and defray in part the cost thereof by issuing the Bonds therefor.
Section 8.   Ordinance to Constitute Contract . In consideration of the
purchase and the acceptance of the Bonds by RUS on behalf of the United States
of America and by those whom shall own them from time to time, this Ordinance
shall be deemed to be and shall constitute a contract between the City and the
Registered Owner.
Section 9.   Bonds Equally Secured . The covenants and agreements herein set
forth to be performed on behalf of the City shall be for the equal benefit,
protection and security of the Registered Owners of any and all of the Bonds,
all of which, regardless of the time or times of their issue or maturity, shall
be of equal rank without preference, priority or distinction of any of the
Bonds of this issue over any other thereof, except as otherwise expressly
provided herein.
Section 10.   Special Obligations . The Bonds shall be payable and collectible
(except as herein otherwise provided) solely out of the Pledged Revenues, which
revenues are hereby so pledged. The Holder or Registered Owner may not look to
any general or other fund for the payment of the principal of, or interest on
the Bonds, except the Bond Account and the Reserve Account which are hereby
pledged therefor. The Bonds shall not constitute an indebtedness or a debt
within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory provision or limitation
and the Bonds shall not be considered or held to be general obligations of the
City but shall constitute its special obligations. The City does not pledge its
full faith and credit for the payment of the Bonds.
Section 11.   Character of Agreement . None of the covenants, agreements,
representations and warranties contained herein or in the Bonds, in the absence
of any breach thereof, shall ever impose or shall be construed as imposing any
liability, obligation or charge against the City (except the special funds
pledged therefor) or its general credit, payable out of its general fund or out
of any funds derived from taxation.
Section 12.   Authorization of Bonds . For the purpose of providing funds to
pay the cost of the Refunding Project, the City shall issue the “City of
Yerington, Nevada, Wastewater Revenue Bond, Series 2023A” in the principal
amount of $8,577,000 and the “City of Yerington, Nevada, Wastewater Revenue
Bond, Series 2023B” in the principal amount of $7,000,000. Such Bonds shall be
issued and be payable both as to principal and interest, solely from the
Pledged Revenues, and the City shall pledge irrevocably such revenues to the
payment of the Bonds and the interest thereon on a parity with the lien on such
revenues of the Parity Securities, the proceeds thereof to be used solely for
the aforesaid purpose, pursuant to the Charter, the Project Act, and the Bond
Act. RUS has requested, and the City has agreed, that the obligations of the
City hereunder shall be represented in the form of a single registered bond for
each series of the Bonds. The Bonds shall be in the form substantially as set
forth in Section 21.
Section 13.   Bond Details . The Bonds shall be issued in fully registered
form, i.e., registered as to both principal and interest, in compliance with
Section 149 of the Tax Code, and the regulations of the Secretary of the
Treasury thereunder. The Bonds shall be dated initially as of the date of
delivery thereof. The Series 2023A Bond shall be issued as a single bond in the
principal amount of $8,577,000. The Series 2023B Bond shall be issued as a
single bond in the principal amount of $7,000,000.
The Bonds shall bear interest at the Interest Rate on the unpaid balance of the
respective principal amounts until the principal thereof is paid in full. The
installments of principal of the Bonds shall bear interest at the Interest Rate
based on a 365-day year as set forth below from the dated date of each of the
Bonds until payment of such installment of principal shall have been
discharged. The interest payments and amortized principal payments on the Bonds
shall be made by the City on the first day of each month commencing on the
first day of the month following the date of delivery of the Bonds and monthly
thereafter on the first day of each month until the maturity date or
prepayment. The interest and principal of the Bonds shall be fully amortized so
as to produce substantially equal monthly payments (of principal and interest)
from payment date to payment date and which shall be in an amount sufficient to
fully pay the total principal of and interest on the Bonds on October 25, 2063.
The Interest Rate submitted by the RUS, in accordance with their regulations,
as of the date of loan approval, was 1.375%, which may or may not be the lower
rate charged by the RUS at the time of loan closing. Should the Interest Rate
at the time of the loan closing be lower than the rate of 1.375% in effect at
the time of the loan approval, the City Council directs the City Manager or his
designee to make a written request to the RUS for the lower rate, and the City
Council hereby authorizes the Mayor, the City Treasurer, and the City Clerk to
execute the Bonds providing for the lower Interest Rate. If any installment of
principal is not paid when due, then in addition to installments thereafter
becoming due, the City shall pay interest on the unpaid balance of the total
principal amount from the due date of the delinquent installment to the date of
payment of the delinquent installment, provided, that interest accruing by
reason of any such delinquency shall not include any interest applicable to
such delinquency period in any installment subsequently paid, and shall in no
event cause the total interest payable on the Bonds to exceed the interest rate
as set forth in the Bonds, on the unpaid balance of the total principal amount.
The installments of principal and interest on the Bonds shall be payable in
lawful money of the United States of America without deduction for exchange or
collection charges at the office of the City Treasurer. The final installment
of principal and interest due on the Bonds is payable only upon surrender of
the Bonds to the Paying Agent. If, upon presentation at or after maturity,
payment of the Bonds is not made as herein provided, interest thereon shall
continue at the Interest Rate per annum until the principal thereof is paid in
full.
RUS has requested that the Bonds be registered in the name of the United States
of America. So long as the United States of America is the Registered Owner of
the Bonds, payment of installments of principal and interest shall be made at
the appropriate United States Department of Agriculture, Rural Utilities
Service office, currently designated as 2730 N. Deer Run Road, Suite 1, Carson
City, Nevada 89701, or at such other address as the United States of America or
RUS may designate in writing. During the time any registered assign is the
Registered Owner of the Bonds, payment shall be made at the address shown on
the registration record maintained by the Registrar. The Bonds must be
registered by the Registrar, and may be assigned in the manner and with the
effect set forth in the provisions for registration contained in the form of
the Bonds hereinafter set forth, and as herein further provided. The principal
and interest of the registered Bonds shall be payable only to, or upon the
order of, the Registered Owner or legal representative.
The City hereby reserves the right, at its option, to prepay the principal
amount outstanding, in whole, or in the manner hereinafter provided, in part,
at any time, in inverse order of maturity. Prepayments shall be made on the
date, at the place, and in the manner provided herein for making regularly
scheduled installments, and partial prepayments shall be in the amount of that
portion of one or more installments which would be allocable to principal. No
prepayment of an installment shall extend or postpone the due date of any
subsequent installment. Any prepayments shall be in the amount of principal
being prepaid, together with accrued interest thereon to the date of
prepayment, and shall be made without penalty or without additional interest
charges. At the time of such principal prepayment, the Registrar shall make a
notation of the date and amount of such principal prepayment on the
registration records maintained by the Registrar. The registration records
maintained by the Registrar shall be conclusive evidence of the amounts and
dates of any principal prepayments.
Section 14.   Prepayment Notice . Unless waived by the Registered Owner, notice
of prepayment of any of the Bonds shall be given by the Registrar by first
class or electronic mail, not less than 30 days prior to the date fixed for
prepayment. A copy of the notice shall be mailed at least 30 days prior to the
date fixed for prepayment to any Registered Owner whose name and address appear
on the registration records maintained by the Registrar. So long as the Bonds
is owned by the United States of America, notice shall be mailed to the United
States of America at least 30 days prior to the date fixed for prepayment at
such address as the United States of America or RUS may designate in writing.
The notice shall identify the installments of principal to be prepaid, specify
the date of prepayment, and state that on such date the principal amount
thereof and accrued interest to the date of prepayment will become due and
payable and thereafter interest will cease to accrue. After such notice, the
Bonds or portions thereof so called for prepayment will be paid.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any notice of prepayment may
contain a statement that the prepayment is conditioned upon the receipt by the
Paying Agent of funds on or before the date fixed for prepayment sufficient to
pay the principal amount prepaid and the accrued interest thereon to the date
of prepayment, and that if such funds are not available, such prepayment shall
be canceled by written notice to the owner of the Bonds called for prepayment
in the same manner as the original prepayment notice was mailed.
Section 15.   Negotiability . Subject to the registration and payment
provisions herein provided, the Bonds shall be fully negotiable within the
meaning of and for the purpose of the Uniform Commercial Code - Investment
Securities and each Registered Owner shall possess all rights enjoyed by owners
of negotiable instruments under the Uniform Commercial Code-Investment
Securities.
Section 16.   Registration as to Principal and Interest . The Bonds must be
registered for payment as to both principal and interest. The Registrar shall
maintain records for the registration and transfer of the Bonds.
Section 17.   Registration of the Bonds.
A.   Records for the registration of the Bonds shall be kept by the Registrar.
The person in whose name any Bonds shall be registered, on the registration
records maintained by the Registrar, and as noted on the registration panel
appended to the Bonds, shall be deemed and regarded as the absolute owner
thereof for the purpose of payment and for all other purposes; and payment of
or on account of either principal or interest on any Bonds shall be made only
to or upon the written order of the Owner thereof or his or her legal
representative. All such payments shall be valid and effectual to discharge the
liability upon such Bonds to the extent of the sum or sums so paid.
B.   If the Bonds shall be lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated, the Registrar
shall, upon receipt of such evidence, information or indemnity relating thereto
as it or the City may reasonably require, and upon payment of all expenses in
connection therewith, authenticate and deliver a replacement Bond. If such
lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Bond shall have matured or shall have been
called for redemption, the Registrar may direct that such Bond be paid by the
Paying Agent in lieu of replacement; provided that if the United States of
America is the holder of a Bond, no security or indemnity is required in the
event of such lost or destroyed Bond.
C.   Whenever a Bond shall be surrendered to the Paying Agent upon payment
thereof, or to the Registrar for replacement as provided herein, such Bond
shall be promptly canceled by the Paying Agent or Registrar, and counterparts
of a certificate of such cancellation shall be furnished by the Paying Agent or
Registrar to the City.
D.   The Registrar shall maintain a registration record for the Bonds showing
the name and address of the Registered Owner and the amounts and dates of any
principal prepayments on the Bonds.
Section 18.   Form of Execution . The Mayor, the City Treasurer, and the City
Clerk may file their manual signatures with the Secretary of State, pursuant to
the Uniform Facsimile Signatures of Public Officials Act, cited as Chapter 351,
NRS. The registered Bonds shall be signed and executed in the corporate name of
the City with the manual or facsimile signature of the Mayor, countersigned
with the manual or facsimile signature of the City Treasurer, shall be attested
with a manual or facsimile signature of the City Clerk, shall be authenticated
by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the Registrar, and a manual
or facsimile of the seal of the City shall be affixed thereto. The Bonds
bearing the signatures of the officers in office at the time of the signing
thereof, shall be the valid and binding obligations of the City,
notwithstanding that before the delivery thereof and payment therefor, any or
all of the persons whose signatures appear thereon shall have ceased to fill
their respective offices. Any officer herein authorized or permitted to sign
the Bonds at the time of their execution and of the execution of a signature
certificate, may adopt as and for his or her own facsimile signature, the
facsimile signature of his or her predecessor in office in the event that such
facsimile signature appears upon the Bonds.
Section 19.   Incontestable Recital . Pursuant to NRS 350.628, the Bonds shall
contain a recital that they are issued pursuant to the Project Act and the Bond
Act, which recital shall be conclusive evidence of the validity of the Bonds
and the regularity of its issuance.
Section 20.   Registration Records Conclusive . As provided in Section 17, the
records maintained by the Registrar shall be conclusive evidence of the amounts
and dates of any principal prepayments.
Section 21.   Form of Single Bond . Subject to the provisions of this
Ordinance, the Bonds shall be in substantially the following form, with such
omissions, insertions, endorsements and variations as to any recitals of fact
or other provisions as may be required by the circumstances, be required by
this Ordinance, or be consistent with this Ordinance and necessary or
appropriate to conform to the rules and requirements of any governmental
authority or any usage or requirement of law with respect thereto:
(Form of Bond)
CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA
WASTEWATER REVENUE BOND, SERIES 2023[A][B]
NO. 1   Principal Amount: $____
Dated: ___________, 2023   Interest Rate: 1.375% per annum
Maturity Date: ____________, 20__
The City of Yerington, Nevada (the “City”), solely from the special funds
provided therefor, hereby acknowledges itself obligated, and for value
received, hereby promises to pay to the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (the “United
States”), the principal amount above stated together with interest on the
unpaid balance at the rate of 1.375% per annum (the “Interest Rate”).
Interest payments and amortized principal payments shall be made by the City on
the first day of each month commencing on the first day of the month following
the date of delivery of this bond (the “Bond”) and monthly thereafter on the
first day of each month until the maturity date or prepayment. Interest shall
be calculated based on a 365-day year.
If any installment is not paid when due, then in addition to installments
thereafter becoming due, the City shall pay interest on the unpaid balance of
the total principal amount from the due date of the delinquent installment to
the date of payment of the delinquent installment, provided, that interest
accruing by reason of any such delinquency shall not include any interest
applicable to such delinquency period in any installments subsequently paid and
shall in no event cause the total interest payable on this Bond to exceed the
Interest Rate set forth above on the unpaid balance of the total principal
amount. Except as otherwise provided herein, every payment on this Bond shall
be applied first to interest due through the next installment due date and then
the balance to principal.
The installments of principal and interest are payable in lawful money of the
United States of America, without deduction for exchange or collection charges,
during the period the United States of America is the registered owner of this
single Bond, at the appropriate United States Department of Agriculture, Rural
Utilities Service office, currently designated as 2730 N. Deer Run Road, Suite
1, Carson City, Nevada 89701, or at such other place as the United States may
designate in writing, and are so payable during any period the United States is
not the registered owner hereof at the address shown on the registration
records of the Registrar. The final installment of principal due on this Bond
is payable only upon the surrender of this Bond to the City Treasurer, as
paying agent for this Bond.
All installments of principal are subject to prepayment at the option of the
City prior to their stated due dates and, in inverse order of maturity, by the
payment of such principal amount and accrued interest to the prepayment date.
Prepayments shall be made on the date, at the place and in the manner provided
herein for making regularly scheduled installment payments and partial
prepayments shall be in the amount of that portion of one or more of the final
installments allocable to principal. No partial prepayment shall extend or
postpone the due date of any subsequent installment. Any prepayment shall be in
the amount of principal being prepaid, together with accrued interest thereon
to the date of prepayment, and shall be made without penalty or additional
interest or charges. Prepayment shall be made upon prior notice as provided in
the 2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Ordinance authorizing this Bond and adopted on
October 9, 2023 (the “Ordinance”). The Registrar shall maintain records showing
the amounts and the dates of any principal prepayment and such records shall be
conclusive evidence of the amounts and dates of any principal prepayment.
This single Bond is duly authorized to defray in part the cost to acquire,
improve, equip, operate and maintain, within the City, a wastewater project as
defined in NRS 268.714 (the “Wastewater Project”), under the authority of and
in full conformity with the constitution and laws of the State of Nevada, and
in particular the Bond Act (hereinafter defined) and the provisions of NRS
268.672 through 268.740, inclusive (the “Project Act”) and pursuant to the
Ordinance.
This bond does not constitute a debt or indebtedness of the City within the
meaning of any constitutional or statutory limitation and shall not be
considered or held to be a general obligation of the City. The City does not
pledge its full faith and credit for the payment of this Bond. Pursuant to the
Project Act, as supplemented by Sections 350.500 through 350.720, Nevada
Revised Statutes, and all laws amendatory thereof (the “Bond Act”), and all
laws thereunto enabling, this Bond is a special obligation of the City payable
and collectible solely out of and secured by an irrevocable pledge of certain
net income derived from the operation of the City's municipal Wastewater system
(the “System”). The owner hereof may not look to any general or other fund for
the payment of the principal of or interest on this Bond except the special
funds pledged therefor. This Bond is issued pursuant to the Project Act and to
the Bond Act. Pursuant to Section 350.628 of the Bond Act, this recital is
conclusive evidence of the validity of this Bond and the regularity of its
issuance.
Payment of this Bond and interest thereon shall be made solely from, and as
security for such payment there are pledged, pursuant to the Ordinance, two
special funds identified as the “2023 Wastewater Utility Bond Account,” and the
“2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Reserve Account,” into which the City covenants
to pay from the revenues of the System, after provision only for all necessary
and reasonable operation and maintenance expenses, sums sufficient to pay the
principal and the interest of this Bond and to create and maintain a reasonable
and specified reserve. For a description of said funds and the nature and
extent of the security afforded thereby, reference is made to the Ordinance.
This Bond is secured by and constitutes an irrevocable and prior lien (but not
necessarily an exclusive lien) upon the net revenues of the System on a parity
with the lien thereon securing any Parity Securities (as defined in the
Ordinance) issued in the future. Subject to designated conditions, additional
bonds may be issued payable from the net revenues and having a lien thereon
inferior and junior to the lien, or subject to additional conditions having a
lien thereon on a parity with the lien of this Bond, in accordance with the
Ordinance.
The City covenants and agrees with the owner hereof that it will keep and
perform all the covenants of the Ordinance, including its covenant against the
sale or mortgage of the System or any part thereof unless provision has been
made for the payment of this Bond and its covenant that it will fix, maintain
and collect rates sufficient to pay operating and maintenance expenses and 100%
of both the principal of and the interest on this Bond and any other
obligations payable annually from the net revenues of the System (including
reserves).
 
This Bond shall be registered for payment in the name of the registered owner
hereof only as to both principal and interest in the records of the Registrar
and in the registration panel appended to this single Bond. This Bond is
transferable by the registered owner hereof, in person or by his attorney duly
authorized in writing, at the office of the Registrar. No transfer of this Bond
shall be valid until it has been duly entered in such records and duly noted on
the registration panel appended to this Bond.
 
It is further certified, recited, and warranted that all the requirements of
law have been fully complied with by the proper City officers in the issuance
of this Bond.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or the interest on
this Bond or for any claim based thereon or otherwise upon the Ordinance or
other instrument pertaining thereto, against any individual member of the City
Council or any officer or other agent of the City, past, present or future,
either directly or indirectly through the City Council or otherwise, whether by
virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of
any penalty or otherwise, all such liability, if any, being by the acceptance
of this single Bond and as a part of the consideration of its issuance
specially waived and released.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City of Yerington, in the State of Nevada, acting by
and through the City Council of the City, has caused this Bond to be signed and
executed in its name and on its behalf with the manual or facsimile signature
of Mayor of the City, countersigned by the manual or facsimile signature of the
City Treasurer, attested by the manual or facsimile signature of the City Clerk
with the manual or facsimile seal of the City affixed hereto, all as of the
date of the delivery hereof.
CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA
      
   Mayor, John J. Garry
(SEAL)
Attest:   Countersigned:
         
City Clerk, Sheema D. Shaw   City Treasurer, Sheema D. Shaw
(End of Form of Bond)
Exhibit A
(Attach Amortization Schedule)
 
(Form of Prepayment Panel)
The following installments of principal (or portions thereof) of this Bond has
been prepaid by the City of Yerington, Nevada, in accordance with the terms of
the Ordinance authorizing the issuance of this Bond:
 
Date of Payment Amount Prepaid Signature of
                               Registered Owner
                $
 
(End of Form of Prepayment Panel)
(Form of Registration Panel Appended to Bond)
MANDATORY REGISTRATION FOR PAYMENT AS TO PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST
The within Bond is registered in the office of the City Treasurer, as
Registrar, in the name of the last owner listed below; and the principal amount
of the Bonds and interest thereon shall be payable only to such owner, all in
accordance with the 2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Ordinance authorizing the
issuance of the Bonds.
 
Date of            Name of          Address of             Signature of
Registration       Owner            Owner                  Registrar
                                    USDA, Rural Utility
                   United States of Service
____________, 2023 America          2730 N. Deer Run Road,
                                    Suite 1, Carson City,
                                    Nevada 89701
 
(End of Form of Registration Panel Appended to Bond)
(Form of Provision for Assignment)
For value received, the undersigned hereby assigns and transfers unto
__________________ the attached Bond, together with accrued interest thereon,
and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint _______________________
attorney in fact to transfer said Bond on the registration records of City of
Yerington, Nevada, at the office of the City Treasurer, a Registrar with full
power of substitution in the premises.
Dated __________ ___, 20___
   
 
In the presence of:
Signature Guaranteed
By
 
NOTICE: The Signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as it
appears upon the Registration Panel of the within Bond in every particular,
without any alteration whatsoever.
Name of Transferee:    
Address of Transferee:    
Taxpayer Identification number or
Social Security Number(s):    
(End of Form of Assignment Panel Appended to Bond)
Section 22.   Period of Facilities’ Usefulness . The Wastewater Project will be
useful for at least 40 years from the date of delivery of the Bonds.
Section 23.   Bond Preparation; Execution and Delivery . The Mayor, the City
Manager, the City Clerk, and the City Treasurer are directed to prepare and
execute the Bonds. Thereafter, the City Treasurer shall deliver them to RUS on
behalf of the United States of America as purchaser on receipt of the agreed
purchase price.
Section 24.   Disposition of Proceeds of the Bonds.
A.   Refunding of 2020 Debentures. Proceeds of the Bonds in an amount
sufficient to effect the refunding and defeasance of the 2020 Debentures shall
be immediately used by the City to effect the Refunding Project.
B.   Purchaser not Responsible. The Purchaser or any Registered Owner of the
Bonds shall not be responsible for the application or disposal of proceeds of
the Bonds.
Section 25.   Fiscal Year . For the purpose of this Ordinance the City shall be
operated upon a fiscal year commencing July 1 in each year and ending on
June 30 of the next succeeding year.
Section 26.   Income Fund . There has been previously created and is hereby
continued a fund known as the “City of Yerington Wastewater Utility Revenue
Fund,” herein sometimes designated as the “Income Fund.” So long as the Bonds
shall be outstanding all income and revenues derived from the operation of the
System shall be deposited into the Income Fund.
Section 27.   Administration of Income Fund . The following payments shall be
made from the Income Fund:
A.   Operation and Maintenance Expenses. First, there shall be set aside each
month such reasonable percentage of the Income Fund as the City Council shall
determine to be reasonable and necessary for the proper operation and
maintenance of the System. Any surplus remaining at the end of the Fiscal Year
and not used for Operation and Maintenance Expenses shall be transferred back
to the Income Fund.
B.   Bond Account Payments. Second, from any moneys remaining in the Income
Fund there shall be deposited into a separate account hereby created to be
known as the “2023 Wastewater Utility Bond Account” (herein “Bond Account”)
monthly, commencing on or before the day preceding each payment date, an amount
sufficient, together with any available moneys therein, to pay the next
maturing installment of principal and interest on the outstanding Bonds until
the maturity or prior redemption of the Bonds.
C.   Reserve Account Payments. There shall be deposited annually into a
separate account hereby created to be known as the “2023 Wastewater Revenue
Bond Reserve Account” (herein “Reserve Account”), commencing on or before the
date which is twelve full months from the date of delivery of the Bonds, an
amount equal to at least one-tenth (1/10) of the average annual loan
installment, and annually thereafter an amount each year of at least one-tenth
(1/10) of the average annual loan installment until an amount equal to the
average annual loan installment on the Bonds (the “Minimum Reserve”) has been
accumulated. After the Minimum Reserve has been accumulated, an amount shall be
deposited annually from the Income Fund into the Reserve Account sufficient to
maintain said Reserve Account in an amount not less than the Minimum Reserve.
The moneys in the Reserve Account shall be maintained as a continuing reserve
to be used only for the following:
(1)   Securities Requirements. To pay principal and interest on the Bonds, if
necessary to prevent a default;
(2)   Emergency Maintenance Costs. To pay the costs of extraordinary and major
repairs, renewal, replacements, or maintenance items appertaining to such
System of a type not recurring annually and not defrayed as operation and
maintenance expenses;
(3)   Capital Costs. To pay the cost of extending the System; and
(4)   Replacement Costs. To pay the costs of replacing short-lived assets of
the System which have useful lives significantly less than the term of the
Bonds.
D.   Termination of Deposits. Payment need not be made into the Bond Account or
the Reserve Account if the total amount in both funds at least equals the
principal and interest requirements of the then outstanding Bonds to maturity.
In that case such an amount equal to such principal and interest requirements
shall be set aside for that purpose and all other moneys may be used in any
lawful manner.
E.   Defraying Delinquencies in Bond Account and in Reserve Account. If, for
any reason, the City shall fail to pay into the Bond Account the full
stipulated amount from Net Revenues, then the difference between that paid and
the amount stipulated shall be paid into the Bond Account from the Reserve
Account. Money so used shall be replaced in the Reserve Account from the first
revenues thereafter received not required to be otherwise applied by this
section. If the proceedings authorizing other parity lien obligations require
the replacement of moneys in a reserve fund, then money shall be replaced in
each such reserve fund on a pro rata basis. If, for any reason, the City shall
fail to pay into the Reserve Account the full stipulated amount, the difference
between the amount paid and the amount stipulated shall in like manner be paid
therein from the first revenues thereafter received not required to be
otherwise applied by this section. The moneys in the Bond Account shall be used
only for the purpose of paying Bond principal and interest. Any moneys in the
Reserve Account in excess of the Minimum Reserve (including any investment
income) may be withdrawn and used in the same manner as Net Revenues.
F.   Payment for Additional Obligations. After making the above payments, any
balance in the Income Fund may be used for the payment of principal and
interest on additional bonds including reasonable reserves therefor. The lien
of additional bonds on Net Revenues shall be on a parity with, or subordinate
to, the lien and pledge of the Bonds. Any payments with respect to additional
parity bonds shall be made concurrently with those required by this section.
G.   Use of Surplus Revenues. After making the above payments, the remaining
Net Revenues, if any, may be applied to any other lawful purpose or purposes
authorized by the Constitution and Laws of the State as the City Council may
direct.
Section 28.   General Administration of Funds . The funds and accounts
reference herein shall be administered as follows:
A.   Places and Times of Deposits. The above accounts and funds shall be
separately maintained and deposited in one or more bank accounts in an Insured
Bank or Banks. Each account shall be continuously secured to the extent
required by law and shall be irrevocable and not withdrawable by anyone for any
other purpose. Amounts in the account exceeding the applicable federal deposit
insurance coverage shall be secured by the Insured Bank in advance in
accordance with U.S. Treasury rules and regulations governing the deposit of
government moneys. Payments shall be made into the proper account on the
payment date when due except that when the payment date shall be a Sunday or
legal holiday, the payment shall be made on the preceding calendar day which is
not also a Sunday or legal holiday. At least one day prior to any principal
then due, moneys sufficient to pay interest and principal due on such payment
date shall be credited at the Paying Agent. Nothing in this Ordinance shall
prevent the City Council from establishing one bank account for any of the
funds and accounts required by this Ordinance.
B.   Investment of Money. Any moneys in any fund or account designated in
Sections 24, 26 and 27 of this Ordinance may be invested or reinvested by the
City in such obligations as may be permitted by the Constitution and laws of
the State of Nevada, and applicable federal statutes and regulations.
Section 29.   Parity Lien Bonds . The Bonds constitute an irrevocable lien (but
not necessarily an exclusive lien) upon the Pledged Revenues on a parity with
any other Parity Securities heretofore or hereafter issued.
Section 30.   Additional Securities.
A.   Earnings Test. This Ordinance shall not prevent the issuance of additional
Parity Securities payable from and constituting a lien upon the Pledged
Revenues on a parity with the lien of the Bonds. Before any such additional
Parity Securities are actually issued (and upon receiving the prior written
consent of RUS on behalf of the United States of America for so long as the
United States of America is the Registered Owner of the Bonds) it must be
determined that:
(1)   The City is not, and has not been in default as to any payments required
to be made in Section 27 during the Fiscal Year immediately preceding the
issuance of such additional Parity Securities, or if the Bonds has not been
outstanding for a full Fiscal Year, then for the longest period of time the
Bonds has been outstanding; and
(2)   The annual Revenues for the Fiscal Year immediately preceding the
effective date of the ordinance authorizing the issuance of any such Parity
Securities shall have been sufficient to pay an amount representing 120% of the
average annual principal and interest requirements on all bonds then
outstanding and constituting a lien upon Revenues and the Parity Securities
proposed to be issued (excluding reserves). As used in this section “average
annual principal and interest requirements” shall be the total principal and
interest coming due on the then outstanding Parity Securities and the proposed
Parity Securities during the period extending from the date of the proposed
Parity Securities to the final principal payment date of the then outstanding
Parity Securities or the proposed Parity Securities, whichever is longer,
divided by the number of years (including any fraction thereof) computed from
the date of the proposed Parity Securities to the last principal payment date
of the then outstanding Parity Securities, or the proposed Parity Securities,
whichever is longer.
B.   Certification or Opinion of Revenues. A written certificate or opinion by
the City Treasurer or an Independent Accountant that the earnings test set
forth in Section 30.A above has been met shall conclusively determine the right
of the City to issue additional parity bonds. The City Treasurer or an
Independent Accountant may utilize the results of any annual audit to the
extent it covers the applicable period and may conclusively rely on a
Consulting Engineer's Certificate for the amount of any adjustment required
under Paragraph C of this Section. In the event that an annual audit covering
the applicable period is unavailable, the City Treasurer may utilize unaudited
information covering the applicable period in making such written
certification.
C.   Consideration of Additional Expenses. In determining whether additional
parity bonds may be issued, the City Treasurer or the Independent Accountant
shall consider any probable increase (but not reduction) in Operation and
Maintenance Expenses. A written certificate by a Consulting Engineer as to the
amount of such probable increase may be conclusively relied on by the City and
the City Treasurer or the Independent Accountant in determining the right of
the City to issue additional parity bonds.
D.   Subordinate Obligations Permitted. The City may issue bonds or other
obligations (upon receiving the prior written consent of RUS on behalf of the
United States of America for so long as the United States of America is the
Registered Owner of either of the Bonds) having a lien on Revenues subordinate
to the lien thereon of the Bonds.
E.   Superior Obligations Permitted. The City shall not issue any bond or other
obligation having a lien on Revenues prior and superior to the lien thereon of
the Bonds unless the City has received the prior written consent of the United
States of America.
F.   Waiver of Earnings Test. The foregoing earnings test described in
Section 30.A may be waived or modified by the written consent of Bondholders
representing seventy-five percent (75%) of the then outstanding principal
indebtedness on a parity with the proposed Parity Securities.
Section 31.   Defeasance . So long as the United States of America is the
Registered Owner of any of the Bonds, such Bond may not be defeased.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the United States of America is no longer the
Registered Owner of the Bonds, when the principal of and interest on any Bonds
(the “Bond Requirements”) has been duly paid, the pledge and lien and all
obligations hereunder shall thereby be discharged as to such Bonds and such
Bonds shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding within the meaning of this
Ordinance. There shall be deemed to be such due payment when the City has
placed in escrow or in trust with a trust bank located within or without the
State (the “Bank”), an amount sufficient (including the known minimum yield
available for such purpose from Federal Securities in which such amount wholly
or in part may be initially invested) to meet all Bond Requirements of such the
Bonds, as the same become due to the final maturity of the Bonds or upon any
redemption date as of which the City shall have exercised or shall have
obligated itself to exercise its prior redemption option by a call of the Bonds
for payment. The Federal Securities shall become due before the respective
times on which the proceeds thereof shall be needed, in accordance with a
schedule established and agreed upon between the City and the Bank at the time
of the creation of the escrow or trust, or the Federal Securities shall be
subject to redemption at the option of the owners thereof to assure
availability as so needed to meet the schedule. For the purpose of this
section, the term “Federal Securities” shall be as defined in NRS 350.522, and
shall include only Federal Securities which are not callable for redemption
prior to their maturities except at the option of the holder thereof.
Section 32.   Protective Covenants . The City covenants and agrees with each
and every Holder that:
A.   Use of Proceeds of the Bonds. The Refunding Project shall be completed
without delay.
B.   Payment of Bonds Herein Authorized. The City will make the principal and
interest payments of the Bonds at the place, on the dates, and in the manner
specified according to the true intent and meaning thereof.
C.   Use Charges. Rates for services rendered by the System shall be reasonable
and just, taking into account the cost and value of the System, Operation and
Maintenance Expenses, possible delinquencies, proper allowances for
depreciation, contingencies, and the amounts necessary to retire all bonds
payable from Net Revenues, and the reserves therefor. There shall be charged
against all users, including the State of Nevada and its subdivisions, rates
and amounts sufficient to produce revenues to pay the annual Operation and
Maintenance Expenses, and 100% of both the principal of and interest on all
bonds and other obligations payable from Net Revenues, including reserves.
Except as otherwise provided by law, no free service shall be furnished by the
System. Any use of the System by the City will be paid for from the City's
general fund at the reasonable value of the use so made. Income so derived from
the City shall be treated in the same manner as any other System income.
D.   Levy of Charges. Prior to the delivery of the Bonds, the City will
establish, levy and maintain the rates and charges which are required to meet
the provisions of paragraph C of this Section 32. No reduction in any initial
Wastewater rate schedule may be made unless:
(1)   The City has complied with Section 27 for at least two Fiscal Years
immediately preceding such reduction.
(2)   The audits for the full two Fiscal Years immediately preceding such
reduction disclose that the estimated revenues resulting from the proposed rate
schedule will be sufficient to meet the requirements of paragraph C of this
section.
(3)   If the United States then owns the Bonds, the Rural Development State
Director approves in writing the proposed reduction, provided that the United
States, acting by and through RUS, shall have first been furnished with a
written request signed by the Treasurer requesting and justifying such
reduction. This Section 32.D(3) applies only if the United States owns the
Bonds on the date of the reduction.
E.   Efficient Operation. The City shall make such improvements and repairs to
the System as may be necessary to insure its economical and efficient operation
and its ability to meet demands for service.
F.   Records. Separate records will be kept showing complete and correct
entries of all transactions relating to the System. Such records shall include
monthly entries showing:
(1)   The number of System customers;
(2)   The revenues received;
(3)   A detailed statement of expenses; and
(4)   Such other items specified by any form furnished by the United States.
Before each Fiscal Year the City Council will cause an operating budget to be
prepared.
G.   Right to Inspect. Any Registered Owner, or their duly authorized agents,
shall have the right at all reasonable times to inspect the System, and all
records, accounts and data relating thereto.
H.   Audits and Budgets. As long as the United States of America is the
Registered Owner of any Bonds, the City agrees that it will, within 9 months
following the close of each Fiscal Year, furnish an audit made by an
Independent Accountant to RUS (at the Rural Development State Office of RUS).
Each such audit, in addition to matters thought proper by the accountant, shall
include:
(1)   A statement for the Fiscal Year just closed, of the income and
expenditures of the City, including Revenues, the amount of any capital
expenditures and profit or loss;
(2)   A balance sheet as of the end of such Fiscal Year, including all funds
and accounts created by proceedings authorizing bonds payable from Net
Revenues;
(3)   The accountant’s comment regarding the City’s methods of operation and
accounting practices;
(4)   A list of the insurance policies in force, setting out the amount of each
policy, the risks covered, the name of the insurer, and the expiration date;
(5)   A recapitulation of each fund or account created by the various
proceedings showing deposits and withdrawals for said Fiscal Year.
After the beginning of each new Fiscal Year, the City shall furnish an
operating budget showing the planned budget for the ensuing year and a copy of
the minutes of the meeting of the City Council at which such budget was
approved. Along with the operating budget, the City shall provide a letter
showing the name, address and term of office for each member of the City
Council, the number of residential users and the number of commercial users of
the System as of the end of the Fiscal Year. The City will furnish the
designated United States representative with quarterly statements of income and
expense on forms furnished by the United States. The City will furnish a copy
of each audit, budget, quarterly statement and written instrument to the United
States.
I.   Billing Procedure and Discontinuance of Service. All bills shall be sent
out on a regularly established manner each month in advance or after service is
rendered. Bills shall be due within an established number of days from the bill
date. Bills for wastewater use and wastewater service may be sent out in
combination with bills for another utility (e.g., sanitary sewer bills or
refuse collection bills) as long as such amounts are separately stated. If
bills are not paid 30 days after such due date they shall be collected in any
lawful manner.
J.   Use of Bond Account and Reserve Account. The Bond Account and the Reserve
Account shall be used solely and only, and said funds are hereby pledged, for
the purposes set forth above for the payment of the principal of and interest
on the Bonds on a pro rata basis.
K.   Charges and Liens upon System. The City will pay all taxes and
governmental charges lawfully levied in respect of the System when due. The
City will comply with all valid requirements of any governmental authority
relative to the System. It shall not create or permit to be created any lien or
charge upon the System or the Pledged Revenue except as permitted herein. The
City will satisfy all claims and demands within 60 days after the same shall
accrue which might by law become a lien upon the System or upon the Pledged
Revenue unless the validity thereof is being contested in good faith by
appropriate legal proceedings.
L.   Construction Contract and Bond. The City will require each person, firm or
corporation with whom it may contract for labor or materials to furnish a
performance and payment bond in the full amount of any contract. Any such
contract will meet the reasonable requirements of the United States which are
not inconsistent with State law.
M.   Insurance. Fire and extended coverage insurance will be obtained and
maintained on the facilities above ground, including City-owned contents,
equipment and machinery. The proceeds of such insurance shall be used to
restore the property lost or damaged and any remainder (or if such lost or
damaged property is no longer required for the System the entire proceeds) will
be distributed as Net Revenues. The City will carry workmen's compensation
insurance on all full-time employees and will maintain public liability
insurance (including liability and property damage insurance on City-owned or
operated vehicles) if authorized by State law as interpreted by the legal
counsel for the City.
N.   Competing System or Works. The City shall not grant any franchise or
license to a competing System, or permit any person or organization to sell
Wastewater or Wastewater service within the City, but this covenant shall not
require the City to take any action which, in the opinion of the City's legal
counsel, may violate antitrust laws.
O.   Alienating System. The City will not sell, lease, mortgage, pledge, or
otherwise alienate the System, or any part thereof, except any portion which
shall have been replaced by other property of at least equal value or which
shall cease to be necessary for the efficient operation of the System. In the
event of any sale as aforesaid, the proceeds of such sale shall be distributed
as Net Revenues.
P.   Extension of Interest Payments. The City will not extend or be a party to
the extension of the time for paying any claim for interest. Any installment of
interest so extended shall not be entitled in case of default hereunder to the
benefit or security of this Ordinance except subject to the prior payment in
full of the principal of all bonds and interest which has not been extended.
Q.   Management of the System. If an “event of default” shall occur or if the
Net Revenues in any Fiscal Year fail to equal principal, interest and reserves
for all bonds payable from Net Revenues, the City shall retain a Consulting
Engineer to assist in the management of the System so long as such default
continues or the Net Revenues are less than the amount designated.
R.   Fidelity Bonds. The persons, being responsible for receiving income and
maintaining the accounts of the City, shall be bonded in a blanket position
fidelity bond in a penal sum at least equal to the maximum amount on hand at
any one time (exclusive of proceeds of the Bonds), which fidelity bond may be
provided on Form RUS 440-24 “Position Fidelity Schedule Bond” or other
equivalent United States forms and shall designate the United States of America
as a co-obligee.
S.   The City’s Existence.
(1)   The City will maintain its “corporate” identity and existence so long as
any principal of the Bonds remains outstanding (and the United States of
America is a Registered Owner of any of such Bonds), unless another political
subdivision by operation of law succeeds to the liabilities and rights of the
City without adversely affecting to any substantial degree the privileges and
rights of any Registered Owner.
(2)   The City agrees to give written notice to the Rural Development State
Office, if the United States of America is a Registered Owner of any principal
of the Bonds, at least 30 days prior to any contemplated merger, consolidation
or dissolution of the City.
T.   Tax Covenants. The City covenants for the benefit of the owner of the
Bonds that it will not take any action or omit to take any action with respect
to the Bonds, the proceeds thereof, any other funds of the City or any
facilities financed with the proceeds of the Bonds if such action or omission
(i) would cause the interest on the Bonds to lose its exclusion from gross
income for federal income tax purposes under Section 103 of the Tax Code,
(ii) would cause interest on the Bonds to lose its exclusion from alternative
minimum taxable income as defined in Section 55(b)(2) of the Tax Code except to
the extent such interest is required to be included in the adjusted current
earnings adjustment applicable to corporations under Section 56 of the Tax Code
in calculating corporate alternative minimum taxable income. The foregoing
covenant shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the payment in
full or defeasance of the Bonds until the date on which all obligations of the
City in fulfilling the above covenant under the Tax Code have been met.
Section 33.   Events of Default . It is an “event of default” if:
A.   Nonpayment of Principal. Payment of any principal of the Bonds is not made
when due or upon prior redemption.
B.   Nonpayment of Interest. Payment of interest is not made when due.
C.   Incapable to Perform. The City is not capable of fulfilling its
obligations hereunder.
D.   Default of Any Provision. The City defaults in the punctual performance of
its covenants hereunder for 60 days after written notice shall have been given
by the Owners of 25% of the outstanding principal of the Bonds.
Section 34.   Remedies on Default . Upon the happening of any event of default,
the Registered Owners or Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of
the outstanding Bond, or a trustee therefor, may protect and enforce these
rights of any Bondholder or Owner by proper legal or equitable remedy deemed
most effectual including mandamus, specific performance of any covenant, the
appointment of a receiver (the consent to such appointment being hereby
granted), injunctive relief, or requiring the governing body of the City to act
as if it were the trustee of an expressed trust, or any combination of such
remedies. All proceedings shall be maintained for the equal benefit of all
Owners and Holders. Any receiver appointed to protect the rights of Bondholders
may take possession and operate and maintain the System in the same manner as
the City itself might do. The failure of any Registered Owner or Holder to
proceed does not relieve the City or any person of any liability for failure to
perform any duty hereunder. The foregoing rights are in addition to any other
right and the exercise of any right by any Bondholder or Owner shall not be
deemed a waiver of any other right.
Section 35.   Duties upon Default . Upon the happening of any event of default,
the City will perform all proper acts to protect and preserve the security
created for the prompt payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
The Owners or Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the
outstanding Bonds after written demand, may proceed to protect and enforce the
rights provided by this section.
Section 36.   Prior Charge Upon Lower Rates. If any commission or authority
lawfully prescribes a lower schedule of rates than that contemplated by this
Ordinance, then the payment of principal and interest on the Bonds, and any
parity bonds, shall constitute a first and prior charge on revenues.
Section 37.   Refinancing . If it shall appear to RUS, during the time the
United States of America owns any of the Bonds, that the City can refinance the
amount of the Bonds then outstanding, in whole or in part, by obtaining a loan
for such purposes from responsible cooperative or private credit sources, at
reasonable rates and terms for loans for similar purposes and periods of time,
the City agrees (upon the request of RUS), within the limitations of its then
existing powers, (and subject to any contractual limitations contained herein
concerning the payment of the Bonds and their redemption), to apply for and to
accept such loan, with conditions acceptable to the City, in sufficient amount
to repay the United States of America and agrees to take such action as may be
required in connection with such loan. Any such refinancing shall be
accomplished according to applicable statutes of the State.
Section 38.   Discharge of the Bonds . When the Bonds has been paid, the pledge
and lien and all obligations hereunder shall be discharged and the Bonds shall
no longer be deemed to be outstanding.
Section 39.   Amendment of Ordinance . This Ordinance may be amended, without
receipt by the City of any additional consideration, but with the written
consent of the Owners of seventy-five percent (75%) of the principal of the
Bonds then outstanding (not including any portion of the Bonds which may be
held for the account of the City); but no Ordinance adopted without the written
consent of the Owners of all of the outstanding Bonds shall have the effect of
permitting:
(1)   An extension of any installment payment of the Bonds; or
(2)   A reduction in the principal amount or interest rate of the Bonds; or
(3)   The creation of a lien upon revenue ranking prior to the lien or pledge
created by this Ordinance; or
(4)   A reduction of the principal amount of the Bonds required for consent to
such amendatory Ordinance; or
(5)   The modification of or otherwise affecting the rights of the Holders of
less than all of the outstanding Bonds.
Section 40.   Delegated Powers . The officers of the City be, and they hereby
are, authorized and directed to take all action necessary or appropriate to
effectuate the provisions of this Ordinance, including, without limitation, the
execution of such certificates, agreements and forms as may be reasonably
required by the United States of America or RUS, relating, inter alia, to the
signing of the Bonds, the tenure and identity of the officials of the City
Council and of the City, the delivery of the Bonds and the receipt of the
purchase price of the Bonds, and, if it is in accordance with fact, the absence
of litigation, pending or threatened, affecting the validity thereof, and the
absence and existence of factors affecting the exemption of interest on the
Bonds from federal income taxation, the assembly and dissemination of financial
and other information concerning the City, the Bonds, and the sale and issuance
of the Bonds pursuant to the provisions of this Ordinance and to any instrument
supplemental thereto.
Section 41.   Prior Contracts . If any provision herein is inconsistent with
any provision in any existing contract pertaining to the City so as to affect
prejudicially and materially the rights and privileges thereunder, so long as
such contract shall remain viable and in effect such provision therein shall
control such inconsistent provision herein and the latter provision shall be
subject and subordinate to such provision in such existing contract.
Section 42.   Police Power . Nothing in this Ordinance prohibits or otherwise
limits or inhibits the reasonable exercise in the future by the State and its
governmental bodies of the police powers and powers of taxation inherent in the
sovereignty of the State or the exercise by the United States of the powers
delegated to it by the Federal Constitution. The City cannot contract away such
powers nor limit or inhibit by contract the proper exercise thereof, and this
Ordinance does not purport to do so.
Section 43.   Ordinance Irrepealable . After the Bonds is issued, this
Ordinance shall constitute an irrevocable contract between the City and the
owner of the Bonds and this Ordinance, if the Bonds is in fact issued, shall be
and shall remain irrepealable until the Bonds, as to all Bond Requirements,
shall be fully paid, canceled and discharged as herein provided.
Section 44.   Implied Repealer . All ordinances, resolutions, bylaws and
orders, or parts thereof, inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed to the
extent only of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed to
revive any ordinance, resolution, bylaw or order, or part hereof, heretofore
repealed.
Section 45.   Publication and Effective Date . The Council has expressed in the
preambles to this Ordinance that it pertains to the sale, issuance, or payment
of the Debentures, and that, as permitted under Section 7.030(3) of the City
Charter, this instrument may accordingly be adopted in the same manner as is
provided for cases of emergency. This Ordinance shall become effective
immediately upon unanimous passage by the Council. Following the unanimous
passage of this Ordinance, the City shall publish this Ordinance by its title
only, together with a statement that typewritten copies of this Ordinance are
available for inspection by interested parties at the office of the City Clerk,
such publication to be made in a newspaper or newspapers published in Lyon
County and which is of general circulation in the City and such publication to
be in substantially the following form:
(Form of Publication)
 
BILL NO. 427
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-02
AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING AND DIRECTING THE ISSUANCE OF THE CITY OF YERINGTON,
NEVADA, WASTEWATER REVENUE BOND, SERIES 2023A IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF
$8,577,000 AND THE CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA, WASTEWATER REVENUE BOND SERIES
2023B IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF $7,000,000 TO REFINANCE A SEWERAGE PROJECT, AS
DEFINED IN NRS 268.714; PROVIDING THE FORMS, TERMS, CONDITIONS AND SECURITY FOR
THE BONDS AND THE SALE TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA; PROVIDING FOR ADOPTION
AS IF AN EMERGENCY EXISTS; AND PROVIDING OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that typewritten copies of the above-numbered and
entitled ordinance are available for inspection by all interested parties at
the office of the City Clerk of City of Yerington, Nevada and that such
ordinance was proposed on October 9, 2023, and was passed at the meeting held
on October 9, 2023 by the following vote of the Council:
Those Voting Aye:            Councilman Jerry Bryant
                  Councilman Matt Galvin
Councilman Shane Martin
Councilman Frank Pizzo
 
Those Voting Nay:            None
 
Those Absent:               None
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City Council of the City of Yerington, Nevada, has
caused this ordinance to be published by title only, which is deemed to be an
adequate summary of such Ordinance.
   DATED on this October 9, 2023.
   /s/      
   Mayor, John J. Garry
   City of Yerington, Nevada
(SEAL)
 
 
   
Attest:
/s/      
City Clerk, Sheema D. Shaw
City of Yerington, Nevada
(End of Form of Publication)
Section 46.   Ratification . All consistent action taken previously by the City
and the City officers directed toward the Refunding Project and toward the
issuance of its Bonds for such purposes is ratified, approved, and confirmed.
Section 47.   Severability . If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of
this Ordinance shall for any reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the
invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph, clause or provision
shall in no way affect any remaining provisions of this Ordinance.
Proposed on October 9, 20223.
Proposed by Council Member ______________.
Passed October 9, 2023 by the following vote of the Council:
Those Voting Aye:            Councilman Jerry Bryant
                  Councilman Matt Galvin
Councilman Shane Martin
Councilman Frank Pizzo
 
Those Voting Nay:            None
 
Those Absent:               None
 
 
 
      
   Mayor, John J. Garry
   City of Yerington, Nevada
(SEAL)
Attest:
   
City Clerk, Sheema D. Shaw
City of Yerington, Nevada
STATE OF NEVADA      )
)
LYON COUNTY      ) ss.
)
CITY OF YERINGTON      )
I am the duly chosen and qualified City Clerk of the City of Yerington, Nevada
(the “City”), Nevada, do hereby certify:
The foregoing pages constitute a true, correct, complete and compared copy of
the original 2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Ordinance (the “Ordinance”) adopted
by the City Council of the City (the “Council”) at a meeting held on October 9,
2023.
2.   The adoption of the Ordinance was duly moved and seconded and the
Ordinance was adopted by an affirmative vote of the members of Council as
follows:
Those Voting Aye:            Councilman Jerry Bryant
                  Councilman Matt Galvin
Councilman Shane Martin
Councilman Frank Pizzo
 
Those Voting Nay:            None
 
Those Absent:               None
 
3.   The original of the Ordinance has been approved and authenticated by the
signatures of the Mayor of the City and myself as City Clerk and has been
recorded in the regular official record of the Council kept for that purpose in
my office, which record has been duly signed by the officers and properly
sealed.
4.   Public notice of such meeting attached as Exhibit A was given and such
meeting was held and conducted in full compliance with the provisions of the
Nevada Open Meeting law as outlined in NRS Chapter 241. A copy of the notice of
public meeting and excerpt from the meeting minutes relating to the
resolutions, as posted prior to 9:00 a.m. at least 3 business days in advance
of the meeting on the City’s website and the State of Nevada’s official public
notice website are attached as Exhibit B.
5.    Upon request, the Council provides at no charge, at least one copy of the
agenda for its public meetings, any proposed ordinance or regulation which will
be discussed at the public meeting, and any other supporting materials provided
to the Council for an item on the agenda, except for certain confidential
materials and materials pertaining to closed meetings, as provided by law.
6.   A copy of such notice so given of the meeting of the Council on October 9,
2023 is attached to this certificate as Exhibit “A.” A copy of the affidavit of
publication of the Ordinance by title is attached to this certificate as
Exhibit “B.”
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand on this October 9, 2023.
 
 
(SEAL)               _______________________________________
City Clerk, Sheema D. Shaw
 
 
EXHIBIT A
(Attach Notice of Meeting)
EXHIBIT B
(Attach Affidavit of Publication by Title)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BILL NO. 427
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-02
AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING AND DIRECTING THE ISSUANCE OF THE CITY OF YERINGTON,
NEVADA, WASTEWATER REVENUE BOND, SERIES 2023A IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF
$8,577,000 AND THE CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA, WASTEWATER REVENUE BOND SERIES
2023B IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF $7,000,000 TO REFINANCE A SEWERAGE PROJECT, AS
DEFINED IN NRS 268.714; PROVIDING THE FORMS, TERMS, CONDITIONS AND SECURITY FOR
THE BONDS AND THE SALE TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA; PROVIDING FOR ADOPTION
AS IF AN EMERGENCY EXISTS; AND PROVIDING OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
WHEREAS, the City of Yerington in the County of Lyon and State of Nevada (the
“City,” the “County,” and the “State,” respectively) is a political subdivision
of the State a body corporate and a city duly organized as a city under the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (“NRS”) Chapter 268, Chapter 465,
Statutes of Nevada, 1971, as amended (the “Charter”), and the general laws of
the State;
WHEREAS, the City owns and operates a municipal sanitary sewer system (the
“System”);
WHEREAS, the City has received commitments from the United States Department of
Agriculture acting through the United States Department of Agriculture, Rural
Development (“USDA”) to provide loans in the aggregate amount $33,000,000 to
the City for purposes of providing long-term financing for a Sewerage Project
(as defined in NRS 268.714) (the “Sewer Project”) pursuant to a Letter of
Conditions dated December 29, 2016, as amended on (collectively, the “Letters
of Conditions”);
WHEREAS, the City has previously issued the “City of Yerington Interim
Debentures, Series 2020” (the “2020 Debentures”) in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $32,830,000;
WHEREAS, the 2020 Debentures are currently outstanding in the principal amount
of $_____________.
WHEREAS, the 2020 Debentures are secured in part by a lien on the Pledged
Revenues;
WHEREAS, the outstanding 2020 Debentures are subject to prior redemption at the
option of the City on any date at a redemption price equal to the principal
amount thereof plus accrued interest thereon to the redemption date;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of NRS Sections 350.500 through 350.720,
and all laws amendatory thereof, cited in Section 350.500 thereof by the short
title “Local Government Securities Law” (the “Bond Act”), the City is
authorized to issue bonds in order to refund, pay and discharge certain
outstanding bonds or other obligations of the City for the purpose of reducing
interest rates and effecting other economies;
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City (the “Council”) hereby determines that it
is in the best interests of the City and the inhabits thereof to issue its
“City of Yerington, Nevada Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2023A”
and its “City of Yerington, Nevada Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds Series
2023B” (collectively, the “Bonds”) to refund, pay and discharge the outstanding
the 2020 Debentures and pay the costs associated with the issuance of the Bonds
(collectively, the “Refunding Project”);
WHEREAS, other than the 2020 Debentures, the City has not previously pledged
the Pledged Revenues derived and to be derived from the operation of the System
(as defined herein) for the repayment or redemption of any securities payable
from such revenues, or otherwise, with the result that such Pledged Revenues
may be pledged lawfully and irrevocably to secure the payment of the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds will be
secured by the Pledged Revenues; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Letters of Condition, RD has agreed to purchase the
Bonds herein authorized at a price of par and at an interest rate of ___% per
annum, (provided, however, that the City may elect to accept the RD rate
available at the date of issuance of the Bonds, if lower) (the “Interest
Rate”);
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and does hereby determine and declare
that the proposal for the purchase at private sale pursuant to NRS 350.616 of a
single Bond of each series of the Bonds by RD, for a price consisting of the
aggregate principal amount of the Bonds, at the Interest Rate, and otherwise
maturing, being secured and otherwise being issued as herein provided,
constitutes the best proposal for the Bonds and is to the best advantage of the
City;
WHEREAS, the effective Interest Rate on the Bonds herein authorized or such
lower elected rate, does not exceed by more than 3% the “Index of Revenue
Bonds” which was most recently published before a negotiated offer was accepted
for the Bonds;
WHEREAS, the City Council hereby elects to have the Chapter 348 of NRS (the
“Supplemental Bond Act”) apply to the Bonds;
WHEREAS, the City Council hereby determines that it is necessary and advisable
that the City incur a bonded indebtedness by issuing the Bonds pursuant to the
Charter, the Project Act, the Wastewater Act, the Supplemental Bond Act, and
the Bond Act;
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and hereby declares that each of the
limitations and other conditions to the issuance of the Bonds in the Charter,
the Bond Act, the Project Act, the Supplemental Bond Act, and in any other
relevant act of the State or the federal government has been met, and pursuant
to NRS 350.708 of the Bond Act such determination of the City Council that the
limitations in the Bond Act have been met shall be conclusive in the absence of
fraud or arbitrary and gross abuse of discretion;
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and does hereby declare:
(A)   It is necessary and for the best interests of the City to effect the
Refunding Project and to issue the Bonds; and
(B)   Each of the limitations and other conditions to the issuance of the Bonds
in the Project Act, the Bond Act, the Supplemental Bond Act, and in any other
relevant act of the State or the Federal Government has been met; and pursuant
to NRS 350.708, this determination of the City Council that the limitations of
the Bond Act have been met shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud or
arbitrary or gross abuse of discretion; and
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and does hereby declare:
(A)   This Ordinance pertains to the sale, issuance and payment of the Bonds;
(B)   Such declaration shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud or gross
abuse of discretion in accordance with the provisions of Subsection 2 of NRS
350.579; and
(C)   This Ordinance may accordingly be adopted as if an emergency now exists
by an affirmative vote of all of the voting members of the City Council, and
this Ordinance may become effective at any time when an emergency ordinance of
the City may go into effect.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF CITY OF YERINGTON DOES ORDAIN:
Section 1.   Short Title . This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as
the “2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Ordinance” (herein the “Ordinance”).
Section 2.   Matter of Local Concern . The City Council has determined, and
does hereby determine, that the completion of the Refunding Project and the
pledge of the Pledged Revenues to the repayment of the Bonds is a “Matter of
local concern” as defined in NRS 268.003.
Section 3.   Definitions . The terms defined in this section, except where the
context requires otherwise, shall have the following meanings in this
Ordinance:
A.   “Bond Act” or “Act” means the Local Government Securities Law, cited as
NRS 350.500 through 350.720 and all laws amendatory thereof.
B.   “Bonds” means, collectively, the Series 2023A Bond and the Series 2023B
Bond.
C.   “Bond Account” means the “2023 Wastewater Utility Revenue Bond Account”
created in Section 27.B of this Ordinance.
D.   “Bond Act” or “Act” means the Local Government Securities Law, cited as
NRS 350.500 through 350.720 and all laws amendatory thereof.
E.   “Consulting Engineer” or “Project Engineer” means any qualified registered
or licensed professional engineer practicing under the laws of the State of
Nevada.
F.   “Fiscal Year” means the twelve months commencing July 1 of any year and
ending June 30 of the next succeeding year.
G.   “Gross Income,” “gross revenues,” “income” or “revenues” means all income
and revenue derived by the City from any rates, fees, tolls, connection
charges, stand-by charges and charges for availability of wastewater services
furnished by, or the use of, the municipal wastewater system as the same may at
any time exist to serve customers within or outside the City limits, whether
resulting from improvements, extensions, or otherwise.
H.   “Holder,” “Owner” or “Registered Owner” means a person (including the
United States Department of Agriculture, Rural Development) in possession and
the apparent owner of the Bonds
I.   “Independent Accountant” means any certified public accountant practicing
under the laws of the State of Nevada who is independent and not an officer or
employee of the municipality.
J.   “Insured Bank” means a bank defined in NRS 350.512 and qualified to accept
public deposits under state law which is a member of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation.
K.   “Interest Rate” means the interest rate for the Bonds as described in the
preambles hereto.
L.   “Net Revenues” means the Gross Revenues less the Operation and Maintenance
Expenses.
M.   “NRS” means the Nevada Revised Statutes.
N.   “Operation and Maintenance Expenses” means all reasonable and necessary
current expenses of the City, paid or accrued, for operating, maintaining and
repairing the System, as defined in NRS 350.542 including legal and overhead
expenses of the City directly related to the administration of the System,
insurance premiums, audits, charges of depository banks and paying agents,
professional services, salaries and administrative expenses, labor, and the
cost of materials and supplies for current operation, but excluding any
allowance for depreciation, any costs of improvements to the System, any
accumulation of reserves for major capital replacements (other than normal
repairs) or for the operation, maintenance or repair of the System, any
allowance for the redemption of any securities of the City, or any other ground
of legal liability not based on contract, in accordance with NRS 350.544.
O.   “Parity Securities” means any additional bonds, securities or other
obligations issued hereafter with a lien on the Pledged Revenues on a parity
with the outstanding Bond.
P.   “Paying Agent” means the Treasurer of the City or any successor thereto as
paying agent for the Bonds appointed by the City Council.
Q.   “Pledged Revenues” means all or a portion of the Net Revenues. The
designated term indicates sources of revenues and does not necessarily indicate
all or any portion or other part of such revenues in the absence of further
qualification.
R.   “Project Act” means NRS 268.672 through 268.740, inclusive, and all laws
amendatory thereof.
S.   “Purchaser” means the United States of America, acting by and through RD.
T.   “RD” means “the United States Department of Agriculture, acting through
the Rural Utilities Service (Rural Development Mission Area), or successor
agency.
U.   “Registrar” means the City Treasurer or any successor thereto as registrar
for the Bonds appointed by the City Council.
V.   “Refunding Project” shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the
preambles hereof.
W.   “Reserve Account” means the “2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Reserve Account”
created in Section 27.C of this Ordinance.
X.   “Series 2023A Bond” means the City of Yerington, Nevada, Wastewater
Revenue Bond, Series 2023A, issued in the stated principal amount of
$8,577,000.
Y.   “Series 2023B Bond” means the City of Yerington, Nevada, Wastewater
Revenue Bond, Series 2023B, issued in the stated principal amount of $7,000,000
Z.   “System” means all of the City's municipal wastewater system, and its
wastewater facilities and properties now owned or hereafter acquired, whether
situated within or without the City boundaries.
AA.   “Tax Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended to the
date of delivery of the Bonds.
BB.   “Wastewater Act” means NRS 350.350 through 350.490, inclusive, and all
laws amendatory thereof.
CC.   “Wastewater Project” shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the
preambles hereof.
Section 4.   Authority for This Ordinance . This Ordinance is adopted pursuant
to the Charter, the Project Act, the Wastewater Act, and the Bond Act.
Section 5.   Life of the Wastewater Project . The City Council has determined
and does hereby declare that the estimated life or estimated period of
usefulness of the Wastewater Project is not less than 40 years from the date of
issuance of the Bonds; and the Bonds shall mature at such times not exceeding
such estimated life or estimated period of usefulness of the Wastewater
Project.
Section 6.   Acceptance of Purchase Proposal for the Bonds . The proposal
submitted by the United States, by and through RD, for the purchase of the
Series 2023A Bond in the stated principal amount of $8,577,000 and the Series
2023B Bond in the stated principal amount of $7,000,000, each bearing interest
at the Interest Rate, which was received by the City at the private sale of the
Bonds be, and the same hereby is, accepted.
Section 7.   Necessity of Project and Bonds . It is necessary and in the best
interests of the City and its inhabitants that the City effect the Refunding
Project and defray in part the cost thereof by issuing the Bonds therefor.
Section 8.   Ordinance to Constitute Contract . In consideration of the
purchase and the acceptance of the Bonds by RD on behalf of the United States
of America and by those whom shall own them from time to time, this Ordinance
shall be deemed to be and shall constitute a contract between the City and the
Registered Owner.
Section 9.   Bonds Equally Secured . The covenants and agreements herein set
forth to be performed on behalf of the City shall be for the equal benefit,
protection and security of the Registered Owners of any and all of the Bonds,
all of which, regardless of the time or times of their issue or maturity, shall
be of equal rank without preference, priority or distinction of any of the
Bonds of this issue over any other thereof, except as otherwise expressly
provided herein.
Section 10.   Special Obligations . The Bonds shall be payable and collectible
(except as herein otherwise provided) solely out of the Pledged Revenues, which
revenues are hereby so pledged. The Holder or Registered Owner may not look to
any general or other fund for the payment of the principal of, or interest on
the Bonds, except the Bond Account and the Reserve Account which are hereby
pledged therefor. The Bonds shall not constitute an indebtedness or a debt
within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory provision or limitation
and the Bonds shall not be considered or held to be general obligations of the
City but shall constitute its special obligations. The City does not pledge its
full faith and credit for the payment of the Bonds.
Section 11.   Character of Agreement . None of the covenants, agreements,
representations and warranties contained herein or in the Bonds, in the absence
of any breach thereof, shall ever impose or shall be construed as imposing any
liability, obligation or charge against the City (except the special funds
pledged therefor) or its general credit, payable out of its general fund or out
of any funds derived from taxation.
Section 12.   Authorization of Bonds . For the purpose of providing funds to
pay the cost of the Refunding Project, the City shall issue the “City of
Yerington, Nevada, Wastewater Revenue Bond, Series 2023A” in the principal
amount of $8,577,000 and the “City of Yerington, Nevada, Wastewater Revenue
Bond, Series 2023B” in the principal amount of $7,000,000. Such Bonds shall be
issued and be payable both as to principal and interest, solely from the
Pledged Revenues, and the City shall pledge irrevocably such revenues to the
payment of the Bonds and the interest thereon on a parity with the lien on such
revenues of the Parity Securities, the proceeds thereof to be used solely for
the aforesaid purpose, pursuant to the Charter, the Project Act, and the Bond
Act. RD has requested, and the City has agreed, that the obligations of the
City hereunder shall be represented in the form of a single registered bond for
each series of the Bonds. The Bonds shall be in the form substantially as set
forth in Section 21.
Section 13.   Bond Details . The Bonds shall be issued in fully registered
form, i.e., registered as to both principal and interest, in compliance with
Section 149 of the Tax Code, and the regulations of the Secretary of the
Treasury thereunder. The Bonds shall be dated initially as of the date of
delivery thereof. The Series 2023A Bond shall be issued as a single bond in the
principal amount of $8,577,000. The Series 2023B Bond shall be issued as a
single bond in the principal amount of $7,000,000.
The Bonds shall bear interest at the Interest Rate on the unpaid balance of the
respective principal amounts until the principal thereof is paid in full. The
installments of principal of the Bonds shall bear interest at the Interest Rate
based on a 365-day year as set forth below from the dated date of each of the
Bonds until payment of such installment of principal shall have been
discharged. The interest payments and amortized principal payments on the Bonds
shall be made by the City on the first day of each month commencing on the
first day of the month following the date of delivery of the Bonds and monthly
thereafter on the first day of each month until the maturity date or
prepayment. The interest and principal of the Bonds shall be fully amortized so
as to produce substantially equal monthly payments (of principal and interest)
from payment date to payment date and which shall be in an amount sufficient to
fully pay the total principal of and interest on the Bonds on ____________ 1,
20__.
The Interest Rate submitted by the RD, in accordance with their regulations, as
of the date of loan approval, was ___%, which may or may not be the lower rate
charged by the RD at the time of loan closing. Should the Interest Rate at the
time of the loan closing be lower than the rate of ___% in effect at the time
of the loan approval, the City Council directs the City Manager or his designee
to make a written request to the RD for the lower rate, and the City Council
hereby authorizes the Mayor, the City Treasurer, and the City Clerk to execute
the Bonds providing for the lower Interest Rate. If any installment of
principal is not paid when due, then in addition to installments thereafter
becoming due, the City shall pay interest on the unpaid balance of the total
principal amount from the due date of the delinquent installment to the date of
payment of the delinquent installment, provided, that interest accruing by
reason of any such delinquency shall not include any interest applicable to
such delinquency period in any installment subsequently paid, and shall in no
event cause the total interest payable on the Bonds to exceed the interest rate
as set forth in the Bonds, on the unpaid balance of the total principal amount.
The installments of principal and interest on the Bonds shall be payable in
lawful money of the United States of America without deduction for exchange or
collection charges at the office of the City Treasurer. The final installment
of principal and interest due on the Bonds is payable only upon surrender of
the Bonds to the Paying Agent. If, upon presentation at or after maturity,
payment of the Bonds is not made as herein provided, interest thereon shall
continue at the Interest Rate per annum until the principal thereof is paid in
full.
RD has requested that the Bonds be registered in the name of the United States
of America. So long as the United States of America is the Registered Owner of
the Bonds, payment of installments of principal and interest shall be made at
the appropriate United States Department of Agriculture, Rural Development
office, currently designated as 2730 N. Deer Run Road, Suite 1, Carson City,
Nevada 89701, or at such other address as the United States of America or RD
may designate in writing. During the time any registered assign is the
Registered Owner of the Bonds, payment shall be made at the address shown on
the registration record maintained by the Registrar. The Bonds must be
registered by the Registrar, and may be assigned in the manner and with the
effect set forth in the provisions for registration contained in the form of
the Bonds hereinafter set forth, and as herein further provided. The principal
and interest of the registered Bonds shall be payable only to, or upon the
order of, the Registered Owner or legal representative.
The City hereby reserves the right, at its option, to prepay the principal
amount outstanding, in whole, or in the manner hereinafter provided, in part,
at any time, in inverse order of maturity. Prepayments shall be made on the
date, at the place, and in the manner provided herein for making regularly
scheduled installments, and partial prepayments shall be in the amount of that
portion of one or more installments which would be allocable to principal. No
prepayment of an installment shall extend or postpone the due date of any
subsequent installment. Any prepayments shall be in the amount of principal
being prepaid, together with accrued interest thereon to the date of
prepayment, and shall be made without penalty or without additional interest
charges. At the time of such principal prepayment, the Registrar shall make a
notation of the date and amount of such principal prepayment on the
registration records maintained by the Registrar. The registration records
maintained by the Registrar shall be conclusive evidence of the amounts and
dates of any principal prepayments.
Section 14.   Prepayment Notice . Unless waived by the Registered Owner, notice
of prepayment of any of the Bonds shall be given by the Registrar by first
class or electronic mail, not less than 30 days prior to the date fixed for
prepayment. A copy of the notice shall be mailed at least 30 days prior to the
date fixed for prepayment to any Registered Owner whose name and address appear
on the registration records maintained by the Registrar. So long as the Bonds
is owned by the United States of America, notice shall be mailed to the United
States of America at least 30 days prior to the date fixed for prepayment at
such address as the United States of America or RD may designate in writing.
The notice shall identify the installments of principal to be prepaid, specify
the date of prepayment, and state that on such date the principal amount
thereof and accrued interest to the date of prepayment will become due and
payable and thereafter interest will cease to accrue. After such notice, the
Bonds or portions thereof so called for prepayment will be paid.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any notice of prepayment may
contain a statement that the prepayment is conditioned upon the receipt by the
Paying Agent of funds on or before the date fixed for prepayment sufficient to
pay the principal amount prepaid and the accrued interest thereon to the date
of prepayment, and that if such funds are not available, such prepayment shall
be canceled by written notice to the owner of the Bonds called for prepayment
in the same manner as the original prepayment notice was mailed.
Section 15.   Negotiability . Subject to the registration and payment
provisions herein provided, the Bonds shall be fully negotiable within the
meaning of and for the purpose of the Uniform Commercial Code - Investment
Securities and each Registered Owner shall possess all rights enjoyed by owners
of negotiable instruments under the Uniform Commercial Code-Investment
Securities.
Section 16.   Registration as to Principal and Interest . The Bonds must be
registered for payment as to both principal and interest. The Registrar shall
maintain records for the registration and transfer of the Bonds.
Section 17.   Registration of the Bonds.
A.   Records for the registration of the Bonds shall be kept by the Registrar.
The person in whose name any Bonds shall be registered, on the registration
records maintained by the Registrar, and as noted on the registration panel
appended to the Bonds, shall be deemed and regarded as the absolute owner
thereof for the purpose of payment and for all other purposes; and payment of
or on account of either principal or interest on any Bonds shall be made only
to or upon the written order of the Owner thereof or his or her legal
representative. All such payments shall be valid and effectual to discharge the
liability upon such Bonds to the extent of the sum or sums so paid.
B.   If the Bonds shall be lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated, the Registrar
shall, upon receipt of such evidence, information or indemnity relating thereto
as it or the City may reasonably require, and upon payment of all expenses in
connection therewith, authenticate and deliver a replacement Bond. If such
lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Bond shall have matured or shall have been
called for redemption, the Registrar may direct that such Bond be paid by the
Paying Agent in lieu of replacement; provided that if the United States of
America is the holder of a Bond, no security or indemnity is required in the
event of such lost or destroyed Bond.
C.   Whenever a Bond shall be surrendered to the Paying Agent upon payment
thereof, or to the Registrar for replacement as provided herein, such Bond
shall be promptly canceled by the Paying Agent or Registrar, and counterparts
of a certificate of such cancellation shall be furnished by the Paying Agent or
Registrar to the City.
D.   The Registrar shall maintain a registration record for the Bonds showing
the name and address of the Registered Owner and the amounts and dates of any
principal prepayments on the Bonds.
Section 18.   Form of Execution . The Mayor, the City Treasurer, and the City
Clerk may file their manual signatures with the Secretary of State, pursuant to
the Uniform Facsimile Signatures of Public Officials Act, cited as Chapter 351,
NRS. The registered Bonds shall be signed and executed in the corporate name of
the City with the manual or facsimile signature of the Mayor, countersigned
with the manual or facsimile signature of the City Treasurer, shall be attested
with a manual or facsimile signature of the City Clerk, shall be authenticated
by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the Registrar, and a manual
or facsimile of the seal of the City shall be affixed thereto. The Bonds
bearing the signatures of the officers in office at the time of the signing
thereof, shall be the valid and binding obligations of the City,
notwithstanding that before the delivery thereof and payment therefor, any or
all of the persons whose signatures appear thereon shall have ceased to fill
their respective offices. Any officer herein authorized or permitted to sign
the Bonds at the time of their execution and of the execution of a signature
certificate, may adopt as and for his or her own facsimile signature, the
facsimile signature of his or her predecessor in office in the event that such
facsimile signature appears upon the Bonds.
Section 19.   Incontestable Recital . Pursuant to NRS 350.628, the Bonds shall
contain a recital that they are issued pursuant to the Project Act and the Bond
Act, which recital shall be conclusive evidence of the validity of the Bonds
and the regularity of its issuance.
Section 20.   Registration Records Conclusive . As provided in Section 17, the
records maintained by the Registrar shall be conclusive evidence of the amounts
and dates of any principal prepayments.
Section 21.   Form of Single Bond . Subject to the provisions of this
Ordinance, the Bonds shall be in substantially the following form, with such
omissions, insertions, endorsements and variations as to any recitals of fact
or other provisions as may be required by the circumstances, be required by
this Ordinance, or be consistent with this Ordinance and necessary or
appropriate to conform to the rules and requirements of any governmental
authority or any usage or requirement of law with respect thereto:
(Form of Bond)
CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA
WASTEWATER REVENUE BOND, SERIES 2023[A][B]
NO. 1   Principal Amount: $____
Dated: ___________, 2023   Interest Rate: ___% per annum
Maturity Date: ____________, 20__
The City of Yerington, Nevada (the “City”), solely from the special funds
provided therefor, hereby acknowledges itself obligated, and for value
received, hereby promises to pay to the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (the “United
States”), the principal amount above stated together with interest on the
unpaid balance at the rate of ___% per annum (the “Interest Rate”).
Interest payments and amortized principal payments shall be made by the City on
the first day of each month commencing on the first day of the month following
the date of delivery of this bond (the “Bond”) and monthly thereafter on the
first day of each month until the maturity date or prepayment. Interest shall
be calculated based on a 365-day year.
If any installment is not paid when due, then in addition to installments
thereafter becoming due, the City shall pay interest on the unpaid balance of
the total principal amount from the due date of the delinquent installment to
the date of payment of the delinquent installment, provided, that interest
accruing by reason of any such delinquency shall not include any interest
applicable to such delinquency period in any installments subsequently paid and
shall in no event cause the total interest payable on this Bond to exceed the
Interest Rate set forth above on the unpaid balance of the total principal
amount. Except as otherwise provided herein, every payment on this Bond shall
be applied first to interest due through the next installment due date and then
the balance to principal.
The installments of principal and interest are payable in lawful money of the
United States of America, without deduction for exchange or collection charges,
during the period the United States of America is the registered owner of this
single Bond, at the appropriate United States Department of Agriculture, Rural
Development office, currently designated as 2730 N. Deer Run Road, Suite 1,
Carson City, Nevada 89701, or at such other place as the United States may
designate in writing, and are so payable during any period the United States is
not the registered owner hereof at the address shown on the registration
records of the Registrar. The final installment of principal due on this Bond
is payable only upon the surrender of this Bond to the City Treasurer, as
paying agent for this Bond.
All installments of principal are subject to prepayment at the option of the
City prior to their stated due dates and, in inverse order of maturity, by the
payment of such principal amount and accrued interest to the prepayment date.
Prepayments shall be made on the date, at the place and in the manner provided
herein for making regularly scheduled installment payments and partial
prepayments shall be in the amount of that portion of one or more of the final
installments allocable to principal. No partial prepayment shall extend or
postpone the due date of any subsequent installment. Any prepayment shall be in
the amount of principal being prepaid, together with accrued interest thereon
to the date of prepayment, and shall be made without penalty or additional
interest or charges. Prepayment shall be made upon prior notice as provided in
the 2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Ordinance authorizing this Bond and adopted on
________________, 2023 (the “Ordinance”). The Registrar shall maintain records
showing the amounts and the dates of any principal prepayment and such records
shall be conclusive evidence of the amounts and dates of any principal
prepayment.
This single Bond is duly authorized to defray in part the cost to acquire,
improve, equip, operate and maintain, within the City, a wastewater project as
defined in NRS 268.714 (the “Wastewater Project”), under the authority of and
in full conformity with the constitution and laws of the State of Nevada, and
in particular the Bond Act (hereinafter defined) and the provisions of NRS
268.672 through 268.740, inclusive (the “Project Act”) and pursuant to the
Ordinance.
This bond does not constitute a debt or indebtedness of the City within the
meaning of any constitutional or statutory limitation and shall not be
considered or held to be a general obligation of the City. The City does not
pledge its full faith and credit for the payment of this Bond. Pursuant to the
Project Act, as supplemented by Sections 350.500 through 350.720, Nevada
Revised Statutes, and all laws amendatory thereof (the “Bond Act”), and all
laws thereunto enabling, this Bond is a special obligation of the City payable
and collectible solely out of and secured by an irrevocable pledge of certain
net income derived from the operation of the City's municipal Wastewater system
(the “System”). The owner hereof may not look to any general or other fund for
the payment of the principal of or interest on this Bond except the special
funds pledged therefor. This Bond is issued pursuant to the Project Act and to
the Bond Act. Pursuant to Section 350.628 of the Bond Act, this recital is
conclusive evidence of the validity of this Bond and the regularity of its
issuance.
Payment of this Bond and interest thereon shall be made solely from, and as
security for such payment there are pledged, pursuant to the Ordinance, two
special funds identified as the “2023 Wastewater Utility Bond Account,” and the
“2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Reserve Account,” into which the City covenants
to pay from the revenues of the System, after provision only for all necessary
and reasonable operation and maintenance expenses, sums sufficient to pay the
principal and the interest of this Bond and to create and maintain a reasonable
and specified reserve. For a description of said funds and the nature and
extent of the security afforded thereby, reference is made to the Ordinance.
This Bond is secured by and constitutes an irrevocable and prior lien (but not
necessarily an exclusive lien) upon the net revenues of the System on a parity
with the lien thereon securing any Parity Securities (as defined in the
Ordinance) issued in the future. Subject to designated conditions, additional
bonds may be issued payable from the net revenues and having a lien thereon
inferior and junior to the lien, or subject to additional conditions having a
lien thereon on a parity with the lien of this Bond, in accordance with the
Ordinance.
The City covenants and agrees with the owner hereof that it will keep and
perform all the covenants of the Ordinance, including its covenant against the
sale or mortgage of the System or any part thereof unless provision has been
made for the payment of this Bond and its covenant that it will fix, maintain
and collect rates sufficient to pay operating and maintenance expenses and 100%
of both the principal of and the interest on this Bond and any other
obligations payable annually from the net revenues of the System (including
reserves).
 
This Bond shall be registered for payment in the name of the registered owner
hereof only as to both principal and interest in the records of the Registrar
and in the registration panel appended to this single Bond. This Bond is
transferable by the registered owner hereof, in person or by his attorney duly
authorized in writing, at the office of the Registrar. No transfer of this Bond
shall be valid until it has been duly entered in such records and duly noted on
the registration panel appended to this Bond.
 
It is further certified, recited, and warranted that all the requirements of
law have been fully complied with by the proper City officers in the issuance
of this Bond.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or the interest on
this Bond or for any claim based thereon or otherwise upon the Ordinance or
other instrument pertaining thereto, against any individual member of the City
Council or any officer or other agent of the City, past, present or future,
either directly or indirectly through the City Council or otherwise, whether by
virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of
any penalty or otherwise, all such liability, if any, being by the acceptance
of this single Bond and as a part of the consideration of its issuance
specially waived and released.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City of Yerington, in the State of Nevada, acting by
and through the City Council of the City, has caused this Bond to be signed and
executed in its name and on its behalf with the manual or facsimile signature
of Mayor of the City, countersigned by the manual or facsimile signature of the
City Treasurer, attested by the manual or facsimile signature of the City Clerk
with the manual or facsimile seal of the City affixed hereto, all as of the
date of the delivery hereof.
CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA
      
   Mayor
(SEAL)
Attest:   Countersigned:
         
City Clerk   City Treasurer
(End of Form of Bond)
Exhibit A
(Attach Amortization Schedule)
 
(Form of Prepayment Panel)
The following installments of principal (or portions thereof) of this Bond has
been prepaid by the City of Yerington, Nevada, in accordance with the terms of
the Ordinance authorizing the issuance of this Bond:
 
Date of Payment Amount Prepaid Signature of
                               Registered Owner
                $
 
(End of Form of Prepayment Panel)
(Form of Registration Panel Appended to Bond)
MANDATORY REGISTRATION FOR PAYMENT AS TO PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST
The within Bond is registered in the office of the City Treasurer, as
Registrar, in the name of the last owner listed below; and the principal amount
of the Bonds and interest thereon shall be payable only to such owner, all in
accordance with the 2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Ordinance authorizing the
issuance of the Bonds.
 
Date of            Name of          Address of              Signature of
Registration       Owner            Owner                   Registrar
                                    USDA, Rural Development
____________, 2023 United States of 2730 N. Deer Run Road,
                   America          Suite 1, Carson City,
                                    Nevada 89701
 
(End of Form of Registration Panel Appended to Bond)
(Form of Provision for Assignment)
For value received, the undersigned hereby assigns and transfers unto
__________________ the attached Bond, together with accrued interest thereon,
and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint _______________________
attorney in fact to transfer said Bond on the registration records of City of
Yerington, Nevada, at the office of the City Treasurer, a Registrar with full
power of substitution in the premises.
Dated __________ ___, 20___
   
 
In the presence of:
Signature Guaranteed
By
 
NOTICE: The Signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as it
appears upon the Registration Panel of the within Bond in every particular,
without any alteration whatsoever.
Name of Transferee:    
Address of Transferee:    
Taxpayer Identification number or
Social Security Number(s):    
(End of Form of Assignment Panel Appended to Bond)
Section 22.   Period of Facilities’ Usefulness . The Wastewater Project will be
useful for at least 40 years from the date of delivery of the Bonds.
Section 23.   Bond Preparation; Execution and Delivery . The Mayor, the City
Manager, the City Clerk, and the City Treasurer are directed to prepare and
execute the Bonds. Thereafter, the City Treasurer shall deliver them to RD on
behalf of the United States of America as purchaser on receipt of the agreed
purchase price.
Section 24.   Disposition of Proceeds of the Bonds.
A.   Refunding of 2020 Debentures. Proceeds of the Bonds in an amount
sufficient to effect the refunding and defeasance of the 2020 Debentures shall
be immediately used by the City to effect the Refunding Project.
B.   Purchaser not Responsible. The Purchaser or any Registered Owner of the
Bonds shall not be responsible for the application or disposal of proceeds of
the Bonds.
Section 25.   Fiscal Year . For the purpose of this Ordinance the City shall be
operated upon a fiscal year commencing July 1 in each year and ending on
June 30 of the next succeeding year.
Section 26.   Income Fund . There has been previously created and is hereby
continued a fund known as the “City of Yerington Wastewater Utility Revenue
Fund,” herein sometimes designated as the “Income Fund.” So long as the Bonds
shall be outstanding all income and revenues derived from the operation of the
System shall be deposited into the Income Fund.
Section 27.   Administration of Income Fund . The following payments shall be
made from the Income Fund:
A.   Operation and Maintenance Expenses. First, there shall be set aside each
month such reasonable percentage of the Income Fund as the City Council shall
determine to be reasonable and necessary for the proper operation and
maintenance of the System. Any surplus remaining at the end of the Fiscal Year
and not used for Operation and Maintenance Expenses shall be transferred back
to the Income Fund.
B.   Bond Account Payments. Second, from any moneys remaining in the Income
Fund there shall be deposited into a separate account hereby created to be
known as the “2023 Wastewater Utility Bond Account” (herein “Bond Account”)
monthly, commencing on or before the day preceding each payment date, an amount
sufficient, together with any available moneys therein, to pay the next
maturing installment of principal and interest on the outstanding Bonds until
the maturity or prior redemption of the Bonds.
C.   Reserve Account Payments. There shall be deposited annually into a
separate account hereby created to be known as the “2023 Wastewater Revenue
Bond Reserve Account” (herein “Reserve Account”), commencing on or before the
date which is twelve full months from the date of delivery of the Bonds, an
amount equal to at least one-tenth (1/10) of the average annual loan
installment, and annually thereafter an amount each year of at least one-tenth
(1/10) of the average annual loan installment until an amount equal to the
average annual loan installment on the Bonds (the “Minimum Reserve”) has been
accumulated. After the Minimum Reserve has been accumulated, an amount shall be
deposited annually from the Income Fund into the Reserve Account sufficient to
maintain said Reserve Account in an amount not less than the Minimum Reserve.
The moneys in the Reserve Account shall be maintained as a continuing reserve
to be used only for the following:
(1)   Securities Requirements. To pay principal and interest on the Bonds, if
necessary to prevent a default;
(2)   Emergency Maintenance Costs. To pay the costs of extraordinary and major
repairs, renewal, replacements, or maintenance items appertaining to such
System of a type not recurring annually and not defrayed as operation and
maintenance expenses;
(3)   Capital Costs. To pay the cost of extending the System; and
(4)   Replacement Costs. To pay the costs of replacing short-lived assets of
the System which have useful lives significantly less than the term of the
Bonds.
D.   Termination of Deposits. Payment need not be made into the Bond Account or
the Reserve Account if the total amount in both funds at least equals the
principal and interest requirements of the then outstanding Bonds to maturity.
In that case such an amount equal to such principal and interest requirements
shall be set aside for that purpose and all other moneys may be used in any
lawful manner.
E.   Defraying Delinquencies in Bond Account and in Reserve Account. If, for
any reason, the City shall fail to pay into the Bond Account the full
stipulated amount from Net Revenues, then the difference between that paid and
the amount stipulated shall be paid into the Bond Account from the Reserve
Account. Money so used shall be replaced in the Reserve Account from the first
revenues thereafter received not required to be otherwise applied by this
section. If the proceedings authorizing other parity lien obligations require
the replacement of moneys in a reserve fund, then money shall be replaced in
each such reserve fund on a pro rata basis. If, for any reason, the City shall
fail to pay into the Reserve Account the full stipulated amount, the difference
between the amount paid and the amount stipulated shall in like manner be paid
therein from the first revenues thereafter received not required to be
otherwise applied by this section. The moneys in the Bond Account shall be used
only for the purpose of paying Bond principal and interest. Any moneys in the
Reserve Account in excess of the Minimum Reserve (including any investment
income) may be withdrawn and used in the same manner as Net Revenues.
F.   Payment for Additional Obligations. After making the above payments, any
balance in the Income Fund may be used for the payment of principal and
interest on additional bonds including reasonable reserves therefor. The lien
of additional bonds on Net Revenues shall be on a parity with, or subordinate
to, the lien and pledge of the Bonds. Any payments with respect to additional
parity bonds shall be made concurrently with those required by this section.
G.   Use of Surplus Revenues. After making the above payments, the remaining
Net Revenues, if any, may be applied to any other lawful purpose or purposes
authorized by the Constitution and Laws of the State as the City Council may
direct.
Section 28.   General Administration of Funds . The funds and accounts
reference herein shall be administered as follows:
A.   Places and Times of Deposits. The above accounts and funds shall be
separately maintained and deposited in one or more bank accounts in an Insured
Bank or Banks. Each account shall be continuously secured to the extent
required by law and shall be irrevocable and not withdrawable by anyone for any
other purpose. Amounts in the account exceeding the applicable federal deposit
insurance coverage shall be secured by the Insured Bank in advance in
accordance with U.S. Treasury rules and regulations governing the deposit of
government moneys. Payments shall be made into the proper account on the
payment date when due except that when the payment date shall be a Sunday or
legal holiday, the payment shall be made on the preceding calendar day which is
not also a Sunday or legal holiday. At least one day prior to any principal
then due, moneys sufficient to pay interest and principal due on such payment
date shall be credited at the Paying Agent. Nothing in this Ordinance shall
prevent the City Council from establishing one bank account for any of the
funds and accounts required by this Ordinance.
B.   Investment of Money. Any moneys in any fund or account designated in
Sections 24, 26 and 27 of this Ordinance may be invested or reinvested by the
City in such obligations as may be permitted by the Constitution and laws of
the State of Nevada, and applicable federal statutes and regulations.
Section 29.   Parity Lien Bonds . The Bonds constitute an irrevocable lien (but
not necessarily an exclusive lien) upon the Pledged Revenues on a parity with
any other Parity Securities heretofore or hereafter issued.
Section 30.   Additional Securities.
A.   Earnings Test. This Ordinance shall not prevent the issuance of additional
Parity Securities payable from and constituting a lien upon the Pledged
Revenues on a parity with the lien of the Bonds. Before any such additional
Parity Securities are actually issued (and upon receiving the prior written
consent of RD on behalf of the United States of America for so long as the
United States of America is the Registered Owner of the Bonds) it must be
determined that:
(1)   The City is not, and has not been in default as to any payments required
to be made in Section 27 during the Fiscal Year immediately preceding the
issuance of such additional Parity Securities, or if the Bonds has not been
outstanding for a full Fiscal Year, then for the longest period of time the
Bonds has been outstanding; and
(2)   The annual Revenues for the Fiscal Year immediately preceding the
effective date of the ordinance authorizing the issuance of any such Parity
Securities shall have been sufficient to pay an amount representing 120% of the
average annual principal and interest requirements on all bonds then
outstanding and constituting a lien upon Revenues and the Parity Securities
proposed to be issued (excluding reserves). As used in this section “average
annual principal and interest requirements” shall be the total principal and
interest coming due on the then outstanding Parity Securities and the proposed
Parity Securities during the period extending from the date of the proposed
Parity Securities to the final principal payment date of the then outstanding
Parity Securities or the proposed Parity Securities, whichever is longer,
divided by the number of years (including any fraction thereof) computed from
the date of the proposed Parity Securities to the last principal payment date
of the then outstanding Parity Securities, or the proposed Parity Securities,
whichever is longer.
B.   Certification or Opinion of Revenues. A written certificate or opinion by
the City Treasurer or an Independent Accountant that the earnings test set
forth in Section 30.A above has been met shall conclusively determine the right
of the City to issue additional parity bonds. The City Treasurer or an
Independent Accountant may utilize the results of any annual audit to the
extent it covers the applicable period and may conclusively rely on a
Consulting Engineer's Certificate for the amount of any adjustment required
under Paragraph C of this Section. In the event that an annual audit covering
the applicable period is unavailable, the City Treasurer may utilize unaudited
information covering the applicable period in making such written
certification.
C.   Consideration of Additional Expenses. In determining whether additional
parity bonds may be issued, the City Treasurer or the Independent Accountant
shall consider any probable increase (but not reduction) in Operation and
Maintenance Expenses. A written certificate by a Consulting Engineer as to the
amount of such probable increase may be conclusively relied on by the City and
the City Treasurer or the Independent Accountant in determining the right of
the City to issue additional parity bonds.
D.   Subordinate Obligations Permitted. The City may issue bonds or other
obligations (upon receiving the prior written consent of RD on behalf of the
United States of America for so long as the United States of America is the
Registered Owner of either of the Bonds) having a lien on Revenues subordinate
to the lien thereon of the Bonds.
E.   Superior Obligations Permitted. The City shall not issue any bond or other
obligation having a lien on Revenues prior and superior to the lien thereon of
the Bonds unless the City has received the prior written consent of the United
States of America.
F.   Waiver of Earnings Test. The foregoing earnings test described in
Section 30.A may be waived or modified by the written consent of Bondholders
representing seventy-five percent (75%) of the then outstanding principal
indebtedness on a parity with the proposed Parity Securities.
Section 31.   Defeasance . Pursuant to RD Instruction 1942-A, Section 1942.19
(h)(10)(iii), so long as the United States of America is the Registered Owner
of any of the Bonds, such Bond may not be defeased.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the United States of America is no longer the
Registered Owner of the Bonds, when the principal of and interest on any Bonds
(the “Bond Requirements”) has been duly paid, the pledge and lien and all
obligations hereunder shall thereby be discharged as to such Bonds and such
Bonds shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding within the meaning of this
Ordinance. There shall be deemed to be such due payment when the City has
placed in escrow or in trust with a trust bank located within or without the
State (the “Bank”), an amount sufficient (including the known minimum yield
available for such purpose from Federal Securities in which such amount wholly
or in part may be initially invested) to meet all Bond Requirements of such the
Bonds, as the same become due to the final maturity of the Bonds or upon any
redemption date as of which the City shall have exercised or shall have
obligated itself to exercise its prior redemption option by a call of the Bonds
for payment. The Federal Securities shall become due before the respective
times on which the proceeds thereof shall be needed, in accordance with a
schedule established and agreed upon between the City and the Bank at the time
of the creation of the escrow or trust, or the Federal Securities shall be
subject to redemption at the option of the owners thereof to assure
availability as so needed to meet the schedule. For the purpose of this
section, the term “Federal Securities” shall be as defined in NRS 350.522, and
shall include only Federal Securities which are not callable for redemption
prior to their maturities except at the option of the holder thereof.
Section 32.   Protective Covenants . The City covenants and agrees with each
and every Holder that:
A.   Use of Proceeds of the Bonds. The Refunding Project shall be completed
without delay.
B.   Payment of Bonds Herein Authorized. The City will make the principal and
interest payments of the Bonds at the place, on the dates, and in the manner
specified according to the true intent and meaning thereof.
C.   Use Charges. Rates for services rendered by the System shall be reasonable
and just, taking into account the cost and value of the System, Operation and
Maintenance Expenses, possible delinquencies, proper allowances for
depreciation, contingencies, and the amounts necessary to retire all bonds
payable from Net Revenues, and the reserves therefor. There shall be charged
against all users, including the State of Nevada and its subdivisions, rates
and amounts sufficient to produce revenues to pay the annual Operation and
Maintenance Expenses, and 100% of both the principal of and interest on all
bonds and other obligations payable from Net Revenues, including reserves.
Except as otherwise provided by law, no free service shall be furnished by the
System. Any use of the System by the City will be paid for from the City's
general fund at the reasonable value of the use so made. Income so derived from
the City shall be treated in the same manner as any other System income.
D.   Levy of Charges. Prior to the delivery of the Bonds, the City will
establish, levy and maintain the rates and charges which are required to meet
the provisions of paragraph C of this Section 32. No reduction in any initial
Wastewater rate schedule may be made unless:
(1)   The City has complied with Section 27 for at least two Fiscal Years
immediately preceding such reduction.
(2)   The audits for the full two Fiscal Years immediately preceding such
reduction disclose that the estimated revenues resulting from the proposed rate
schedule will be sufficient to meet the requirements of paragraph C of this
section.
(3)   If the United States then owns the Bonds, the State Director of the RD
(or equivalent RD officer) approves in writing the proposed reduction, provided
that the United States, acting by and through RD, shall have first been
furnished with a written request signed by the Treasurer requesting and
justifying such reduction. This Section 32.D(3) applies only if the United
States owns the Bonds on the date of the reduction.
E.   Efficient Operation. The City shall make such improvements and repairs to
the System as may be necessary to insure its economical and efficient operation
and its ability to meet demands for service.
F.   Records. Separate records will be kept showing complete and correct
entries of all transactions relating to the System. Such records shall include
monthly entries showing:
(1)   The number of System customers;
(2)   The revenues received;
(3)   A detailed statement of expenses; and
(4)   Such other items specified by any form furnished by the United States.
Before each Fiscal Year the City Council will cause an operating budget to be
prepared.
G.   Right to Inspect. Any Registered Owner, or their duly authorized agents,
shall have the right at all reasonable times to inspect the System, and all
records, accounts and data relating thereto.
H.   Audits and Budgets. As long as the United States of America is the
Registered Owner of any Bonds, the City agrees that it will, within 9 months
following the close of each Fiscal Year, furnish an audit made by an
Independent Accountant to RD (at the State Office of RD). Each such audit, in
addition to matters thought proper by the accountant, shall include:
(1)   A statement for the Fiscal Year just closed, of the income and
expenditures of the City, including Revenues, the amount of any capital
expenditures and profit or loss;
(2)   A balance sheet as of the end of such Fiscal Year, including all funds
and accounts created by proceedings authorizing bonds payable from Net
Revenues;
(3)   The accountant’s comment regarding the City’s methods of operation and
accounting practices;
(4)   A list of the insurance policies in force, setting out the amount of each
policy, the risks covered, the name of the insurer, and the expiration date;
(5)   A recapitulation of each fund or account created by the various
proceedings showing deposits and withdrawals for said Fiscal Year.
After the beginning of each new Fiscal Year, the City shall furnish an
operating budget showing the planned budget for the ensuing year and a copy of
the minutes of the meeting of the City Council at which such budget was
approved. Along with the operating budget, the City shall provide a letter
showing the name, address and term of office for each member of the City
Council, the number of residential users and the number of commercial users of
the System as of the end of the Fiscal Year. The City will furnish the
designated United States representative with quarterly statements of income and
expense on forms furnished by the United States. The City will furnish a copy
of each audit, budget, quarterly statement and written instrument to the United
States.
I.   Billing Procedure and Discontinuance of Service. All bills shall be sent
out on a regularly established manner each month in advance or after service is
rendered. Bills shall be due within an established number of days from the bill
date. Bills for wastewater use and wastewater service may be sent out in
combination with bills for another utility (e.g., sanitary sewer bills or
refuse collection bills) as long as such amounts are separately stated. If
bills are not paid 30 days after such due date they shall be collected in any
lawful manner.
J.   Use of Bond Account and Reserve Account. The Bond Account and the Reserve
Account shall be used solely and only, and said funds are hereby pledged, for
the purposes set forth above for the payment of the principal of and interest
on the Bonds on a pro rata basis.
K.   Charges and Liens upon System. The City will pay all taxes and
governmental charges lawfully levied in respect of the System when due. The
City will comply with all valid requirements of any governmental authority
relative to the System. It shall not create or permit to be created any lien or
charge upon the System or the Pledged Revenue except as permitted herein. The
City will satisfy all claims and demands within 60 days after the same shall
accrue which might by law become a lien upon the System or upon the Pledged
Revenue unless the validity thereof is being contested in good faith by
appropriate legal proceedings.
L.   Construction Contract and Bond. The City will require each person, firm or
corporation with whom it may contract for labor or materials to furnish a
performance and payment bond in the full amount of any contract. Any such
contract will meet the reasonable requirements of the United States which are
not inconsistent with State law.
M.   Insurance. Fire and extended coverage insurance will be obtained and
maintained on the facilities above ground, including City-owned contents,
equipment and machinery. The proceeds of such insurance shall be used to
restore the property lost or damaged and any remainder (or if such lost or
damaged property is no longer required for the System the entire proceeds) will
be distributed as Net Revenues. The City will carry workmen's compensation
insurance on all full-time employees and will maintain public liability
insurance (including liability and property damage insurance on City-owned or
operated vehicles) if authorized by State law as interpreted by the legal
counsel for the City.
N.   Competing System or Works. The City shall not grant any franchise or
license to a competing System, or permit any person or organization to sell
Wastewater or Wastewater service within the City, but this covenant shall not
require the City to take any action which, in the opinion of the City's legal
counsel, may violate antitrust laws.
O.   Alienating System. The City will not sell, lease, mortgage, pledge, or
otherwise alienate the System, or any part thereof, except any portion which
shall have been replaced by other property of at least equal value or which
shall cease to be necessary for the efficient operation of the System. In the
event of any sale as aforesaid, the proceeds of such sale shall be distributed
as Net Revenues.
P.   Extension of Interest Payments. The City will not extend or be a party to
the extension of the time for paying any claim for interest. Any installment of
interest so extended shall not be entitled in case of default hereunder to the
benefit or security of this Ordinance except subject to the prior payment in
full of the principal of all bonds and interest which has not been extended.
Q.   Management of the System. If an “event of default” shall occur or if the
Net Revenues in any Fiscal Year fail to equal principal, interest and reserves
for all bonds payable from Net Revenues, the City shall retain a Consulting
Engineer to assist in the management of the System so long as such default
continues or the Net Revenues are less than the amount designated.
R.   Fidelity Bonds. The persons, being responsible for receiving income and
maintaining the accounts of the City, shall be bonded in a blanket position
fidelity bond in a penal sum at least equal to the maximum amount on hand at
any one time (exclusive of proceeds of the Bonds), which fidelity bond may be
provided on Form RD 440-24 “Position Fidelity Schedule Bond” or other
equivalent United States forms and shall designate the United States of America
as a co-obligee.
S.   The City’s Existence.
(1)   The City will maintain its “corporate” identity and existence so long as
any principal of the Bonds remains outstanding (and the United States of
America is a Registered Owner of any of such Bonds), unless another political
subdivision by operation of law succeeds to the liabilities and rights of the
City without adversely affecting to any substantial degree the privileges and
rights of any Registered Owner.
(2)   The City agrees to give written notice to the RD County or State Office,
if the United States of America is a Registered Owner of any principal of the
Bonds, at least 30 days prior to any contemplated merger, consolidation or
dissolution of the City.
T.   Tax Covenants. The City covenants for the benefit of the owner of the
Bonds that it will not take any action or omit to take any action with respect
to the Bonds, the proceeds thereof, any other funds of the City or any
facilities financed with the proceeds of the Bonds if such action or omission
(i) would cause the interest on the Bonds to lose its exclusion from gross
income for federal income tax purposes under Section 103 of the Tax Code,
(ii) would cause interest on the Bonds to lose its exclusion from alternative
minimum taxable income as defined in Section 55(b)(2) of the Tax Code except to
the extent such interest is required to be included in the adjusted current
earnings adjustment applicable to corporations under Section 56 of the Tax Code
in calculating corporate alternative minimum taxable income. The foregoing
covenant shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the payment in
full or defeasance of the Bonds until the date on which all obligations of the
City in fulfilling the above covenant under the Tax Code have been met.
Section 33.   Events of Default . It is an “event of default” if:
A.   Nonpayment of Principal. Payment of any principal of the Bonds is not made
when due or upon prior redemption.
B.   Nonpayment of Interest. Payment of interest is not made when due.
C.   Incapable to Perform. The City is not capable of fulfilling its
obligations hereunder.
D.   Default of Any Provision. The City defaults in the punctual performance of
its covenants hereunder for 60 days after written notice shall have been given
by the Owners of 25% of the outstanding principal of the Bonds.
Section 34.   Remedies on Default . Upon the happening of any event of default,
the Registered Owners or Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of
the outstanding Bond, or a trustee therefor, may protect and enforce these
rights of any Bondholder or Owner by proper legal or equitable remedy deemed
most effectual including mandamus, specific performance of any covenant, the
appointment of a receiver (the consent to such appointment being hereby
granted), injunctive relief, or requiring the governing body of the City to act
as if it were the trustee of an expressed trust, or any combination of such
remedies. All proceedings shall be maintained for the equal benefit of all
Owners and Holders. Any receiver appointed to protect the rights of Bondholders
may take possession and operate and maintain the System in the same manner as
the City itself might do. The failure of any Registered Owner or Holder to
proceed does not relieve the City or any person of any liability for failure to
perform any duty hereunder. The foregoing rights are in addition to any other
right and the exercise of any right by any Bondholder or Owner shall not be
deemed a waiver of any other right.
Section 35.   Duties upon Default . Upon the happening of any event of default,
the City will perform all proper acts to protect and preserve the security
created for the prompt payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
The Owners or Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the
outstanding Bonds after written demand, may proceed to protect and enforce the
rights provided by this section.
Section 36.   Prior Charge Upon Lower Rates. If any commission or authority
lawfully prescribes a lower schedule of rates than that contemplated by this
Ordinance, then the payment of principal and interest on the Bonds, and any
parity bonds, shall constitute a first and prior charge on revenues.
Section 37.   Refinancing . If it shall appear to RD, during the time the
United States of America owns any of the Bonds, that the City can refinance the
amount of the Bonds then outstanding, in whole or in part, by obtaining a loan
for such purposes from responsible cooperative or private credit sources, at
reasonable rates and terms for loans for similar purposes and periods of time,
the City agrees (upon the request of RD), within the limitations of its then
existing powers, (and subject to any contractual limitations contained herein
concerning the payment of the Bonds and their redemption), to apply for and to
accept such loan, with conditions acceptable to the City, in sufficient amount
to repay the United States of America and agrees to take such action as may be
required in connection with such loan. Any such refinancing shall be
accomplished according to applicable statutes of the State.
Section 38.   Discharge of the Bonds . When the Bonds has been paid, the pledge
and lien and all obligations hereunder shall be discharged and the Bonds shall
no longer be deemed to be outstanding.
Section 39.   Amendment of Ordinance . This Ordinance may be amended, without
receipt by the City of any additional consideration, but with the written
consent of the Owners of seventy-five percent (75%) of the principal of the
Bonds then outstanding (not including any portion of the Bonds which may be
held for the account of the City); but no Ordinance adopted without the written
consent of the Owners of all of the outstanding Bonds shall have the effect of
permitting:
(1)   An extension of any installment payment of the Bonds; or
(2)   A reduction in the principal amount or interest rate of the Bonds; or
(3)   The creation of a lien upon revenue ranking prior to the lien or pledge
created by this Ordinance; or
(4)   A reduction of the principal amount of the Bonds required for consent to
such amendatory Ordinance; or
(5)   The modification of or otherwise affecting the rights of the Holders of
less than all of the outstanding Bonds.
Section 40.   Delegated Powers . The officers of the City be, and they hereby
are, authorized and directed to take all action necessary or appropriate to
effectuate the provisions of this Ordinance, including, without limitation, the
execution of such certificates, agreements and forms as may be reasonably
required by the United States of America or RD, relating, inter alia, to the
signing of the Bonds, the tenure and identity of the officials of the City
Council and of the City, the delivery of the Bonds and the receipt of the
purchase price of the Bonds, and, if it is in accordance with fact, the absence
of litigation, pending or threatened, affecting the validity thereof, and the
absence and existence of factors affecting the exemption of interest on the
Bonds from federal income taxation, the assembly and dissemination of financial
and other information concerning the City, the Bonds, and the sale and issuance
of the Bonds pursuant to the provisions of this Ordinance and to any instrument
supplemental thereto.
Section 41.   Prior Contracts . If any provision herein is inconsistent with
any provision in any existing contract pertaining to the City so as to affect
prejudicially and materially the rights and privileges thereunder, so long as
such contract shall remain viable and in effect such provision therein shall
control such inconsistent provision herein and the latter provision shall be
subject and subordinate to such provision in such existing contract.
Section 42.   Police Power . Nothing in this Ordinance prohibits or otherwise
limits or inhibits the reasonable exercise in the future by the State and its
governmental bodies of the police powers and powers of taxation inherent in the
sovereignty of the State or the exercise by the United States of the powers
delegated to it by the Federal Constitution. The City cannot contract away such
powers nor limit or inhibit by contract the proper exercise thereof, and this
Ordinance does not purport to do so.
Section 43.   Ordinance Irrepealable . After the Bonds is issued, this
Ordinance shall constitute an irrevocable contract between the City and the
owner of the Bonds and this Ordinance, if the Bonds is in fact issued, shall be
and shall remain irrepealable until the Bonds, as to all Bond Requirements,
shall be fully paid, canceled and discharged as herein provided.
Section 44.   Implied Repealer . All ordinances, resolutions, bylaws and
orders, or parts thereof, inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed to the
extent only of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed to
revive any ordinance, resolution, bylaw or order, or part hereof, heretofore
repealed.
Section 45.   Publication and Effective Date . The Council has expressed in the
preambles to this Ordinance that it pertains to the sale, issuance, or payment
of the Debentures, and that, as permitted under Section 7.030(3) of the City
Charter, this instrument may accordingly be adopted in the same manner as is
provided for cases of emergency. This Ordinance shall become effective
immediately upon unanimous passage by the Council. Following the unanimous
passage of this Ordinance, the City shall publish this Ordinance by its title
only, together with a statement that typewritten copies of this Ordinance are
available for inspection by interested parties at the office of the City Clerk,
such publication to be made in a newspaper or newspapers published in Lyon
County and which is of general circulation in the City and such publication to
be in substantially the following form:
(Form of Publication)
 
BILL NO. 427
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-02
AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING AND DIRECTING THE ISSUANCE OF THE CITY OF YERINGTON,
NEVADA, WASTEWATER REVENUE BOND, SERIES 2023A AND SERIES 2023B IN THE PRINCIPAL
AMOUNT OF $_______ TO REFINANCE A WASTEWATER PROJECT, AS DEFINED IN NRS
268.714; PROVIDING THE FORMS, TERMS, CONDITIONS AND SECURITY FOR THE BONDS AND
THE SALE TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA; PROVIDING FOR ADOPTION AS IF AN
EMERGENCY EXISTS; AND PROVIDING OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that typewritten copies of the above-numbered and
entitled ordinance are available for inspection by all interested parties at
the office of the City Clerk of City of Yerington, Nevada and that such
ordinance was proposed on _____, 2023, and was passed at the meeting held on
____, 2023 by the following vote of the Council:
Those Voting Aye:   
                  Councilman Jerry Bryant
Councilman Matt Galvin
Councilman Shane Martin
Councilman Frank Pizzo
 
Those Voting Nay:            None
 
Those Absent:               Mayor John J. Garry
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City Council of the City of Yerington, Nevada, has
caused this ordinance to be published by title only, which is deemed to be an
adequate summary of such Ordinance.
   DATED on this 11 th day of September, 2023.
   /s/      
   Mayor
   City of Yerington, Nevada
(SEAL)
 
 
   
Attest:
/s/      
City Clerk
City of Yerington, Nevada
(End of Form of Publication)
Section 46.   Ratification . All consistent action taken previously by the City
and the City officers directed toward the Refunding Project and toward the
issuance of its Bonds for such purposes is ratified, approved, and confirmed.
Section 47.   Severability . If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of
this Ordinance shall for any reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the
invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph, clause or provision
shall in no way affect any remaining provisions of this Ordinance.
Proposed on September 11, 20223.
Proposed by Council Member ______________.
Passed September 11, 2023 by the following vote of the Council:
Those Voting Aye:   
                  Councilman Jerry Bryant
Councilman Matt Galvin
Councilman Shane Martin
Councilman Frank Pizzo
 
Those Voting Nay:            None
 
Those Absent:               Mayor John J. Garry
 
 
      
   Mayor
   City of Yerington, Nevada
(SEAL)
Attest:
   
City Clerk
City of Yerington, Nevada
STATE OF NEVADA      )
)
LYON COUNTY      ) ss.
)
CITY OF YERINGTON      )
I am the duly chosen and qualified City Clerk of the City of Yerington, Nevada
(the “City”), Nevada, do hereby certify:
The foregoing pages constitute a true, correct, complete and compared copy of
the original 2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Ordinance (the “Ordinance”) adopted
by the City Council of the City (the “Council”) at a meeting held on
__________, 2023.
2.   The adoption of the Ordinance was duly moved and seconded and the
Ordinance was adopted by an affirmative vote of the members of Council as
follows:
Those Voting Aye:   
                  Councilman Jerry Bryant
Councilman Matt Galvin
Councilman Shane Martin
Councilman Frank Pizzo
 
Those Voting Nay:            None
 
Those Absent:               Mayor John J. Garry
 
3.   The original of the Ordinance has been approved and authenticated by the
signatures of the Mayor of the City and myself as City Clerk and has been
recorded in the regular official record of the Council kept for that purpose in
my office, which record has been duly signed by the officers and properly
sealed.
4.   Public notice of such meeting attached as Exhibit A was given and such
meeting was held and conducted in full compliance with the provisions of the
Nevada Open Meeting law as outlined in NRS Chapter 241. A copy of the notice of
public meeting and excerpt from the meeting minutes relating to the
resolutions, as posted prior to 9:00 a.m. at least 3 business days in advance
of the meeting on the City’s website and the State of Nevada’s official public
notice website are attached as Exhibit B.
5.    Upon request, the Council provides at no charge, at least one copy of the
agenda for its public meetings, any proposed ordinance or regulation which will
be discussed at the public meeting, and any other supporting materials provided
to the Council for an item on the agenda, except for certain confidential
materials and materials pertaining to closed meetings, as provided by law.
6.   A copy of such notice so given of the meeting of the Council on September
11, 2023 is attached to this certificate as Exhibit “A.” A copy of the
affidavit of publication of the Ordinance by title is attached to this
certificate as Exhibit “B.”
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand on this 11th day of September
2023.
 
 
(SEAL)               _______________________________________
City Clerk
 
 
EXHIBIT A
(Attach Notice of Meeting)
EXHIBIT B
(Attach Affidavit of Publication by Title)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BILL NO. 428
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-03
AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING AND DIRECTING THE ISSUANCE OF THE CITY OF YERINGTON,
NEVADA, WATER REVENUE BOND, SERIES 2023A IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF $9,901,000
AND THE CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA, WATER REVENUE BOND SERIES 2023B IN THE
PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF $7,352,000 TO REFINANCE A WATER PROJECT, AS DEFINED IN NRS
268.728; PROVIDING THE FORMS, TERMS, CONDITIONS AND SECURITY FOR THE BONDS AND
THE SALE TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA; PROVIDING FOR ADOPTION AS IF AN
EMERGENCY EXISTS; AND PROVIDING OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
WHEREAS, the City of Yerington in the County of Lyon and State of Nevada (the
“City,” the “County,” and the “State,” respectively) is a political subdivision
of the State a body corporate and a city duly organized as a city under the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (“NRS”) Chapter 268, Chapter 465,
Statutes of Nevada, 1971, as amended (the “Charter”), and the general laws of
the State;
WHEREAS, the City owns and operates a municipal water system (the “System”);
WHEREAS, the City has received commitments from the United States Department of
Agriculture acting through the United States Department of Agriculture, Rural
Development (“USDA”) to provide loans in the aggregate amount $33,000,000 to
the City for purposes of providing long-term financing for a Water Project (as
defined in NRS 268.728) (the “Water Project”) pursuant to a Letter of
Conditions dated December 29, 2016, as amended (collectively, the “Letters of
Conditions”);
WHEREAS, the City has previously issued the “City of Yerington Interim
Debentures, Series 2020” (the “2020 Debentures”) in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $32,830,000;
WHEREAS, the 2020 Debentures are currently outstanding in the principal amount
of $_____________.
WHEREAS, the 2020 Debentures are secured in part by a lien on the Pledged
Revenues;
WHEREAS, the outstanding 2020 Debentures are subject to prior redemption at the
option of the City on any date at a redemption price equal to the principal
amount thereof plus accrued interest thereon to the redemption date;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of NRS Sections 350.500 through 350.720,
and all laws amendatory thereof, cited in Section 350.500 thereof by the short
title “Local Government Securities Law” (the “Bond Act”), the City is
authorized to issue bonds in order to refund, pay and discharge certain
outstanding bonds or other obligations of the City for the purpose of reducing
interest rates and effecting other economies;
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City (the “Council”) hereby determines that it
is in the best interests of the City and the inhabits thereof to issue its
“City of Yerington, Nevada Water Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2023A” and its
“City of Yerington, Nevada Water Revenue Refunding Bonds Series 2023B”
(collectively, the “Bonds”) to refund, pay and discharge the outstanding the
2020 Debentures and pay the costs associated with the issuance of the Bonds
(collectively, the “Refunding Project”);
WHEREAS, other than the 2020 Debentures, the City has not previously pledged
the Pledged Revenues derived and to be derived from the operation of the System
(as defined herein) for the repayment or redemption of any securities payable
from such revenues, or otherwise, with the result that such Pledged Revenues
may be pledged lawfully and irrevocably to secure the payment of the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds will be
secured by the Pledged Revenues; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Letters of Condition, RD has agreed to purchase the
Bonds herein authorized at a price of par and at an interest rate of ___% per
annum, (provided, however, that the City may elect to accept the RD rate
available at the date of issuance of the Bonds, if lower) (the “Interest
Rate”);
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and does hereby determine and declare
that the proposal for the purchase at private sale pursuant to NRS 350.616 of a
single Bond of each series of the Bonds by RD, for a price consisting of the
aggregate principal amount of the Bonds, at the Interest Rate, and otherwise
maturing, being secured and otherwise being issued as herein provided,
constitutes the best proposal for the Bonds and is to the best advantage of the
City;
WHEREAS, the effective Interest Rate on the Bonds herein authorized or such
lower elected rate, does not exceed by more than 3% the “Index of Revenue
Bonds” which was most recently published before a negotiated offer was accepted
for the Bonds;
WHEREAS, the City Council hereby elects to have the Chapter 348 of NRS (the
“Supplemental Bond Act”) apply to the Bonds;
WHEREAS, the City Council hereby determines that it is necessary and advisable
that the City incur a bonded indebtedness by issuing the Bonds pursuant to the
Charter, the Project Act, the Water Act, the Supplemental Bond Act, and the
Bond Act;
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and hereby declares that each of the
limitations and other conditions to the issuance of the Bonds in the Charter,
the Bond Act, the Project Act, the Supplemental Bond Act, and in any other
relevant act of the State or the federal government has been met, and pursuant
to NRS 350.708 of the Bond Act such determination of the City Council that the
limitations in the Bond Act have been met shall be conclusive in the absence of
fraud or arbitrary and gross abuse of discretion;
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and does hereby declare:
(A)   It is necessary and for the best interests of the City to effect the
Refunding Project and to issue the Bonds; and
(B)   Each of the limitations and other conditions to the issuance of the Bonds
in the Project Act, the Bond Act, the Supplemental Bond Act, and in any other
relevant act of the State or the Federal Government has been met; and pursuant
to NRS 350.708, this determination of the City Council that the limitations of
the Bond Act have been met shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud or
arbitrary or gross abuse of discretion; and
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and does hereby declare:
(A)   This Ordinance pertains to the sale, issuance and payment of the Bonds;
(B)   Such declaration shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud or gross
abuse of discretion in accordance with the provisions of Subsection 2 of NRS
350.579; and
(C)   This Ordinance may accordingly be adopted as if an emergency now exists
by an affirmative vote of all of the voting members of the City Council, and
this Ordinance may become effective at any time when an emergency ordinance of
the City may go into effect.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF CITY OF YERINGTON DOES ORDAIN:
Section 1.   Short Title . This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as
the “2023 Water Revenue Bond Ordinance” (herein the “Ordinance”).
Section 2.   Matter of Local Concern . The City Council has determined, and
does hereby determine, that the completion of the Refunding Project and the
pledge of the Pledged Revenues to the repayment of the Bonds is a “Matter of
local concern” as defined in NRS 268.003.
Section 3.   Definitions . The terms defined in this section, except where the
context requires otherwise, shall have the following meanings in this
Ordinance:
A.   “Bond Act” or “Act” means the Local Government Securities Law, cited as
NRS 350.500 through 350.720 and all laws amendatory thereof.
B.   “Bonds” means, collectively, the Series 2023A Bond and the Series 2023B
Bond.
C.   “Bond Account” means the “2023 Water Utility Revenue Bond Account” created
in Section 27.B of this Ordinance.
D.   “Bond Act” or “Act” means the Local Government Securities Law, cited as
NRS 350.500 through 350.720 and all laws amendatory thereof.
E.   “Consulting Engineer” or “Project Engineer” means any qualified registered
or licensed professional engineer practicing under the laws of the State of
Nevada.
F.   “Fiscal Year” means the twelve months commencing July 1 of any year and
ending June 30 of the next succeeding year.
G.   “Gross Income,” “gross revenues,” “income” or “revenues” means all income
and revenue derived by the City from any rates, fees, tolls, connection
charges, stand-by charges and charges for availability of water services
furnished by, or the use of, the municipal water system as the same may at any
time exist to serve customers within or outside the City limits, whether
resulting from improvements, extensions, or otherwise.
H.   “Holder,” “Owner” or “Registered Owner” means a person (including the
United States Department of Agriculture, Rural Development) in possession and
the apparent owner of the Bonds
I.   “Independent Accountant” means any certified public accountant practicing
under the laws of the State of Nevada who is independent and not an officer or
employee of the municipality.
J.   “Insured Bank” means a bank defined in NRS 350.512 and qualified to accept
public deposits under state law which is a member of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation.
K.   “Interest Rate” means the interest rate for the Bonds as described in the
preambles hereto.
L.   “Net Revenues” means the Gross Revenues less the Operation and Maintenance
Expenses.
M.   “NRS” means the Nevada Revised Statutes.
N.   “Operation and Maintenance Expenses” means all reasonable and necessary
current expenses of the City, paid or accrued, for operating, maintaining and
repairing the System, as defined in NRS 350.542 including legal and overhead
expenses of the City directly related to the administration of the System,
insurance premiums, audits, charges of depository banks and paying agents,
professional services, salaries and administrative expenses, labor, and the
cost of materials and supplies for current operation, but excluding any
allowance for depreciation, any costs of improvements to the System, any
accumulation of reserves for major capital replacements (other than normal
repairs) or for the operation, maintenance or repair of the System, any
allowance for the redemption of any securities of the City, or any other ground
of legal liability not based on contract, in accordance with NRS 350.544.
O.   “Parity Securities” means any additional bonds, securities or other
obligations issued hereafter with a lien on the Pledged Revenues on a parity
with the outstanding Bond.
P.   “Paying Agent” means the Treasurer of the City or any successor thereto as
paying agent for the Bonds appointed by the City Council.
Q.   “Pledged Revenues” means all or a portion of the Net Revenues. The
designated term indicates sources of revenues and does not necessarily indicate
all or any portion or other part of such revenues in the absence of further
qualification.
R.   “Project Act” means NRS 268.672 through 268.740, inclusive, and all laws
amendatory thereof.
S.   “Purchaser” means the United States of America, acting by and through RD.
T.   “RD” means “the United States Department of Agriculture, acting through
the Rural Utilities Service (Rural Development Mission Area), or successor
agency.
U.   “Registrar” means the City Treasurer or any successor thereto as registrar
for the Bonds appointed by the City Council.
V.   “Refunding Project” shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the
preambles hereof.
W.   “Reserve Account” means the “2023 Water Revenue Bond Reserve Account”
created in Section 27.C of this Ordinance.
X.   “Series 2023A Bond” means the City of Yerington, Nevada, Water Revenue
Bond, Series 2023A, issued in the stated principal amount of $9,901,000.
Y.   “Series 2023B Bond” means the City of Yerington, Nevada, Water Revenue
Bond, Series 2023B, issued in the stated principal amount of $7,352,000
Z.   “System” means all of the City's municipal water system, and its water
facilities and properties now owned or hereafter acquired, whether situated
within or without the City boundaries.
AA.   “Tax Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended to the
date of delivery of the Bonds.
BB.   “Water Act” means NRS 350.350 through 350.490, inclusive, and all laws
amendatory thereof.
CC.   “Water Project” shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the
preambles hereof.
Section 4.   Authority for This Ordinance . This Ordinance is adopted pursuant
to the Charter, the Project Act, the Water Act, and the Bond Act.
Section 5.   Life of the Water Project . The City Council has determined and
does hereby declare that the estimated life or estimated period of usefulness
of the Water Project is not less than 40 years from the date of issuance of the
Bonds; and the Bonds shall mature at such times not exceeding such estimated
life or estimated period of usefulness of the Water Project.
Section 6.   Acceptance of Purchase Proposal for the Bonds . The proposal
submitted by the United States, by and through RD, for the purchase of the
Series 2023A Bond in the stated principal amount of $9,901,000 and the Series
2023B Bond in the stated principal amount of $7,352,000, each bearing interest
at the Interest Rate, which was received by the City at the private sale of the
Bonds be, and the same hereby is, accepted.
Section 7.   Necessity of Project and Bonds . It is necessary and in the best
interests of the City and its inhabitants that the City effect the Refunding
Project and defray in part the cost thereof by issuing the Bonds therefor.
Section 8.   Ordinance to Constitute Contract . In consideration of the
purchase and the acceptance of the Bonds by RD on behalf of the United States
of America and by those whom shall own them from time to time, this Ordinance
shall be deemed to be and shall constitute a contract between the City and the
Registered Owner.
Section 9.   Bonds Equally Secured . The covenants and agreements herein set
forth to be performed on behalf of the City shall be for the equal benefit,
protection and security of the Registered Owners of any and all of the Bonds,
all of which, regardless of the time or times of their issue or maturity, shall
be of equal rank without preference, priority or distinction of any of the
Bonds of this issue over any other thereof, except as otherwise expressly
provided herein.
Section 10.   Special Obligations . The Bonds shall be payable and collectible
(except as herein otherwise provided) solely out of the Pledged Revenues, which
revenues are hereby so pledged. The Holder or Registered Owner may not look to
any general or other fund for the payment of the principal of, or interest on
the Bonds, except the Bond Account and the Reserve Account which are hereby
pledged therefor. The Bonds shall not constitute an indebtedness or a debt
within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory provision or limitation
and the Bonds shall not be considered or held to be general obligations of the
City but shall constitute its special obligations. The City does not pledge its
full faith and credit for the payment of the Bonds.
Section 11.   Character of Agreement . None of the covenants, agreements,
representations and warranties contained herein or in the Bonds, in the absence
of any breach thereof, shall ever impose or shall be construed as imposing any
liability, obligation or charge against the City (except the special funds
pledged therefor) or its general credit, payable out of its general fund or out
of any funds derived from taxation.
Section 12.   Authorization of Bonds . For the purpose of providing funds to
pay the cost of the Refunding Project, the City shall issue the “City of
Yerington, Nevada, Water Revenue Bond, Series 2023A” in the principal amount of
$9,901,000 and the “City of Yerington, Nevada, Water Revenue Bond, Series
2023B” in the principal amount of $7,352,000. Such Bonds shall be issued and be
payable both as to principal and interest, solely from the Pledged Revenues,
and the City shall pledge irrevocably such revenues to the payment of the Bonds
and the interest thereon on a parity with the lien on such revenues of the
Parity Securities, the proceeds thereof to be used solely for the aforesaid
purpose, pursuant to the Charter, the Project Act, and the Bond Act. RD has
requested, and the City has agreed, that the obligations of the City hereunder
shall be represented in the form of a single registered bond for each series of
the Bonds. The Bonds shall be in the form substantially as set forth in
Section 21.
Section 13.   Bond Details . The Bonds shall be issued in fully registered
form, i.e., registered as to both principal and interest, in compliance with
Section 149 of the Tax Code, and the regulations of the Secretary of the
Treasury thereunder. The Bonds shall be dated initially as of the date of
delivery thereof. The Series 2023A Bond shall be issued as a single bond in the
principal amount of $9,901,000. The Series 2023B Bond shall be issued as a
single bond in the principal amount of $7,352,000.
The Bonds shall bear interest at the Interest Rate on the unpaid balance of the
respective principal amounts until the principal thereof is paid in full. The
installments of principal of the Bonds shall bear interest at the Interest Rate
based on a 365-day year as set forth below from the dated date of each of the
Bonds until payment of such installment of principal shall have been
discharged. The interest payments and amortized principal payments on the Bonds
shall be made by the City on the first day of each month commencing on the
first day of the month following the date of delivery of the Bonds and monthly
thereafter on the first day of each month until the maturity date or
prepayment. The interest and principal of the Bonds shall be fully amortized so
as to produce substantially equal monthly payments (of principal and interest)
from payment date to payment date and which shall be in an amount sufficient to
fully pay the total principal of and interest on the Bonds on ____________ 1,
20__.
The Interest Rate submitted by the RD, in accordance with their regulations, as
of the date of loan approval, was ___%, which may or may not be the lower rate
charged by the RD at the time of loan closing. Should the Interest Rate at the
time of the loan closing be lower than the rate of ___% in effect at the time
of the loan approval, the City Council directs the City Manager or his designee
to make a written request to the RD for the lower rate, and the City Council
hereby authorizes the Mayor, the City Treasurer, and the City Clerk to execute
the Bonds providing for the lower Interest Rate. If any installment of
principal is not paid when due, then in addition to installments thereafter
becoming due, the City shall pay interest on the unpaid balance of the total
principal amount from the due date of the delinquent installment to the date of
payment of the delinquent installment, provided, that interest accruing by
reason of any such delinquency shall not include any interest applicable to
such delinquency period in any installment subsequently paid, and shall in no
event cause the total interest payable on the Bonds to exceed the interest rate
as set forth in the Bonds, on the unpaid balance of the total principal amount.
The installments of principal and interest on the Bonds shall be payable in
lawful money of the United States of America without deduction for exchange or
collection charges at the office of the City Treasurer. The final installment
of principal and interest due on the Bonds is payable only upon surrender of
the Bonds to the Paying Agent. If, upon presentation at or after maturity,
payment of the Bonds is not made as herein provided, interest thereon shall
continue at the Interest Rate per annum until the principal thereof is paid in
full.
RD has requested that the Bonds be registered in the name of the United States
of America. So long as the United States of America is the Registered Owner of
the Bonds, payment of installments of principal and interest shall be made at
the appropriate United States Department of Agriculture, Rural Development
office, currently designated as 2730 N. Deer Run Road, Suite 1, Carson City,
Nevada 89701, or at such other address as the United States of America or RD
may designate in writing. During the time any registered assign is the
Registered Owner of the Bonds, payment shall be made at the address shown on
the registration record maintained by the Registrar. The Bonds must be
registered by the Registrar, and may be assigned in the manner and with the
effect set forth in the provisions for registration contained in the form of
the Bonds hereinafter set forth, and as herein further provided. The principal
and interest of the registered Bonds shall be payable only to, or upon the
order of, the Registered Owner or legal representative.
The City hereby reserves the right, at its option, to prepay the principal
amount outstanding, in whole, or in the manner hereinafter provided, in part,
at any time, in inverse order of maturity. Prepayments shall be made on the
date, at the place, and in the manner provided herein for making regularly
scheduled installments, and partial prepayments shall be in the amount of that
portion of one or more installments which would be allocable to principal. No
prepayment of an installment shall extend or postpone the due date of any
subsequent installment. Any prepayments shall be in the amount of principal
being prepaid, together with accrued interest thereon to the date of
prepayment, and shall be made without penalty or without additional interest
charges. At the time of such principal prepayment, the Registrar shall make a
notation of the date and amount of such principal prepayment on the
registration records maintained by the Registrar. The registration records
maintained by the Registrar shall be conclusive evidence of the amounts and
dates of any principal prepayments.
Section 14.   Prepayment Notice . Unless waived by the Registered Owner, notice
of prepayment of any of the Bonds shall be given by the Registrar by first
class or electronic mail, not less than 30 days prior to the date fixed for
prepayment. A copy of the notice shall be mailed at least 30 days prior to the
date fixed for prepayment to any Registered Owner whose name and address appear
on the registration records maintained by the Registrar. So long as the Bonds
is owned by the United States of America, notice shall be mailed to the United
States of America at least 30 days prior to the date fixed for prepayment at
such address as the United States of America or RD may designate in writing.
The notice shall identify the installments of principal to be prepaid, specify
the date of prepayment, and state that on such date the principal amount
thereof and accrued interest to the date of prepayment will become due and
payable and thereafter interest will cease to accrue. After such notice, the
Bonds or portions thereof so called for prepayment will be paid.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any notice of prepayment may
contain a statement that the prepayment is conditioned upon the receipt by the
Paying Agent of funds on or before the date fixed for prepayment sufficient to
pay the principal amount prepaid and the accrued interest thereon to the date
of prepayment, and that if such funds are not available, such prepayment shall
be canceled by written notice to the owner of the Bonds called for prepayment
in the same manner as the original prepayment notice was mailed.
Section 15.   Negotiability . Subject to the registration and payment
provisions herein provided, the Bonds shall be fully negotiable within the
meaning of and for the purpose of the Uniform Commercial Code - Investment
Securities and each Registered Owner shall possess all rights enjoyed by owners
of negotiable instruments under the Uniform Commercial Code-Investment
Securities.
Section 16.   Registration as to Principal and Interest . The Bonds must be
registered for payment as to both principal and interest. The Registrar shall
maintain records for the registration and transfer of the Bonds.
Section 17.   Registration of the Bonds.
A.   Records for the registration of the Bonds shall be kept by the Registrar.
The person in whose name any Bonds shall be registered, on the registration
records maintained by the Registrar, and as noted on the registration panel
appended to the Bonds, shall be deemed and regarded as the absolute owner
thereof for the purpose of payment and for all other purposes; and payment of
or on account of either principal or interest on any Bonds shall be made only
to or upon the written order of the Owner thereof or his or her legal
representative. All such payments shall be valid and effectual to discharge the
liability upon such Bonds to the extent of the sum or sums so paid.
B.   If the Bonds shall be lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated, the Registrar
shall, upon receipt of such evidence, information or indemnity relating thereto
as it or the City may reasonably require, and upon payment of all expenses in
connection therewith, authenticate and deliver a replacement Bond. If such
lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Bond shall have matured or shall have been
called for redemption, the Registrar may direct that such Bond be paid by the
Paying Agent in lieu of replacement; provided that if the United States of
America is the holder of a Bond, no security or indemnity is required in the
event of such lost or destroyed Bond.
C.   Whenever a Bond shall be surrendered to the Paying Agent upon payment
thereof, or to the Registrar for replacement as provided herein, such Bond
shall be promptly canceled by the Paying Agent or Registrar, and counterparts
of a certificate of such cancellation shall be furnished by the Paying Agent or
Registrar to the City.
D.   The Registrar shall maintain a registration record for the Bonds showing
the name and address of the Registered Owner and the amounts and dates of any
principal prepayments on the Bonds.
Section 18.   Form of Execution . The Mayor, the City Treasurer, and the City
Clerk may file their manual signatures with the Secretary of State, pursuant to
the Uniform Facsimile Signatures of Public Officials Act, cited as Chapter 351,
NRS. The registered Bonds shall be signed and executed in the corporate name of
the City with the manual or facsimile signature of the Mayor, countersigned
with the manual or facsimile signature of the City Treasurer, shall be attested
with a manual or facsimile signature of the City Clerk, shall be authenticated
by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the Registrar, and a manual
or facsimile of the seal of the City shall be affixed thereto. The Bonds
bearing the signatures of the officers in office at the time of the signing
thereof, shall be the valid and binding obligations of the City,
notwithstanding that before the delivery thereof and payment therefor, any or
all of the persons whose signatures appear thereon shall have ceased to fill
their respective offices. Any officer herein authorized or permitted to sign
the Bonds at the time of their execution and of the execution of a signature
certificate, may adopt as and for his or her own facsimile signature, the
facsimile signature of his or her predecessor in office in the event that such
facsimile signature appears upon the Bonds.
Section 19.   Incontestable Recital . Pursuant to NRS 350.628, the Bonds shall
contain a recital that they are issued pursuant to the Project Act and the Bond
Act, which recital shall be conclusive evidence of the validity of the Bonds
and the regularity of its issuance.
Section 20.   Registration Records Conclusive . As provided in Section 17, the
records maintained by the Registrar shall be conclusive evidence of the amounts
and dates of any principal prepayments.
Section 21.   Form of Single Bond . Subject to the provisions of this
Ordinance, the Bonds shall be in substantially the following form, with such
omissions, insertions, endorsements and variations as to any recitals of fact
or other provisions as may be required by the circumstances, be required by
this Ordinance, or be consistent with this Ordinance and necessary or
appropriate to conform to the rules and requirements of any governmental
authority or any usage or requirement of law with respect thereto:
(Form of Bond)
CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA
WATER REVENUE BOND, SERIES 2023[A][B]
NO. 1   Principal Amount: $____
Dated: ___________, 2023   Interest Rate: ___% per annum
Maturity Date: ____________, 20__
The City of Yerington, Nevada (the “City”), solely from the special funds
provided therefor, hereby acknowledges itself obligated, and for value
received, hereby promises to pay to the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (the “United
States”), the principal amount above stated together with interest on the
unpaid balance at the rate of ___% per annum (the “Interest Rate”).
Interest payments and amortized principal payments shall be made by the City on
the first day of each month commencing on the first day of the month following
the date of delivery of this bond (the “Bond”) and monthly thereafter on the
first day of each month until the maturity date or prepayment. Interest shall
be calculated based on a 365-day year.
If any installment is not paid when due, then in addition to installments
thereafter becoming due, the City shall pay interest on the unpaid balance of
the total principal amount from the due date of the delinquent installment to
the date of payment of the delinquent installment, provided, that interest
accruing by reason of any such delinquency shall not include any interest
applicable to such delinquency period in any installments subsequently paid and
shall in no event cause the total interest payable on this Bond to exceed the
Interest Rate set forth above on the unpaid balance of the total principal
amount. Except as otherwise provided herein, every payment on this Bond shall
be applied first to interest due through the next installment due date and then
the balance to principal.
The installments of principal and interest are payable in lawful money of the
United States of America, without deduction for exchange or collection charges,
during the period the United States of America is the registered owner of this
single Bond, at the appropriate United States Department of Agriculture, Rural
Development office, currently designated as 2730 N. Deer Run Road, Suite 1,
Carson City, Nevada 89701, or at such other place as the United States may
designate in writing, and are so payable during any period the United States is
not the registered owner hereof at the address shown on the registration
records of the Registrar. The final installment of principal due on this Bond
is payable only upon the surrender of this Bond to the City Treasurer, as
paying agent for this Bond.
All installments of principal are subject to prepayment at the option of the
City prior to their stated due dates and, in inverse order of maturity, by the
payment of such principal amount and accrued interest to the prepayment date.
Prepayments shall be made on the date, at the place and in the manner provided
herein for making regularly scheduled installment payments and partial
prepayments shall be in the amount of that portion of one or more of the final
installments allocable to principal. No partial prepayment shall extend or
postpone the due date of any subsequent installment. Any prepayment shall be in
the amount of principal being prepaid, together with accrued interest thereon
to the date of prepayment, and shall be made without penalty or additional
interest or charges. Prepayment shall be made upon prior notice as provided in
the 2023 Water Revenue Bond Ordinance authorizing this Bond and adopted on
________________, 2023 (the “Ordinance”). The Registrar shall maintain records
showing the amounts and the dates of any principal prepayment and such records
shall be conclusive evidence of the amounts and dates of any principal
prepayment.
This single Bond is duly authorized to defray in part the cost to acquire,
improve, equip, operate and maintain, within the City, a water project as
defined in NRS 268.728 (the “Water Project”), under the authority of and in
full conformity with the constitution and laws of the State of Nevada, and in
particular the Bond Act (hereinafter defined) and the provisions of NRS 268.672
through 268.740, inclusive (the “Project Act”) and pursuant to the Ordinance.
This bond does not constitute a debt or indebtedness of the City within the
meaning of any constitutional or statutory limitation and shall not be
considered or held to be a general obligation of the City. The City does not
pledge its full faith and credit for the payment of this Bond. Pursuant to the
Project Act, as supplemented by Sections 350.500 through 350.720, Nevada
Revised Statutes, and all laws amendatory thereof (the “Bond Act”), and all
laws thereunto enabling, this Bond is a special obligation of the City payable
and collectible solely out of and secured by an irrevocable pledge of certain
net income derived from the operation of the City's municipal water system (the
“System”). The owner hereof may not look to any general or other fund for the
payment of the principal of or interest on this Bond except the special funds
pledged therefor. This Bond is issued pursuant to the Project Act and to the
Bond Act. Pursuant to Section 350.628 of the Bond Act, this recital is
conclusive evidence of the validity of this Bond and the regularity of its
issuance.
Payment of this Bond and interest thereon shall be made solely from, and as
security for such payment there are pledged, pursuant to the Ordinance, two
special funds identified as the “2023 Water Utility Bond Account,” and the
“2023 Water Revenue Bond Reserve Account,” into which the City covenants to pay
from the revenues of the System, after provision only for all necessary and
reasonable operation and maintenance expenses, sums sufficient to pay the
principal and the interest of this Bond and to create and maintain a reasonable
and specified reserve. For a description of said funds and the nature and
extent of the security afforded thereby, reference is made to the Ordinance.
This Bond is secured by and constitutes an irrevocable and prior lien (but not
necessarily an exclusive lien) upon the net revenues of the System on a parity
with the lien thereon securing any Parity Securities (as defined in the
Ordinance) issued in the future. Subject to designated conditions, additional
bonds may be issued payable from the net revenues and having a lien thereon
inferior and junior to the lien, or subject to additional conditions having a
lien thereon on a parity with the lien of this Bond, in accordance with the
Ordinance.
The City covenants and agrees with the owner hereof that it will keep and
perform all the covenants of the Ordinance, including its covenant against the
sale or mortgage of the System or any part thereof unless provision has been
made for the payment of this Bond and its covenant that it will fix, maintain
and collect rates sufficient to pay operating and maintenance expenses and 100%
of both the principal of and the interest on this Bond and any other
obligations payable annually from the net revenues of the System (including
reserves).
 
This Bond shall be registered for payment in the name of the registered owner
hereof only as to both principal and interest in the records of the Registrar
and in the registration panel appended to this single Bond. This Bond is
transferable by the registered owner hereof, in person or by his attorney duly
authorized in writing, at the office of the Registrar. No transfer of this Bond
shall be valid until it has been duly entered in such records and duly noted on
the registration panel appended to this Bond.
 
It is further certified, recited, and warranted that all the requirements of
law have been fully complied with by the proper City officers in the issuance
of this Bond.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or the interest on
this Bond or for any claim based thereon or otherwise upon the Ordinance or
other instrument pertaining thereto, against any individual member of the City
Council or any officer or other agent of the City, past, present or future,
either directly or indirectly through the City Council or otherwise, whether by
virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of
any penalty or otherwise, all such liability, if any, being by the acceptance
of this single Bond and as a part of the consideration of its issuance
specially waived and released.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City of Yerington, in the State of Nevada, acting by
and through the City Council of the City, has caused this Bond to be signed and
executed in its name and on its behalf with the manual or facsimile signature
of Mayor of the City, countersigned by the manual or facsimile signature of the
City Treasurer, attested by the manual or facsimile signature of the City Clerk
with the manual or facsimile seal of the City affixed hereto, all as of the
date of the delivery hereof.
CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA
      
   Mayor
(SEAL)
Attest:   Countersigned:
         
City Clerk   City Treasurer
(End of Form of Bond)
Exhibit A
(Attach Amortization Schedule)
 
(Form of Prepayment Panel)
The following installments of principal (or portions thereof) of this Bond has
been prepaid by the City of Yerington, Nevada, in accordance with the terms of
the Ordinance authorizing the issuance of this Bond:
 
Date of Payment Amount Prepaid Signature of
                               Registered Owner
                $
 
(End of Form of Prepayment Panel)
(Form of Registration Panel Appended to Bond)
MANDATORY REGISTRATION FOR PAYMENT AS TO PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST
The within Bond is registered in the office of the City Treasurer, as
Registrar, in the name of the last owner listed below; and the principal amount
of the Bonds and interest thereon shall be payable only to such owner, all in
accordance with the 2023 Water Revenue Bond Ordinance authorizing the issuance
of the Bonds.
 
Date of            Name of          Address of              Signature of
Registration       Owner            Owner                   Registrar
                                    USDA, Rural Development
____________, 2023 United States of 2730 N. Deer Run Road,
                   America          Suite 1, Carson City,
                                    Nevada 89701
 
(End of Form of Registration Panel Appended to Bond)
(Form of Provision for Assignment)
For value received, the undersigned hereby assigns and transfers unto
__________________ the attached Bond, together with accrued interest thereon,
and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint _______________________
attorney in fact to transfer said Bond on the registration records of City of
Yerington, Nevada, at the office of the City Treasurer, a Registrar with full
power of substitution in the premises.
Dated __________ ___, 20___
   
 
In the presence of:
Signature Guaranteed
By
 
NOTICE: The Signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as it
appears upon the Registration Panel of the within Bond in every particular,
without any alteration whatsoever.
Name of Transferee:    
Address of Transferee:    
Taxpayer Identification number or
Social Security Number(s):    
(End of Form of Assignment Panel Appended to Bond)
Section 22.   Period of Facilities’ Usefulness . The Water Project will be
useful for at least 40 years from the date of delivery of the Bonds.
Section 23.   Bond Preparation; Execution and Delivery . The Mayor, the City
Manager, the City Clerk, and the City Treasurer are directed to prepare and
execute the Bonds. Thereafter, the City Treasurer shall deliver them to RD on
behalf of the United States of America as purchaser on receipt of the agreed
purchase price.
Section 24.   Disposition of Proceeds of the Bonds.
A.   Refunding of 2020 Debentures. Proceeds of the Bonds in an amount
sufficient to effect the refunding and defeasance of the 2020 Debentures shall
be immediately used by the City to effect the Refunding Project.
B.   Purchaser not Responsible. The Purchaser or any Registered Owner of the
Bonds shall not be responsible for the application or disposal of proceeds of
the Bonds.
Section 25.   Fiscal Year . For the purpose of this Ordinance the City shall be
operated upon a fiscal year commencing July 1 in each year and ending on
June 30 of the next succeeding year.
Section 26.   Income Fund . There has been previously created and is hereby
continued a fund known as the “City of Yerington Water Utility Revenue Fund,”
herein sometimes designated as the “Income Fund.” So long as the Bonds shall be
outstanding all income and revenues derived from the operation of the System
shall be deposited into the Income Fund.
Section 27.   Administration of Income Fund . The following payments shall be
made from the Income Fund:
A.   Operation and Maintenance Expenses. First, there shall be set aside each
month such reasonable percentage of the Income Fund as the City Council shall
determine to be reasonable and necessary for the proper operation and
maintenance of the System. Any surplus remaining at the end of the Fiscal Year
and not used for Operation and Maintenance Expenses shall be transferred back
to the Income Fund.
B.   Bond Account Payments. Second, from any moneys remaining in the Income
Fund there shall be deposited into a separate account hereby created to be
known as the “2023 Water Utility Bond Account” (herein “Bond Account”) monthly,
commencing on or before the day preceding each payment date, an amount
sufficient, together with any available moneys therein, to pay the next
maturing installment of principal and interest on the outstanding Bonds until
the maturity or prior redemption of the Bonds.
C.   Reserve Account Payments. There shall be deposited annually into a
separate account hereby created to be known as the “2023 Water Revenue Bond
Reserve Account” (herein “Reserve Account”), commencing on or before the date
which is twelve full months from the date of delivery of the Bonds, an amount
equal to at least one-tenth (1/10) of the average annual loan installment, and
annually thereafter an amount each year of at least one-tenth (1/10) of the
average annual loan installment until an amount equal to the average annual
loan installment on the Bonds (the “Minimum Reserve”) has been accumulated.
After the Minimum Reserve has been accumulated, an amount shall be deposited
annually from the Income Fund into the Reserve Account sufficient to maintain
said Reserve Account in an amount not less than the Minimum Reserve. The moneys
in the Reserve Account shall be maintained as a continuing reserve to be used
only for the following:
(1)   Securities Requirements. To pay principal and interest on the Bonds, if
necessary to prevent a default;
(2)   Emergency Maintenance Costs. To pay the costs of extraordinary and major
repairs, renewal, replacements, or maintenance items appertaining to such
System of a type not recurring annually and not defrayed as operation and
maintenance expenses;
(3)   Capital Costs. To pay the cost of extending the System; and
(4)   Replacement Costs. To pay the costs of replacing short-lived assets of
the System which have useful lives significantly less than the term of the
Bonds.
D.   Termination of Deposits. Payment need not be made into the Bond Account or
the Reserve Account if the total amount in both funds at least equals the
principal and interest requirements of the then outstanding Bonds to maturity.
In that case such an amount equal to such principal and interest requirements
shall be set aside for that purpose and all other moneys may be used in any
lawful manner.
E.   Defraying Delinquencies in Bond Account and in Reserve Account. If, for
any reason, the City shall fail to pay into the Bond Account the full
stipulated amount from Net Revenues, then the difference between that paid and
the amount stipulated shall be paid into the Bond Account from the Reserve
Account. Money so used shall be replaced in the Reserve Account from the first
revenues thereafter received not required to be otherwise applied by this
section. If the proceedings authorizing other parity lien obligations require
the replacement of moneys in a reserve fund, then money shall be replaced in
each such reserve fund on a pro rata basis. If, for any reason, the City shall
fail to pay into the Reserve Account the full stipulated amount, the difference
between the amount paid and the amount stipulated shall in like manner be paid
therein from the first revenues thereafter received not required to be
otherwise applied by this section. The moneys in the Bond Account shall be used
only for the purpose of paying Bond principal and interest. Any moneys in the
Reserve Account in excess of the Minimum Reserve (including any investment
income) may be withdrawn and used in the same manner as Net Revenues.
F.   Payment for Additional Obligations. After making the above payments, any
balance in the Income Fund may be used for the payment of principal and
interest on additional bonds including reasonable reserves therefor. The lien
of additional bonds on Net Revenues shall be on a parity with, or subordinate
to, the lien and pledge of the Bonds. Any payments with respect to additional
parity bonds shall be made concurrently with those required by this section.
G.   Use of Surplus Revenues. After making the above payments, the remaining
Net Revenues, if any, may be applied to any other lawful purpose or purposes
authorized by the Constitution and Laws of the State as the City Council may
direct.
Section 28.   General Administration of Funds . The funds and accounts
reference herein shall be administered as follows:
A.   Places and Times of Deposits. The above accounts and funds shall be
separately maintained and deposited in one or more bank accounts in an Insured
Bank or Banks. Each account shall be continuously secured to the extent
required by law and shall be irrevocable and not withdrawable by anyone for any
other purpose. Amounts in the account exceeding the applicable federal deposit
insurance coverage shall be secured by the Insured Bank in advance in
accordance with U.S. Treasury rules and regulations governing the deposit of
government moneys. Payments shall be made into the proper account on the
payment date when due except that when the payment date shall be a Sunday or
legal holiday, the payment shall be made on the preceding calendar day which is
not also a Sunday or legal holiday. At least one day prior to any principal
then due, moneys sufficient to pay interest and principal due on such payment
date shall be credited at the Paying Agent. Nothing in this Ordinance shall
prevent the City Council from establishing one bank account for any of the
funds and accounts required by this Ordinance.
B.   Investment of Money. Any moneys in any fund or account designated in
Sections 24, 26 and 27 of this Ordinance may be invested or reinvested by the
City in such obligations as may be permitted by the Constitution and laws of
the State of Nevada, and applicable federal statutes and regulations.
Section 29.   Parity Lien Bonds . The Bonds constitute an irrevocable lien (but
not necessarily an exclusive lien) upon the Pledged Revenues on a parity with
any other Parity Securities heretofore or hereafter issued.
Section 30.   Additional Securities.
A.   Earnings Test. This Ordinance shall not prevent the issuance of additional
Parity Securities payable from and constituting a lien upon the Pledged
Revenues on a parity with the lien of the Bonds. Before any such additional
Parity Securities are actually issued (and upon receiving the prior written
consent of RD on behalf of the United States of America for so long as the
United States of America is the Registered Owner of the Bonds) it must be
determined that:
(1)   The City is not, and has not been in default as to any payments required
to be made in Section 27 during the Fiscal Year immediately preceding the
issuance of such additional Parity Securities, or if the Bonds has not been
outstanding for a full Fiscal Year, then for the longest period of time the
Bonds has been outstanding; and
(2)   The annual Revenues for the Fiscal Year immediately preceding the
effective date of the ordinance authorizing the issuance of any such Parity
Securities shall have been sufficient to pay an amount representing 120% of the
average annual principal and interest requirements on all bonds then
outstanding and constituting a lien upon Revenues and the Parity Securities
proposed to be issued (excluding reserves). As used in this section “average
annual principal and interest requirements” shall be the total principal and
interest coming due on the then outstanding Parity Securities and the proposed
Parity Securities during the period extending from the date of the proposed
Parity Securities to the final principal payment date of the then outstanding
Parity Securities or the proposed Parity Securities, whichever is longer,
divided by the number of years (including any fraction thereof) computed from
the date of the proposed Parity Securities to the last principal payment date
of the then outstanding Parity Securities, or the proposed Parity Securities,
whichever is longer.
B.   Certification or Opinion of Revenues. A written certificate or opinion by
the City Treasurer or an Independent Accountant that the earnings test set
forth in Section 30.A above has been met shall conclusively determine the right
of the City to issue additional parity bonds. The City Treasurer or an
Independent Accountant may utilize the results of any annual audit to the
extent it covers the applicable period and may conclusively rely on a
Consulting Engineer's Certificate for the amount of any adjustment required
under Paragraph C of this Section. In the event that an annual audit covering
the applicable period is unavailable, the City Treasurer may utilize unaudited
information covering the applicable period in making such written
certification.
C.   Consideration of Additional Expenses. In determining whether additional
parity bonds may be issued, the City Treasurer or the Independent Accountant
shall consider any probable increase (but not reduction) in Operation and
Maintenance Expenses. A written certificate by a Consulting Engineer as to the
amount of such probable increase may be conclusively relied on by the City and
the City Treasurer or the Independent Accountant in determining the right of
the City to issue additional parity bonds.
D.   Subordinate Obligations Permitted. The City may issue bonds or other
obligations (upon receiving the prior written consent of RD on behalf of the
United States of America for so long as the United States of America is the
Registered Owner of either of the Bonds) having a lien on Revenues subordinate
to the lien thereon of the Bonds.
E.   Superior Obligations Permitted. The City shall not issue any bond or other
obligation having a lien on Revenues prior and superior to the lien thereon of
the Bonds unless the City has received the prior written consent of the United
States of America.
F.   Waiver of Earnings Test. The foregoing earnings test described in
Section 30.A may be waived or modified by the written consent of Bondholders
representing seventy-five percent (75%) of the then outstanding principal
indebtedness on a parity with the proposed Parity Securities.
Section 31.   Defeasance . Pursuant to RD Instruction 1942-A, Section 1942.19
(h)(10)(iii), so long as the United States of America is the Registered Owner
of any of the Bonds, such Bond may not be defeased.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the United States of America is no longer the
Registered Owner of the Bonds, when the principal of and interest on any Bonds
(the “Bond Requirements”) has been duly paid, the pledge and lien and all
obligations hereunder shall thereby be discharged as to such Bonds and such
Bonds shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding within the meaning of this
Ordinance. There shall be deemed to be such due payment when the City has
placed in escrow or in trust with a trust bank located within or without the
State (the “Bank”), an amount sufficient (including the known minimum yield
available for such purpose from Federal Securities in which such amount wholly
or in part may be initially invested) to meet all Bond Requirements of such the
Bonds, as the same become due to the final maturity of the Bonds or upon any
redemption date as of which the City shall have exercised or shall have
obligated itself to exercise its prior redemption option by a call of the Bonds
for payment. The Federal Securities shall become due before the respective
times on which the proceeds thereof shall be needed, in accordance with a
schedule established and agreed upon between the City and the Bank at the time
of the creation of the escrow or trust, or the Federal Securities shall be
subject to redemption at the option of the owners thereof to assure
availability as so needed to meet the schedule. For the purpose of this
section, the term “Federal Securities” shall be as defined in NRS 350.522, and
shall include only Federal Securities which are not callable for redemption
prior to their maturities except at the option of the holder thereof.
Section 32.   Protective Covenants . The City covenants and agrees with each
and every Holder that:
A.   Use of Proceeds of the Bonds. The Refunding Project shall be completed
without delay.
B.   Payment of Bonds Herein Authorized. The City will make the principal and
interest payments of the Bonds at the place, on the dates, and in the manner
specified according to the true intent and meaning thereof.
C.   Use Charges. Rates for services rendered by the System shall be reasonable
and just, taking into account the cost and value of the System, Operation and
Maintenance Expenses, possible delinquencies, proper allowances for
depreciation, contingencies, and the amounts necessary to retire all bonds
payable from Net Revenues, and the reserves therefor. There shall be charged
against all users, including the State of Nevada and its subdivisions, rates
and amounts sufficient to produce revenues to pay the annual Operation and
Maintenance Expenses, and 100% of both the principal of and interest on all
bonds and other obligations payable from Net Revenues, including reserves.
Except as otherwise provided by law, no free service shall be furnished by the
System. Any use of the System by the City will be paid for from the City's
general fund at the reasonable value of the use so made. Income so derived from
the City shall be treated in the same manner as any other System income.
D.   Levy of Charges. Prior to the delivery of the Bonds, the City will
establish, levy and maintain the rates and charges which are required to meet
the provisions of paragraph C of this Section 32. No reduction in any initial
water rate schedule may be made unless:
(1)   The City has complied with Section 27 for at least two Fiscal Years
immediately preceding such reduction.
(2)   The audits for the full two Fiscal Years immediately preceding such
reduction disclose that the estimated revenues resulting from the proposed rate
schedule will be sufficient to meet the requirements of paragraph C of this
section.
(3)   If the United States then owns the Bonds, the State Director of the RD
(or equivalent RD officer) approves in writing the proposed reduction, provided
that the United States, acting by and through RD, shall have first been
furnished with a written request signed by the Treasurer requesting and
justifying such reduction. This Section 32.D(3) applies only if the United
States owns the Bonds on the date of the reduction.
E.   Efficient Operation. The City shall make such improvements and repairs to
the System as may be necessary to insure its economical and efficient operation
and its ability to meet demands for service.
F.   Records. Separate records will be kept showing complete and correct
entries of all transactions relating to the System. Such records shall include
monthly entries showing:
(1)   The number of System customers;
(2)   The revenues received;
(3)   A detailed statement of expenses; and
(4)   Such other items specified by any form furnished by the United States.
Before each Fiscal Year the City Council will cause an operating budget to be
prepared.
G.   Right to Inspect. Any Registered Owner, or their duly authorized agents,
shall have the right at all reasonable times to inspect the System, and all
records, accounts and data relating thereto.
H.   Audits and Budgets. As long as the United States of America is the
Registered Owner of any Bonds, the City agrees that it will, within 9 months
following the close of each Fiscal Year, furnish an audit made by an
Independent Accountant to RD (at the State Office of RD). Each such audit, in
addition to matters thought proper by the accountant, shall include:
(1)   A statement for the Fiscal Year just closed, of the income and
expenditures of the City, including Revenues, the amount of any capital
expenditures and profit or loss;
(2)   A balance sheet as of the end of such Fiscal Year, including all funds
and accounts created by proceedings authorizing bonds payable from Net
Revenues;
(3)   The accountant’s comment regarding the City’s methods of operation and
accounting practices;
(4)   A list of the insurance policies in force, setting out the amount of each
policy, the risks covered, the name of the insurer, and the expiration date;
(5)   A recapitulation of each fund or account created by the various
proceedings showing deposits and withdrawals for said Fiscal Year.
After the beginning of each new Fiscal Year, the City shall furnish an
operating budget showing the planned budget for the ensuing year and a copy of
the minutes of the meeting of the City Council at which such budget was
approved. Along with the operating budget, the City shall provide a letter
showing the name, address and term of office for each member of the City
Council, the number of residential users and the number of commercial users of
the System as of the end of the Fiscal Year. The City will furnish the
designated United States representative with quarterly statements of income and
expense on forms furnished by the United States. The City will furnish a copy
of each audit, budget, quarterly statement and written instrument to the United
States.
I.   Billing Procedure and Discontinuance of Service. All bills shall be sent
out on a regularly established manner each month in advance or after service is
rendered. Bills shall be due within an established number of days from the bill
date. Bills for water use and water service may be sent out in combination with
bills for another utility (e.g., sanitary sewer bills or refuse collection
bills) as long as such amounts are separately stated. If bills are not paid 30
days after such due date they shall be collected in any lawful manner.
J.   Use of Bond Account and Reserve Account. The Bond Account and the Reserve
Account shall be used solely and only, and said funds are hereby pledged, for
the purposes set forth above for the payment of the principal of and interest
on the Bonds on a pro rata basis.
K.   Charges and Liens upon System. The City will pay all taxes and
governmental charges lawfully levied in respect of the System when due. The
City will comply with all valid requirements of any governmental authority
relative to the System. It shall not create or permit to be created any lien or
charge upon the System or the Pledged Revenue except as permitted herein. The
City will satisfy all claims and demands within 60 days after the same shall
accrue which might by law become a lien upon the System or upon the Pledged
Revenue unless the validity thereof is being contested in good faith by
appropriate legal proceedings.
L.   Construction Contract and Bond. The City will require each person, firm or
corporation with whom it may contract for labor or materials to furnish a
performance and payment bond in the full amount of any contract. Any such
contract will meet the reasonable requirements of the United States which are
not inconsistent with State law.
M.   Insurance. Fire and extended coverage insurance will be obtained and
maintained on the facilities above ground, including City-owned contents,
equipment and machinery. The proceeds of such insurance shall be used to
restore the property lost or damaged and any remainder (or if such lost or
damaged property is no longer required for the System the entire proceeds) will
be distributed as Net Revenues. The City will carry workmen's compensation
insurance on all full-time employees and will maintain public liability
insurance (including liability and property damage insurance on City-owned or
operated vehicles) if authorized by State law as interpreted by the legal
counsel for the City.
N.   Competing System or Works. The City shall not grant any franchise or
license to a competing System, or permit any person or organization to sell
water or water service within the City, but this covenant shall not require the
City to take any action which, in the opinion of the City's legal counsel, may
violate antitrust laws.
O.   Alienating System. The City will not sell, lease, mortgage, pledge, or
otherwise alienate the System, or any part thereof, except any portion which
shall have been replaced by other property of at least equal value or which
shall cease to be necessary for the efficient operation of the System. In the
event of any sale as aforesaid, the proceeds of such sale shall be distributed
as Net Revenues.
P.   Extension of Interest Payments. The City will not extend or be a party to
the extension of the time for paying any claim for interest. Any installment of
interest so extended shall not be entitled in case of default hereunder to the
benefit or security of this Ordinance except subject to the prior payment in
full of the principal of all bonds and interest which has not been extended.
Q.   Management of the System. If an “event of default” shall occur or if the
Net Revenues in any Fiscal Year fail to equal principal, interest and reserves
for all bonds payable from Net Revenues, the City shall retain a Consulting
Engineer to assist in the management of the System so long as such default
continues or the Net Revenues are less than the amount designated.
R.   Fidelity Bonds. The persons, being responsible for receiving income and
maintaining the accounts of the City, shall be bonded in a blanket position
fidelity bond in a penal sum at least equal to the maximum amount on hand at
any one time (exclusive of proceeds of the Bonds), which fidelity bond may be
provided on Form RD 440-24 “Position Fidelity Schedule Bond” or other
equivalent United States forms and shall designate the United States of America
as a co-obligee.
S.   The City’s Existence.
(1)   The City will maintain its “corporate” identity and existence so long as
any principal of the Bonds remains outstanding (and the United States of
America is a Registered Owner of any of such Bonds), unless another political
subdivision by operation of law succeeds to the liabilities and rights of the
City without adversely affecting to any substantial degree the privileges and
rights of any Registered Owner.
(2)   The City agrees to give written notice to the RD County or State Office,
if the United States of America is a Registered Owner of any principal of the
Bonds, at least 30 days prior to any contemplated merger, consolidation or
dissolution of the City.
T.   Tax Covenants. The City covenants for the benefit of the owner of the
Bonds that it will not take any action or omit to take any action with respect
to the Bonds, the proceeds thereof, any other funds of the City or any
facilities financed with the proceeds of the Bonds if such action or omission
(i) would cause the interest on the Bonds to lose its exclusion from gross
income for federal income tax purposes under Section 103 of the Tax Code,
(ii) would cause interest on the Bonds to lose its exclusion from alternative
minimum taxable income as defined in Section 55(b)(2) of the Tax Code except to
the extent such interest is required to be included in the adjusted current
earnings adjustment applicable to corporations under Section 56 of the Tax Code
in calculating corporate alternative minimum taxable income. The foregoing
covenant shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the payment in
full or defeasance of the Bonds until the date on which all obligations of the
City in fulfilling the above covenant under the Tax Code have been met.
Section 33.   Events of Default . It is an “event of default” if:
A.   Nonpayment of Principal. Payment of any principal of the Bonds is not made
when due or upon prior redemption.
B.   Nonpayment of Interest. Payment of interest is not made when due.
C.   Incapable to Perform. The City is not capable of fulfilling its
obligations hereunder.
D.   Default of Any Provision. The City defaults in the punctual performance of
its covenants hereunder for 60 days after written notice shall have been given
by the Owners of 25% of the outstanding principal of the Bonds.
Section 34.   Remedies on Default . Upon the happening of any event of default,
the Registered Owners or Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of
the outstanding Bond, or a trustee therefor, may protect and enforce these
rights of any Bondholder or Owner by proper legal or equitable remedy deemed
most effectual including mandamus, specific performance of any covenant, the
appointment of a receiver (the consent to such appointment being hereby
granted), injunctive relief, or requiring the governing body of the City to act
as if it were the trustee of an expressed trust, or any combination of such
remedies. All proceedings shall be maintained for the equal benefit of all
Owners and Holders. Any receiver appointed to protect the rights of Bondholders
may take possession and operate and maintain the System in the same manner as
the City itself might do. The failure of any Registered Owner or Holder to
proceed does not relieve the City or any person of any liability for failure to
perform any duty hereunder. The foregoing rights are in addition to any other
right and the exercise of any right by any Bondholder or Owner shall not be
deemed a waiver of any other right.
Section 35.   Duties upon Default . Upon the happening of any event of default,
the City will perform all proper acts to protect and preserve the security
created for the prompt payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
The Owners or Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the
outstanding Bonds after written demand, may proceed to protect and enforce the
rights provided by this section.
Section 36.   Prior Charge Upon Lower Rates. If any commission or authority
lawfully prescribes a lower schedule of rates than that contemplated by this
Ordinance, then the payment of principal and interest on the Bonds, and any
parity bonds, shall constitute a first and prior charge on revenues.
Section 37.   Refinancing . If it shall appear to RD, during the time the
United States of America owns any of the Bonds, that the City can refinance the
amount of the Bonds then outstanding, in whole or in part, by obtaining a loan
for such purposes from responsible cooperative or private credit sources, at
reasonable rates and terms for loans for similar purposes and periods of time,
the City agrees (upon the request of RD), within the limitations of its then
existing powers, (and subject to any contractual limitations contained herein
concerning the payment of the Bonds and their redemption), to apply for and to
accept such loan, with conditions acceptable to the City, in sufficient amount
to repay the United States of America and agrees to take such action as may be
required in connection with such loan. Any such refinancing shall be
accomplished according to applicable statutes of the State.
Section 38.   Discharge of the Bonds . When the Bonds has been paid, the pledge
and lien and all obligations hereunder shall be discharged and the Bonds shall
no longer be deemed to be outstanding.
Section 39.   Amendment of Ordinance . This Ordinance may be amended, without
receipt by the City of any additional consideration, but with the written
consent of the Owners of seventy-five percent (75%) of the principal of the
Bonds then outstanding (not including any portion of the Bonds which may be
held for the account of the City); but no Ordinance adopted without the written
consent of the Owners of all of the outstanding Bonds shall have the effect of
permitting:
(1)   An extension of any installment payment of the Bonds; or
(2)   A reduction in the principal amount or interest rate of the Bonds; or
(3)   The creation of a lien upon revenue ranking prior to the lien or pledge
created by this Ordinance; or
(4)   A reduction of the principal amount of the Bonds required for consent to
such amendatory Ordinance; or
(5)   The modification of or otherwise affecting the rights of the Holders of
less than all of the outstanding Bonds.
Section 40.   Delegated Powers . The officers of the City be, and they hereby
are, authorized and directed to take all action necessary or appropriate to
effectuate the provisions of this Ordinance, including, without limitation, the
execution of such certificates, agreements and forms as may be reasonably
required by the United States of America or RD, relating, inter alia, to the
signing of the Bonds, the tenure and identity of the officials of the City
Council and of the City, the delivery of the Bonds and the receipt of the
purchase price of the Bonds, and, if it is in accordance with fact, the absence
of litigation, pending or threatened, affecting the validity thereof, and the
absence and existence of factors affecting the exemption of interest on the
Bonds from federal income taxation, the assembly and dissemination of financial
and other information concerning the City, the Bonds, and the sale and issuance
of the Bonds pursuant to the provisions of this Ordinance and to any instrument
supplemental thereto.
Section 41.   Prior Contracts . If any provision herein is inconsistent with
any provision in any existing contract pertaining to the City so as to affect
prejudicially and materially the rights and privileges thereunder, so long as
such contract shall remain viable and in effect such provision therein shall
control such inconsistent provision herein and the latter provision shall be
subject and subordinate to such provision in such existing contract.
Section 42.   Police Power . Nothing in this Ordinance prohibits or otherwise
limits or inhibits the reasonable exercise in the future by the State and its
governmental bodies of the police powers and powers of taxation inherent in the
sovereignty of the State or the exercise by the United States of the powers
delegated to it by the Federal Constitution. The City cannot contract away such
powers nor limit or inhibit by contract the proper exercise thereof, and this
Ordinance does not purport to do so.
Section 43.   Ordinance Irrepealable . After the Bonds is issued, this
Ordinance shall constitute an irrevocable contract between the City and the
owner of the Bonds and this Ordinance, if the Bonds is in fact issued, shall be
and shall remain irrepealable until the Bonds, as to all Bond Requirements,
shall be fully paid, canceled and discharged as herein provided.
Section 44.   Implied Repealer . All ordinances, resolutions, bylaws and
orders, or parts thereof, inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed to the
extent only of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed to
revive any ordinance, resolution, bylaw or order, or part hereof, heretofore
repealed.
Section 45.   Publication and Effective Date . The Council has expressed in the
preambles to this Ordinance that it pertains to the sale, issuance, or payment
of the Debentures, and that, as permitted under Section 7.030(3) of the City
Charter, this instrument may accordingly be adopted in the same manner as is
provided for cases of emergency. This Ordinance shall become effective
immediately upon unanimous passage by the Council. Following the unanimous
passage of this Ordinance, the City shall publish this Ordinance by its title
only, together with a statement that typewritten copies of this Ordinance are
available for inspection by interested parties at the office of the City Clerk,
such publication to be made in a newspaper or newspapers published in Lyon
County and which is of general circulation in the City and such publication to
be in substantially the following form:
(Form of Publication)
 
BILL NO. 428
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-03
AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING AND DIRECTING THE ISSUANCE OF THE CITY OF YERINGTON,
NEVADA, WATER REVENUE BOND, SERIES 2023A AND SERIES 2023B IN THE PRINCIPAL
AMOUNT OF $_______ TO REFINANCE A WATER PROJECT, AS DEFINED IN NRS 268.728;
PROVIDING THE FORMS, TERMS, CONDITIONS AND SECURITY FOR THE BONDS AND THE SALE
TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA; PROVIDING FOR ADOPTION AS IF AN EMERGENCY
EXISTS; AND PROVIDING OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that typewritten copies of the above-numbered and
entitled ordinance are available for inspection by all interested parties at
the office of the City Clerk of City of Yerington, Nevada and that such
ordinance was proposed on _____, 2023, and was passed at the meeting held on
____, 2023 by the following vote of the Council:
Those Voting Aye:            Councilman Jerry Bryant
                  Councilman Matt Galvin
                  Councilman Shane Martin
                  Councilman Frank Pizzo
                  
 
Those Voting Nay:            None
 
Those Absent:               ___________________
Mayor John J. Garry
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City Council of the City of Yerington, Nevada, has
caused this ordinance to be published by title only, which is deemed to be an
adequate summary of such Ordinance.
   DATED on this ____________, 2023.
   /s/      
   Mayor
   City of Yerington, Nevada
(SEAL)
 
 
   
Attest:
/s/      
City Clerk
City of Yerington, Nevada
(End of Form of Publication)
Section 46.   Ratification . All consistent action taken previously by the City
and the City officers directed toward the Refunding Project and toward the
issuance of its Bonds for such purposes is ratified, approved, and confirmed.
Section 47.   Severability . If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of
this Ordinance shall for any reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the
invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph, clause or provision
shall in no way affect any remaining provisions of this Ordinance.
Proposed on September 11, 2023.
Proposed by Council Member ______________.
Passed September 11, 2023 by the following vote of the Council:
Those Voting Aye:            Councilman Jerry Bryant
                  Councilman Matt Galvin
                  Councilman Shane Martin
                  Councilman Frank Pizzo
                  
 
Those Voting Nay:            None___________________
 
Those Absent:               ___________________
Mayor John J. Garry
 
 
      
   Mayor
   City of Yerington, Nevada
(SEAL)
Attest:
   
City Clerk
City of Yerington, Nevada
STATE OF NEVADA      )
)
LYON COUNTY      ) ss.
)
CITY OF YERINGTON      )
I am the duly chosen and qualified City Clerk of the City of Yerington, Nevada
(the “City”), Nevada, do hereby certify:
The foregoing pages constitute a true, correct, complete and compared copy of
the original 2023 Water Revenue Bond Ordinance (the “Ordinance”) adopted by the
City Council of the City (the “Council”) at a meeting held on September , 2023.
2.   The adoption of the Ordinance was duly moved and seconded and the
Ordinance was adopted by an affirmative vote of the members of Council as
follows:
Those Voting Aye:   
                  Councilman Jerry Bryant
                  Councilman Matt Galvin
                  Councilman Shane Martin
                  Councilman Frank Pizzo
 
Those Voting Nay:            None
 
Those Absent:               Mayor John J. Garry
 
3.   The original of the Ordinance has been approved and authenticated by the
signatures of the Mayor of the City and myself as City Clerk and has been
recorded in the regular official record of the Council kept for that purpose in
my office, which record has been duly signed by the officers and properly
sealed.
4.   Public notice of such meeting attached as Exhibit A was given and such
meeting was held and conducted in full compliance with the provisions of the
Nevada Open Meeting law as outlined in NRS Chapter 241. A copy of the notice of
public meeting and excerpt from the meeting minutes relating to the
resolutions, as posted prior to 9:00 a.m. at least 3 business days in advance
of the meeting on the City’s website and the State of Nevada’s official public
notice website are attached as Exhibit B.
5.    Upon request, the Council provides at no charge, at least one copy of the
agenda for its public meetings, any proposed ordinance or regulation which will
be discussed at the public meeting, and any other supporting materials provided
to the Council for an item on the agenda, except for certain confidential
materials and materials pertaining to closed meetings, as provided by law.
6.   A copy of such notice so given of the meeting of the Council on September
11, 2023 is attached to this certificate as Exhibit “A.” A copy of the
affidavit of publication of the Ordinance by title is attached to this
certificate as Exhibit “B.”
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand on this _____, 2023.
 
 
(SEAL)               _______________________________________
City Clerk
 
 
EXHIBIT A
(Attach Notice of Meeting)
EXHIBIT B
(Attach Affidavit of Publication by Title)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bill No. 429
Ordinance No. 2023-04
 
TITLE
 
Ordinance No. 2023-04adopting an increase in the license tax from the rate of
five percent (5%) to ten percent (10%) upon the gross receipts received or
derived from the rental of transient lodging within the City of Yerington.
SUMMARY
 
An ordinance adopting an increase in the license tax from the rate of five
percent (5%) to ten percent (10%) upon every person operating, conducting or
engaging in the rental of transient lodging within the City of Yerington, in
accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Sections 268.096(1)(b) and (5)
and Yerington City Code (Y.C.C.) 3-11-3(A) and 3-11-5(B), to increase revenue
available to carry out any and all lawful governmental purposes pursuant to the
powers and authority given to the City Council by the Nevada Revised Statutes,
to promote tourism and plan, construct, finance, maintain, operate, repair,
equip, furnish, improve and manage recreational facilities.
 
The City Council of the City of Yerington, do hereby ordain:
 
SECTION I : The Council finds that an increase in the license tax from the rate
of five percent (5%) to ten percent (10%) upon every person operating,
conducting or engaging in the rental of transient lodging within the City of
Yerington, on the gross receipts received or derived therefrom, is consistent
and complies with the provisions of NRS 268.096(1)(b) and (5) and Y.C.C. 3-11-3
(A) and 3-11-5(B); increases the revenue available to the City to carry out
lawful government purposes to promote tourism and plan, construct, finance,
maintain, operate, repair, equip, furnish, improve and manage recreational
facilities; and provides a clear and substantial benefit to the residents of
the City of Yerington.
 
SECTION II : Pursuant to NRS 268.096(1)(b) and (5) and Y.C.C. 3-11-3(A) and 3-
11-5(B), the increase in the license tax upon the gross receipts received or
derived from the rental of transient lodging within the City of Yerington, from
the rate of five percent (5%) to ten percent (10%), is approved upon the
adoption of this ordinance’s effective date.
 
   Proposed on this 25th day of September 2023
   
   Proposed by: Councilman Jerry Bryant
   
   Passed on this 13th day of November, 2023
   
   Vote:    Ayes   Council Members    Jerry Bryant
                         Matt Galvin
                         Shane Martin
                  Frank Pizzo
                      
Nayes    Council Members    None
 
            
 
                  ______________________________
                  John J. Garry
                  Mayor of the City of Yerington
 
 
 
ATTEST:
 
_____________________________
Sheema D. Shaw, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BILL NO. 430
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-05
AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING AND DIRECTING THE ISSUANCE OF THE CITY OF YERINGTON,
NEVADA, WASTEWATER REVENUE BOND, SERIES 2023A IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF NOT TO
EXCEED $8,577,000 AND THE CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA, WASTEWATER REVENUE BOND
SERIES 2023B IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF NOT TO EXCEED $7,000,000 TO REFINANCE A
SEWERAGE PROJECT, AS DEFINED IN NRS 268.714; PROVIDING THE FORMS, TERMS,
CONDITIONS AND SECURITY FOR THE BONDS AND THE SALE TO THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA; PROVIDING FOR ADOPTION AS IF AN EMERGENCY EXISTS; AND PROVIDING OTHER
MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
WHEREAS, the City of Yerington in the County of Lyon and State of Nevada (the
“City,” the “County,” and the “State,” respectively) is a political subdivision
of the State a body corporate and a city duly organized as a city under the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (“NRS”) Chapter 268, Chapter 465,
Statutes of Nevada, 1971, as amended (the “Charter”), and the general laws of
the State;
WHEREAS, the City owns and operates a municipal sanitary sewer system (the
“System”);
WHEREAS, the City has received commitments from the United States Department of
Agriculture acting through the United States Department of Agriculture, Rural
Utilities Service (“RUS”) to provide loans in the aggregate amount $33,000,000
to the City for purposes of providing long-term financing for a Sewerage
Project (as defined in NRS 268.714) (the “Sewer Project”) pursuant to a Letter
of Conditions dated December 29, 2016, as amended on (collectively, the
“Letters of Conditions”);
WHEREAS, the City has previously issued the “City of Yerington Interim
Debentures, Series 2020” (the “2020 Debentures”) in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $32,830,000;
WHEREAS, the 2020 Debentures are currently outstanding in the principal amount
of $32,830,000.
WHEREAS, the 2020 Debentures are secured in part by a lien on the Pledged
Revenues;
WHEREAS, the outstanding 2020 Debentures are subject to prior redemption at the
option of the City on any date at a redemption price equal to the principal
amount thereof plus accrued interest thereon to the redemption date;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of NRS Sections 350.500 through 350.720,
and all laws amendatory thereof, cited in Section 350.500 thereof by the short
title “Local Government Securities Law” (the “Bond Act”), the City is
authorized to issue bonds in order to refund, pay and discharge certain
outstanding bonds or other obligations of the City for the purpose of reducing
interest rates and effecting other economies;
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City (the “Council”) hereby determines that it
is in the best interests of the City and the inhabits thereof to issue its
“City of Yerington, Nevada Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2023A”
and its “City of Yerington, Nevada Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds Series
2023B” (collectively, the “Bonds”) to refund, pay and discharge the outstanding
the 2020 Debentures and pay the costs associated with the issuance of the Bonds
(collectively, the “Refunding Project”);
WHEREAS, other than the 2020 Debentures, the City has not previously pledged
the Pledged Revenues derived and to be derived from the operation of the System
(as defined herein) for the repayment or redemption of any securities payable
from such revenues, or otherwise, with the result that such Pledged Revenues
may be pledged lawfully and irrevocably to secure the payment of the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds will be
secured by the Pledged Revenues; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Letters of Condition, RUS has agreed to purchase the
Bonds herein authorized at a price of par and at an interest rate of 1.375% per
annum, (provided, however, that the City may elect to accept the RUS rate
available at the date of issuance of the Bonds, if lower) (the “Interest
Rate”);
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and does hereby determine and declare
that the proposal for the purchase at private sale pursuant to NRS 350.616 of a
single Bond of each series of the Bonds by RUS, for a price consisting of the
aggregate principal amount of the Bonds, at the Interest Rate, and otherwise
maturing, being secured and otherwise being issued as herein provided,
constitutes the best proposal for the Bonds and is to the best advantage of the
City;
WHEREAS, the effective Interest Rate on the Bonds herein authorized or such
lower elected rate, does not exceed by more than 3% the “Index of Revenue
Bonds” which was most recently published before a negotiated offer was accepted
for the Bonds;
WHEREAS, the City Council hereby elects to have the Chapter 348 of NRS (the
“Supplemental Bond Act”) apply to the Bonds;
WHEREAS, the City Council hereby determines that it is necessary and advisable
that the City incur a bonded indebtedness by issuing the Bonds pursuant to the
Charter, the Project Act, the Wastewater Act, the Supplemental Bond Act, and
the Bond Act;
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and hereby declares that each of the
limitations and other conditions to the issuance of the Bonds in the Charter,
the Bond Act, the Project Act, the Supplemental Bond Act, and in any other
relevant act of the State or the federal government has been met, and pursuant
to NRS 350.708 of the Bond Act such determination of the City Council that the
limitations in the Bond Act have been met shall be conclusive in the absence of
fraud or arbitrary and gross abuse of discretion;
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and does hereby declare:
(A)   It is necessary and for the best interests of the City to effect the
Refunding Project and to issue the Bonds; and
(B)   Each of the limitations and other conditions to the issuance of the Bonds
in the Project Act, the Bond Act, the Supplemental Bond Act, and in any other
relevant act of the State or the Federal Government has been met; and pursuant
to NRS 350.708, this determination of the City Council that the limitations of
the Bond Act have been met shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud or
arbitrary or gross abuse of discretion; and
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and does hereby declare:
(A)   This Ordinance pertains to the sale, issuance and payment of the Bonds;
(B)   Such declaration shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud or gross
abuse of discretion in accordance with the provisions of Subsection 2 of NRS
350.579; and
(C)   This Ordinance may accordingly be adopted as if an emergency now exists
by an affirmative vote of all of the voting members of the City Council, and
this Ordinance may become effective at any time when an emergency ordinance of
the City may go into effect.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF CITY OF YERINGTON DOES ORDAIN:
Section 1.   Short Title . This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as
the “2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Ordinance” (herein the “Ordinance”).
Section 2.   Matter of Local Concern . The City Council has determined, and
does hereby determine, that the completion of the Refunding Project and the
pledge of the Pledged Revenues to the repayment of the Bonds is a “Matter of
local concern” as defined in NRS 268.003.
Section 3.   Definitions . The terms defined in this section, except where the
context requires otherwise, shall have the following meanings in this
Ordinance:
A.   “Bond Act” or “Act” means the Local Government Securities Law, cited as
NRS 350.500 through 350.720 and all laws amendatory thereof.
B.   “Bonds” means, collectively, the Series 2023A Bond and the Series 2023B
Bond.
C.   “Bond Account” means the “2023 Wastewater Utility Revenue Bond Account”
created in Section 27.B of this Ordinance.
D.   “Bond Act” or “Act” means the Local Government Securities Law, cited as
NRS 350.500 through 350.720 and all laws amendatory thereof.
E.   “Consulting Engineer” or “Project Engineer” means any qualified registered
or licensed professional engineer practicing under the laws of the State of
Nevada.
F.   “Fiscal Year” means the twelve months commencing July 1 of any year and
ending June 30 of the next succeeding year.
G.   “Gross Income,” “gross revenues,” “income” or “revenues” means all income
and revenue derived by the City from any rates, fees, tolls, connection
charges, stand-by charges and charges for availability of wastewater services
furnished by, or the use of, the municipal wastewater system as the same may at
any time exist to serve customers within or outside the City limits, whether
resulting from improvements, extensions, or otherwise.
H.   “Holder,” “Owner” or “Registered Owner” means a person (including the
United States Department of Agriculture, Rural Utilities Service) in possession
and the apparent owner of the Bonds
I.   “Independent Accountant” means any certified public accountant practicing
under the laws of the State of Nevada who is independent and not an officer or
employee of the municipality.
J.   “Insured Bank” means a bank defined in NRS 350.512 and qualified to accept
public deposits under state law which is a member of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation.
K.   “Interest Rate” means the interest rate for the Bonds as described in the
preambles hereto.
L.   “Net Revenues” means the Gross Revenues less the Operation and Maintenance
Expenses.
M.   “NRS” means the Nevada Revised Statutes.
N.   “Operation and Maintenance Expenses” means all reasonable and necessary
current expenses of the City, paid or accrued, for operating, maintaining and
repairing the System, as defined in NRS 350.542 including legal and overhead
expenses of the City directly related to the administration of the System,
insurance premiums, audits, charges of depository banks and paying agents,
professional services, salaries and administrative expenses, labor, and the
cost of materials and supplies for current operation, but excluding any
allowance for depreciation, any costs of improvements to the System, any
accumulation of reserves for major capital replacements (other than normal
repairs) or for the operation, maintenance or repair of the System, any
allowance for the redemption of any securities of the City, or any other ground
of legal liability not based on contract, in accordance with NRS 350.544.
O.   “Parity Securities” means any additional bonds, securities or other
obligations issued hereafter with a lien on the Pledged Revenues on a parity
with the outstanding Bond.
P.   “Paying Agent” means the Treasurer of the City or any successor thereto as
paying agent for the Bonds appointed by the City Council.
Q.   “Pledged Revenues” means all or a portion of the Net Revenues. The
designated term indicates sources of revenues and does not necessarily indicate
all or any portion or other part of such revenues in the absence of further
qualification.
R.   “Project Act” means NRS 268.672 through 268.740, inclusive, and all laws
amendatory thereof.
S.   “Purchaser” means the United States of America, acting by and through RUS.
T.   “RUS” means “the United States Department of Agriculture, acting through
the Rural Utilities Service (Rural Development Mission Area), or successor
agency.
U.   “Registrar” means the City Treasurer or any successor thereto as registrar
for the Bonds appointed by the City Council.
V.   “Refunding Project” shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the
preambles hereof.
W.   “Reserve Account” means the “2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Reserve Account”
created in Section 27.C of this Ordinance.
X.   “Series 2023A Bond” means the City of Yerington, Nevada, Wastewater
Revenue Bond, Series 2023A, issued in the stated principal amount of not to
exceed $8,577,000.
Y.   “Series 2023B Bond” means the City of Yerington, Nevada, Wastewater
Revenue Bond, Series 2023B, issued in the stated principal amount of not to
exceed $7,000,000
Z.   “System” means all of the City's municipal wastewater system, and its
wastewater facilities and properties now owned or hereafter acquired, whether
situated within or without the City boundaries.
AA.   “Tax Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended to the
date of delivery of the Bonds.
BB.   “Wastewater Act” means NRS 350.350 through 350.490, inclusive, and all
laws amendatory thereof.
CC.   “Wastewater Project” shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the
preambles hereof.
Section 4.   Authority for This Ordinance . This Ordinance is adopted pursuant
to the Charter, the Project Act, the Wastewater Act, and the Bond Act.
Section 5.   Life of the Wastewater Project . The City Council has determined
and does hereby declare that the estimated life or estimated period of
usefulness of the Wastewater Project is not less than 40 years from the date of
issuance of the Bonds; and the Bonds shall mature at such times not exceeding
such estimated life or estimated period of usefulness of the Wastewater
Project.
Section 6.   Acceptance of Purchase Proposal for the Bonds . The proposal
submitted by the United States, by and through RUS, for the purchase of the
Series 2023A Bond in the stated principal amount of not to exceed $8,577,000
and the Series 2023B Bond in the stated principal amount of not to exceed
$7,000,000, each bearing interest at the Interest Rate, which was received by
the City at the private sale of the Bonds be, and the same hereby is, accepted.
Section 7.   Necessity of Project and Bonds . It is necessary and in the best
interests of the City and its inhabitants that the City effect the Refunding
Project and defray in part the cost thereof by issuing the Bonds therefor.
Section 8.   Ordinance to Constitute Contract . In consideration of the
purchase and the acceptance of the Bonds by RUS on behalf of the United States
of America and by those whom shall own them from time to time, this Ordinance
shall be deemed to be and shall constitute a contract between the City and the
Registered Owner.
Section 9.   Bonds Equally Secured . The covenants and agreements herein set
forth to be performed on behalf of the City shall be for the equal benefit,
protection and security of the Registered Owners of any and all of the Bonds,
all of which, regardless of the time or times of their issue or maturity, shall
be of equal rank without preference, priority or distinction of any of the
Bonds of this issue over any other thereof, except as otherwise expressly
provided herein.
Section 10.   Special Obligations . The Bonds shall be payable and collectible
(except as herein otherwise provided) solely out of the Pledged Revenues, which
revenues are hereby so pledged. The Holder or Registered Owner may not look to
any general or other fund for the payment of the principal of, or interest on
the Bonds, except the Bond Account and the Reserve Account which are hereby
pledged therefor. The Bonds shall not constitute an indebtedness or a debt
within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory provision or limitation
and the Bonds shall not be considered or held to be general obligations of the
City but shall constitute its special obligations. The City does not pledge its
full faith and credit for the payment of the Bonds.
Section 11.   Character of Agreement . None of the covenants, agreements,
representations and warranties contained herein or in the Bonds, in the absence
of any breach thereof, shall ever impose or shall be construed as imposing any
liability, obligation or charge against the City (except the special funds
pledged therefor) or its general credit, payable out of its general fund or out
of any funds derived from taxation.
Section 12.   Authorization of Bonds . For the purpose of providing funds to
pay the cost of the Refunding Project, the City shall issue the “City of
Yerington, Nevada, Wastewater Revenue Bond, Series 2023A” in the principal
amount designated by the City Manager (not to exceed $8,577,000) and the “City
of Yerington, Nevada, Wastewater Revenue Bond, Series 2023B” in the principal
amount designated by the City Manager (not to exceed $7,000,000). Such Bonds
shall be issued and be payable both as to principal and interest, solely from
the Pledged Revenues, and the City shall pledge irrevocably such revenues to
the payment of the Bonds and the interest thereon on a parity with the lien on
such revenues of the Parity Securities, the proceeds thereof to be used solely
for the aforesaid purpose, pursuant to the Charter, the Project Act, and the
Bond Act. RUS has requested, and the City has agreed, that the obligations of
the City hereunder shall be represented in the form of a single registered bond
for each series of the Bonds. The Bonds shall be in the form substantially as
set forth in Section 21.
Section 13.   Bond Details . The Bonds shall be issued in fully registered
form, i.e., registered as to both principal and interest, in compliance with
Section 149 of the Tax Code, and the regulations of the Secretary of the
Treasury thereunder. The Bonds shall be dated initially as of the date of
delivery thereof. The Series 2023A Bond shall be issued as a single bond in the
principal amount designated by the City Manager (not to exceed $8,577,000). The
Series 2023B Bond shall be issued as a single bond in the principal amount
designated by the City Manager (not to exceed $7,000,000).
The Bonds shall bear interest at the Interest Rate on the unpaid balance of the
respective principal amounts until the principal thereof is paid in full. The
installments of principal of the Bonds shall bear interest at the Interest Rate
based on a 365-day year as set forth below from the dated date of each of the
Bonds until payment of such installment of principal shall have been
discharged. The interest payments and amortized principal payments on the Bonds
shall be made by the City on the first day of each month commencing on the
first day of the month following the date of delivery of the Bonds and monthly
thereafter on the first day of each month until the maturity date or
prepayment. The interest and principal of the Bonds shall be fully amortized so
as to produce substantially equal monthly payments (of principal and interest)
from payment date to payment date and which shall be in an amount sufficient to
fully pay the total principal of and interest on the Bonds on October 25, 2063.
The Interest Rate submitted by the RUS, in accordance with their regulations,
as of the date of loan approval, was 1.375%, which may or may not be the lower
rate charged by the RUS at the time of loan closing. Should the Interest Rate
at the time of the loan closing be lower than the rate of 1.375% in effect at
the time of the loan approval, the City Council directs the City Manager or his
designee to make a written request to the RUS for the lower rate, and the City
Council hereby authorizes the Mayor, the City Treasurer, and the City Clerk to
execute the Bonds providing for the lower Interest Rate. If any installment of
principal is not paid when due, then in addition to installments thereafter
becoming due, the City shall pay interest on the unpaid balance of the total
principal amount from the due date of the delinquent installment to the date of
payment of the delinquent installment, provided, that interest accruing by
reason of any such delinquency shall not include any interest applicable to
such delinquency period in any installment subsequently paid, and shall in no
event cause the total interest payable on the Bonds to exceed the interest rate
as set forth in the Bonds, on the unpaid balance of the total principal amount.
The installments of principal and interest on the Bonds shall be payable in
lawful money of the United States of America without deduction for exchange or
collection charges at the office of the City Treasurer. The final installment
of principal and interest due on the Bonds is payable only upon surrender of
the Bonds to the Paying Agent. If, upon presentation at or after maturity,
payment of the Bonds is not made as herein provided, interest thereon shall
continue at the Interest Rate per annum until the principal thereof is paid in
full.
RUS has requested that the Bonds be registered in the name of the United States
of America. So long as the United States of America is the Registered Owner of
the Bonds, payment of installments of principal and interest shall be made at
the appropriate United States Department of Agriculture, Rural Utilities
Service office, currently designated as 2730 N. Deer Run Road, Suite 1, Carson
City, Nevada 89701, or at such other address as the United States of America or
RUS may designate in writing. During the time any registered assign is the
Registered Owner of the Bonds, payment shall be made at the address shown on
the registration record maintained by the Registrar. The Bonds must be
registered by the Registrar, and may be assigned in the manner and with the
effect set forth in the provisions for registration contained in the form of
the Bonds hereinafter set forth, and as herein further provided. The principal
and interest of the registered Bonds shall be payable only to, or upon the
order of, the Registered Owner or legal representative.
The City hereby reserves the right, at its option, to prepay the principal
amount outstanding, in whole, or in the manner hereinafter provided, in part,
at any time, in inverse order of maturity. Prepayments shall be made on the
date, at the place, and in the manner provided herein for making regularly
scheduled installments, and partial prepayments shall be in the amount of that
portion of one or more installments which would be allocable to principal. No
prepayment of an installment shall extend or postpone the due date of any
subsequent installment. Any prepayments shall be in the amount of principal
being prepaid, together with accrued interest thereon to the date of
prepayment, and shall be made without penalty or without additional interest
charges. At the time of such principal prepayment, the Registrar shall make a
notation of the date and amount of such principal prepayment on the
registration records maintained by the Registrar. The registration records
maintained by the Registrar shall be conclusive evidence of the amounts and
dates of any principal prepayments.
Section 14.   Prepayment Notice . Unless waived by the Registered Owner, notice
of prepayment of any of the Bonds shall be given by the Registrar by first
class or electronic mail, not less than 30 days prior to the date fixed for
prepayment. A copy of the notice shall be mailed at least 30 days prior to the
date fixed for prepayment to any Registered Owner whose name and address appear
on the registration records maintained by the Registrar. So long as the Bonds
is owned by the United States of America, notice shall be mailed to the United
States of America at least 30 days prior to the date fixed for prepayment at
such address as the United States of America or RUS may designate in writing.
The notice shall identify the installments of principal to be prepaid, specify
the date of prepayment, and state that on such date the principal amount
thereof and accrued interest to the date of prepayment will become due and
payable and thereafter interest will cease to accrue. After such notice, the
Bonds or portions thereof so called for prepayment will be paid.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any notice of prepayment may
contain a statement that the prepayment is conditioned upon the receipt by the
Paying Agent of funds on or before the date fixed for prepayment sufficient to
pay the principal amount prepaid and the accrued interest thereon to the date
of prepayment, and that if such funds are not available, such prepayment shall
be canceled by written notice to the owner of the Bonds called for prepayment
in the same manner as the original prepayment notice was mailed.
Section 15.   Negotiability . Subject to the registration and payment
provisions herein provided, the Bonds shall be fully negotiable within the
meaning of and for the purpose of the Uniform Commercial Code - Investment
Securities and each Registered Owner shall possess all rights enjoyed by owners
of negotiable instruments under the Uniform Commercial Code-Investment
Securities.
Section 16.   Registration as to Principal and Interest . The Bonds must be
registered for payment as to both principal and interest. The Registrar shall
maintain records for the registration and transfer of the Bonds.
Section 17.   Registration of the Bonds.
A.   Records for the registration of the Bonds shall be kept by the Registrar.
The person in whose name any Bonds shall be registered, on the registration
records maintained by the Registrar, and as noted on the registration panel
appended to the Bonds, shall be deemed and regarded as the absolute owner
thereof for the purpose of payment and for all other purposes; and payment of
or on account of either principal or interest on any Bonds shall be made only
to or upon the written order of the Owner thereof or his or her legal
representative. All such payments shall be valid and effectual to discharge the
liability upon such Bonds to the extent of the sum or sums so paid.
B.   If the Bonds shall be lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated, the Registrar
shall, upon receipt of such evidence, information or indemnity relating thereto
as it or the City may reasonably require, and upon payment of all expenses in
connection therewith, authenticate and deliver a replacement Bond. If such
lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Bond shall have matured or shall have been
called for redemption, the Registrar may direct that such Bond be paid by the
Paying Agent in lieu of replacement; provided that if the United States of
America is the holder of a Bond, no security or indemnity is required in the
event of such lost or destroyed Bond.
C.   Whenever a Bond shall be surrendered to the Paying Agent upon payment
thereof, or to the Registrar for replacement as provided herein, such Bond
shall be promptly canceled by the Paying Agent or Registrar, and counterparts
of a certificate of such cancellation shall be furnished by the Paying Agent or
Registrar to the City.
D.   The Registrar shall maintain a registration record for the Bonds showing
the name and address of the Registered Owner and the amounts and dates of any
principal prepayments on the Bonds.
Section 18.   Form of Execution . The Mayor, the City Treasurer, and the City
Clerk may file their manual signatures with the Secretary of State, pursuant to
the Uniform Facsimile Signatures of Public Officials Act, cited as Chapter 351,
NRS. The registered Bonds shall be signed and executed in the corporate name of
the City with the manual or facsimile signature of the Mayor, countersigned
with the manual or facsimile signature of the City Treasurer, shall be attested
with a manual or facsimile signature of the City Clerk, shall be authenticated
by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the Registrar, and a manual
or facsimile of the seal of the City shall be affixed thereto. The Bonds
bearing the signatures of the officers in office at the time of the signing
thereof, shall be the valid and binding obligations of the City,
notwithstanding that before the delivery thereof and payment therefor, any or
all of the persons whose signatures appear thereon shall have ceased to fill
their respective offices. Any officer herein authorized or permitted to sign
the Bonds at the time of their execution and of the execution of a signature
certificate, may adopt as and for his or her own facsimile signature, the
facsimile signature of his or her predecessor in office in the event that such
facsimile signature appears upon the Bonds.
Section 19.   Incontestable Recital . Pursuant to NRS 350.628, the Bonds shall
contain a recital that they are issued pursuant to the Project Act and the Bond
Act, which recital shall be conclusive evidence of the validity of the Bonds
and the regularity of its issuance.
Section 20.   Registration Records Conclusive . As provided in Section 17, the
records maintained by the Registrar shall be conclusive evidence of the amounts
and dates of any principal prepayments.
Section 21.   Form of Single Bond . Subject to the provisions of this
Ordinance, the Bonds shall be in substantially the following form, with such
omissions, insertions, endorsements and variations as to any recitals of fact
or other provisions as may be required by the circumstances, be required by
this Ordinance, or be consistent with this Ordinance and necessary or
appropriate to conform to the rules and requirements of any governmental
authority or any usage or requirement of law with respect thereto:
(Form of Bond)
CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA
WASTEWATER REVENUE BOND, SERIES 2023[A][B]
NO. 1   Principal Amount: $____
Dated: ___________, 2023   Interest Rate: 1.375% per annum
Maturity Date: ____________, 20__
The City of Yerington, Nevada (the “City”), solely from the special funds
provided therefor, hereby acknowledges itself obligated, and for value
received, hereby promises to pay to the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (the “United
States”), the principal amount above stated together with interest on the
unpaid balance at the rate of 1.375% per annum (the “Interest Rate”).
Interest payments and amortized principal payments shall be made by the City on
the first day of each month commencing on the first day of the month following
the date of delivery of this bond (the “Bond”) and monthly thereafter on the
first day of each month until the maturity date or prepayment. Interest shall
be calculated based on a 365-day year.
If any installment is not paid when due, then in addition to installments
thereafter becoming due, the City shall pay interest on the unpaid balance of
the total principal amount from the due date of the delinquent installment to
the date of payment of the delinquent installment, provided, that interest
accruing by reason of any such delinquency shall not include any interest
applicable to such delinquency period in any installments subsequently paid and
shall in no event cause the total interest payable on this Bond to exceed the
Interest Rate set forth above on the unpaid balance of the total principal
amount. Except as otherwise provided herein, every payment on this Bond shall
be applied first to interest due through the next installment due date and then
the balance to principal.
The installments of principal and interest are payable in lawful money of the
United States of America, without deduction for exchange or collection charges,
during the period the United States of America is the registered owner of this
single Bond, at the appropriate United States Department of Agriculture, Rural
Utilities Service office, currently designated as 2730 N. Deer Run Road, Suite
1, Carson City, Nevada 89701, or at such other place as the United States may
designate in writing, and are so payable during any period the United States is
not the registered owner hereof at the address shown on the registration
records of the Registrar. The final installment of principal due on this Bond
is payable only upon the surrender of this Bond to the City Treasurer, as
paying agent for this Bond.
All installments of principal are subject to prepayment at the option of the
City prior to their stated due dates and, in inverse order of maturity, by the
payment of such principal amount and accrued interest to the prepayment date.
Prepayments shall be made on the date, at the place and in the manner provided
herein for making regularly scheduled installment payments and partial
prepayments shall be in the amount of that portion of one or more of the final
installments allocable to principal. No partial prepayment shall extend or
postpone the due date of any subsequent installment. Any prepayment shall be in
the amount of principal being prepaid, together with accrued interest thereon
to the date of prepayment, and shall be made without penalty or additional
interest or charges. Prepayment shall be made upon prior notice as provided in
the 2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Ordinance authorizing this Bond and adopted on
October 9, 2023 (the “Ordinance”). The Registrar shall maintain records showing
the amounts and the dates of any principal prepayment and such records shall be
conclusive evidence of the amounts and dates of any principal prepayment.
This single Bond is duly authorized to defray in part the cost to acquire,
improve, equip, operate and maintain, within the City, a wastewater project as
defined in NRS 268.714 (the “Wastewater Project”), under the authority of and
in full conformity with the constitution and laws of the State of Nevada, and
in particular the Bond Act (hereinafter defined) and the provisions of NRS
268.672 through 268.740, inclusive (the “Project Act”) and pursuant to the
Ordinance.
This bond does not constitute a debt or indebtedness of the City within the
meaning of any constitutional or statutory limitation and shall not be
considered or held to be a general obligation of the City. The City does not
pledge its full faith and credit for the payment of this Bond. Pursuant to the
Project Act, as supplemented by Sections 350.500 through 350.720, Nevada
Revised Statutes, and all laws amendatory thereof (the “Bond Act”), and all
laws thereunto enabling, this Bond is a special obligation of the City payable
and collectible solely out of and secured by an irrevocable pledge of certain
net income derived from the operation of the City's municipal Wastewater system
(the “System”). The owner hereof may not look to any general or other fund for
the payment of the principal of or interest on this Bond except the special
funds pledged therefor. This Bond is issued pursuant to the Project Act and to
the Bond Act. Pursuant to Section 350.628 of the Bond Act, this recital is
conclusive evidence of the validity of this Bond and the regularity of its
issuance.
Payment of this Bond and interest thereon shall be made solely from, and as
security for such payment there are pledged, pursuant to the Ordinance, two
special funds identified as the “2023 Wastewater Utility Bond Account,” and the
“2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Reserve Account,” into which the City covenants
to pay from the revenues of the System, after provision only for all necessary
and reasonable operation and maintenance expenses, sums sufficient to pay the
principal and the interest of this Bond and to create and maintain a reasonable
and specified reserve. For a description of said funds and the nature and
extent of the security afforded thereby, reference is made to the Ordinance.
This Bond is secured by and constitutes an irrevocable and prior lien (but not
necessarily an exclusive lien) upon the net revenues of the System on a parity
with the lien thereon securing any Parity Securities (as defined in the
Ordinance) issued in the future. Subject to designated conditions, additional
bonds may be issued payable from the net revenues and having a lien thereon
inferior and junior to the lien, or subject to additional conditions having a
lien thereon on a parity with the lien of this Bond, in accordance with the
Ordinance.
The City covenants and agrees with the owner hereof that it will keep and
perform all the covenants of the Ordinance, including its covenant against the
sale or mortgage of the System or any part thereof unless provision has been
made for the payment of this Bond and its covenant that it will fix, maintain
and collect rates sufficient to pay operating and maintenance expenses and 100%
of both the principal of and the interest on this Bond and any other
obligations payable annually from the net revenues of the System (including
reserves).
 
This Bond shall be registered for payment in the name of the registered owner
hereof only as to both principal and interest in the records of the Registrar
and in the registration panel appended to this single Bond. This Bond is
transferable by the registered owner hereof, in person or by his attorney duly
authorized in writing, at the office of the Registrar. No transfer of this Bond
shall be valid until it has been duly entered in such records and duly noted on
the registration panel appended to this Bond.
 
It is further certified, recited, and warranted that all the requirements of
law have been fully complied with by the proper City officers in the issuance
of this Bond.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or the interest on
this Bond or for any claim based thereon or otherwise upon the Ordinance or
other instrument pertaining thereto, against any individual member of the City
Council or any officer or other agent of the City, past, present or future,
either directly or indirectly through the City Council or otherwise, whether by
virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of
any penalty or otherwise, all such liability, if any, being by the acceptance
of this single Bond and as a part of the consideration of its issuance
specially waived and released.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City of Yerington, in the State of Nevada, acting by
and through the City Council of the City, has caused this Bond to be signed and
executed in its name and on its behalf with the manual or facsimile signature
of Mayor of the City, countersigned by the manual or facsimile signature of the
City Treasurer, attested by the manual or facsimile signature of the City Clerk
with the manual or facsimile seal of the City affixed hereto, all as of the
date of the delivery hereof.
CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA
      
   Mayor
(SEAL)
Attest:   Countersigned:
         
City Clerk   City Treasurer
(End of Form of Bond)
Exhibit A
(Attach Amortization Schedule)
 
(Form of Prepayment Panel)
The following installments of principal (or portions thereof) of this Bond has
been prepaid by the City of Yerington, Nevada, in accordance with the terms of
the Ordinance authorizing the issuance of this Bond:
 
Date of Payment Amount Prepaid Signature of
                               Registered Owner
                $
 
(End of Form of Prepayment Panel)
(Form of Registration Panel Appended to Bond)
MANDATORY REGISTRATION FOR PAYMENT AS TO PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST
The within Bond is registered in the office of the City Treasurer, as
Registrar, in the name of the last owner listed below; and the principal amount
of the Bonds and interest thereon shall be payable only to such owner, all in
accordance with the 2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Ordinance authorizing the
issuance of the Bonds.
 
Date of            Name of          Address of             Signature of
Registration       Owner            Owner                  Registrar
                                    USDA, Rural Utility
                   United States of Service
____________, 2023 America          2730 N. Deer Run Road,
                                    Suite 1, Carson City,
                                    Nevada 89701
 
(End of Form of Registration Panel Appended to Bond)
(Form of Provision for Assignment)
For value received, the undersigned hereby assigns and transfers unto
__________________ the attached Bond, together with accrued interest thereon,
and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint _______________________
attorney in fact to transfer said Bond on the registration records of City of
Yerington, Nevada, at the office of the City Treasurer, a Registrar with full
power of substitution in the premises.
Dated __________ ___, 20___
   
 
In the presence of:
Signature Guaranteed
By
 
NOTICE: The Signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as it
appears upon the Registration Panel of the within Bond in every particular,
without any alteration whatsoever.
Name of Transferee:    
Address of Transferee:    
Taxpayer Identification number or
Social Security Number(s):    
(End of Form of Assignment Panel Appended to Bond)
Section 22.   Period of Facilities’ Usefulness . The Wastewater Project will be
useful for at least 40 years from the date of delivery of the Bonds.
Section 23.   Bond Preparation; Execution and Delivery . The Mayor, the City
Manager, the City Clerk, and the City Treasurer are directed to prepare and
execute the Bonds. Thereafter, the City Treasurer shall deliver them to RUS on
behalf of the United States of America as purchaser on receipt of the agreed
purchase price.
Section 24.   Disposition of Proceeds of the Bonds.
A.   Refunding of 2020 Debentures. Proceeds of the Bonds in an amount
sufficient to effect the refunding and defeasance of the 2020 Debentures shall
be immediately used by the City to effect the Refunding Project.
B.   Purchaser not Responsible. The Purchaser or any Registered Owner of the
Bonds shall not be responsible for the application or disposal of proceeds of
the Bonds.
Section 25.   Fiscal Year . For the purpose of this Ordinance the City shall be
operated upon a fiscal year commencing July 1 in each year and ending on
June 30 of the next succeeding year.
Section 26.   Income Fund . There has been previously created and is hereby
continued a fund known as the “City of Yerington Wastewater Utility Revenue
Fund,” herein sometimes designated as the “Income Fund.” So long as the Bonds
shall be outstanding all income and revenues derived from the operation of the
System shall be deposited into the Income Fund.
Section 27.   Administration of Income Fund . The following payments shall be
made from the Income Fund:
A.   Operation and Maintenance Expenses. First, there shall be set aside each
month such reasonable percentage of the Income Fund as the City Council shall
determine to be reasonable and necessary for the proper operation and
maintenance of the System. Any surplus remaining at the end of the Fiscal Year
and not used for Operation and Maintenance Expenses shall be transferred back
to the Income Fund.
B.   Bond Account Payments. Second, from any moneys remaining in the Income
Fund there shall be deposited into a separate account hereby created to be
known as the “2023 Wastewater Utility Bond Account” (herein “Bond Account”)
monthly, commencing on or before the day preceding each payment date, an amount
sufficient, together with any available moneys therein, to pay the next
maturing installment of principal and interest on the outstanding Bonds until
the maturity or prior redemption of the Bonds.
C.   Reserve Account Payments. There shall be deposited annually into a
separate account hereby created to be known as the “2023 Wastewater Revenue
Bond Reserve Account” (herein “Reserve Account”), commencing on or before the
date which is twelve full months from the date of delivery of the Bonds, an
amount equal to at least one-tenth (1/10) of the average annual loan
installment, and annually thereafter an amount each year of at least one-tenth
(1/10) of the average annual loan installment until an amount equal to the
average annual loan installment on the Bonds (the “Minimum Reserve”) has been
accumulated. After the Minimum Reserve has been accumulated, an amount shall be
deposited annually from the Income Fund into the Reserve Account sufficient to
maintain said Reserve Account in an amount not less than the Minimum Reserve.
The moneys in the Reserve Account shall be maintained as a continuing reserve
to be used only for the following:
(1)   Securities Requirements. To pay principal and interest on the Bonds, if
necessary to prevent a default;
(2)   Emergency Maintenance Costs. To pay the costs of extraordinary and major
repairs, renewal, replacements, or maintenance items appertaining to such
System of a type not recurring annually and not defrayed as operation and
maintenance expenses;
(3)   Capital Costs. To pay the cost of extending the System; and
(4)   Replacement Costs. To pay the costs of replacing short-lived assets of
the System which have useful lives significantly less than the term of the
Bonds.
D.   Termination of Deposits. Payment need not be made into the Bond Account or
the Reserve Account if the total amount in both funds at least equals the
principal and interest requirements of the then outstanding Bonds to maturity.
In that case such an amount equal to such principal and interest requirements
shall be set aside for that purpose and all other moneys may be used in any
lawful manner.
E.   Defraying Delinquencies in Bond Account and in Reserve Account. If, for
any reason, the City shall fail to pay into the Bond Account the full
stipulated amount from Net Revenues, then the difference between that paid and
the amount stipulated shall be paid into the Bond Account from the Reserve
Account. Money so used shall be replaced in the Reserve Account from the first
revenues thereafter received not required to be otherwise applied by this
section. If the proceedings authorizing other parity lien obligations require
the replacement of moneys in a reserve fund, then money shall be replaced in
each such reserve fund on a pro rata basis. If, for any reason, the City shall
fail to pay into the Reserve Account the full stipulated amount, the difference
between the amount paid and the amount stipulated shall in like manner be paid
therein from the first revenues thereafter received not required to be
otherwise applied by this section. The moneys in the Bond Account shall be used
only for the purpose of paying Bond principal and interest. Any moneys in the
Reserve Account in excess of the Minimum Reserve (including any investment
income) may be withdrawn and used in the same manner as Net Revenues.
F.   Payment for Additional Obligations. After making the above payments, any
balance in the Income Fund may be used for the payment of principal and
interest on additional bonds including reasonable reserves therefor. The lien
of additional bonds on Net Revenues shall be on a parity with, or subordinate
to, the lien and pledge of the Bonds. Any payments with respect to additional
parity bonds shall be made concurrently with those required by this section.
G.   Use of Surplus Revenues. After making the above payments, the remaining
Net Revenues, if any, may be applied to any other lawful purpose or purposes
authorized by the Constitution and Laws of the State as the City Council may
direct.
Section 28.   General Administration of Funds . The funds and accounts
reference herein shall be administered as follows:
A.   Places and Times of Deposits. The above accounts and funds shall be
separately maintained and deposited in one or more bank accounts in an Insured
Bank or Banks. Each account shall be continuously secured to the extent
required by law and shall be irrevocable and not withdrawable by anyone for any
other purpose. Amounts in the account exceeding the applicable federal deposit
insurance coverage shall be secured by the Insured Bank in advance in
accordance with U.S. Treasury rules and regulations governing the deposit of
government moneys. Payments shall be made into the proper account on the
payment date when due except that when the payment date shall be a Sunday or
legal holiday, the payment shall be made on the preceding calendar day which is
not also a Sunday or legal holiday. At least one day prior to any principal
then due, moneys sufficient to pay interest and principal due on such payment
date shall be credited at the Paying Agent. Nothing in this Ordinance shall
prevent the City Council from establishing one bank account for any of the
funds and accounts required by this Ordinance.
B.   Investment of Money. Any moneys in any fund or account designated in
Sections 24, 26 and 27 of this Ordinance may be invested or reinvested by the
City in such obligations as may be permitted by the Constitution and laws of
the State of Nevada, and applicable federal statutes and regulations.
Section 29.   Parity Lien Bonds . The Bonds constitute an irrevocable lien (but
not necessarily an exclusive lien) upon the Pledged Revenues on a parity with
any other Parity Securities heretofore or hereafter issued.
Section 30.   Additional Securities.
A.   Earnings Test. This Ordinance shall not prevent the issuance of additional
Parity Securities payable from and constituting a lien upon the Pledged
Revenues on a parity with the lien of the Bonds. Before any such additional
Parity Securities are actually issued (and upon receiving the prior written
consent of RUS on behalf of the United States of America for so long as the
United States of America is the Registered Owner of the Bonds) it must be
determined that:
(1)   The City is not, and has not been in default as to any payments required
to be made in Section 27 during the Fiscal Year immediately preceding the
issuance of such additional Parity Securities, or if the Bonds has not been
outstanding for a full Fiscal Year, then for the longest period of time the
Bonds has been outstanding; and
(2)   The annual Revenues for the Fiscal Year immediately preceding the
effective date of the ordinance authorizing the issuance of any such Parity
Securities shall have been sufficient to pay an amount representing 120% of the
average annual principal and interest requirements on all bonds then
outstanding and constituting a lien upon Revenues and the Parity Securities
proposed to be issued (excluding reserves). As used in this section “average
annual principal and interest requirements” shall be the total principal and
interest coming due on the then outstanding Parity Securities and the proposed
Parity Securities during the period extending from the date of the proposed
Parity Securities to the final principal payment date of the then outstanding
Parity Securities or the proposed Parity Securities, whichever is longer,
divided by the number of years (including any fraction thereof) computed from
the date of the proposed Parity Securities to the last principal payment date
of the then outstanding Parity Securities, or the proposed Parity Securities,
whichever is longer.
B.   Certification or Opinion of Revenues. A written certificate or opinion by
the City Treasurer or an Independent Accountant that the earnings test set
forth in Section 30.A above has been met shall conclusively determine the right
of the City to issue additional parity bonds. The City Treasurer or an
Independent Accountant may utilize the results of any annual audit to the
extent it covers the applicable period and may conclusively rely on a
Consulting Engineer's Certificate for the amount of any adjustment required
under Paragraph C of this Section. In the event that an annual audit covering
the applicable period is unavailable, the City Treasurer may utilize unaudited
information covering the applicable period in making such written
certification.
C.   Consideration of Additional Expenses. In determining whether additional
parity bonds may be issued, the City Treasurer or the Independent Accountant
shall consider any probable increase (but not reduction) in Operation and
Maintenance Expenses. A written certificate by a Consulting Engineer as to the
amount of such probable increase may be conclusively relied on by the City and
the City Treasurer or the Independent Accountant in determining the right of
the City to issue additional parity bonds.
D.   Subordinate Obligations Permitted. The City may issue bonds or other
obligations (upon receiving the prior written consent of RUS on behalf of the
United States of America for so long as the United States of America is the
Registered Owner of either of the Bonds) having a lien on Revenues subordinate
to the lien thereon of the Bonds.
E.   Superior Obligations Permitted. The City shall not issue any bond or other
obligation having a lien on Revenues prior and superior to the lien thereon of
the Bonds unless the City has received the prior written consent of the United
States of America.
F.   Waiver of Earnings Test. The foregoing earnings test described in
Section 30.A may be waived or modified by the written consent of Bondholders
representing seventy-five percent (75%) of the then outstanding principal
indebtedness on a parity with the proposed Parity Securities.
Section 31.   Defeasance . So long as the United States of America is the
Registered Owner of any of the Bonds, such Bond may not be defeased.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the United States of America is no longer the
Registered Owner of the Bonds, when the principal of and interest on any Bonds
(the “Bond Requirements”) has been duly paid, the pledge and lien and all
obligations hereunder shall thereby be discharged as to such Bonds and such
Bonds shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding within the meaning of this
Ordinance. There shall be deemed to be such due payment when the City has
placed in escrow or in trust with a trust bank located within or without the
State (the “Bank”), an amount sufficient (including the known minimum yield
available for such purpose from Federal Securities in which such amount wholly
or in part may be initially invested) to meet all Bond Requirements of such the
Bonds, as the same become due to the final maturity of the Bonds or upon any
redemption date as of which the City shall have exercised or shall have
obligated itself to exercise its prior redemption option by a call of the Bonds
for payment. The Federal Securities shall become due before the respective
times on which the proceeds thereof shall be needed, in accordance with a
schedule established and agreed upon between the City and the Bank at the time
of the creation of the escrow or trust, or the Federal Securities shall be
subject to redemption at the option of the owners thereof to assure
availability as so needed to meet the schedule. For the purpose of this
section, the term “Federal Securities” shall be as defined in NRS 350.522, and
shall include only Federal Securities which are not callable for redemption
prior to their maturities except at the option of the holder thereof.
Section 32.   Protective Covenants . The City covenants and agrees with each
and every Holder that:
A.   Use of Proceeds of the Bonds. The Refunding Project shall be completed
without delay.
B.   Payment of Bonds Herein Authorized. The City will make the principal and
interest payments of the Bonds at the place, on the dates, and in the manner
specified according to the true intent and meaning thereof.
C.   Use Charges. Rates for services rendered by the System shall be reasonable
and just, taking into account the cost and value of the System, Operation and
Maintenance Expenses, possible delinquencies, proper allowances for
depreciation, contingencies, and the amounts necessary to retire all bonds
payable from Net Revenues, and the reserves therefor. There shall be charged
against all users, including the State of Nevada and its subdivisions, rates
and amounts sufficient to produce revenues to pay the annual Operation and
Maintenance Expenses, and 100% of both the principal of and interest on all
bonds and other obligations payable from Net Revenues, including reserves.
Except as otherwise provided by law, no free service shall be furnished by the
System. Any use of the System by the City will be paid for from the City's
general fund at the reasonable value of the use so made. Income so derived from
the City shall be treated in the same manner as any other System income.
D.   Levy of Charges. Prior to the delivery of the Bonds, the City will
establish, levy and maintain the rates and charges which are required to meet
the provisions of paragraph C of this Section 32. No reduction in any initial
Wastewater rate schedule may be made unless:
(1)   The City has complied with Section 27 for at least two Fiscal Years
immediately preceding such reduction.
(2)   The audits for the full two Fiscal Years immediately preceding such
reduction disclose that the estimated revenues resulting from the proposed rate
schedule will be sufficient to meet the requirements of paragraph C of this
section.
(3)   If the United States then owns the Bonds, the Rural Development State
Director approves in writing the proposed reduction, provided that the United
States, acting by and through RUS, shall have first been furnished with a
written request signed by the Treasurer requesting and justifying such
reduction. This Section 32.D(3) applies only if the United States owns the
Bonds on the date of the reduction.
E.   Efficient Operation. The City shall make such improvements and repairs to
the System as may be necessary to insure its economical and efficient operation
and its ability to meet demands for service.
F.   Records. Separate records will be kept showing complete and correct
entries of all transactions relating to the System. Such records shall include
monthly entries showing:
(1)   The number of System customers;
(2)   The revenues received;
(3)   A detailed statement of expenses; and
(4)   Such other items specified by any form furnished by the United States.
Before each Fiscal Year the City Council will cause an operating budget to be
prepared.
G.   Right to Inspect. Any Registered Owner, or their duly authorized agents,
shall have the right at all reasonable times to inspect the System, and all
records, accounts and data relating thereto.
H.   Audits and Budgets. As long as the United States of America is the
Registered Owner of any Bonds, the City agrees that it will, within 9 months
following the close of each Fiscal Year, furnish an audit made by an
Independent Accountant to RUS (at the Rural Development State Office of RUS).
Each such audit, in addition to matters thought proper by the accountant, shall
include:
(1)   A statement for the Fiscal Year just closed, of the income and
expenditures of the City, including Revenues, the amount of any capital
expenditures and profit or loss;
(2)   A balance sheet as of the end of such Fiscal Year, including all funds
and accounts created by proceedings authorizing bonds payable from Net
Revenues;
(3)   The accountant’s comment regarding the City’s methods of operation and
accounting practices;
(4)   A list of the insurance policies in force, setting out the amount of each
policy, the risks covered, the name of the insurer, and the expiration date;
(5)   A recapitulation of each fund or account created by the various
proceedings showing deposits and withdrawals for said Fiscal Year.
After the beginning of each new Fiscal Year, the City shall furnish an
operating budget showing the planned budget for the ensuing year and a copy of
the minutes of the meeting of the City Council at which such budget was
approved. Along with the operating budget, the City shall provide a letter
showing the name, address and term of office for each member of the City
Council, the number of residential users and the number of commercial users of
the System as of the end of the Fiscal Year. The City will furnish the
designated United States representative with quarterly statements of income and
expense on forms furnished by the United States. The City will furnish a copy
of each audit, budget, quarterly statement and written instrument to the United
States.
I.   Billing Procedure and Discontinuance of Service. All bills shall be sent
out on a regularly established manner each month in advance or after service is
rendered. Bills shall be due within an established number of days from the bill
date. Bills for wastewater use and wastewater service may be sent out in
combination with bills for another utility (e.g., sanitary sewer bills or
refuse collection bills) as long as such amounts are separately stated. If
bills are not paid 30 days after such due date they shall be collected in any
lawful manner.
J.   Use of Bond Account and Reserve Account. The Bond Account and the Reserve
Account shall be used solely and only, and said funds are hereby pledged, for
the purposes set forth above for the payment of the principal of and interest
on the Bonds on a pro rata basis.
K.   Charges and Liens upon System. The City will pay all taxes and
governmental charges lawfully levied in respect of the System when due. The
City will comply with all valid requirements of any governmental authority
relative to the System. It shall not create or permit to be created any lien or
charge upon the System or the Pledged Revenue except as permitted herein. The
City will satisfy all claims and demands within 60 days after the same shall
accrue which might by law become a lien upon the System or upon the Pledged
Revenue unless the validity thereof is being contested in good faith by
appropriate legal proceedings.
L.   Construction Contract and Bond. The City will require each person, firm or
corporation with whom it may contract for labor or materials to furnish a
performance and payment bond in the full amount of any contract. Any such
contract will meet the reasonable requirements of the United States which are
not inconsistent with State law.
M.   Insurance. Fire and extended coverage insurance will be obtained and
maintained on the facilities above ground, including City-owned contents,
equipment and machinery. The proceeds of such insurance shall be used to
restore the property lost or damaged and any remainder (or if such lost or
damaged property is no longer required for the System the entire proceeds) will
be distributed as Net Revenues. The City will carry workmen's compensation
insurance on all full-time employees and will maintain public liability
insurance (including liability and property damage insurance on City-owned or
operated vehicles) if authorized by State law as interpreted by the legal
counsel for the City.
N.   Competing System or Works. The City shall not grant any franchise or
license to a competing System, or permit any person or organization to sell
Wastewater or Wastewater service within the City, but this covenant shall not
require the City to take any action which, in the opinion of the City's legal
counsel, may violate antitrust laws.
O.   Alienating System. The City will not sell, lease, mortgage, pledge, or
otherwise alienate the System, or any part thereof, except any portion which
shall have been replaced by other property of at least equal value or which
shall cease to be necessary for the efficient operation of the System. In the
event of any sale as aforesaid, the proceeds of such sale shall be distributed
as Net Revenues.
P.   Extension of Interest Payments. The City will not extend or be a party to
the extension of the time for paying any claim for interest. Any installment of
interest so extended shall not be entitled in case of default hereunder to the
benefit or security of this Ordinance except subject to the prior payment in
full of the principal of all bonds and interest which has not been extended.
Q.   Management of the System. If an “event of default” shall occur or if the
Net Revenues in any Fiscal Year fail to equal principal, interest and reserves
for all bonds payable from Net Revenues, the City shall retain a Consulting
Engineer to assist in the management of the System so long as such default
continues or the Net Revenues are less than the amount designated.
R.   Fidelity Bonds. The persons, being responsible for receiving income and
maintaining the accounts of the City, shall be bonded in a blanket position
fidelity bond in a penal sum at least equal to the maximum amount on hand at
any one time (exclusive of proceeds of the Bonds), which fidelity bond may be
provided on Form RUS 440-24 “Position Fidelity Schedule Bond” or other
equivalent United States forms and shall designate the United States of America
as a co-obligee.
S.   The City’s Existence.
(1)   The City will maintain its “corporate” identity and existence so long as
any principal of the Bonds remains outstanding (and the United States of
America is a Registered Owner of any of such Bonds), unless another political
subdivision by operation of law succeeds to the liabilities and rights of the
City without adversely affecting to any substantial degree the privileges and
rights of any Registered Owner.
(2)   The City agrees to give written notice to the Rural Development State
Office, if the United States of America is a Registered Owner of any principal
of the Bonds, at least 30 days prior to any contemplated merger, consolidation
or dissolution of the City.
T.   Tax Covenants. The City covenants for the benefit of the owner of the
Bonds that it will not take any action or omit to take any action with respect
to the Bonds, the proceeds thereof, any other funds of the City or any
facilities financed with the proceeds of the Bonds if such action or omission
(i) would cause the interest on the Bonds to lose its exclusion from gross
income for federal income tax purposes under Section 103 of the Tax Code,
(ii) would cause interest on the Bonds to lose its exclusion from alternative
minimum taxable income as defined in Section 55(b)(2) of the Tax Code except to
the extent such interest is required to be included in the adjusted current
earnings adjustment applicable to corporations under Section 56 of the Tax Code
in calculating corporate alternative minimum taxable income. The foregoing
covenant shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the payment in
full or defeasance of the Bonds until the date on which all obligations of the
City in fulfilling the above covenant under the Tax Code have been met.
Section 33.   Events of Default . It is an “event of default” if:
A.   Nonpayment of Principal. Payment of any principal of the Bonds is not made
when due or upon prior redemption.
B.   Nonpayment of Interest. Payment of interest is not made when due.
C.   Incapable to Perform. The City is not capable of fulfilling its
obligations hereunder.
D.   Default of Any Provision. The City defaults in the punctual performance of
its covenants hereunder for 60 days after written notice shall have been given
by the Owners of 25% of the outstanding principal of the Bonds.
Section 34.   Remedies on Default . Upon the happening of any event of default,
the Registered Owners or Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of
the outstanding Bond, or a trustee therefor, may protect and enforce these
rights of any Bondholder or Owner by proper legal or equitable remedy deemed
most effectual including mandamus, specific performance of any covenant, the
appointment of a receiver (the consent to such appointment being hereby
granted), injunctive relief, or requiring the governing body of the City to act
as if it were the trustee of an expressed trust, or any combination of such
remedies. All proceedings shall be maintained for the equal benefit of all
Owners and Holders. Any receiver appointed to protect the rights of Bondholders
may take possession and operate and maintain the System in the same manner as
the City itself might do. The failure of any Registered Owner or Holder to
proceed does not relieve the City or any person of any liability for failure to
perform any duty hereunder. The foregoing rights are in addition to any other
right and the exercise of any right by any Bondholder or Owner shall not be
deemed a waiver of any other right.
Section 35.   Duties upon Default . Upon the happening of any event of default,
the City will perform all proper acts to protect and preserve the security
created for the prompt payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
The Owners or Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the
outstanding Bonds after written demand, may proceed to protect and enforce the
rights provided by this section.
Section 36.   Prior Charge Upon Lower Rates. If any commission or authority
lawfully prescribes a lower schedule of rates than that contemplated by this
Ordinance, then the payment of principal and interest on the Bonds, and any
parity bonds, shall constitute a first and prior charge on revenues.
Section 37.   Refinancing . If it shall appear to RUS, during the time the
United States of America owns any of the Bonds, that the City can refinance the
amount of the Bonds then outstanding, in whole or in part, by obtaining a loan
for such purposes from responsible cooperative or private credit sources, at
reasonable rates and terms for loans for similar purposes and periods of time,
the City agrees (upon the request of RUS), within the limitations of its then
existing powers, (and subject to any contractual limitations contained herein
concerning the payment of the Bonds and their redemption), to apply for and to
accept such loan, with conditions acceptable to the City, in sufficient amount
to repay the United States of America and agrees to take such action as may be
required in connection with such loan. Any such refinancing shall be
accomplished according to applicable statutes of the State.
Section 38.   Discharge of the Bonds . When the Bonds has been paid, the pledge
and lien and all obligations hereunder shall be discharged and the Bonds shall
no longer be deemed to be outstanding.
Section 39.   Amendment of Ordinance . This Ordinance may be amended, without
receipt by the City of any additional consideration, but with the written
consent of the Owners of seventy-five percent (75%) of the principal of the
Bonds then outstanding (not including any portion of the Bonds which may be
held for the account of the City); but no Ordinance adopted without the written
consent of the Owners of all of the outstanding Bonds shall have the effect of
permitting:
(1)   An extension of any installment payment of the Bonds; or
(2)   A reduction in the principal amount or interest rate of the Bonds; or
(3)   The creation of a lien upon revenue ranking prior to the lien or pledge
created by this Ordinance; or
(4)   A reduction of the principal amount of the Bonds required for consent to
such amendatory Ordinance; or
(5)   The modification of or otherwise affecting the rights of the Holders of
less than all of the outstanding Bonds.
Section 40.   Delegated Powers . The officers of the City be, and they hereby
are, authorized and directed to take all action necessary or appropriate to
effectuate the provisions of this Ordinance, including, without limitation, the
execution of such certificates, agreements and forms as may be reasonably
required by the United States of America or RUS, relating, inter alia, to the
signing of the Bonds, the tenure and identity of the officials of the City
Council and of the City, the delivery of the Bonds and the receipt of the
purchase price of the Bonds, and, if it is in accordance with fact, the absence
of litigation, pending or threatened, affecting the validity thereof, and the
absence and existence of factors affecting the exemption of interest on the
Bonds from federal income taxation, the assembly and dissemination of financial
and other information concerning the City, the Bonds, and the sale and issuance
of the Bonds pursuant to the provisions of this Ordinance and to any instrument
supplemental thereto.
Section 41.   Prior Contracts . If any provision herein is inconsistent with
any provision in any existing contract pertaining to the City so as to affect
prejudicially and materially the rights and privileges thereunder, so long as
such contract shall remain viable and in effect such provision therein shall
control such inconsistent provision herein and the latter provision shall be
subject and subordinate to such provision in such existing contract.
Section 42.   Police Power . Nothing in this Ordinance prohibits or otherwise
limits or inhibits the reasonable exercise in the future by the State and its
governmental bodies of the police powers and powers of taxation inherent in the
sovereignty of the State or the exercise by the United States of the powers
delegated to it by the Federal Constitution. The City cannot contract away such
powers nor limit or inhibit by contract the proper exercise thereof, and this
Ordinance does not purport to do so.
Section 43.   Ordinance Irrepealable . After the Bonds is issued, this
Ordinance shall constitute an irrevocable contract between the City and the
owner of the Bonds and this Ordinance, if the Bonds is in fact issued, shall be
and shall remain irrepealable until the Bonds, as to all Bond Requirements,
shall be fully paid, canceled and discharged as herein provided.
Section 44.   Implied Repealer . All ordinances, resolutions, bylaws and
orders, or parts thereof, inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed to the
extent only of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed to
revive any ordinance, resolution, bylaw or order, or part hereof, heretofore
repealed.
Section 45.   Publication and Effective Date . The Council has expressed in the
preambles to this Ordinance that it pertains to the sale, issuance, or payment
of the Debentures, and that, as permitted under Section 7.030(3) of the City
Charter, this instrument may accordingly be adopted in the same manner as is
provided for cases of emergency. This Ordinance shall become effective
immediately upon unanimous passage by the Council. Following the unanimous
passage of this Ordinance, the City shall publish this Ordinance by its title
only, together with a statement that typewritten copies of this Ordinance are
available for inspection by interested parties at the office of the City Clerk,
such publication to be made in a newspaper or newspapers published in Lyon
County and which is of general circulation in the City and such publication to
be in substantially the following form:
(Form of Publication)
 
BILL NO. 430
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-05
AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING AND DIRECTING THE ISSUANCE OF THE CITY OF YERINGTON,
NEVADA, WASTEWATER REVENUE BOND, SERIES 2023A IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF NOT TO
EXCEED $8,577,000 AND THE CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA, WASTEWATER REVENUE BOND
SERIES 2023B IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF NOT TO EXCEED $7,000,000 TO REFINANCE A
SEWERAGE PROJECT, AS DEFINED IN NRS 268.714; PROVIDING THE FORMS, TERMS,
CONDITIONS AND SECURITY FOR THE BONDS AND THE SALE TO THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA; PROVIDING FOR ADOPTION AS IF AN EMERGENCY EXISTS; AND PROVIDING OTHER
MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that typewritten copies of the above-numbered and
entitled ordinance are available for inspection by all interested parties at
the office of the City Clerk of City of Yerington, Nevada and that such
ordinance was proposed on October 9, 2023, and was passed at the meeting held
on October 9, 2023 by the following vote of the Council:
Those Voting Aye:   
                  Jerry Bryant      
Matt Galvin      
Shane Martin      
Frank Pizzo      
 
Those Voting Nay:            None         
___________________
 
Those Absent:               None         
___________________
___________________
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City Council of the City of Yerington, Nevada, has
caused this ordinance to be published by title only, which is deemed to be an
adequate summary of such Ordinance.
   DATED on this October 9, 2023.
   /s/      
   Mayor
   City of Yerington, Nevada
(SEAL)
 
 
   
Attest:
/s/      
City Clerk
City of Yerington, Nevada
(End of Form of Publication)
Section 46.   Ratification . All consistent action taken previously by the City
and the City officers directed toward the Refunding Project and toward the
issuance of its Bonds for such purposes is ratified, approved, and confirmed.
Section 47.   Severability . If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of
this Ordinance shall for any reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the
invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph, clause or provision
shall in no way affect any remaining provisions of this Ordinance.
Proposed on October 9, 20223.
Proposed by Council Member Jerry Bryant.
Passed October 9, 2023 by the following vote of the Council:
Those Voting Aye:   
                  Jerry Bryant      
Matt Galvin      
Shane Martin      
Frank Pizzo      
 
Those Voting Nay:            None         
___________________
 
Those Absent:               None         
___________________
___________________
 
      
   Mayor
   City of Yerington, Nevada
(SEAL)
Attest:
   
City Clerk
City of Yerington, Nevada
STATE OF NEVADA      )
)
LYON COUNTY      ) ss.
)
CITY OF YERINGTON      )
I am the duly chosen and qualified City Clerk of the City of Yerington, Nevada
(the “City”), Nevada, do hereby certify:
The foregoing pages constitute a true, correct, complete and compared copy of
the original 2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Ordinance (the “Ordinance”) adopted
by the City Council of the City (the “Council”) at a meeting held on October 9,
2023.
2.   The adoption of the Ordinance was duly moved and seconded and the
Ordinance was adopted by an affirmative vote of the members of Council as
follows:
Those Voting Aye:   
                  Jerry Bryant      
Matt Galvin      
Shane Martin      
Frank Pizzo      
 
Those Voting Nay:            None         
___________________
 
Those Absent:               None         
___________________
 
3.   The original of the Ordinance has been approved and authenticated by the
signatures of the Mayor of the City and myself as City Clerk and has been
recorded in the regular official record of the Council kept for that purpose in
my office, which record has been duly signed by the officers and properly
sealed.
4.   Public notice of such meeting attached as Exhibit A was given and such
meeting was held and conducted in full compliance with the provisions of the
Nevada Open Meeting law as outlined in NRS Chapter 241. A copy of the notice of
public meeting and excerpt from the meeting minutes relating to the
resolutions, as posted prior to 9:00 a.m. at least 3 business days in advance
of the meeting on the City’s website and the State of Nevada’s official public
notice website are attached as Exhibit B.
5.    Upon request, the Council provides at no charge, at least one copy of the
agenda for its public meetings, any proposed ordinance or regulation which will
be discussed at the public meeting, and any other supporting materials provided
to the Council for an item on the agenda, except for certain confidential
materials and materials pertaining to closed meetings, as provided by law.
6.   A copy of such notice so given of the meeting of the Council on October 9,
2023 is attached to this certificate as Exhibit “A.” A copy of the affidavit of
publication of the Ordinance by title is attached to this certificate as
Exhibit “B.”
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand on this October 9, 2023.
 
 
(SEAL)               _______________________________________
City Clerk
 
 
EXHIBIT A
(Attach Notice of Meeting)
EXHIBIT B
(Attach Affidavit of Publication by Title)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BILL NO. 431
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-06
AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING AND DIRECTING THE ISSUANCE OF THE CITY OF YERINGTON,
NEVADA, WATER REVENUE BOND, SERIES 2023A IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF NOT TO
EXCEED $9,901,000 AND THE CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA, WATER REVENUE BOND SERIES
2023B IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF NOT TO EXCEED $7,352,000 TO REFINANCE A WATER
PROJECT, AS DEFINED IN NRS 268.728; PROVIDING THE FORMS, TERMS, CONDITIONS AND
SECURITY FOR THE BONDS AND THE SALE TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA; PROVIDING
FOR ADOPTION AS IF AN EMERGENCY EXISTS; AND PROVIDING OTHER MATTERS RELATING
THERETO.
WHEREAS, the City of Yerington in the County of Lyon and State of Nevada (the
“City,” the “County,” and the “State,” respectively) is a political subdivision
of the State a body corporate and a city duly organized as a city under the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (“NRS”) Chapter 268, Chapter 465,
Statutes of Nevada, 1971, as amended (the “Charter”), and the general laws of
the State;
WHEREAS, the City owns and operates a municipal water system (the “System”);
WHEREAS, the City has received commitments from the United States Department of
Agriculture acting through the United States Department of Agriculture, Rural
Utility Service (“RUS”) to provide loans in the aggregate amount $33,000,000 to
the City for purposes of providing long-term financing for a Water Project (as
defined in NRS 268.728) (the “Water Project”) pursuant to a Letter of
Conditions dated December 29, 2016, as amended (collectively, the “Letters of
Conditions”);
WHEREAS, the City has previously issued the “City of Yerington Interim
Debentures, Series 2020” (the “2020 Debentures”) in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $32,830,000;
WHEREAS, the 2020 Debentures are currently outstanding in the principal amount
of $32,830,000.
WHEREAS, the 2020 Debentures are secured in part by a lien on the Pledged
Revenues;
WHEREAS, the outstanding 2020 Debentures are subject to prior redemption at the
option of the City on any date at a redemption price equal to the principal
amount thereof plus accrued interest thereon to the redemption date;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of NRS Sections 350.500 through 350.720,
and all laws amendatory thereof, cited in Section 350.500 thereof by the short
title “Local Government Securities Law” (the “Bond Act”), the City is
authorized to issue bonds in order to refund, pay and discharge certain
outstanding bonds or other obligations of the City for the purpose of reducing
interest rates and effecting other economies;
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City (the “Council”) hereby determines that it
is in the best interests of the City and the inhabits thereof to issue its
“City of Yerington, Nevada Water Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2023A” and its
“City of Yerington, Nevada Water Revenue Refunding Bonds Series 2023B”
(collectively, the “Bonds”) to refund, pay and discharge the outstanding the
2020 Debentures and pay the costs associated with the issuance of the Bonds
(collectively, the “Refunding Project”);
WHEREAS, other than the 2020 Debentures, the City has not previously pledged
the Pledged Revenues derived and to be derived from the operation of the System
(as defined herein) for the repayment or redemption of any securities payable
from such revenues, or otherwise, with the result that such Pledged Revenues
may be pledged lawfully and irrevocably to secure the payment of the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds will be
secured by the Pledged Revenues; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Letters of Condition, RUS has agreed to purchase the
Bonds herein authorized at a price of par and at an interest rate of 1.375% per
annum, (provided, however, that the City may elect to accept the RUS rate
available at the date of issuance of the Bonds, if lower) (the “Interest
Rate”);
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and does hereby determine and declare
that the proposal for the purchase at private sale pursuant to NRS 350.616 of a
single Bond of each series of the Bonds by RUS, for a price consisting of the
aggregate principal amount of the Bonds, at the Interest Rate, and otherwise
maturing, being secured and otherwise being issued as herein provided,
constitutes the best proposal for the Bonds and is to the best advantage of the
City;
WHEREAS, the effective Interest Rate on the Bonds herein authorized or such
lower elected rate, does not exceed by more than 3% the “Index of Revenue
Bonds” which was most recently published before a negotiated offer was accepted
for the Bonds;
WHEREAS, the City Council hereby elects to have the Chapter 348 of NRS (the
“Supplemental Bond Act”) apply to the Bonds;
WHEREAS, the City Council hereby determines that it is necessary and advisable
that the City incur a bonded indebtedness by issuing the Bonds pursuant to the
Charter, the Project Act, the Water Act, the Supplemental Bond Act, and the
Bond Act;
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and hereby declares that each of the
limitations and other conditions to the issuance of the Bonds in the Charter,
the Bond Act, the Project Act, the Supplemental Bond Act, and in any other
relevant act of the State or the federal government has been met, and pursuant
to NRS 350.708 of the Bond Act such determination of the City Council that the
limitations in the Bond Act have been met shall be conclusive in the absence of
fraud or arbitrary and gross abuse of discretion;
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and does hereby declare:
(A)   It is necessary and for the best interests of the City to effect the
Refunding Project and to issue the Bonds; and
(B)   Each of the limitations and other conditions to the issuance of the Bonds
in the Project Act, the Bond Act, the Supplemental Bond Act, and in any other
relevant act of the State or the Federal Government has been met; and pursuant
to NRS 350.708, this determination of the City Council that the limitations of
the Bond Act have been met shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud or
arbitrary or gross abuse of discretion; and
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and does hereby declare:
(A)   This Ordinance pertains to the sale, issuance and payment of the Bonds;
(B)   Such declaration shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud or gross
abuse of discretion in accordance with the provisions of Subsection 2 of NRS
350.579; and
(C)   This Ordinance may accordingly be adopted as if an emergency now exists
by an affirmative vote of all of the voting members of the City Council, and
this Ordinance may become effective at any time when an emergency ordinance of
the City may go into effect.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF CITY OF YERINGTON DOES ORDAIN:
Section 1.   Short Title . This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as
the “2023 Water Revenue Bond Ordinance” (herein the “Ordinance”).
Section 2.   Matter of Local Concern . The City Council has determined, and
does hereby determine, that the completion of the Refunding Project and the
pledge of the Pledged Revenues to the repayment of the Bonds is a “Matter of
local concern” as defined in NRS 268.003.
Section 3.   Definitions . The terms defined in this section, except where the
context requires otherwise, shall have the following meanings in this
Ordinance:
A.   “Bond Act” or “Act” means the Local Government Securities Law, cited as
NRS 350.500 through 350.720 and all laws amendatory thereof.
B.   “Bonds” means, collectively, the Series 2023A Bond and the Series 2023B
Bond.
C.   “Bond Account” means the “2023 Water Utility Revenue Bond Account” created
in Section 27.B of this Ordinance.
D.   “Bond Act” or “Act” means the Local Government Securities Law, cited as
NRS 350.500 through 350.720 and all laws amendatory thereof.
E.   “Consulting Engineer” or “Project Engineer” means any qualified registered
or licensed professional engineer practicing under the laws of the State of
Nevada.
F.   “Fiscal Year” means the twelve months commencing July 1 of any year and
ending June 30 of the next succeeding year.
G.   “Gross Income,” “gross revenues,” “income” or “revenues” means all income
and revenue derived by the City from any rates, fees, tolls, connection
charges, stand-by charges and charges for availability of water services
furnished by, or the use of, the municipal water system as the same may at any
time exist to serve customers within or outside the City limits, whether
resulting from improvements, extensions, or otherwise.
H.   “Holder,” “Owner” or “Registered Owner” means a person (including the
United States Department of Agriculture, Rural Utility Service) in possession
and the apparent owner of the Bonds
I.   “Independent Accountant” means any certified public accountant practicing
under the laws of the State of Nevada who is independent and not an officer or
employee of the municipality.
J.   “Insured Bank” means a bank defined in NRS 350.512 and qualified to accept
public deposits under state law which is a member of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation.
K.   “Interest Rate” means the interest rate for the Bonds as described in the
preambles hereto.
L.   “Net Revenues” means the Gross Revenues less the Operation and Maintenance
Expenses.
M.   “NRS” means the Nevada Revised Statutes.
N.   “Operation and Maintenance Expenses” means all reasonable and necessary
current expenses of the City, paid or accrued, for operating, maintaining and
repairing the System, as defined in NRS 350.542 including legal and overhead
expenses of the City directly related to the administration of the System,
insurance premiums, audits, charges of depository banks and paying agents,
professional services, salaries and administrative expenses, labor, and the
cost of materials and supplies for current operation, but excluding any
allowance for depreciation, any costs of improvements to the System, any
accumulation of reserves for major capital replacements (other than normal
repairs) or for the operation, maintenance or repair of the System, any
allowance for the redemption of any securities of the City, or any other ground
of legal liability not based on contract, in accordance with NRS 350.544.
O.   “Parity Securities” means any additional bonds, securities or other
obligations issued hereafter with a lien on the Pledged Revenues on a parity
with the outstanding Bond.
P.   “Paying Agent” means the Treasurer of the City or any successor thereto as
paying agent for the Bonds appointed by the City Council.
Q.   “Pledged Revenues” means all or a portion of the Net Revenues. The
designated term indicates sources of revenues and does not necessarily indicate
all or any portion or other part of such revenues in the absence of further
qualification.
R.   “Project Act” means NRS 268.672 through 268.740, inclusive, and all laws
amendatory thereof.
S.   “Purchaser” means the United States of America, acting by and through RUS.
T.   “RUS” means “the United States Department of Agriculture, acting through
the Rural Utilities Service (Rural Development Mission Area), or successor
agency.
U.   “Registrar” means the City Treasurer or any successor thereto as registrar
for the Bonds appointed by the City Council.
V.   “Refunding Project” shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the
preambles hereof.
W.   “Reserve Account” means the “2023 Water Revenue Bond Reserve Account”
created in Section 27.C of this Ordinance.
X.   “Series 2023A Bond” means the City of Yerington, Nevada, Water Revenue
Bond, Series 2023A, issued in the stated principal amount of not to exceed
$9,901,000.
Y.   “Series 2023B Bond” means the City of Yerington, Nevada, Water Revenue
Bond, Series 2023B, issued in the stated principal amount of not to exceed
$7,352,000
Z.   “System” means all of the City's municipal water system, and its water
facilities and properties now owned or hereafter acquired, whether situated
within or without the City boundaries.
AA.   “Tax Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended to the
date of delivery of the Bonds.
BB.   “Water Act” means NRS 350.350 through 350.490, inclusive, and all laws
amendatory thereof.
CC.   “Water Project” shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the
preambles hereof.
Section 4.   Authority for This Ordinance . This Ordinance is adopted pursuant
to the Charter, the Project Act, the Water Act, and the Bond Act.
Section 5.   Life of the Water Project . The City Council has determined and
does hereby declare that the estimated life or estimated period of usefulness
of the Water Project is not less than 40 years from the date of issuance of the
Bonds; and the Bonds shall mature at such times not exceeding such estimated
life or estimated period of usefulness of the Water Project.
Section 6.   Acceptance of Purchase Proposal for the Bonds . The proposal
submitted by the United States, by and through RUS, for the purchase of the
Series 2023A Bond in the stated principal amount of not to exceed $9,901,000
and the Series 2023B Bond in the stated principal amount of not to exceed
$7,352,000, each bearing interest at the Interest Rate, which was received by
the City at the private sale of the Bonds be, and the same hereby is, accepted.
Section 7.   Necessity of Project and Bonds . It is necessary and in the best
interests of the City and its inhabitants that the City effect the Refunding
Project and defray in part the cost thereof by issuing the Bonds therefor.
Section 8.   Ordinance to Constitute Contract . In consideration of the
purchase and the acceptance of the Bonds by RUS on behalf of the United States
of America and by those whom shall own them from time to time, this Ordinance
shall be deemed to be and shall constitute a contract between the City and the
Registered Owner.
Section 9.   Bonds Equally Secured . The covenants and agreements herein set
forth to be performed on behalf of the City shall be for the equal benefit,
protection and security of the Registered Owners of any and all of the Bonds,
all of which, regardless of the time or times of their issue or maturity, shall
be of equal rank without preference, priority or distinction of any of the
Bonds of this issue over any other thereof, except as otherwise expressly
provided herein.
Section 10.   Special Obligations . The Bonds shall be payable and collectible
(except as herein otherwise provided) solely out of the Pledged Revenues, which
revenues are hereby so pledged. The Holder or Registered Owner may not look to
any general or other fund for the payment of the principal of, or interest on
the Bonds, except the Bond Account and the Reserve Account which are hereby
pledged therefor. The Bonds shall not constitute an indebtedness or a debt
within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory provision or limitation
and the Bonds shall not be considered or held to be general obligations of the
City but shall constitute its special obligations. The City does not pledge its
full faith and credit for the payment of the Bonds.
Section 11.   Character of Agreement . None of the covenants, agreements,
representations and warranties contained herein or in the Bonds, in the absence
of any breach thereof, shall ever impose or shall be construed as imposing any
liability, obligation or charge against the City (except the special funds
pledged therefor) or its general credit, payable out of its general fund or out
of any funds derived from taxation.
Section 12.   Authorization of Bonds . For the purpose of providing funds to
pay the cost of the Refunding Project, the City shall issue the “City of
Yerington, Nevada, Water Revenue Bond, Series 2023A” in the principal amount
designated by the City Manager (not to exceed $9,901,000) and the “City of
Yerington, Nevada, Water Revenue Bond, Series 2023B” in the principal amount
designated by the City Manager (not to exceed $7,352,000). Such Bonds shall be
issued and be payable both as to principal and interest, solely from the
Pledged Revenues, and the City shall pledge irrevocably such revenues to the
payment of the Bonds and the interest thereon on a parity with the lien on such
revenues of the Parity Securities, the proceeds thereof to be used solely for
the aforesaid purpose, pursuant to the Charter, the Project Act, and the Bond
Act. RUS has requested, and the City has agreed, that the obligations of the
City hereunder shall be represented in the form of a single registered bond for
each series of the Bonds. The Bonds shall be in the form substantially as set
forth in Section 21.
Section 13.   Bond Details . The Bonds shall be issued in fully registered
form, i.e., registered as to both principal and interest, in compliance with
Section 149 of the Tax Code, and the regulations of the Secretary of the
Treasury thereunder. The Bonds shall be dated initially as of the date of
delivery thereof. The Series 2023A Bond shall be issued as a single bond in the
principal amount designated by the City Manager (not to exceed $9,901,000. )
The Series 2023B Bond shall be issued as a single bond in the principal amount
designated by the City Manager (not to exceed $7,352,000).
The Bonds shall bear interest at the Interest Rate on the unpaid balance of the
respective principal amounts until the principal thereof is paid in full. The
installments of principal of the Bonds shall bear interest at the Interest Rate
based on a 365-day year as set forth below from the dated date of each of the
Bonds until payment of such installment of principal shall have been
discharged. The interest payments and amortized principal payments on the Bonds
shall be made by the City on the first day of each month commencing on the
first day of the month following the date of delivery of the Bonds and monthly
thereafter on the first day of each month until the maturity date or
prepayment. The interest and principal of the Bonds shall be fully amortized so
as to produce substantially equal monthly payments (of principal and interest)
from payment date to payment date and which shall be in an amount sufficient to
fully pay the total principal of and interest on the Bonds on October 25, 2063.
The Interest Rate submitted by the RUS, in accordance with their regulations,
as of the date of loan approval, was 1.375%, which may or may not be the lower
rate charged by the RUS at the time of loan closing. Should the Interest Rate
at the time of the loan closing be lower than the rate of 1.375% in effect at
the time of the loan approval, the City Council directs the City Manager or his
designee to make a written request to the RUS for the lower rate, and the City
Council hereby authorizes the Mayor, the City Treasurer, and the City Clerk to
execute the Bonds providing for the lower Interest Rate. If any installment of
principal is not paid when due, then in addition to installments thereafter
becoming due, the City shall pay interest on the unpaid balance of the total
principal amount from the due date of the delinquent installment to the date of
payment of the delinquent installment, provided, that interest accruing by
reason of any such delinquency shall not include any interest applicable to
such delinquency period in any installment subsequently paid, and shall in no
event cause the total interest payable on the Bonds to exceed the interest rate
as set forth in the Bonds, on the unpaid balance of the total principal amount.
The installments of principal and interest on the Bonds shall be payable in
lawful money of the United States of America without deduction for exchange or
collection charges at the office of the City Treasurer. The final installment
of principal and interest due on the Bonds is payable only upon surrender of
the Bonds to the Paying Agent. If, upon presentation at or after maturity,
payment of the Bonds is not made as herein provided, interest thereon shall
continue at the Interest Rate per annum until the principal thereof is paid in
full.
RUS has requested that the Bonds be registered in the name of the United States
of America. So long as the United States of America is the Registered Owner of
the Bonds, payment of installments of principal and interest shall be made at
the appropriate United States Department of Agriculture, Rural Utility Service
office, currently designated as 2730 N. Deer Run Road, Suite 1, Carson City,
Nevada 89701, or at such other address as the United States of America or RUS
may designate in writing. During the time any registered assign is the
Registered Owner of the Bonds, payment shall be made at the address shown on
the registration record maintained by the Registrar. The Bonds must be
registered by the Registrar, and may be assigned in the manner and with the
effect set forth in the provisions for registration contained in the form of
the Bonds hereinafter set forth, and as herein further provided. The principal
and interest of the registered Bonds shall be payable only to, or upon the
order of, the Registered Owner or legal representative.
The City hereby reserves the right, at its option, to prepay the principal
amount outstanding, in whole, or in the manner hereinafter provided, in part,
at any time, in inverse order of maturity. Prepayments shall be made on the
date, at the place, and in the manner provided herein for making regularly
scheduled installments, and partial prepayments shall be in the amount of that
portion of one or more installments which would be allocable to principal. No
prepayment of an installment shall extend or postpone the due date of any
subsequent installment. Any prepayments shall be in the amount of principal
being prepaid, together with accrued interest thereon to the date of
prepayment, and shall be made without penalty or without additional interest
charges. At the time of such principal prepayment, the Registrar shall make a
notation of the date and amount of such principal prepayment on the
registration records maintained by the Registrar. The registration records
maintained by the Registrar shall be conclusive evidence of the amounts and
dates of any principal prepayments.
Section 14.   Prepayment Notice . Unless waived by the Registered Owner, notice
of prepayment of any of the Bonds shall be given by the Registrar by first
class or electronic mail, not less than 30 days prior to the date fixed for
prepayment. A copy of the notice shall be mailed at least 30 days prior to the
date fixed for prepayment to any Registered Owner whose name and address appear
on the registration records maintained by the Registrar. So long as the Bonds
is owned by the United States of America, notice shall be mailed to the United
States of America at least 30 days prior to the date fixed for prepayment at
such address as the United States of America or RUS may designate in writing.
The notice shall identify the installments of principal to be prepaid, specify
the date of prepayment, and state that on such date the principal amount
thereof and accrued interest to the date of prepayment will become due and
payable and thereafter interest will cease to accrue. After such notice, the
Bonds or portions thereof so called for prepayment will be paid.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any notice of prepayment may
contain a statement that the prepayment is conditioned upon the receipt by the
Paying Agent of funds on or before the date fixed for prepayment sufficient to
pay the principal amount prepaid and the accrued interest thereon to the date
of prepayment, and that if such funds are not available, such prepayment shall
be canceled by written notice to the owner of the Bonds called for prepayment
in the same manner as the original prepayment notice was mailed.
Section 15.   Negotiability . Subject to the registration and payment
provisions herein provided, the Bonds shall be fully negotiable within the
meaning of and for the purpose of the Uniform Commercial Code - Investment
Securities and each Registered Owner shall possess all rights enjoyed by owners
of negotiable instruments under the Uniform Commercial Code-Investment
Securities.
Section 16.   Registration as to Principal and Interest . The Bonds must be
registered for payment as to both principal and interest. The Registrar shall
maintain records for the registration and transfer of the Bonds.
Section 17.   Registration of the Bonds.
A.   Records for the registration of the Bonds shall be kept by the Registrar.
The person in whose name any Bonds shall be registered, on the registration
records maintained by the Registrar, and as noted on the registration panel
appended to the Bonds, shall be deemed and regarded as the absolute owner
thereof for the purpose of payment and for all other purposes; and payment of
or on account of either principal or interest on any Bonds shall be made only
to or upon the written order of the Owner thereof or his or her legal
representative. All such payments shall be valid and effectual to discharge the
liability upon such Bonds to the extent of the sum or sums so paid.
B.   If the Bonds shall be lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated, the Registrar
shall, upon receipt of such evidence, information or indemnity relating thereto
as it or the City may reasonably require, and upon payment of all expenses in
connection therewith, authenticate and deliver a replacement Bond. If such
lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Bond shall have matured or shall have been
called for redemption, the Registrar may direct that such Bond be paid by the
Paying Agent in lieu of replacement; provided that if the United States of
America is the holder of a Bond, no security or indemnity is required in the
event of such lost or destroyed Bond.
C.   Whenever a Bond shall be surrendered to the Paying Agent upon payment
thereof, or to the Registrar for replacement as provided herein, such Bond
shall be promptly canceled by the Paying Agent or Registrar, and counterparts
of a certificate of such cancellation shall be furnished by the Paying Agent or
Registrar to the City.
D.   The Registrar shall maintain a registration record for the Bonds showing
the name and address of the Registered Owner and the amounts and dates of any
principal prepayments on the Bonds.
Section 18.   Form of Execution . The Mayor, the City Treasurer, and the City
Clerk may file their manual signatures with the Secretary of State, pursuant to
the Uniform Facsimile Signatures of Public Officials Act, cited as Chapter 351,
NRS. The registered Bonds shall be signed and executed in the corporate name of
the City with the manual or facsimile signature of the Mayor, countersigned
with the manual or facsimile signature of the City Treasurer, shall be attested
with a manual or facsimile signature of the City Clerk, shall be authenticated
by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the Registrar, and a manual
or facsimile of the seal of the City shall be affixed thereto. The Bonds
bearing the signatures of the officers in office at the time of the signing
thereof, shall be the valid and binding obligations of the City,
notwithstanding that before the delivery thereof and payment therefor, any or
all of the persons whose signatures appear thereon shall have ceased to fill
their respective offices. Any officer herein authorized or permitted to sign
the Bonds at the time of their execution and of the execution of a signature
certificate, may adopt as and for his or her own facsimile signature, the
facsimile signature of his or her predecessor in office in the event that such
facsimile signature appears upon the Bonds.
Section 19.   Incontestable Recital . Pursuant to NRS 350.628, the Bonds shall
contain a recital that they are issued pursuant to the Project Act and the Bond
Act, which recital shall be conclusive evidence of the validity of the Bonds
and the regularity of its issuance.
Section 20.   Registration Records Conclusive . As provided in Section 17, the
records maintained by the Registrar shall be conclusive evidence of the amounts
and dates of any principal prepayments.
Section 21.   Form of Single Bond . Subject to the provisions of this
Ordinance, the Bonds shall be in substantially the following form, with such
omissions, insertions, endorsements and variations as to any recitals of fact
or other provisions as may be required by the circumstances, be required by
this Ordinance, or be consistent with this Ordinance and necessary or
appropriate to conform to the rules and requirements of any governmental
authority or any usage or requirement of law with respect thereto:
(Form of Bond)
CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA
WATER REVENUE BOND, SERIES 2023[A][B]
NO. 1   Principal Amount: $____
Dated: ___________, 2023   Interest Rate: 1.375% per annum
Maturity Date: ____________, 20__
The City of Yerington, Nevada (the “City”), solely from the special funds
provided therefor, hereby acknowledges itself obligated, and for value
received, hereby promises to pay to the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (the “United
States”), the principal amount above stated together with interest on the
unpaid balance at the rate of 1.375% per annum (the “Interest Rate”).
Interest payments and amortized principal payments shall be made by the City on
the first day of each month commencing on the first day of the month following
the date of delivery of this bond (the “Bond”) and monthly thereafter on the
first day of each month until the maturity date or prepayment. Interest shall
be calculated based on a 365-day year.
If any installment is not paid when due, then in addition to installments
thereafter becoming due, the City shall pay interest on the unpaid balance of
the total principal amount from the due date of the delinquent installment to
the date of payment of the delinquent installment, provided, that interest
accruing by reason of any such delinquency shall not include any interest
applicable to such delinquency period in any installments subsequently paid and
shall in no event cause the total interest payable on this Bond to exceed the
Interest Rate set forth above on the unpaid balance of the total principal
amount. Except as otherwise provided herein, every payment on this Bond shall
be applied first to interest due through the next installment due date and then
the balance to principal.
The installments of principal and interest are payable in lawful money of the
United States of America, without deduction for exchange or collection charges,
during the period the United States of America is the registered owner of this
single Bond, at the appropriate United States Department of Agriculture, Rural
Utility Service office, currently designated as 2730 N. Deer Run Road, Suite 1,
Carson City, Nevada 89701, or at such other place as the United States may
designate in writing, and are so payable during any period the United States is
not the registered owner hereof at the address shown on the registration
records of the Registrar. The final installment of principal due on this Bond
is payable only upon the surrender of this Bond to the City Treasurer, as
paying agent for this Bond.
All installments of principal are subject to prepayment at the option of the
City prior to their stated due dates and, in inverse order of maturity, by the
payment of such principal amount and accrued interest to the prepayment date.
Prepayments shall be made on the date, at the place and in the manner provided
herein for making regularly scheduled installment payments and partial
prepayments shall be in the amount of that portion of one or more of the final
installments allocable to principal. No partial prepayment shall extend or
postpone the due date of any subsequent installment. Any prepayment shall be in
the amount of principal being prepaid, together with accrued interest thereon
to the date of prepayment, and shall be made without penalty or additional
interest or charges. Prepayment shall be made upon prior notice as provided in
the 2023 Water Revenue Bond Ordinance authorizing this Bond and adopted on
October 9, 2023 (the “Ordinance”). The Registrar shall maintain records showing
the amounts and the dates of any principal prepayment and such records shall be
conclusive evidence of the amounts and dates of any principal prepayment.
This single Bond is duly authorized to defray in part the cost to acquire,
improve, equip, operate and maintain, within the City, a water project as
defined in NRS 268.728 (the “Water Project”), under the authority of and in
full conformity with the constitution and laws of the State of Nevada, and in
particular the Bond Act (hereinafter defined) and the provisions of NRS 268.672
through 268.740, inclusive (the “Project Act”) and pursuant to the Ordinance.
This bond does not constitute a debt or indebtedness of the City within the
meaning of any constitutional or statutory limitation and shall not be
considered or held to be a general obligation of the City. The City does not
pledge its full faith and credit for the payment of this Bond. Pursuant to the
Project Act, as supplemented by Sections 350.500 through 350.720, Nevada
Revised Statutes, and all laws amendatory thereof (the “Bond Act”), and all
laws thereunto enabling, this Bond is a special obligation of the City payable
and collectible solely out of and secured by an irrevocable pledge of certain
net income derived from the operation of the City's municipal water system (the
“System”). The owner hereof may not look to any general or other fund for the
payment of the principal of or interest on this Bond except the special funds
pledged therefor. This Bond is issued pursuant to the Project Act and to the
Bond Act. Pursuant to Section 350.628 of the Bond Act, this recital is
conclusive evidence of the validity of this Bond and the regularity of its
issuance.
Payment of this Bond and interest thereon shall be made solely from, and as
security for such payment there are pledged, pursuant to the Ordinance, two
special funds identified as the “2023 Water Utility Bond Account,” and the
“2023 Water Revenue Bond Reserve Account,” into which the City covenants to pay
from the revenues of the System, after provision only for all necessary and
reasonable operation and maintenance expenses, sums sufficient to pay the
principal and the interest of this Bond and to create and maintain a reasonable
and specified reserve. For a description of said funds and the nature and
extent of the security afforded thereby, reference is made to the Ordinance.
This Bond is secured by and constitutes an irrevocable and prior lien (but not
necessarily an exclusive lien) upon the net revenues of the System on a parity
with the lien thereon securing any Parity Securities (as defined in the
Ordinance) issued in the future. Subject to designated conditions, additional
bonds may be issued payable from the net revenues and having a lien thereon
inferior and junior to the lien, or subject to additional conditions having a
lien thereon on a parity with the lien of this Bond, in accordance with the
Ordinance.
The City covenants and agrees with the owner hereof that it will keep and
perform all the covenants of the Ordinance, including its covenant against the
sale or mortgage of the System or any part thereof unless provision has been
made for the payment of this Bond and its covenant that it will fix, maintain
and collect rates sufficient to pay operating and maintenance expenses and 100%
of both the principal of and the interest on this Bond and any other
obligations payable annually from the net revenues of the System (including
reserves).
 
This Bond shall be registered for payment in the name of the registered owner
hereof only as to both principal and interest in the records of the Registrar
and in the registration panel appended to this single Bond. This Bond is
transferable by the registered owner hereof, in person or by his attorney duly
authorized in writing, at the office of the Registrar. No transfer of this Bond
shall be valid until it has been duly entered in such records and duly noted on
the registration panel appended to this Bond.
 
It is further certified, recited, and warranted that all the requirements of
law have been fully complied with by the proper City officers in the issuance
of this Bond.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or the interest on
this Bond or for any claim based thereon or otherwise upon the Ordinance or
other instrument pertaining thereto, against any individual member of the City
Council or any officer or other agent of the City, past, present or future,
either directly or indirectly through the City Council or otherwise, whether by
virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of
any penalty or otherwise, all such liability, if any, being by the acceptance
of this single Bond and as a part of the consideration of its issuance
specially waived and released.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City of Yerington, in the State of Nevada, acting by
and through the City Council of the City, has caused this Bond to be signed and
executed in its name and on its behalf with the manual or facsimile signature
of Mayor of the City, countersigned by the manual or facsimile signature of the
City Treasurer, attested by the manual or facsimile signature of the City Clerk
with the manual or facsimile seal of the City affixed hereto, all as of the
date of the delivery hereof.
CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA
      
   Mayor
(SEAL)
Attest:   Countersigned:
         
City Clerk   City Treasurer
(End of Form of Bond)
Exhibit A
(Attach Amortization Schedule)
 
(Form of Prepayment Panel)
The following installments of principal (or portions thereof) of this Bond has
been prepaid by the City of Yerington, Nevada, in accordance with the terms of
the Ordinance authorizing the issuance of this Bond:
 
Date of Payment Amount Prepaid Signature of
                               Registered Owner
                $
 
(End of Form of Prepayment Panel)
(Form of Registration Panel Appended to Bond)
MANDATORY REGISTRATION FOR PAYMENT AS TO PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST
The within Bond is registered in the office of the City Treasurer, as
Registrar, in the name of the last owner listed below; and the principal amount
of the Bonds and interest thereon shall be payable only to such owner, all in
accordance with the 2023 Water Revenue Bond Ordinance authorizing the issuance
of the Bonds.
 
Date of            Name of          Address of             Signature of
Registration       Owner            Owner                  Registrar
                                    RUS, Rural Utility
                   United States of Service
____________, 2023 America          2730 N. Deer Run Road,
                                    Suite 1, Carson City,
                                    Nevada 89701
 
(End of Form of Registration Panel Appended to Bond)
(Form of Provision for Assignment)
For value received, the undersigned hereby assigns and transfers unto
__________________ the attached Bond, together with accrued interest thereon,
and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint _______________________
attorney in fact to transfer said Bond on the registration records of City of
Yerington, Nevada, at the office of the City Treasurer, a Registrar with full
power of substitution in the premises.
Dated __________ ___, 20___
   
 
In the presence of:
Signature Guaranteed
By
 
NOTICE: The Signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as it
appears upon the Registration Panel of the within Bond in every particular,
without any alteration whatsoever.
Name of Transferee:    
Address of Transferee:    
Taxpayer Identification number or
Social Security Number(s):    
(End of Form of Assignment Panel Appended to Bond)
Section 22.   Period of Facilities’ Usefulness . The Water Project will be
useful for at least 40 years from the date of delivery of the Bonds.
Section 23.   Bond Preparation; Execution and Delivery . The Mayor, the City
Manager, the City Clerk, and the City Treasurer are directed to prepare and
execute the Bonds. Thereafter, the City Treasurer shall deliver them to RUS on
behalf of the United States of America as purchaser on receipt of the agreed
purchase price.
Section 24.   Disposition of Proceeds of the Bonds.
A.   Refunding of 2020 Debentures. Proceeds of the Bonds in an amount
sufficient to effect the refunding and defeasance of the 2020 Debentures shall
be immediately used by the City to effect the Refunding Project.
B.   Purchaser not Responsible. The Purchaser or any Registered Owner of the
Bonds shall not be responsible for the application or disposal of proceeds of
the Bonds.
Section 25.   Fiscal Year . For the purpose of this Ordinance the City shall be
operated upon a fiscal year commencing July 1 in each year and ending on
June 30 of the next succeeding year.
Section 26.   Income Fund . There has been previously created and is hereby
continued a fund known as the “City of Yerington Water Utility Revenue Fund,”
herein sometimes designated as the “Income Fund.” So long as the Bonds shall be
outstanding all income and revenues derived from the operation of the System
shall be deposited into the Income Fund.
Section 27.   Administration of Income Fund . The following payments shall be
made from the Income Fund:
A.   Operation and Maintenance Expenses. First, there shall be set aside each
month such reasonable percentage of the Income Fund as the City Council shall
determine to be reasonable and necessary for the proper operation and
maintenance of the System. Any surplus remaining at the end of the Fiscal Year
and not used for Operation and Maintenance Expenses shall be transferred back
to the Income Fund.
B.   Bond Account Payments. Second, from any moneys remaining in the Income
Fund there shall be deposited into a separate account hereby created to be
known as the “2023 Water Utility Bond Account” (herein “Bond Account”) monthly,
commencing on or before the day preceding each payment date, an amount
sufficient, together with any available moneys therein, to pay the next
maturing installment of principal and interest on the outstanding Bonds until
the maturity or prior redemption of the Bonds.
C.   Reserve Account Payments. There shall be deposited annually into a
separate account hereby created to be known as the “2023 Water Revenue Bond
Reserve Account” (herein “Reserve Account”), commencing on or before the date
which is twelve full months from the date of delivery of the Bonds, an amount
equal to at least one-tenth (1/10) of the average annual loan installment, and
annually thereafter an amount each year of at least one-tenth (1/10) of the
average annual loan installment until an amount equal to the average annual
loan installment on the Bonds (the “Minimum Reserve”) has been accumulated.
After the Minimum Reserve has been accumulated, an amount shall be deposited
annually from the Income Fund into the Reserve Account sufficient to maintain
said Reserve Account in an amount not less than the Minimum Reserve. The moneys
in the Reserve Account shall be maintained as a continuing reserve to be used
only for the following:
(1)   Securities Requirements. To pay principal and interest on the Bonds, if
necessary to prevent a default;
(2)   Emergency Maintenance Costs. To pay the costs of extraordinary and major
repairs, renewal, replacements, or maintenance items appertaining to such
System of a type not recurring annually and not defrayed as operation and
maintenance expenses;
(3)   Capital Costs. To pay the cost of extending the System; and
(4)   Replacement Costs. To pay the costs of replacing short-lived assets of
the System which have useful lives significantly less than the term of the
Bonds.
D.   Termination of Deposits. Payment need not be made into the Bond Account or
the Reserve Account if the total amount in both funds at least equals the
principal and interest requirements of the then outstanding Bonds to maturity.
In that case such an amount equal to such principal and interest requirements
shall be set aside for that purpose and all other moneys may be used in any
lawful manner.
E.   Defraying Delinquencies in Bond Account and in Reserve Account. If, for
any reason, the City shall fail to pay into the Bond Account the full
stipulated amount from Net Revenues, then the difference between that paid and
the amount stipulated shall be paid into the Bond Account from the Reserve
Account. Money so used shall be replaced in the Reserve Account from the first
revenues thereafter received not required to be otherwise applied by this
section. If the proceedings authorizing other parity lien obligations require
the replacement of moneys in a reserve fund, then money shall be replaced in
each such reserve fund on a pro rata basis. If, for any reason, the City shall
fail to pay into the Reserve Account the full stipulated amount, the difference
between the amount paid and the amount stipulated shall in like manner be paid
therein from the first revenues thereafter received not required to be
otherwise applied by this section. The moneys in the Bond Account shall be used
only for the purpose of paying Bond principal and interest. Any moneys in the
Reserve Account in excess of the Minimum Reserve (including any investment
income) may be withdrawn and used in the same manner as Net Revenues.
F.   Payment for Additional Obligations. After making the above payments, any
balance in the Income Fund may be used for the payment of principal and
interest on additional bonds including reasonable reserves therefor. The lien
of additional bonds on Net Revenues shall be on a parity with, or subordinate
to, the lien and pledge of the Bonds. Any payments with respect to additional
parity bonds shall be made concurrently with those required by this section.
G.   Use of Surplus Revenues. After making the above payments, the remaining
Net Revenues, if any, may be applied to any other lawful purpose or purposes
authorized by the Constitution and Laws of the State as the City Council may
direct.
Section 28.   General Administration of Funds . The funds and accounts
reference herein shall be administered as follows:
A.   Places and Times of Deposits. The above accounts and funds shall be
separately maintained and deposited in one or more bank accounts in an Insured
Bank or Banks. Each account shall be continuously secured to the extent
required by law and shall be irrevocable and not withdrawable by anyone for any
other purpose. Amounts in the account exceeding the applicable federal deposit
insurance coverage shall be secured by the Insured Bank in advance in
accordance with U.S. Treasury rules and regulations governing the deposit of
government moneys. Payments shall be made into the proper account on the
payment date when due except that when the payment date shall be a Sunday or
legal holiday, the payment shall be made on the preceding calendar day which is
not also a Sunday or legal holiday. At least one day prior to any principal
then due, moneys sufficient to pay interest and principal due on such payment
date shall be credited at the Paying Agent. Nothing in this Ordinance shall
prevent the City Council from establishing one bank account for any of the
funds and accounts required by this Ordinance.
B.   Investment of Money. Any moneys in any fund or account designated in
Sections 24, 26 and 27 of this Ordinance may be invested or reinvested by the
City in such obligations as may be permitted by the Constitution and laws of
the State of Nevada, and applicable federal statutes and regulations.
Section 29.   Parity Lien Bonds . The Bonds constitute an irrevocable lien (but
not necessarily an exclusive lien) upon the Pledged Revenues on a parity with
any other Parity Securities heretofore or hereafter issued.
Section 30.   Additional Securities.
A.   Earnings Test. This Ordinance shall not prevent the issuance of additional
Parity Securities payable from and constituting a lien upon the Pledged
Revenues on a parity with the lien of the Bonds. Before any such additional
Parity Securities are actually issued (and upon receiving the prior written
consent of RUS on behalf of the United States of America for so long as the
United States of America is the Registered Owner of the Bonds) it must be
determined that:
(1)   The City is not, and has not been in default as to any payments required
to be made in Section 27 during the Fiscal Year immediately preceding the
issuance of such additional Parity Securities, or if the Bonds has not been
outstanding for a full Fiscal Year, then for the longest period of time the
Bonds has been outstanding; and
(2)   The annual Revenues for the Fiscal Year immediately preceding the
effective date of the ordinance authorizing the issuance of any such Parity
Securities shall have been sufficient to pay an amount representing 120% of the
average annual principal and interest requirements on all bonds then
outstanding and constituting a lien upon Revenues and the Parity Securities
proposed to be issued (excluding reserves). As used in this section “average
annual principal and interest requirements” shall be the total principal and
interest coming due on the then outstanding Parity Securities and the proposed
Parity Securities during the period extending from the date of the proposed
Parity Securities to the final principal payment date of the then outstanding
Parity Securities or the proposed Parity Securities, whichever is longer,
divided by the number of years (including any fraction thereof) computed from
the date of the proposed Parity Securities to the last principal payment date
of the then outstanding Parity Securities, or the proposed Parity Securities,
whichever is longer.
B.   Certification or Opinion of Revenues. A written certificate or opinion by
the City Treasurer or an Independent Accountant that the earnings test set
forth in Section 30.A above has been met shall conclusively determine the right
of the City to issue additional parity bonds. The City Treasurer or an
Independent Accountant may utilize the results of any annual audit to the
extent it covers the applicable period and may conclusively rely on a
Consulting Engineer's Certificate for the amount of any adjustment required
under Paragraph C of this Section. In the event that an annual audit covering
the applicable period is unavailable, the City Treasurer may utilize unaudited
information covering the applicable period in making such written
certification.
C.   Consideration of Additional Expenses. In determining whether additional
parity bonds may be issued, the City Treasurer or the Independent Accountant
shall consider any probable increase (but not reduction) in Operation and
Maintenance Expenses. A written certificate by a Consulting Engineer as to the
amount of such probable increase may be conclusively relied on by the City and
the City Treasurer or the Independent Accountant in determining the right of
the City to issue additional parity bonds.
D.   Subordinate Obligations Permitted. The City may issue bonds or other
obligations (upon receiving the prior written consent of RUS on behalf of the
United States of America for so long as the United States of America is the
Registered Owner of either of the Bonds) having a lien on Revenues subordinate
to the lien thereon of the Bonds.
E.   Superior Obligations Permitted. The City shall not issue any bond or other
obligation having a lien on Revenues prior and superior to the lien thereon of
the Bonds unless the City has received the prior written consent of the United
States of America.
F.   Waiver of Earnings Test. The foregoing earnings test described in
Section 30.A may be waived or modified by the written consent of Bondholders
representing seventy-five percent (75%) of the then outstanding principal
indebtedness on a parity with the proposed Parity Securities.
Section 31.   Defeasance . So long as the United States of America is the
Registered Owner of any of the Bonds, such Bond may not be defeased.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the United States of America is no longer the
Registered Owner of the Bonds, when the principal of and interest on any Bonds
(the “Bond Requirements”) has been duly paid, the pledge and lien and all
obligations hereunder shall thereby be discharged as to such Bonds and such
Bonds shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding within the meaning of this
Ordinance. There shall be deemed to be such due payment when the City has
placed in escrow or in trust with a trust bank located within or without the
State (the “Bank”), an amount sufficient (including the known minimum yield
available for such purpose from Federal Securities in which such amount wholly
or in part may be initially invested) to meet all Bond Requirements of such the
Bonds, as the same become due to the final maturity of the Bonds or upon any
redemption date as of which the City shall have exercised or shall have
obligated itself to exercise its prior redemption option by a call of the Bonds
for payment. The Federal Securities shall become due before the respective
times on which the proceeds thereof shall be needed, in accordance with a
schedule established and agreed upon between the City and the Bank at the time
of the creation of the escrow or trust, or the Federal Securities shall be
subject to redemption at the option of the owners thereof to assure
availability as so needed to meet the schedule. For the purpose of this
section, the term “Federal Securities” shall be as defined in NRS 350.522, and
shall include only Federal Securities which are not callable for redemption
prior to their maturities except at the option of the holder thereof.
Section 32.   Protective Covenants . The City covenants and agrees with each
and every Holder that:
A.   Use of Proceeds of the Bonds. The Refunding Project shall be completed
without delay.
B.   Payment of Bonds Herein Authorized. The City will make the principal and
interest payments of the Bonds at the place, on the dates, and in the manner
specified according to the true intent and meaning thereof.
C.   Use Charges. Rates for services rendered by the System shall be reasonable
and just, taking into account the cost and value of the System, Operation and
Maintenance Expenses, possible delinquencies, proper allowances for
depreciation, contingencies, and the amounts necessary to retire all bonds
payable from Net Revenues, and the reserves therefor. There shall be charged
against all users, including the State of Nevada and its subdivisions, rates
and amounts sufficient to produce revenues to pay the annual Operation and
Maintenance Expenses, and 100% of both the principal of and interest on all
bonds and other obligations payable from Net Revenues, including reserves.
Except as otherwise provided by law, no free service shall be furnished by the
System. Any use of the System by the City will be paid for from the City's
general fund at the reasonable value of the use so made. Income so derived from
the City shall be treated in the same manner as any other System income.
D.   Levy of Charges. Prior to the delivery of the Bonds, the City will
establish, levy and maintain the rates and charges which are required to meet
the provisions of paragraph C of this Section 32. No reduction in any initial
water rate schedule may be made unless:
(1)   The City has complied with Section 27 for at least two Fiscal Years
immediately preceding such reduction.
(2)   The audits for the full two Fiscal Years immediately preceding such
reduction disclose that the estimated revenues resulting from the proposed rate
schedule will be sufficient to meet the requirements of paragraph C of this
section.
(3)   If the United States then owns the Bonds, the State Director of the RUS
approves in writing the proposed reduction, provided that the United States,
acting by and through RUS, shall have first been furnished with a written
request signed by the Treasurer requesting and justifying such reduction. This
Section 32.D(3) applies only if the United States owns the Bonds on the date of
the reduction.
E.   Efficient Operation. The City shall make such improvements and repairs to
the System as may be necessary to insure its economical and efficient operation
and its ability to meet demands for service.
F.   Records. Separate records will be kept showing complete and correct
entries of all transactions relating to the System. Such records shall include
monthly entries showing:
(1)   The number of System customers;
(2)   The revenues received;
(3)   A detailed statement of expenses; and
(4)   Such other items specified by any form furnished by the United States.
Before each Fiscal Year the City Council will cause an operating budget to be
prepared.
G.   Right to Inspect. Any Registered Owner, or their duly authorized agents,
shall have the right at all reasonable times to inspect the System, and all
records, accounts and data relating thereto.
H.   Audits and Budgets. As long as the United States of America is the
Registered Owner of any Bonds, the City agrees that it will, within 9 months
following the close of each Fiscal Year, furnish an audit made by an
Independent Accountant to RUS (at the Rural Development State Office). Each
such audit, in addition to matters thought proper by the accountant, shall
include:
(1)   A statement for the Fiscal Year just closed, of the income and
expenditures of the City, including Revenues, the amount of any capital
expenditures and profit or loss;
(2)   A balance sheet as of the end of such Fiscal Year, including all funds
and accounts created by proceedings authorizing bonds payable from Net
Revenues;
(3)   The accountant’s comment regarding the City’s methods of operation and
accounting practices;
(4)   A list of the insurance policies in force, setting out the amount of each
policy, the risks covered, the name of the insurer, and the expiration date;
(5)   A recapitulation of each fund or account created by the various
proceedings showing deposits and withdrawals for said Fiscal Year.
After the beginning of each new Fiscal Year, the City shall furnish an
operating budget showing the planned budget for the ensuing year and a copy of
the minutes of the meeting of the City Council at which such budget was
approved. Along with the operating budget, the City shall provide a letter
showing the name, address and term of office for each member of the City
Council, the number of residential users and the number of commercial users of
the System as of the end of the Fiscal Year. The City will furnish the
designated United States representative with quarterly statements of income and
expense on forms furnished by the United States. The City will furnish a copy
of each audit, budget, quarterly statement and written instrument to the United
States.
I.   Billing Procedure and Discontinuance of Service. All bills shall be sent
out on a regularly established manner each month in advance or after service is
rendered. Bills shall be due within an established number of days from the bill
date. Bills for water use and water service may be sent out in combination with
bills for another utility (e.g., sanitary sewer bills or refuse collection
bills) as long as such amounts are separately stated. If bills are not paid 30
days after such due date they shall be collected in any lawful manner.
J.   Use of Bond Account and Reserve Account. The Bond Account and the Reserve
Account shall be used solely and only, and said funds are hereby pledged, for
the purposes set forth above for the payment of the principal of and interest
on the Bonds on a pro rata basis.
K.   Charges and Liens upon System. The City will pay all taxes and
governmental charges lawfully levied in respect of the System when due. The
City will comply with all valid requirements of any governmental authority
relative to the System. It shall not create or permit to be created any lien or
charge upon the System or the Pledged Revenue except as permitted herein. The
City will satisfy all claims and demands within 60 days after the same shall
accrue which might by law become a lien upon the System or upon the Pledged
Revenue unless the validity thereof is being contested in good faith by
appropriate legal proceedings.
L.   Construction Contract and Bond. The City will require each person, firm or
corporation with whom it may contract for labor or materials to furnish a
performance and payment bond in the full amount of any contract. Any such
contract will meet the reasonable requirements of the United States which are
not inconsistent with State law.
M.   Insurance. Fire and extended coverage insurance will be obtained and
maintained on the facilities above ground, including City-owned contents,
equipment and machinery. The proceeds of such insurance shall be used to
restore the property lost or damaged and any remainder (or if such lost or
damaged property is no longer required for the System the entire proceeds) will
be distributed as Net Revenues. The City will carry workmen's compensation
insurance on all full-time employees and will maintain public liability
insurance (including liability and property damage insurance on City-owned or
operated vehicles) if authorized by State law as interpreted by the legal
counsel for the City.
N.   Competing System or Works. The City shall not grant any franchise or
license to a competing System, or permit any person or organization to sell
water or water service within the City, but this covenant shall not require the
City to take any action which, in the opinion of the City's legal counsel, may
violate antitrust laws.
O.   Alienating System. The City will not sell, lease, mortgage, pledge, or
otherwise alienate the System, or any part thereof, except any portion which
shall have been replaced by other property of at least equal value or which
shall cease to be necessary for the efficient operation of the System. In the
event of any sale as aforesaid, the proceeds of such sale shall be distributed
as Net Revenues.
P.   Extension of Interest Payments. The City will not extend or be a party to
the extension of the time for paying any claim for interest. Any installment of
interest so extended shall not be entitled in case of default hereunder to the
benefit or security of this Ordinance except subject to the prior payment in
full of the principal of all bonds and interest which has not been extended.
Q.   Management of the System. If an “event of default” shall occur or if the
Net Revenues in any Fiscal Year fail to equal principal, interest and reserves
for all bonds payable from Net Revenues, the City shall retain a Consulting
Engineer to assist in the management of the System so long as such default
continues or the Net Revenues are less than the amount designated.
R.   Fidelity Bonds. The persons, being responsible for receiving income and
maintaining the accounts of the City, shall be bonded in a blanket position
fidelity bond in a penal sum at least equal to the maximum amount on hand at
any one time (exclusive of proceeds of the Bonds), which fidelity bond may be
provided on Form RUS 440-24 “Position Fidelity Schedule Bond” or other
equivalent United States forms and shall designate the United States of America
as a co-obligee.
S.   The City’s Existence.
(1)   The City will maintain its “corporate” identity and existence so long as
any principal of the Bonds remains outstanding (and the United States of
America is a Registered Owner of any of such Bonds), unless another political
subdivision by operation of law succeeds to the liabilities and rights of the
City without adversely affecting to any substantial degree the privileges and
rights of any Registered Owner.
(2)   The City agrees to give written notice to the Rural Development State
Office, if the United States of America is a Registered Owner of any principal
of the Bonds, at least 30 days prior to any contemplated merger, consolidation
or dissolution of the City.
T.   Tax Covenants. The City covenants for the benefit of the owner of the
Bonds that it will not take any action or omit to take any action with respect
to the Bonds, the proceeds thereof, any other funds of the City or any
facilities financed with the proceeds of the Bonds if such action or omission
(i) would cause the interest on the Bonds to lose its exclusion from gross
income for federal income tax purposes under Section 103 of the Tax Code,
(ii) would cause interest on the Bonds to lose its exclusion from alternative
minimum taxable income as defined in Section 55(b)(2) of the Tax Code except to
the extent such interest is required to be included in the adjusted current
earnings adjustment applicable to corporations under Section 56 of the Tax Code
in calculating corporate alternative minimum taxable income. The foregoing
covenant shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the payment in
full or defeasance of the Bonds until the date on which all obligations of the
City in fulfilling the above covenant under the Tax Code have been met.
Section 33.   Events of Default . It is an “event of default” if:
A.   Nonpayment of Principal. Payment of any principal of the Bonds is not made
when due or upon prior redemption.
B.   Nonpayment of Interest. Payment of interest is not made when due.
C.   Incapable to Perform. The City is not capable of fulfilling its
obligations hereunder.
D.   Default of Any Provision. The City defaults in the punctual performance of
its covenants hereunder for 60 days after written notice shall have been given
by the Owners of 25% of the outstanding principal of the Bonds.
Section 34.   Remedies on Default . Upon the happening of any event of default,
the Registered Owners or Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of
the outstanding Bond, or a trustee therefor, may protect and enforce these
rights of any Bondholder or Owner by proper legal or equitable remedy deemed
most effectual including mandamus, specific performance of any covenant, the
appointment of a receiver (the consent to such appointment being hereby
granted), injunctive relief, or requiring the governing body of the City to act
as if it were the trustee of an expressed trust, or any combination of such
remedies. All proceedings shall be maintained for the equal benefit of all
Owners and Holders. Any receiver appointed to protect the rights of Bondholders
may take possession and operate and maintain the System in the same manner as
the City itself might do. The failure of any Registered Owner or Holder to
proceed does not relieve the City or any person of any liability for failure to
perform any duty hereunder. The foregoing rights are in addition to any other
right and the exercise of any right by any Bondholder or Owner shall not be
deemed a waiver of any other right.
Section 35.   Duties upon Default . Upon the happening of any event of default,
the City will perform all proper acts to protect and preserve the security
created for the prompt payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
The Owners or Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the
outstanding Bonds after written demand, may proceed to protect and enforce the
rights provided by this section.
Section 36.   Prior Charge Upon Lower Rates. If any commission or authority
lawfully prescribes a lower schedule of rates than that contemplated by this
Ordinance, then the payment of principal and interest on the Bonds, and any
parity bonds, shall constitute a first and prior charge on revenues.
Section 37.   Refinancing . If it shall appear to RUS, during the time the
United States of America owns any of the Bonds, that the City can refinance the
amount of the Bonds then outstanding, in whole or in part, by obtaining a loan
for such purposes from responsible cooperative or private credit sources, at
reasonable rates and terms for loans for similar purposes and periods of time,
the City agrees (upon the request of RUS), within the limitations of its then
existing powers, (and subject to any contractual limitations contained herein
concerning the payment of the Bonds and their redemption), to apply for and to
accept such loan, with conditions acceptable to the City, in sufficient amount
to repay the United States of America and agrees to take such action as may be
required in connection with such loan. Any such refinancing shall be
accomplished according to applicable statutes of the State.
Section 38.   Discharge of the Bonds . When the Bonds has been paid, the pledge
and lien and all obligations hereunder shall be discharged and the Bonds shall
no longer be deemed to be outstanding.
Section 39.   Amendment of Ordinance . This Ordinance may be amended, without
receipt by the City of any additional consideration, but with the written
consent of the Owners of seventy-five percent (75%) of the principal of the
Bonds then outstanding (not including any portion of the Bonds which may be
held for the account of the City); but no Ordinance adopted without the written
consent of the Owners of all of the outstanding Bonds shall have the effect of
permitting:
(1)   An extension of any installment payment of the Bonds; or
(2)   A reduction in the principal amount or interest rate of the Bonds; or
(3)   The creation of a lien upon revenue ranking prior to the lien or pledge
created by this Ordinance; or
(4)   A reduction of the principal amount of the Bonds required for consent to
such amendatory Ordinance; or
(5)   The modification of or otherwise affecting the rights of the Holders of
less than all of the outstanding Bonds.
Section 40.   Delegated Powers . The officers of the City be, and they hereby
are, authorized and directed to take all action necessary or appropriate to
effectuate the provisions of this Ordinance, including, without limitation, the
execution of such certificates, agreements and forms as may be reasonably
required by the United States of America or RUS, relating, inter alia, to the
signing of the Bonds, the tenure and identity of the officials of the City
Council and of the City, the delivery of the Bonds and the receipt of the
purchase price of the Bonds, and, if it is in accordance with fact, the absence
of litigation, pending or threatened, affecting the validity thereof, and the
absence and existence of factors affecting the exemption of interest on the
Bonds from federal income taxation, the assembly and dissemination of financial
and other information concerning the City, the Bonds, and the sale and issuance
of the Bonds pursuant to the provisions of this Ordinance and to any instrument
supplemental thereto.
Section 41.   Prior Contracts . If any provision herein is inconsistent with
any provision in any existing contract pertaining to the City so as to affect
prejudicially and materially the rights and privileges thereunder, so long as
such contract shall remain viable and in effect such provision therein shall
control such inconsistent provision herein and the latter provision shall be
subject and subordinate to such provision in such existing contract.
Section 42.   Police Power . Nothing in this Ordinance prohibits or otherwise
limits or inhibits the reasonable exercise in the future by the State and its
governmental bodies of the police powers and powers of taxation inherent in the
sovereignty of the State or the exercise by the United States of the powers
delegated to it by the Federal Constitution. The City cannot contract away such
powers nor limit or inhibit by contract the proper exercise thereof, and this
Ordinance does not purport to do so.
Section 43.   Ordinance Irrepealable . After the Bonds is issued, this
Ordinance shall constitute an irrevocable contract between the City and the
owner of the Bonds and this Ordinance, if the Bonds is in fact issued, shall be
and shall remain irrepealable until the Bonds, as to all Bond Requirements,
shall be fully paid, canceled and discharged as herein provided.
Section 44.   Implied Repealer . All ordinances, resolutions, bylaws and
orders, or parts thereof, inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed to the
extent only of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed to
revive any ordinance, resolution, bylaw or order, or part hereof, heretofore
repealed.
Section 45.   Publication and Effective Date . The Council has expressed in the
preambles to this Ordinance that it pertains to the sale, issuance, or payment
of the Debentures, and that, as permitted under Section 7.030(3) of the City
Charter, this instrument may accordingly be adopted in the same manner as is
provided for cases of emergency. This Ordinance shall become effective
immediately upon unanimous passage by the Council. Following the unanimous
passage of this Ordinance, the City shall publish this Ordinance by its title
only, together with a statement that typewritten copies of this Ordinance are
available for inspection by interested parties at the office of the City Clerk,
such publication to be made in a newspaper or newspapers published in Lyon
County and which is of general circulation in the City and such publication to
be in substantially the following form:
(Form of Publication)
 
BILL NO. 431
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-06
AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING AND DIRECTING THE ISSUANCE OF THE CITY OF YERINGTON,
NEVADA, WATER REVENUE BOND, SERIES 2023A IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF NOT TO
EXCEED $9,901,000 AND THE CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA, WATER REVENUE BOND SERIES
2023B IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF NOT TO EXCEED $7,352,000 TO REFINANCE A WATER
PROJECT, AS DEFINED IN NRS 268.728; PROVIDING THE FORMS, TERMS, CONDITIONS AND
SECURITY FOR THE BONDS AND THE SALE TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA; PROVIDING
FOR ADOPTION AS IF AN EMERGENCY EXISTS; AND PROVIDING OTHER MATTERS RELATING
THERETO.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that typewritten copies of the above-numbered and
entitled ordinance are available for inspection by all interested parties at
the office of the City Clerk of City of Yerington, Nevada and that such
ordinance was proposed on October 9, 2023, and was passed at the meeting held
on October 9, 2023 by the following vote of the Council:
Those Voting Aye:         
                  Councilman Jerry Bryant
Councilman Matt Galvin
Councilman Shane Martin
Councilman Frank Pizzo
 
Those Voting Nay:            None         
___________________
 
Those Absent:               None         
___________________
___________________
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City Council of the City of Yerington, Nevada, has
caused this ordinance to be published by title only, which is deemed to be an
adequate summary of such Ordinance.
   DATED on this October 9, 2023.
   /s/      
   Mayor
   City of Yerington, Nevada
(SEAL)
 
 
   
Attest:
/s/      
City Clerk
City of Yerington, Nevada
(End of Form of Publication)
Section 46.   Ratification . All consistent action taken previously by the City
and the City officers directed toward the Refunding Project and toward the
issuance of its Bonds for such purposes is ratified, approved, and confirmed.
Section 47.   Severability . If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of
this Ordinance shall for any reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the
invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph, clause or provision
shall in no way affect any remaining provisions of this Ordinance.
Proposed on October 9, 2023.
Proposed by Council Member Matt Galvin.
Passed October 9, 2023 by the following vote of the Council:
Those Voting Aye:   
                  Jerry Bryant      
Matt Galvin      
Shane Martin      
Frank Pizzo      
 
Those Voting Nay:            None         
___________________
 
Those Absent:               None         
___________________
___________________
 
      
   Mayor
   City of Yerington, Nevada
(SEAL)
Attest:
   
City Clerk
City of Yerington, Nevada
STATE OF NEVADA      )
)
LYON COUNTY      ) ss.
)
CITY OF YERINGTON      )
I am the duly chosen and qualified City Clerk of the City of Yerington, Nevada
(the “City”), Nevada, do hereby certify:
The foregoing pages constitute a true, correct, complete and compared copy of
the original 2023 Water Revenue Bond Ordinance (the “Ordinance”) adopted by the
City Council of the City (the “Council”) at a meeting held on October 9, 2023.
2.   The adoption of the Ordinance was duly moved and seconded and the
Ordinance was adopted by an affirmative vote of the members of Council as
follows:
Those Voting Aye:   
                  Jerry Bryant      
Matt Galvin      
Shane Martin      
Frank Pizzo      
 
Those Voting Nay:            None         
___________________
 
Those Absent:               None         
___________________
 
3.   The original of the Ordinance has been approved and authenticated by the
signatures of the Mayor of the City and myself as City Clerk and has been
recorded in the regular official record of the Council kept for that purpose in
my office, which record has been duly signed by the officers and properly
sealed.
4.   Public notice of such meeting attached as Exhibit A was given and such
meeting was held and conducted in full compliance with the provisions of the
Nevada Open Meeting law as outlined in NRS Chapter 241.
5.    Upon request, the Council provides at no charge, at least one copy of the
agenda for its public meetings, any proposed ordinance or regulation which will
be discussed at the public meeting, and any other supporting materials provided
to the Council for an item on the agenda, except for certain confidential
materials and materials pertaining to closed meetings, as provided by law.
6.   A copy of such notice so given of the meeting of the Council on October 9,
2023 is attached to this certificate as Exhibit “A.” A copy of the affidavit of
publication of the Ordinance by title is attached to this certificate as
Exhibit “B.”
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand on this October 9, 2023.
 
 
(SEAL)               _______________________________________
City Clerk
 
 
EXHIBIT A
(Attach Notice of Meeting)
EXHIBIT B
(Attach Affidavit of Publication by Title)
 
 
 
 
BILL NO. 432
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-07
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING NO. 2023-05; PROVIDING FOR ADOPTION AS IF AN EMERGENCY
EXISTS; AND PROVIDING OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
WHEREAS, the City of Yerington in the County of Lyon and State of Nevada (the
“City,” the “County,” and the “State,” respectively) is a political subdivision
of the State a body corporate and a city duly organized as a city under the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (“NRS”) Chapter 268, Chapter 465,
Statutes of Nevada, 1971, as amended (the “Charter”), and the general laws of
the State;
WHEREAS, on October 9, 2023, City Council of the City (the “Council”) adopted
Ordinance No. 2023-05 authorizing the issuance of the City’s “City of
Yerington, Nevada Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2023A” and its
“City of Yerington, Nevada Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds Series 2023B”
(collectively, the “Bonds”) to refund, pay and discharge the outstanding the
2020 Debentures (as defined in Ordinance No. 2023-05);
WHEREAS, the Bonds were purchased by the United States Department of
Agriculture acting through the United Stated Department of Agriculture, Rural
Utilities Service (“RUS”);
WHEREAS, Ordinance No. 2023-05 provided that the principal of and interest on
the Bonds shall be payable monthly;
WHEREAS, RUS has informed the City that the principal of and interest on the
Bonds shall be payable annually;
WHEREAS, the Council desires to amend Ordinance No. 2023-05 to reflect that the
principal of and interest on the Bonds shall be payable annually;
WHEREAS, Section 39 of Ordinance No. 2023-05 provides that Ordinance No. 2023-
05 may be amended with the written consent of the owners of 75% of the
principal amount of the Bonds outstanding;
WHEREAS, RUS is the owner of 100% of the principal of the Bonds and consented
to the amendment of Ordinance No. 2023-05 as provided herein; and
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and does hereby declare:
(A)   This Ordinance pertains to the sale, issuance and payment of the Bonds;
(B)   Such declaration shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud or gross
abuse of discretion in accordance with the provisions of Subsection 2 of NRS
350.579; and
(C)   This Ordinance may accordingly be adopted as if an emergency now exists
by an affirmative vote of all of the voting members of the City Council, and
this Ordinance may become effective at any time when an emergency ordinance of
the City may go into effect.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF YERINGTON DOES ORDAIN:
Section 1.   Short Title . This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as
the “2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Amending Ordinance” (herein the “Ordinance”).
Section 2.   Amendment of Section 13 of Ordinance No. 2023-05. Section 13 of
Ordinance No. 2023-05 is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 3.   “Section 13.   Bond Details. The Bonds shall be issued in fully
registered form, i.e., registered as to both principal and interest, in
compliance with Section 149 of the Tax Code, and the regulations of the
Secretary of the Treasury thereunder. The Bonds shall be dated initially as of
the date of delivery thereof. The Series 2023A Bond shall be issued as a single
bond in the principal amount designated by the City Manager (not to exceed
$8,577,000). The Series 2023B Bond shall be issued as a single bond in the
principal amount designated by the City Manager (not to exceed $7,000,000).
The Bonds shall bear interest at the Interest Rate on the unpaid balance of the
respective principal amounts until the principal thereof is paid in full. The
installments of principal of the Bonds shall bear interest at the Interest Rate
based on a 365-day year as set forth below from the dated date of each of the
Bonds until payment of such installment of principal shall have been
discharged. The interest payments and amortized principal payments on the Bonds
shall be made by the City annually on October 25 of each year until the
maturity date or prepayment. The interest and principal of the Bonds shall be
fully amortized so as to produce substantially equal annual payments (of
principal and interest) from payment date to payment date and which shall be in
an amount sufficient to fully pay the total principal of and interest on the
Bonds on October 25, 2063.
The Interest Rate submitted by the RUS, in accordance with their regulations,
as of the date of loan approval, was 1.375%, which may or may not be the lower
rate charged by the RUS at the time of loan closing. Should the Interest Rate
at the time of the loan closing be lower than the rate of 1.375% in effect at
the time of the loan approval, the City Council directs the City Manager or his
designee to make a written request to the RUS for the lower rate, and the City
Council hereby authorizes the Mayor, the City Treasurer, and the City Clerk to
execute the Bonds providing for the lower Interest Rate. If any installment of
principal is not paid when due, then in addition to installments thereafter
becoming due, the City shall pay interest on the unpaid balance of the total
principal amount from the due date of the delinquent installment to the date of
payment of the delinquent installment, provided, that interest accruing by
reason of any such delinquency shall not include any interest applicable to
such delinquency period in any installment subsequently paid, and shall in no
event cause the total interest payable on the Bonds to exceed the interest rate
as set forth in the Bonds, on the unpaid balance of the total principal amount.
The installments of principal and interest on the Bonds shall be payable in
lawful money of the United States of America without deduction for exchange or
collection charges at the office of the City Treasurer. The final installment
of principal and interest due on the Bonds is payable only upon surrender of
the Bonds to the Paying Agent. If, upon presentation at or after maturity,
payment of the Bonds is not made as herein provided, interest thereon shall
continue at the Interest Rate per annum until the principal thereof is paid in
full.
RUS has requested that the Bonds be registered in the name of the United States
of America. So long as the United States of America is the Registered Owner of
the Bonds, payment of installments of principal and interest shall be made at
the appropriate United States Department of Agriculture, Rural Utilities
Service office, currently designated as 2730 N. Deer Run Road, Suite 1, Carson
City, Nevada 89701, or at such other address as the United States of America or
RUS may designate in writing. During the time any registered assign is the
Registered Owner of the Bonds, payment shall be made at the address shown on
the registration record maintained by the Registrar. The Bonds must be
registered by the Registrar, and may be assigned in the manner and with the
effect set forth in the provisions for registration contained in the form of
the Bonds hereinafter set forth, and as herein further provided. The principal
and interest of the registered Bonds shall be payable only to, or upon the
order of, the Registered Owner or legal representative.
The City hereby reserves the right, at its option, to prepay the principal
amount outstanding, in whole, or in the manner hereinafter provided, in part,
at any time, in inverse order of maturity. Prepayments shall be made on the
date, at the place, and in the manner provided herein for making regularly
scheduled installments, and partial prepayments shall be in the amount of that
portion of one or more installments which would be allocable to principal. No
prepayment of an installment shall extend or postpone the due date of any
subsequent installment. Any prepayments shall be in the amount of principal
being prepaid, together with accrued interest thereon to the date of
prepayment, and shall be made without penalty or without additional interest
charges. At the time of such principal prepayment, the Registrar shall make a
notation of the date and amount of such principal prepayment on the
registration records maintained by the Registrar. The registration records
maintained by the Registrar shall be conclusive evidence of the amounts and
dates of any principal prepayments.”
Section 4.   No Other Amendments to Ordinance No 2023-05 . Except as expressly
provided herein, all provisions of Ordinance No. 2023-05 shall remain in full
force and effect.
Section 5.   Implied Repealer . All ordinances, resolutions, bylaws and orders,
or parts thereof, inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed to the extent only
of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed to revive any
ordinance, resolution, bylaw or order, or part hereof, heretofore repealed.
Section 6.   Publication and Effective Date . The Council has expressed in the
preambles to this Ordinance that it pertains to the sale, issuance, or payment
of the Bonds, and that, as permitted under Section 7.030(3) of the City
Charter, this instrument may accordingly be adopted in the same manner as is
provided for cases of emergency. This Ordinance shall become effective
immediately upon unanimous passage by the Council. Following the unanimous
passage of this Ordinance, the City shall publish this Ordinance by its title
only, together with a statement that typewritten copies of this Ordinance are
available for inspection by interested parties at the office of the City Clerk,
such publication to be made in a newspaper or newspapers published in Lyon
County and which is of general circulation in the City and such publication to
be in substantially the following form:
(Form of Publication)
 
BILL NO. 432
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-07
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING NO. 2023-05; PROVIDING FOR ADOPTION AS IF AN EMERGENCY
EXISTS; AND PROVIDING OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that typewritten copies of the above-numbered and
entitled ordinance are available for inspection by all interested parties at
the office of the City Clerk of City of Yerington, Nevada and that such
ordinance was proposed on December 11, 2023, and was passed at the meeting held
on December 11, 2023 by the following vote of the Council:
Those Voting Aye:            Councilman Jerry Bryant   
                  Councilman Matt Galvin   
                  Councilman Shane Martin   
                  Councilman Frank Pizzo   
                  
 
Those Voting Nay:            None            
Those Absent:               None            
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City Council of the City of Yerington, Nevada, has
caused this ordinance to be published by title only, which is deemed to be an
adequate summary of such Ordinance.
   DATED on this December 11, 2023.
   /s/      
   Mayor
   City of Yerington, Nevada
(SEAL)
 
 
   
Attest:
/s/      
City Clerk
City of Yerington, Nevada
(End of Form of Publication)
Section 7.   Severability . If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of
this Ordinance shall for any reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the
invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph, clause or provision
shall in no way affect any remaining provisions of this Ordinance.
Proposed on December 11, 2023.
Proposed by Council Member Matt Galvin.
Passed December 11, 2023 by the following vote of the Council:
Those Voting Aye:   
                  Councilman Jerry Bryant   
                  Councilman Matt Galvin   
                  Councilman Shane Martin   
                  Councilman Frank Pizzo   
 
Those Voting Nay:            None            
 
Those Absent:               None            
 
 
 
      
   Mayor
   City of Yerington, Nevada
(SEAL)
Attest:
   
City Clerk
City of Yerington, Nevada
STATE OF NEVADA      )
)
LYON COUNTY      ) ss.
)
CITY OF YERINGTON      )
I am the duly chosen and qualified City Clerk of the City of Yerington, Nevada
(the “City”), Nevada, do hereby certify:
The foregoing pages constitute a true, correct, complete and compared copy of
the original 2023 Wastewater Revenue Bond Amending Ordinance (the “Ordinance”)
adopted by the City Council of the City (the “Council”) at a meeting held on
December 11, 2023.
2.   The adoption of the Ordinance was duly moved and seconded and the
Ordinance was adopted by an affirmative vote of the members of Council as
follows:
Those Voting Aye:   
                  Councilman Jerry Bryant   
                  Councilman Matt Galvin   
                  Councilman Shane Martin   
                  Councilman Frank Pizzo   
 
Those Voting Nay:            None            
 
Those Absent:               None            
 
3.   The original of the Ordinance has been approved and authenticated by the
signatures of the Mayor of the City and myself as City Clerk and has been
recorded in the regular official record of the Council kept for that purpose in
my office, which record has been duly signed by the officers and properly
sealed.
4.   Public notice of such meeting attached as Exhibit A was given and such
meeting was held and conducted in full compliance with the provisions of the
Nevada Open Meeting law as outlined in NRS Chapter 241.
5.    Upon request, the Council provides at no charge, at least one copy of the
agenda for its public meetings, any proposed ordinance or regulation which will
be discussed at the public meeting, and any other supporting materials provided
to the Council for an item on the agenda, except for certain confidential
materials and materials pertaining to closed meetings, as provided by law.
6.   A copy of such notice so given of the meeting of the Council on December
11, 2023 is attached to this certificate as Exhibit “A.” A copy of the
affidavit of publication of the Ordinance by title is attached to this
certificate as Exhibit “B.”
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand on this December 11, 2023.
 
 
(SEAL)               _______________________________________
City Clerk
 
 
EXHIBIT A
(Attach Notice of Meeting)
EXHIBIT B
(Attach Affidavit of Publication by Title)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BILL NO. 433
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-08
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING NO. 2023-06; PROVIDING FOR ADOPTION AS IF AN EMERGENCY
EXISTS; AND PROVIDING OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
WHEREAS, the City of Yerington in the County of Lyon and State of Nevada (the
“City,” the “County,” and the “State,” respectively) is a political subdivision
of the State a body corporate and a city duly organized as a city under the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes (“NRS”) Chapter 268, Chapter 465,
Statutes of Nevada, 1971, as amended (the “Charter”), and the general laws of
the State;
WHEREAS, on October 9, 2023, City Council of the City (the “Council”) adopted
Ordinance No. 2023-06 authorizing the issuance of the City’s “City of
Yerington, Nevada Water Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2023A” and its “City of
Yerington, Nevada Water Revenue Refunding Bonds Series 2023B” (collectively,
the “Bonds”) to refund, pay and discharge the outstanding the 2020 Debentures
(as defined in Ordinance No. 2023-06);
WHEREAS, the Bonds were purchased by the United States Department of
Agriculture acting through the United Stated Department of Agriculture, Rural
Utilities Service (“RUS”);
WHEREAS, Ordinance No. 2023-06 provided that the principal of and interest on
the Bonds shall be payable monthly;
WHEREAS, RUS has informed the City that the principal of and interest on the
Bonds shall be payable annually;
WHEREAS, the Council desires to amend Ordinance No. 2023-06 to reflect that the
principal of and interest on the Bonds shall be payable annually;
WHEREAS, Section 39 of Ordinance No. 2023-06 provides that Ordinance No. 2023-
06 may be amended with the written consent of the owners of 75% of the
principal amount of the Bonds outstanding;
WHEREAS, RUS is the owner of 100% of the principal of the Bonds and consented
to the amendment of Ordinance No. 2023-06 as provided herein; and
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and does hereby declare:
(A)   This Ordinance pertains to the sale, issuance and payment of the Bonds;
(B)   Such declaration shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud or gross
abuse of discretion in accordance with the provisions of Subsection 2 of NRS
350.579; and
(C)   This Ordinance may accordingly be adopted as if an emergency now exists
by an affirmative vote of all of the voting members of the City Council, and
this Ordinance may become effective at any time when an emergency ordinance of
the City may go into effect.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF YERINGTON DOES ORDAIN:
Section 1.   Short Title . This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as
the “2023 Water Revenue Bond Amending Ordinance” (herein the “Ordinance”).
Section 2.   Amendment of Section 13 of Ordinance No. 2023-06. Section 13 of
Ordinance No. 2023-06 is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 3.   “Section 13.   Bond Details. The Bonds shall be issued in fully
registered form, i.e., registered as to both principal and interest, in
compliance with Section 149 of the Tax Code, and the regulations of the
Secretary of the Treasury thereunder. The Bonds shall be dated initially as of
the date of delivery thereof. The Series 2023A Bond shall be issued as a single
bond in the principal amount designated by the City Manager (not to exceed
$9,901,000. ) The Series 2023B Bond shall be issued as a single bond in the
principal amount designated by the City Manager (not to exceed $7,352,000).
The Bonds shall bear interest at the Interest Rate on the unpaid balance of the
respective principal amounts until the principal thereof is paid in full. The
installments of principal of the Bonds shall bear interest at the Interest Rate
based on a 365-day year as set forth below from the dated date of each of the
Bonds until payment of such installment of principal shall have been
discharged. The interest payments and amortized principal payments on the Bonds
shall be made by the City annually on October 25 of each year until the
maturity date or prepayment. The interest and principal of the Bonds shall be
fully amortized so as to produce substantially equal annual payments (of
principal and interest) from payment date to payment date and which shall be in
an amount sufficient to fully pay the total principal of and interest on the
Bonds on October 25, 2063.
The Interest Rate submitted by the RUS, in accordance with their regulations,
as of the date of loan approval, was 1.375%, which may or may not be the lower
rate charged by the RUS at the time of loan closing. Should the Interest Rate
at the time of the loan closing be lower than the rate of 1.375% in effect at
the time of the loan approval, the City Council directs the City Manager or his
designee to make a written request to the RUS for the lower rate, and the City
Council hereby authorizes the Mayor, the City Treasurer, and the City Clerk to
execute the Bonds providing for the lower Interest Rate. If any installment of
principal is not paid when due, then in addition to installments thereafter
becoming due, the City shall pay interest on the unpaid balance of the total
principal amount from the due date of the delinquent installment to the date of
payment of the delinquent installment, provided, that interest accruing by
reason of any such delinquency shall not include any interest applicable to
such delinquency period in any installment subsequently paid, and shall in no
event cause the total interest payable on the Bonds to exceed the interest rate
as set forth in the Bonds, on the unpaid balance of the total principal amount.
The installments of principal and interest on the Bonds shall be payable in
lawful money of the United States of America without deduction for exchange or
collection charges at the office of the City Treasurer. The final installment
of principal and interest due on the Bonds is payable only upon surrender of
the Bonds to the Paying Agent. If, upon presentation at or after maturity,
payment of the Bonds is not made as herein provided, interest thereon shall
continue at the Interest Rate per annum until the principal thereof is paid in
full.
RUS has requested that the Bonds be registered in the name of the United States
of America. So long as the United States of America is the Registered Owner of
the Bonds, payment of installments of principal and interest shall be made at
the appropriate United States Department of Agriculture, Rural Utilities
Service office, currently designated as 2730 N. Deer Run Road, Suite 1, Carson
City, Nevada 89701, or at such other address as the United States of America or
RUS may designate in writing. During the time any registered assign is the
Registered Owner of the Bonds, payment shall be made at the address shown on
the registration record maintained by the Registrar. The Bonds must be
registered by the Registrar, and may be assigned in the manner and with the
effect set forth in the provisions for registration contained in the form of
the Bonds hereinafter set forth, and as herein further provided. The principal
and interest of the registered Bonds shall be payable only to, or upon the
order of, the Registered Owner or legal representative.
The City hereby reserves the right, at its option, to prepay the principal
amount outstanding, in whole, or in the manner hereinafter provided, in part,
at any time, in inverse order of maturity. Prepayments shall be made on the
date, at the place, and in the manner provided herein for making regularly
scheduled installments, and partial prepayments shall be in the amount of that
portion of one or more installments which would be allocable to principal. No
prepayment of an installment shall extend or postpone the due date of any
subsequent installment. Any prepayments shall be in the amount of principal
being prepaid, together with accrued interest thereon to the date of
prepayment, and shall be made without penalty or without additional interest
charges. At the time of such principal prepayment, the Registrar shall make a
notation of the date and amount of such principal prepayment on the
registration records maintained by the Registrar. The registration records
maintained by the Registrar shall be conclusive evidence of the amounts and
dates of any principal prepayments.”
Section 4.   No Other Amendments to Ordinance No 2023-06 . Except as expressly
provided herein, all provisions of Ordinance No. 2023-06 shall remain in full
force and effect.
Section 5.   Implied Repealer . All ordinances, resolutions, bylaws and orders,
or parts thereof, inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed to the extent only
of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed to revive any
ordinance, resolution, bylaw or order, or part hereof, heretofore repealed.
Section 6.   Publication and Effective Date . The Council has expressed in the
preambles to this Ordinance that it pertains to the sale, issuance, or payment
of the Bonds, and that, as permitted under Section 7.030(3) of the City
Charter, this instrument may accordingly be adopted in the same manner as is
provided for cases of emergency. This Ordinance shall become effective
immediately upon unanimous passage by the Council. Following the unanimous
passage of this Ordinance, the City shall publish this Ordinance by its title
only, together with a statement that typewritten copies of this Ordinance are
available for inspection by interested parties at the office of the City Clerk,
such publication to be made in a newspaper or newspapers published in Lyon
County and which is of general circulation in the City and such publication to
be in substantially the following form:
(Form of Publication)
 
BILL NO. 433
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-08
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING NO. 2023-06; PROVIDING FOR ADOPTION AS IF AN EMERGENCY
EXISTS; AND PROVIDING OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that typewritten copies of the above-numbered and
entitled ordinance are available for inspection by all interested parties at
the office of the City Clerk of City of Yerington, Nevada and that such
ordinance was proposed on December 11, 2023, and was passed at the meeting held
on December 11, 2023 by the following vote of the Council:
Those Voting Aye:   
                  Councilman Jerry Bryant   
                  Councilman Matt Galvin   
                  Councilman Shane Martin   
                  Councilman Frank Pizzo   
 
Those Voting Nay:            None            
 
Those Absent:               None            
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City Council of the City of Yerington, Nevada, has
caused this ordinance to be published by title only, which is deemed to be an
adequate summary of such Ordinance.
   DATED on this December 11, 2023.
   /s/      
   Mayor
   City of Yerington, Nevada
(SEAL)
 
 
   
Attest:
/s/      
City Clerk
City of Yerington, Nevada
(End of Form of Publication)
Section 7.   Severability . If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of
this Ordinance shall for any reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the
invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph, clause or provision
shall in no way affect any remaining provisions of this Ordinance.
Proposed on December 11, 2023.
Proposed by Council Member Matt Galvin.
Passed December 11, 2023 by the following vote of the Council:
Those Voting Aye:   
                  Councilman Jerry Bryant   
                  Councilman Matt Galvin   
                  Councilman Shane Martin   
                  Councilman Frank Pizzo   
 
Those Voting Nay:            None            
 
Those Absent:               None            
 
 
 
      
   Mayor
   City of Yerington, Nevada
(SEAL)
Attest:
   
City Clerk
City of Yerington, Nevada
STATE OF NEVADA      )
)
LYON COUNTY      ) ss.
)
CITY OF YERINGTON      )
I am the duly chosen and qualified City Clerk of the City of Yerington, Nevada
(the “City”), Nevada, do hereby certify:
The foregoing pages constitute a true, correct, complete and compared copy of
the original 2023 Water Revenue Bond Amending Ordinance (the “Ordinance”)
adopted by the City Council of the City (the “Council”) at a meeting held on
December 11, 2023.
2.   The adoption of the Ordinance was duly moved and seconded and the
Ordinance was adopted by an affirmative vote of the members of Council as
follows:
Those Voting Aye:   
                  Councilman Jerry Bryant   
                  Councilman Matt Galvin   
                  Councilman Shane Martin   
                  Councilman Frank Pizzo   
 
Those Voting Nay:            None            
 
Those Absent:               None            
 
3.   The original of the Ordinance has been approved and authenticated by the
signatures of the Mayor of the City and myself as City Clerk and has been
recorded in the regular official record of the Council kept for that purpose in
my office, which record has been duly signed by the officers and properly
sealed.
4.   Public notice of such meeting attached as Exhibit A was given and such
meeting was held and conducted in full compliance with the provisions of the
Nevada Open Meeting law as outlined in NRS Chapter 241.
5.    Upon request, the Council provides at no charge, at least one copy of the
agenda for its public meetings, any proposed ordinance or regulation which will
be discussed at the public meeting, and any other supporting materials provided
to the Council for an item on the agenda, except for certain confidential
materials and materials pertaining to closed meetings, as provided by law.
6.   A copy of such notice so given of the meeting of the Council on December
11, 2023 is attached to this certificate as Exhibit “A.” A copy of the
affidavit of publication of the Ordinance by title is attached to this
certificate as Exhibit “B.”
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand on this December 11, 2023.
 
 
(SEAL)               _______________________________________
City Clerk
 
 
EXHIBIT A
(Attach Notice of Meeting)
EXHIBIT B
(Attach Affidavit of Publication by Title)
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
BILL NO. 335
ORDINANCE NO. 331
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY OF YERINGTON, NEVADA CITY CODE
The City Council of the City of Yerington do ordain as follows:
   Section 1: Effective November 1, 2001, the City Code of the City of
Yerington, Nevada prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc. containing the
compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the City,
shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official code and law
of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official City Code is identified by the proper catch line and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official City Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force after its passage effective November 1, 2001, and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
Proposed on the 10th day of September 2001.
Proposed by: Councilwoman Sanford
Passed and adopted on the 24 day of September 2001 by the following vote and to
be in effect November 1, 2001.
Ayes: Council Members Castles, Dini, Robinson & Sanford.
Nays: None.
Absent: Doug Homestead.
ATTEST:
CITY CHARTER
Section
ARTICLE I. Incorporation of City; General Powers; Boundaries; Annexations; City
Offices
Preamble: Legislative intent   1.010
Incorporation of City   1.020
Description of territory   1.030
Annexations   1.040
Elective offices   1.050
Elective offices: Vacancies   1.060
Appointive offices   1.070
Appointive officers: Duties; salary   1.080
Officers' fidelity bonds   1.090
ARTICLE II. Legislative Department
City Council: Qualifications; election; term of office; salary   2.010
City Council: Contracts   2.020
City Council: Discipline of members, other persons; subpoena power   2.030
Meetings: Quorum   2.040
Meetings: Special   2.050
Meetings: Time and place; rules   2.060
Oaths and affirmations   2.070
Powers of City Council: Ordinances, resolutions and orders   2.080
Ordinances: Passage by bill; amendments; subject matter; title
requirements   2.090
Ordinances: Enactment procedure; emergency ordinances   2.100
Codification of ordinances; publication of Code   2.110
Powers of City Council: Public property, buildings   2.120
Powers of City Council: Eminent domain   2.130
Powers of City Council: Licensing, regulation and prohibition of businesses,
trades and professions   2.140
Powers of City Council: Police ordinances   2.150
Powers of City Council: Fire protection; regulation of explosives, inflammable
materials; fire codes and regulations   2.160
Powers of City Council: Public health; Board of Health; regulations   2.170
Powers of City Council: Buildings; construction and maintenance regulations;
building and safety codes   2.180
Powers of City Council: Zoning and planning   2.190
Powers of City Council: Rights-of-way, parks, public buildings and grounds and
other public places   2.200
Powers of City Council: Traffic control   2.210
Powers of City Council: Parking meters; off-street public parking
facilities   2.220
Powers of City Council: Railroads   2.230
Powers of City Council: Nuisances   2.240
Powers of City Council: Animals and poultry   2.250
Powers of City Council: Abatement of noxious insects, rats and disease-bearing
organisms   2.260
Powers of City Council: Sanitary sewer facilities   2.270
Powers of City Council: Provision of utilities   2.280
Powers of City Council: Cemeteries; acquisition and maintenance   2.290
ARTICLE III. Executive Department
Mayor: Qualifications; duties   3.010
City Manager: Duties   3.020
City Clerk: Duties   3.030
City Clerk's bond   3.040
City Attorney: Qualifications; duties   3.050
County Assessor to be ex officio City Assessor; duties   3.060
Chief of Police: Duties   3.070
City officers: Absence from office   3.080
City officers: Collection and disposition of moneys   3.090
Removal of officers   3.100
ARTICLE IV. Judicial Department
Municipal Court: Municipal Judge   4.020
Payment of fines   4.040
ARTICLE V. Elections
Municipal elections   5.010
Applicability of state election laws, elections under City Council
control   5.020
Qualifications, registration of voters   5.030
Names on ballots   5.040
Ballots for ordinances and Charter amendments   5.050
Availability of lists of registered voters   5.060
Watchers and challengers   5.070
Voting machines   5.080
Election returns; canvass; certificates of election; entry of officers upon
duties; tie vote procedure   5.090
Contest of election   5.100
ARTICLE VI. Local Improvements
Local improvement law   6.010
Local improvement law: Collateral powers   6.020
ARTICLE VII. Local Bonds and Franchises
Debt limit   7.010
Acquisition, operation of municipal utilities   7.020
Borrowing money   7.030
ARTICLE VIII. Revenue
Municipal taxes   8.010
Revenue ordinances   8.020
ARTICLE IX. Miscellaneous Provisions
Severability of provisions   9.010
Effect of enactment of Charter   9.020
CHAPTER 465, STATUTES OF NEVADA 1971
AN ACT incorporating the City of Yerington, in Lyon County, Nevada, and
defining the boundaries thereof, under a new charter; and providing other
matters properly relating thereto.
[Approved April 23, 1971]
ARTICLE I - Incorporation of City; General Powers; Boundaries; Annexations;
City Offices
Sec. 1.010 Preamble: Legislative intent.
   1.   In order to provide for the orderly government of the City of Yerington
and the general welfare of its citizens the Legislature hereby establishes this
Charter for the government of the City of Yerington. It is expressly declared
as the intent of the Legislature that all provisions of this Charter be
liberally construed to carry out the express purposes of the Charter and that
the specific mention of particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in
any way the general powers necessary to carry out the purposes of the Charter.
   2.   Any powers expressly granted by this Charter are in addition to any
powers granted to a city by the general law of this state. All provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes which are applicable generally to cities (not
including, unless otherwise expressly mentioned in this Charter, chapter 265,
266 or 267 of NRS) which are not in conflict with the provisions of this
Charter apply to the City of Yerington.
(Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 901; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 1.020 Incorporation of City.
   1.   All persons who are inhabitants of that portion of the State of Nevada
embraced within the limits set forth in section 1.030 shall constitute a
political and corporate body by the name of "City of Yerington" and by that
name they and their successors shall be known in law, have perpetual succession
and may sue and be sued in all courts.
   2.   Whenever used throughout this Charter, "City" means the City of
Yerington.
(Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 902; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 1.030 Description of territory.The territory embraced in the City is that
certain land described in the official plat required by NRS 234.250 to be filed
with the County Recorder and County Assessor of Lyon County, as such plat is
amended from time to time.
(Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 902; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 1.040 Annexations.The City may annex territory by following the procedure
provided for the annexation of cities in those sections of chapter 268 of NRS,
as amended from time to time, which apply to a county whose population is less
than 700,000.
(Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 902; A-Ch. 796, Stats. 1989 p. 1936; Ch. 253, Stats.
2011 p. 1318; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 1.050 Elective offices.
   1.   The elective officers of the City consist of:
      (a)   A Mayor.
      (b)   Four Council Members.
   2.   Such officers shall be elected as provided by this Charter.
(Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 902; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 1.060 Elective offices: Vacancies.Except as otherwise provided in NRS
268.325:
   1.   A vacancy in the City Council or in the office of Mayor must be filled
by a majority vote of the members of the City Council, or the remaining
members, in the case of a vacancy in the City Council, within 30 days after the
occurrence of the vacancy. The appointee must have the same qualifications as
are required of the elective official.
   2.   No such appointment extends beyond the first Monday in July after the
next municipal election, at which election the office must be filled.
(Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 902; A-Ch. 515, Stats. 1997 p. 2453; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 1.070 Appointive offices.
   1.   The City Council of the City may appoint the following officers:
      (a)   City Attorney.
      (b)   Police Chief.
      (c)   Fire Chief.
      (d)   City Clerk.
      (e)   City Manager.
      (f)   Municipal Judge.
   2.   The City Council shall establish such other offices as it may deem
necessary.
(Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 902; A-Ch. 56, Stats. 1973 p. 76; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 1.080 Appointive officers: Duties; salary.
   1.   All appointive officers of the City shall perform such duties under the
direction of the City Manager as may be designated by the City Council.
   2.   All appointive officers of the City shall receive such salary as may be
designated by the City Council.
(Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 902; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 1.090 Officers' fidelity bonds.The City Council Members may require from
all officers and employees of the City constituted or appointed under this
Charter, except Council Members sufficient security for the faithful and honest
performance of their respective duties.
(Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 902; A-Ch. 56, Stats. 1973 p. 76; Assembly Bill 23)
ARTICLE II - Legislative Department
Sec. 2.010 City Council: Qualifications; election; term of office; salary.
   1.   The legislative power of the City is vested in a City Council
consisting of four Council Members.
   2.   The Council Members must be:
      (a)   Bona fide residents of the City for at least 6 months immediately
preceding their election.
      (b)   Qualified electors in the City.
   3.   All Council Members must be voted upon by the registered voters of the
City at large and, except as otherwise provided in section 5.010, shall serve
for terms of 4 years.
   4.   The Council Members shall receive a salary in an amount fixed by the
City Council.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 903; A-Ch. 56, Stats. 1973 p. 76; Ch. 98, Stats.
1977 p. 213; Ch. 218, Stats. 2011 p. 963; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.020 City Council: Contracts.Members of the City Council may vote on any
lease, contract or other agreement which extends beyond their terms of office.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 903; A-Ch. 184, Stats. 1985 p. 643; Assembly Bill
23)
Sec. 2.030 City Council: Discipline of members, other persons; subpoena power.
   1.   The City Council may:
      (a)   Provide for the punishment of any member for disorderly conduct
committed in its presence.
      (b)   Order the attendance of witnesses and the production of all papers
relating to any business before the City Council.
   2.   If any person ordered to appear before the City Council fails to obey
such order:
      (a)   The City Council or any member thereof may apply to the clerk of
the district court for a subpoena commanding the attendance of the person
before the City Council.
      (b)   Such clerk may issue the subpoena, and any peace officer may serve
it.
      (c)   If the person upon whom the subpoena is served fails to obey it,
the court may issue an order to show cause why such person should not be held
in contempt of court and upon hearing of the matter may adjudge such person
guilty of contempt and punish him or her accordingly.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 903; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.040 Meetings: Quorum.
   1.   The City Council shall hold at least two regular meetings each month,
on the second and fourth Mondays, and by ordinance may provide for additional
regular meetings.
   2.   If the date of any regular meeting of the City Council falls on a legal
holiday, the meeting must be held on the next day which is not a legal holiday.
   3.   Except as otherwise provided in NRS 241.0355, a majority of all members
of the City Council constitutes a quorum to do business.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 903; A-Ch. 184, Stats. 1985 p. 643; Ch. 255, Stats.
2001 p. 1132; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.050 Meetings: Special.Special meetings may be held on call of the Mayor
or by a majority of the City Council.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 904; A-Ch. 184, Stats. 1985 p. 644; Assembly Bill
23)
Sec. 2.060 Meetings: Time and place; rules.The City Council may:
   1.   Fix the time and place of its meetings and judge the qualifications and
election of its own members.
   2.   Adopt rules for the government of its members and proceedings.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 904; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.070 Oaths and affirmations.The Mayor, each Council Member and the City
Clerk may administer oaths and affirmations relating to any business pertaining
to the City before the City Council or to be considered by the City Council.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 904; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.080 Powers of City Council: Ordinances, resolutions and orders.
   1.   The City Council may make and pass all ordinances, resolutions and
orders not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States or the State of
Nevada, or to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes or of this Charter,
necessary for the municipal government and the management of the affairs of the
City, and for the execution of all the powers vested in the City.
   2.   When power is conferred upon the City Council to do and perform
anything, and the manner of exercising such power is not specifically provided
for, the City Council may provide by ordinance the manner and details necessary
for the full exercise of such power.
   3.   The City Council may enforce ordinances by providing penalties not to
exceed those established by the Legislature for misdemeanors.
   4.   The City Council shall have such powers, not in conflict with the
express or implied provisions of this Charter, as are conferred upon the
governing bodies of cities by Nevada Revised Statutes.
   5.   The salary of an elective officer shall not be increased or diminished
during the term for which he or she is elected or appointed.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 904; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.090 Ordinances: Passage by bill; amendments; subject matter; title
requirements.
   1.   No ordinance may be passed except by bill and by a majority vote of the
whole City Council. The style of all ordinances shall be as follows: "The City
Council of the City of Yerington do ordain:".
   2.   No ordinance shall contain more than one subject, which shall be
briefly indicated in the title. Where the subject of the ordinance is not so
expressed in the title, the ordinance is void as to the matter not expressed in
the title.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 905; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.100 Ordinances: Enactment procedure; emergency ordinances.
   1.   All proposed ordinances when first proposed must be read to the City
Council by title and referred to a committee for consideration, after which an
adequate number of copies of the proposed ordinance must be filed with the City
Clerk for public inspection. Except as otherwise provided in subsection 3,
notice of the filing, together with an adequate summary of the ordinance, must
be published once in a newspaper published in the City at least 10 days before
the adoption of the ordinance. The City Council shall adopt or reject the
ordinance or an amendment thereto, within 30 days after the date of
publication.
   2.   At the next regular meeting or adjourned meeting of the City Council
following the proposal of an ordinance and its reference to committee, the
committee shall report the ordinance back to the City Council. Thereafter, it
must be read as first introduced, or as amended, and thereupon the proposed
ordinance must be finally voted upon or action on it postponed.
   3.   In cases of emergency or where the ordinance is of a kind specified in
section 7.030, by unanimous consent of the City Council, final action may be
taken immediately or at a special meeting called for that purpose, and no
notice of the filing of the copies of the proposed ordinance with the City
Clerk need be published. The determination of the City Council that an
emergency exists is conclusive upon all persons, and the City Council is not
required to set forth the nature of the emergency in any ordinance adopted as
an emergency ordinance, in the minutes of the City Council or otherwise.
   4.   All ordinances must be signed by the Mayor, attested by the City Clerk
and published by title with an adequate summary, and posted in full in the City
Hall, with the names of the Council Members voting for or against passage.
   5.   The City Clerk shall record all ordinances in a book kept for that
purpose, together with the affidavits of publication by the publisher.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 905; A-Ch. 71, Stats. 1979 p. 90; Ch. 160, Stats.
1983 p. 375; Ch. 184, Stats. 1985 p. 644; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.110 Codification of ordinances; publication of Code.
   1.   The City Council may codify and publish a Code of its municipal
ordinances in the form of a Municipal Code, which Code may, at the election of
the City Council, have incorporated therein a copy of this Charter and such
additional data as the City Council may prescribe. When such Code is published,
two copies shall be filed with the Librarian at the Supreme Court Law Library.
   2.   The ordinances in the Code shall be arranged in appropriate chapters,
articles and sections, excluding the titles, enacting clauses, signature of the
Mayor, attestations and other formal parts.
   3.   The codification shall be adopted by an ordinance and shall not contain
any substantive changes, modifications or alterations of existing ordinances;
and the only title necessary for the ordinance shall be, "An ordinance for
codifying and compiling the general ordinances of the City of Yerington."
   4.   The codification may be amended or extended by ordinance.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 905; A-Ch. 669, Stats. 1971 p. 2056; Ch. 344,
Stats. 1973 p. 431; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.120 Powers of City Council: Public property, buildings.
   1.   The City Council may:
      (a)   Control the property of the corporation.
      (b)   Erect and maintain all buildings necessary for the use of the City.
      (c)   Purchase, receive, hold, sell, lease, convey and dispose of
property, wherever situated, for the benefit of the City, improve and protect
such property, and do all other things in relation thereto which natural
persons might do.
   2.   The City Council may not, except as otherwise specifically provided by
this Charter or any other law, mortgage, hypothecate or pledge any property of
the City for any purpose.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 906; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.130 Powers of City Council: Eminent domain.The City Council may condemn
property for the public use in the manner prescribed by chapter 37 of NRS, as
amended from time to time.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 906; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.140 Powers of City Council: Licensing, regulation and prohibition of
businesses, trades and professions.
   1.   The City Council may:
      (a)   Except as otherwise provided in NRS 598D.150 and 640C.100, regulate
all businesses, trades and professions.
      (b)   Fix, impose and collect a license tax for revenue upon all
businesses, trades and professions.
   2.   The City Council may establish any equitable standard to be used in
fixing license taxes required to be collected pursuant to this section.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 906; A-Ch. 465, Stats. 2003 p. 2901; Ch. 325,
Stats. 2005 p. 1145; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.150 Powers of City Council: Police ordinances.The City Council may enact
and enforce such local police ordinances as are not in conflict with the
general laws of the State of Nevada.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 906; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.160 Powers of City Council: Fire protection; regulation of explosives,
inflammable materials; fire codes and regulations.The City Council may:
   1.   Organize, regulate and maintain a Fire Department.
   2.   Provide for the appointment of a Fire Chief and prescribe his or her
duties.
   3.   Regulate or prohibit the storage of any explosive, combustible or
inflammable material in or transported through the City, and prescribe the
distance from any residential or commercial area where it may be kept. Any
ordinance adopted pursuant to this subsection that regulates places of
employment where explosives are stored must be at least as stringent as the
standards and procedures adopted by the Division of Industrial Relations of the
Department of Business and Industry pursuant to NRS 618.890.
   4.   Establish, by ordinance, a fire code and other regulations necessary to
carry out the purposes of this section.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 906; A-Ch. 391, Stats. 1999 p. 1863; Assembly Bill
23)
Sec. 2.170 Powers of City Council: Public health; Board of Health;
regulations.The City Council may:
   1.   Provide for safeguarding public health in the City.
   2.   Create a Board of Health and prescribe the powers and duties of such
Board.
   3.   Provide for the enforcement of all regulations and quarantines
established by the Board of Health by imposing adequate penalties for
violations thereof.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 906; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.180 Powers of City Council: Buildings; construction and maintenance
regulations; building and safety codes.The City Council may:
   1.   Regulate all matters relating to the construction, maintenance and
safety of buildings, structures and property within the City.
   2.   Adopt any building or safety code necessary to carry out the provisions
of this section and establish such fees as may be necessary.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 907; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.190 Powers of City Council: Zoning and planning.
   1.   The City Council may:
      (a)   Divide the City into districts and regulate and restrict the
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of buildings,
structures or land within such districts.
      (b)   Establish and adopt ordinances and regulations relating to the
subdivision of land.
   2.   The City Council shall carry out the provisions of subsection 1 in the
manner prescribed by chapter 278 of NRS, as amended from time to time.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 907; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.200 Powers of City Council: Rights-of-way, parks, public buildings and
grounds and other public places.The City Council may:
   1.   Lay out, maintain, alter, improve or vacate all public rights-of- way
in the City.
   2.   Regulate the use of public parks, buildings, grounds and rights- of-way
and prevent the unlawful use thereof.
   3.   Require landowners to keep the adjacent streets, sidewalks and public
parks, buildings and grounds free from encroachments or obstructions.
   4.   Regulate and prevent in all public places:
      (a)   The distribution and exhibition of handbills or signs.
      (b)   Any practice tending to annoy persons passing in such public
places.
      (c)   Public demonstrations and processions.
   5.   Prevent riots or any act tending to promote riots in any public place.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 907; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.210 Powers of City Council: Traffic control.The City Council may, by
ordinance, regulate:
   1.   Except as otherwise provided in NRS 707.375, all vehicular, pedestrian
and other traffic within the City and provide generally for the public safety
on public streets and rights-of-way, publicly owned parking lots and parking
areas to which the public is invited.
   2.   The length of time for which vehicles may be parked upon the public
streets and publicly owned parking lots.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 907; A-Ch. 56, Stats. 1973 p. 77; Ch. 237, Stats.
2003 p. 1255; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.220 Powers of City Council: Parking meters; off-street public parking
facilities.
   1.   The City Council may acquire, install, maintain, operate and regulate
parking meters at the curbs of the streets or upon publicly owned property made
available for public parking. The parking fees to be charged for the use of the
parking facilities regulated by parking meters shall be fixed by the City
Council.
   2.   Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the City Council may
acquire property within the City, by any lawful means except eminent domain,
for the purpose of establishing off-street public parking facilities for
vehicles. The City Council may, in bonds issued to acquire property for this
purpose, pledge the on-street parking revenues, the general credit of the City,
or both, to secure the payment of the principal and interest thereon.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 907; A-Ch. 669, Stats. 1971 p. 2057; Ch. 482,
Stats. 1981 p. 977; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.230 Powers of City Council: Railroads.The City Council may:
   1.   License, regulate or prohibit the location, construction or laying of
tracks of any railroad or streetcar in any public right-of-way.
   2.   Grant franchises to any person or corporation to operate a railroad or
streetcar upon public rights-of-way and adjacent property.
   3.   Declare a nuisance and require the removal of the tracks of any
railroad or streetcar in any public right-of-way.
   4.   Condemn rights-of-way for any public purpose across any railroad right-
of-way.
   5.   Prescribe the length of time any public right-of-way may be obstructed
by trains standing thereon.
   6.   Require railroad companies to fence their tracks and to construct
cattle guards and crossings and to keep them in repair.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 908; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.240 Powers of City Council: Nuisances.The City Council may:
   1.   Determine by ordinance what shall be deemed nuisances.
   2.   Provide for the abatement, prevention and removal of such nuisances at
the expense of the person creating, causing or committing such nuisances.
   3.   Provide that such expense of removal shall be a lien upon the property
upon which the nuisance is located. Such lien shall:
      (a)   Be perfected by filing with the County Recorder a statement by the
City Clerk of the amount of expenses due and unpaid and describing the property
subject to the lien.
      (b)   Be coequal with the latest lien thereon to secure the payment of
general taxes.
      (c)   Not to be subject to extinguishment by the sale of any property on
account of the nonpayment of general taxes.
      (d)   Be prior and superior to all liens, claims, encumbrances and titles
other than the liens of assessments and general taxes.
   4.   Provide any other penalty or punishment of persons responsible for such
nuisances.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 908; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.250 Powers of City Council: Animals and poultry.The City Council may:
   1.   Fix, impose and collect an annual license fee on all animals and
provide for the capture and disposal of all animals on which the license fee is
not paid.
   2.   Regulate or prohibit the running at large and disposal of all kinds of
animals and poultry.
   3.   Establish a pound, appoint a Poundkeeper and prescribe his or her
duties.
   4.   Prohibit cruelty to animals.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 908; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.260 Powers of City Council: Abatement of noxious insects, rats and
disease-bearing organisms.The City Council may take all steps necessary and
proper for the extermination of noxious insects, rats and other disease-bearing
organisms, either in the City or in territory outside the City but so situated
that such insects, rats and disease-bearing organisms migrate or are carried
into the City.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 909; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.270 Powers of City Council: Sanitary sewer facilities.The City Council
may:
   1.   Provide for a sanitary sewer system or any part thereof, and obtain
property therefor either within or without the City.
   2.   Sell any product or by-product thereof and acquire the appropriate
outlets within or without the City and extend the sewer lines thereto.
   3.   Establish sewer fees and provide for the enforcement and collection
thereof.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 909; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.280 Powers of City Council: Provision of utilities.The City Council may:
   1.   Provide, by contract, franchise or public enterprise, for any utility
to be furnished to the City for the residents thereof.
   2.   Provide for the construction of any facility necessary for the
provision of such utilities.
   3.   Fix the rate to be paid for any utility provided by public enterprise.
Any charges due for services, facilities or commodities furnished by any
utility owned by the City is a lien upon the property to which the service is
rendered and shall be perfected by filing with the County Recorder of Lyon
County a statement by the City Clerk of the amount due and unpaid and
describing the property subject to the lien. Each such lien shall:
      (a)   Be coequal with the latest lien thereon to secure the payment of
general taxes.
      (b)   Not be subject to extinguishment by the sale of any property on
account of the nonpayment of general taxes.
      (c)   Be prior and superior to all liens, claims, encumbrances and titles
other than the liens of assessments and general taxes.
   4.   Pursue any other legal remedy for collection of charges for utility
services, facilities or commodities.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 909; A-Ch. 56, Stats. 1973 p. 77; Ch. 416, Stats.
2001 p. 2109; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 2.290 Powers of City Council: Cemeteries; acquisition and maintenance.The
City Council may, by any lawful means, acquire and maintain property for public
use as a cemetery.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 909; Assembly Bill 23)
ARTICLE III - Executive Department
Sec. 3.010 Mayor: Qualifications; duties.
   1.   The Mayor shall be:
      (a)   A bona fide resident of the City for at least 6 months immediately
preceding his or her election.
      (b)   A qualified elector in the City.
   2.   The Mayor shall:
      (a)   Serve as the Chief Executive and Administrative Officer of the
City.
      (b)   Preside over the meetings of the City Council. He or she shall not
be entitled to vote on any matter before the Council except in case of a tie.
      (c)   Have the right of veto on any matter passed by the City Council. A
three-fourths vote of the Council is necessary to override such veto.
      (d)   Perform such emergency duties as may be necessary for the general
health, welfare and safety of the City.
      (e)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance or by
the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes which apply to a mayor of a city
organized under the provisions of a special charter.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 910; A-Ch. 56, Stats. 1973 p. 77; Ch. 98, Stats.
1977 p. 213; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 3.020 City Manager: Duties.
   1.   The City Manager shall perform such administrative duties as the City
Council may designate. His or her duties and salary shall be fixed by the City
Council.
   2.   The City Manager may appoint such clerical and administrative
assistants as he or she may deem necessary, subject to the approval of the City
Council.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 910; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 3.030 City Clerk: Duties.The City Clerk shall:
   1.   Keep the corporate seal and all books and papers belonging to the City.
   2.   Attend all meetings of the City Council and keep an accurate journal of
its proceedings, including a record of all ordinances, bylaws and resolutions
passed or adopted by it. After approval at each meeting of the City Council,
the City Clerk shall attest the journal after it has been signed by the Mayor.
   3.   Sign all warrants issued.
   4.   Number and countersign all licenses issued by the City. All licenses
shall be in a form devised by the City Clerk and approved by the City Council.
   5.   Enter upon the journal the result of the vote of the City Council upon
the passage of ordinances, or of any resolution appropriating money, abolishing
licenses, or increasing or decreasing the rates of licenses.
   6.   Act as ex officio City Treasurer.
   7.   Perform such other duties as may be required by the City Council.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 910; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 3.040 City Clerk's bond.The City Clerk shall, before entering upon the
duties of his or her office, execute a good and sufficient bond with approved
sureties, in such sum and condition as may be required by the City Council, for
the performance of his or her duties under the provisions of this Charter, and
the City Council may require from him or her such additional security as may be
necessary from time to time.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 910; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 3.050 City Attorney: Qualifications; duties.
   1.   The City Attorney shall be a duly licensed member of the State Bar of
Nevada but he or she need not be a resident of the City.
   2.   The City Attorney shall be the Legal Officer of the City and shall
perform such duties as may be designated by ordinance.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 911; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 3.060 County Assessor to be ex officio City Assessor; duties.
   1.   The County Assessor of Lyon County shall be ex officio City Assessor of
the City. The County Assessor shall perform such duties for the City without
additional compensation.
   2.   Upon request of the ex officio City Assessor, the City Council may
appoint and set the salary of a Deputy City Assessor to perform such duties
relative to City assessments as may be deemed necessary.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 911; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 3.070 Chief of Police: Duties.The Chief of Police may, subject to approval
of the City Council, appoint and supervise such police officers as may be
deemed necessary.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 911; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 3.080 City officers: Absence from office.If any appointive officer removes
his or her office from the City, or absents himself or herself therefrom for
more than 30 days without leave of the City Council, his or her office shall be
declared vacant by the City Council, and the vacancy filled by appointment as
provided in this Charter.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 911; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 3.090 City officers: Collection and disposition of moneys.
   1.   All taxes, fines, forfeitures or other moneys collected or recovered by
any officer or person pursuant to the provisions of this Charter or of any
valid ordinance of the City shall be paid by the officer or person collecting
or receiving them to the City Clerk, who shall dispose of them in accordance
with the ordinances, regulations and procedures established by the City
Council.
   2.   The City Council may by proper legal action collect all moneys which
are due and unpaid to the City or any office thereof, and the City Council may
pay from the General Fund all fees and expenses necessarily incurred by it in
connection with the collection of such moneys.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 911; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 3.100 Removal of officers.If any officer is adjudged guilty of any
nonfeasance, misfeasance or malfeasance in office, the City Council may declare
the office vacant and fill the vacancy so caused, as provided by law.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 911; Assembly Bill 23)
ARTICLE IV - Judicial Department
Sec. 4.020 Municipal Court: Municipal Judge.
   1.   The City Council may appoint a qualified person to serve as acting
Judge of the Municipal Court during any period of absence or illness of the
regularly constituted Municipal Judge.
   2.   The salary of the Municipal Judge must be fixed by the City Council.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 911; A-Ch. 56, Stats. 1973 p. 78; Ch. 208, Stats.
1985 p. 676; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 4.040 Payment of fines.The Judge of the Municipal Court may order the
payment of any fine by installments or any other method of future payment, and
failure to comply with such order shall constitute a contempt of court,
punishable by law.
   (Added-Ch. 56, Stats. 1973 p. 78; Assembly Bill 23)
ARTICLE V - Elections
Sec. 5.010 Municipal elections.
   1.   On the second Tuesday after the first Monday in June 2019, there must
be elected by the qualified voters of the City, at a general municipal election
to be held for that purpose, a Mayor and two Council Members, who shall hold
office until their successors have been elected and qualified pursuant to
subsection 3.
   2.   On the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November 2022, and at
each successive interval of 4 years, there must be elected by the qualified
voters of the City, at a general municipal election to be held for that
purpose, two Council Members, who shall hold office for a period of 4 years and
until their successors have been elected and qualified.
   3.   On the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November 2024, and at
each successive interval of 4 years, there must be elected by the qualified
voters of the City, at a general municipal election to be held for that
purpose, a Mayor and two Council Members who shall hold office for a period of
4 years and until their successors have been elected and qualified.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 912; A-Ch. 218, Stats. 2011 p. 964; Ch. 263, Stats.
2013 p. 1184; Ch. 336, Stats. 2015 p. 1893; Assembly Bill 23; Ch. 558, Stats.
2019 p. 3564)
Sec. 5.020 Applicability of state election laws, elections under City Council
control.
   1.   All elections held under this Charter shall be governed by the
provisions of the election laws of this State, so far as such laws can be made
applicable and are not inconsistent herewith.
   2.   The conduct of all municipal elections shall be under the control of
the City Council. For the conduct of municipal elections, for the prevention of
fraud in such elections, and for the recount of ballots in cases of doubt or
fraud, the City Council shall adopt by ordinance all regulations which it
considers desirable and consistent with law and this Charter.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 912; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 5.030 Qualifications, registration of voters.
   1.   Every person who resides within the City at the time of holding any
municipal election, and whose name appears upon the official register of voters
in and for the City, is entitled to vote at each municipal election and for all
officers to be voted for and on all questions that may be submitted to the
people at any such city election, except as otherwise provided in this article.
   2.   Nothing in this Charter shall be so construed as to deny or abridge the
power of the City Council to provide for supplemental registration.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 912; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 5.040 Names on ballots.
   1.   The full names of all candidates, except those who have withdrawn, died
or become ineligible, must be printed on the official ballots without party
designation or symbol.
   2.   If two or more candidates have the same surname or surnames so similar
as to be likely to cause confusion and:
      (a)   None of them is an incumbent, their middle names or middle
initials, if any, must be included in their names as printed on the ballot; or
      (b)   One of them is an incumbent, the name of the incumbent must be
listed first and must be printed in bold type.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 912; A-Ch. 312, Stats. 2003 p. 1731; Assembly Bill
23)
Sec. 5.050 Ballots for ordinances and Charter amendments.An ordinance or
Charter amendment to be voted on in the City shall be presented for voting by
ballot title. The ballot title of a measure may differ from its legal title and
shall be a clear, concise statement describing the substance of the measure
without argument or prejudice. Below the ballot title shall appear the
following question: "Shall the above described (ordinance) (amendment) be
adopted?" The ballot or voting machine or device shall be so marked as to
indicate clearly in what manner the voter may cast his or her vote, either for
or against the ordinance or amendment.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 913; A-Ch. 669, Stats. 1971 p. 2057; Assembly Bill
23)
Sec. 5.060 Availability of lists of registered voters.If, for any purpose
relating to a municipal election or to candidates or issues involved in such an
election, any organization, group or person requests a list of registered
voters of the City, the department, office or agency which has custody of the
official register of voters shall, except as otherwise provided in NRS 293.5002
and 293.558, furnish such a list at a fee to be established by the City
Council.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 913; A-Ch. 581, Stats. 2001 p. 2972; Ch. 470,
Stats. 2005 p. 2305; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 5.070 Watchers and challengers.A candidate is entitled upon written
application to the election authorities at least 5 days before the election to
appoint two persons to represent him or her as watchers and challengers at each
polling place where voters may cast their ballots for him or her. A person so
appointed has all the rights and privileges prescribed by watchers and
challengers under the election laws of this state. The watchers and challengers
may exercise their rights throughout the voting and until the ballots have been
counted.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 913; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 5.080 Voting machines.The City Council may provide for the use of
mechanical or other devices for voting or counting the votes not inconsistent
with law or regulations of the Secretary of State.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 913; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 5.090 Election returns; canvass; certificates of election; entry of
officers upon duties; tie vote procedure.
   1.   The election returns from any municipal election shall be filed with
the City Clerk, who shall immediately place such returns in a safe or vault,
and no person shall be permitted to handle, inspect or in any manner interfere
with such returns until canvassed by the City Council.
   2.   The City Council shall meet within 10 days after any election and
canvass the returns and declare the results. The election returns shall then be
sealed and kept by the City Clerk for 6 months, and no person shall have access
thereto except on order of a court of competent jurisdiction or by order of the
City Council.
   3.   The City Clerk, under his or her hand and official seal, shall issue to
each person declared to be elected a certificate of election. The officers so
elected shall qualify and enter upon the discharge of their respective duties
on the 1st Monday in July next following their election.
   4.   If any election should result in a tie, the City Council shall summon
the candidates who received the tie vote and determine the tie by lot. The
Clerk shall then issue to the winner a certificate of election.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 913; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 5.100 Contest of election.A contested election for any municipal office
shall be determined according to the law of the State regulating proceedings in
contested elections in political subdivisions.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 913; Assembly Bill 23)
ARTICLE VI - Local Improvements
Sec. 6.010 Local improvement law.The City Council, on behalf of the City and in
its name, without any election, may from time to time acquire, improve, equip,
operate and maintain, convert to or authorize:
   1.   Curb and gutter projects;
   2.   Drainage projects;
   3.   Off-street parking projects;
   4.   Overpass projects;
   5.   Park projects;
   6.   Sanitary sewer projects;
   7.   Security walls;
   8.   Sidewalk projects;
   9.   Storm sewer projects;
   10.   Street projects;
   11.   Underground electric and communication facilities;
   12.   Underpass projects; and
   13.   Water projects.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 914; A-Ch. 306, Stats. 1973 p. 382; Ch. 361, Stats.
1983 p. 877; Ch. 416, Stats. 2001 p. 2110; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 6.020 Local improvement law: Collateral powers.The City Council on behalf
of the City, for the purpose of defraying all the costs of acquiring, improving
or converting to any project authorized by section 6.010, or any portion of the
cost thereof not to be defrayed with moneys otherwise available therefor, is
vested with the powers granted to municipalities by chapters 271 and 704A of
NRS, as amended from time to time.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 914; A-Ch. 306, Stats. 1973 p. 382; Assembly Bill
23)
ARTICLE VII - Local Bonds and Franchises
Sec. 7.010 Debt limit.
   1.   The City shall not incur an indebtedness in excess of 20 percent of the
total assessed valuation of the taxable property within the boundaries of the
City.
   2.   In determining any debt limitation under this section, there shall not
be counted as indebtedness:
      (a)   Any revenue bonds, unless the full faith and credit of the City is
also pledged to their payment.
      (b)   Any special assessment bonds, although a deficiency in the proceeds
of the assessments is required to be paid from the General Fund to the City.
      (c)   Any short-term securities issued in anticipation of and payable
from property taxes levied for the current fiscal year.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 914; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 7.020 Acquisition, operation of municipal utilities.The City may, in the
manner and for the purposes provided in this Charter and Nevada Revised
Statutes as they apply to cities, grant franchises and acquire in any manner
any public utility, and hold, manage and operate it, either alone or jointly,
with any level of government or instrumentality or subdivision thereof.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 914; A-Ch. 416, Stats. 2001 p. 2110; Assembly Bill
23)
Sec. 7.030 Borrowing money.
   1.   Subject to the limitations imposed by this article, the City may borrow
money for any corporate purpose, including without limitation any purpose
expressly authorized by this Charter or by Nevada Revised Statutes for a city,
and for such purpose may issue bonds or other securities. The Local Government
Securities Law, as amended from time to time, applies to all securities so
issued except for securities issued under section 6.020.
   2.   Any property tax levied to pay the principal of or interest on such
indebtedness must be levied upon all taxable property within the City as
provided in NRS 350.590 to 350.602, inclusive.
   3.   Any ordinance pertaining to the sale or issuance of bonds or other
securities, including, without limitation, securities issued under section
6.020, may be adopted in the same manner as is provided for cases of emergency.
A declaration by the City Council in any ordinance that it is of this kind is
conclusive in the absence of fraud or gross abuse of discretion.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 914; A-Ch. 482, Stats. 1981 p. 978; Assembly Bill
23)
ARTICLE VIII - Revenue
Sec. 8.010 Municipal taxes.
   1.   The City Council shall annually, at the time prescribed by law for
levying taxes for state and county purposes, levy taxes at the appropriate rate
upon the assessed value of all real and personal property within the City,
except as provided in the Local Government Securities Law and the Consolidated
Local Improvements Law, as amended from time to time. The taxes so levied shall
be collected at the same time and in the same manner and by the same officers,
exercising the same functions, as prescribed in the laws of the State of Nevada
for collection of state and county taxes. The revenue laws of the State shall,
in every respect not inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter, be
applicable to the levying, assessing and collecting of the municipal taxes.
   2.   In the matter of the equalization of assessments, the rights of the
City and the inhabitants thereof shall be protected in the same manner and to
the same extent by the action of the county board of equalization as are the
State and County.
   3.   All forms and blanks used in levying, assessing and collecting the
revenues of the State and counties shall, with such alterations or additions as
may be necessary, be used in levying, assessing and collecting the revenues of
the City. The City Council shall enact all such ordinances as it may deem
necessary and not inconsistent with this Charter and the laws of the State for
the prompt, convenient and economical collecting of the revenue.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 915; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 8.020 Revenue ordinances.The City Council shall have full power to pass
and enact all ordinances necessary to carry into effect the revenue laws in the
City and to enlarge, fix and determine the powers and duties of all officers in
relation thereto.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 916; Assembly Bill 23)
ARTICLE IX - Miscellaneous Provisions
Sec. 9.010 Severability of provisions.If any portion of this Charter is held to
be unconstitutional or invalid for any reason by the decision of any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portion of this Charter. The Legislature hereby declares that it
would have passed the Charter and each portion thereof, irrespective of the
portion which may be deemed unconstitutional or otherwise invalid.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 916; Assembly Bill 23)
Sec. 9.020 Effect of enactment of Charter.
   1.   All rights and property of every kind and description which were vested
in the City prior to the enactment of this Charter shall be vested in the same
municipal corporation on the effective date of this Charter. No right or
liability, either in favor of or against such corporation existing at the time
of becoming incorporated under this Charter, and no action or prosecution shall
be affected by such change, but it shall stand and progress as if no change had
been made.
   2.   Whenever a different remedy is given by this Charter, which may
properly be made applicable to any right existing at the time of such City so
becoming incorporated under this Charter, such remedy shall be cumulative to
the remedy before provided, and used accordingly.
   3.   All ordinances and resolutions in effect in the City prior to the
effective date of this Charter shall, unless in conflict with the provisions of
this Charter, continue in full force and effect until amended or repealed.
   4.   The enactment of this Charter shall not effect any change in the legal
identity of the City.
   5.   The enactment of this Charter shall not be construed to repeal or in
any way affect or modify:
      (a)   Any special, local or temporary law.
      (b)   Any law or ordinance making an appropriation.
      (c)   Any ordinance affecting any bond issue or by which any bond issue
may have been authorized.
      (d)   The running of the statute of limitations in force at the time this
Charter becomes effective.
      (e)   Any bond of any public officer.
   (Ch. 465, Stats. 1971 p. 916; Assembly Bill 23)
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Codification Authority
1-1-4: Reference
1-1-5: Amendments
1-1-6: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Yerington. This city
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the YERINGTON CITY CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-5 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (1973 Code § 1.01.020; amd.
2001 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title, in any prosecution for the violation of any provision
hereof or in any proceeding at law or equity. (1973 Code § 1.01.020; amd. 2001
Code)
1-1-3: CODIFICATION AUTHORITY 1 :
This code consists of all the regulatory and penal ordinances and certain of
the administrative ordinances of the city of Yerington, Nevada, codified
pursuant to the provisions of section 2.110 of the Yerington charter. (1973
Code § 1.01.030)
 
Notes
1 1. For statutory provisions authorizing cities to codify and publish their
  ordinances, see NRS § 168.14.
1-1-4: REFERENCE:
   A.   Applies To All Amendments: Whenever a reference is made to this code as
the "Yerington Municipal Code" or to any portion thereof, or to any ordinance
of the city of Yerington, Nevada, the reference shall apply to all amendments,
corrections and additions heretofore, now or hereafter made. (1973 Code §
1.01.040)
   B.   Specific Ordinances: The provisions of this code shall not in any
manner affect matters of record which refer to, or are otherwise connected with
ordinances which are therein specifically designated by number or otherwise and
which are included within the code, but such reference shall be construed to
apply to the corresponding provisions contained within this code. (1973 Code §
1.01.060)
1-1-5: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code. (2001 Code)
1-1-6: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of the city code shall make every effort to
maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the city
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be
returned to the office of the city clerk when directed so to do by order of the
city council. (2001 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Past Actions And Obligations
1-2-5: Severability Clause
1-2-6: Prohibited Acts Include Causing, Permitting, Aiding, Concealing
1-2-7: Construction
1-2-8: Repeal Not To Revive Ordinances
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (2001 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2001 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2001 Code)
1-2-4: PAST ACTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS:
Neither the adoption of this code nor the repeal or amendments hereby of any
ordinance or part or portion of any ordinance of the city shall in any manner
be construed as a waiver of any license, fee or penalty at said effective date
due and unpaid under such ordinances, nor be construed as affecting any of the
provisions of such ordinance relating to the collection of any such license,
fee or penalty, or the penal provisions applicable to any violation thereof,
nor to affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit in lieu thereof required
to be posted, filed or deposited pursuant to any ordinance and all rights and
obligations thereunder appertaining shall continue in full force and effect.
(1973 Code § 1.01.070; amd. 2001 Code)
1-2-5: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2001 Code)
1-2-6: PROHIBITED ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING, PERMITTING, AIDING, CONCEALING:
Whenever in the ordinances of the city any act or omission is made unlawful, it
shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering, or
concealing the fact of such act or omission. (1973 Code § 1.04.030)
1-2-7: CONSTRUCTION:
The provisions of the ordinances of the city and all proceedings under them are
to be construed with a view to effect their objects and to promote justice.
(1973 Code § 1.04.040)
1-2-8: REPEAL NOT TO REVIVE ORDINANCES:
The repeal of an ordinance shall not repeal the repealing clause of such
ordinance or revive any ordinance which has been repealed thereby. (1973 Code §
1.04.050)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Rules Of Construction
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this city code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
city code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto. Words and phrases
not specifically defined shall be construed according to the context and
approved usage of the language. (1973 Code § 1.04.020; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to
the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases
and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the
law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and
appropriate meaning.
   C.   When an act is required by an ordinance, the same being such that it
may be done as well by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be
construed as to include all such acts performed by an authorized agent. (1973
Code § 1.04.010)
   D.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2001 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
The following words and phrases whenever used in the ordinances of the city
shall be construed as defined in this section unless from the context a
different meaning is intended or unless a different meaning is specifically
defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words or phrases:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Yerington, Nevada, or the area within the territorial limits
of the city of Yerington, and such territory outside of the city over which the
city has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional or statutory
provision.
CODE: The municipal code of the city of Yerington, Nevada.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: The time within which an act is to be done. It shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last day; and if the last
day be Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Yerington, Nevada. "All of its
members" or "all councilmen" mean the total number of councilmen provided by
the general laws of the state of Nevada.
COUNTY: The county of Lyon, Nevada.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Yerington".
LAW: Denotes applicable federal law, the constitution and statutes of the state
of Nevada, the ordinances of the city of Yerington, and when appropriate, any
and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAY: Is permissive.
MONTH: A calendar year.
MUNICIPALITY OR MUNICIPAL: The city of Yerington.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OATH: Construed to include an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which,
by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the
words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" or
"affirmed".
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Yerington".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OR: May be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
ORDINANCE: A law of the city; provided, that a temporary or special law,
administrative action, order or directive may be in the form of a resolution.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a
part of such building or land.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, association, joint venture, joint stock
company, partnership, organization, club, fraternal organization, company,
corporation, business, trust, or their manager, lessee, agent, servant,
officer, or employee or any of them.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PRECEDING AND FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Includes real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
STATE: The state of Nevada.
STREET: Includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts, places,
squares, curbs, or other public ways in this city which have been or may
hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property so
designated in any law of this state.
TENANT AND OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land, includes any person who
occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark.
YEAR: A calendar year. (1973 Code § 1.04.010; amd. 2001 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2001 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Intermittent Sentencing And Administrative Fee
1-4-3: Municipal Court; Administrative Assessment
1-4-4: County Jail (Rep. by Ord. 03-09, 1-12-2004)
1-4-5: Right Of Entry
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Designation: The commission of any act within the city or the failure
to perform any act within the city which is made a misdemeanor by the laws of
the state constitutes a misdemeanor. (1973 Code § 1.20.010)
   B.   Violation; Penalty: Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the
city, or in any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant thereto, any act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in such code, ordinance, rule or regulation the doing
of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared unlawful, when
no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision
of this code or any ordinance or of any such rule or regulation shall be
punished by a fine of any sum less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six (6) months or both such fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 03-09, 1-12-2004)
   C.   Continuing Violation: Each day any violation of any provision of this
code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(1973 Code § 1.12.010)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS §§ 193.150 and 266.105.
1-4-2: INTERMITTENT SENTENCING AND ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:
   A.   Application For Intermittent Sentencing: Each person who is regularly
employed and sentenced to serve a term of confinement in the Lyon County jail
may apply to the court to be allowed to serve his term of confinement
intermittently on days other than his regular days of employment. (1973 Code §
1.22.010)
   B.   Conditions For Payment Of Fees: If the court grants an application to
serve a sentence intermittently, it shall:
      1.   Establish the conditions of the intermittent sentence;
      2.   Direct whether the fee is to be paid weekly or monthly; and
      3.   If the person is unable to pay the amount of the fee, set the terms
of payment and set the amount of the fee according to the applicant's ability
to pay. (1973 Code § 1.22.030)
1-4-3: MUNICIPAL COURT; ADMINISTRATIVE ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Established: When a defendant pleads or is found guilty of a
misdemeanor prosecuted in the municipal court of the city including the
violation of any municipal ordinance, the judge shall include in the sentence
the sum as listed on the city of Yerington fee schedule as an administrative
assessment for the provision of court facilities and render a judgment against
the defendant for the assessment. The administrative assessment is in addition
to any assessment imposed pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section 176.059
or other statutory authority. (Ord. 03-09, 1-12-2004)
   B.   Exceptions: The provisions of subsection A of this section do not apply
to:
      1.   An ordinance regulating metered parking; or
      2.   An ordinance which is specifically designated as imposing a civil
penalty or liability pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section 244.3575 or
268.019.
   C.   Collection: The money collected for the administrative assessment
provided for in this section must not be deducted from the fine imposed by the
judge, but must be imposed against the defendant in addition to the fine. The
money collected for this administrative assessment must be stated separately on
the court's docket and must be included in the amount posted for bail. If the
defendant is found not guilty or the charges are dismissed, the money deposited
with the court must be returned to the defendant. If the judge cancels a fine
because the fine has been determined to be uncollectible, any balance of the
fine and the administrative assessment remaining unpaid shall be deemed to be
uncollectible and the defendant is not required to pay it. If a fine is
determined to be uncollectible, the defendant is not entitled to a refund of
the fine or administrative assessment he has paid and the judge shall not
recalculate the administrative assessment.
   D.   Installment Payments: If the judge permits the fine and any
administrative assessment provided by law to be paid in installments the
payments must be applied in the following order:
      1.   To pay the unpaid balance of an administrative assessment imposed
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section 176.059;
      2.   To pay the unpaid balance of the administrative assessment provided
for in this section; and
      3.   To pay the fine.
   E.   Disposition Of Funds: The money collected for the administrative
assessment provided for in this section must be paid by the clerk of the court
to the city clerk on or before the fifth day of each month for the preceding
month. The city clerk shall deposit the money received to a special revenue
fund. The city may use the money in the special revenue fund only to:
      1.   Acquire land on which to construct additional facilities for the
municipal court;
      2.   Construct or acquire additional facilities for the municipal court;
      3.   Renovate or remodel existing facilities for the municipal court;
      4.   Acquire furniture, fixtures and equipment necessitated by the
construction or acquisition of additional facilities or the renovation of an
existing facility for the municipal court;
      5.   Acquire advanced technology for use in the additional or renovated
facilities;
      6.   Pay debt service of any bonds issued pursuant to subsection 3 of
Nevada Revised Statutes section 350.020 for the acquisition of land or
facilities or the construction or renovation of facilities for the municipal
court.
   F.   Funds Remaining After Five Years: Any money remaining in the special
revenue fund after five (5) fiscal years from the effective date hereof must be
deposited in the city's general fund for the continued maintenance of court
facilities if it has not been committed for expenditure pursuant to a plan for
the construction or acquisition of court facilities or improvements to court
facilities. The city clerk shall provide, upon request by the municipal court,
monthly reports of the revenue credited to and expenditures made from the
special revenue fund. (1973 Code § 1.24.010)
   G.   Effectiveness Of Section: The administrative assessment provided for in
this section shall be assessed for a period of fifty (50) years from the
enactment of this section. (Ord. 03-09, 1-12-2004)
1-4-4: COUNTY JAIL:
(Rep. by Ord. 03-09, 1-12-2004)
1-4-5: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
   A.   Authority: Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any
ordinance or resolution, or whenever there is reasonable cause to believe there
exists an ordinance or resolution violation in any building or upon any
premises within the jurisdiction of the city, any authorized official of the
city, may, upon presentation of proper credentials, enter such building or
premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty
imposed upon him by ordinance.
   B.   Notice Required: Provided, that except in emergency situations or when
consent of the owner and/or occupant to the inspection has been otherwise
obtained, he shall give the owner and/or occupant, if they can be located after
reasonable effort, twenty four (24) hours' written notice of the authorized
official's intention to inspect. The notice transmitted to the owner and/or
occupant shall state that the property owner has the right to refuse entry and
that in the event such entry is refused, inspection may be made only upon
issuance of a search warrant by a duly authorized magistrate.
   C.   Refused Entry: In the event the owner and/or occupant refuses entry
after such request has been made, the official is hereby empowered to seek
assistance from any court of competent jurisdiction in obtaining such entry.
(1973 Code § 1.08.010)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR 1  AND CITY COUNCIL 2
SECTION:
1-5-1: Mayor, Powers And Duties
 
Notes
  1. See sections 1.050, 1.060, and 3.010 of the city charter for provisions
1 regarding elective officers, vacancies in office and qualifications and
  duties of mayor.
2 2. See article II of the city charter for provisions governing the
  legislative department.
1-5-1: MAYOR, POWERS AND DUTIES:
The mayor shall:
   A.   Have general supervision of all the affairs of the city, and shall see
that every officer faithfully discharges his duties;
   B.   Draw all warrants on the treasurer for demands audited by the city
council;
   C.   Perform and officiate at marriage ceremonies subject to the limitations
set forth in NRS Section 122.08(5)(6);
   D.   Perform such other duties as are required by the charter of the city.
(1973 Code § 2.04.010; amd. Res. 2024-01, 1-8-2024)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Salaries Of Officers
1-6-2: Health Officer
1-6-3: Personnel Regulations
1-6-1: SALARIES OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointive Officers: All appointive officers of the city shall receive
such compensation as the city council shall, from time to time, determine and
set. (1973 Code § 2.28.010)
   B.   Councilmen: The salary of each city councilman shall be in an amount
fixed by the city council. (1973 Code § 2.28.020)
   C.   Mayor: The salary of the mayor shall be in an amount fixed by the city
council. (1973 Code § 2.28.030)
1-6-2: HEALTH OFFICER:
   A.   Established: There is hereby established the office of health officer
for the city.
   B.   Employment: The city council may, from time to time, employ any
licensed medical doctor in the state of Nevada to act as such health officer at
the pleasure of the city council and upon such terms and conditions as the city
council shall direct. (1973 Code § 2.08.010)
   C.   Powers And Duties: The health officer shall have full power over all
matters pertaining to health, sanitation and sanitary matters. (1973 Code §
2.08.020)
1-6-3: PERSONNEL REGULATIONS:
Refer to personnel policy adopted February 2000, on file in the city offices.
(Ord. 330, 9-24-2001)
CHAPTER 7
RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION
SECTION:
1-7-1: Definitions
1-7-2: Created
1-7-3: Duties And Directives
1-7-4: Cooperative Agreements
1-7-5: Records Committee
1-7-6: Rights Of Custody And Control
1-7-7: Disposition
1-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
DIVISION: The division of records management of the office of the city clerk.
DUPLICATE: Any accurate and unabridged copy of a record or series of records
which is not an original.
NONRECORD MATERIAL: Published books and pamphlets, books and pamphlets printed
by a governmental printer, work sheets used to collect or compile data after
that data has been included in a record, answer pads for a telephone or other
informal notes, stenographers notes after the information contained therein has
been transcribed, unused forms except ballots, brochures, newsletters,
magazines, newspapers except parts of newspapers retained as evidence of
publication, scrapbooks and property left or deposited with an office which
would otherwise be defined as a record except that the ownership of that
property does not reside with the city.
OFFICE: An office, department, board, commission, committee, agency, or any
other subdivision of the city.
ORIGINAL: As defined in Nevada Revised Statutes section 52.205, a reproduction
made pursuant to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes section 239.051, or
any record designated by the records committee to be an original. An original
made pursuant to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes section 239.051
consists of both the stored copy and the copy maintained for the use of
authorized persons.
RECORD: All documents, papers, letters, pamphlets, books, maps, charts,
blueprints, drawings, photographs, films, sound recordings, magnetic or other
tapes, hardware and software used to process electronic data, punched cards,
computer-generated printouts, audio or video discs or other discs used to store
and retrieve information, artifacts entered as exhibits in a proceeding in any
court, and any other documentary evidence, regardless of physical form or
characteristics, and including all duplicates thereof, made or received
pursuant to a law or ordinance or in connection with the transaction of the
official business of any office of the city.
RECORDS COMMITTEE: The records committee established in section
1-7-5 of this chapter. (1973 Code §§ 2.40.010 through 2.40.080)
1-7-2: CREATED:
   A.   Creation; Administration: Pursuant to the provisions of subsection 1 of
section 125 of chapter 239 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, the division of
records management is created in the office of the city clerk. The division is
administered by the city clerk.
   B.   Procedures And Standards: It is the intent of the city council that the
division, in carrying out its function, follow accepted:
      1.   Management Procedures: Procedures for the management of records to
increase the efficiency of the records keeping system and reduce the
administrative costs associated with the creation, maintenance, use, retention,
and disposition of records; and
      2.   Archival Practice Standards: Standards of archival practice to
ensure the preservation of records with permanent value and maximum
accessibility to records for the general public. (1973 Code § 2.40.090)
1-7-3: DUTIES AND DIRECTIVES:
The division shall:
   A.   Standards, Procedures And Techniques: Establish standards, procedures
and techniques for the effective management of records;
   B.   Surveys: Make continuing surveys of current practices for the
management of records and recommend improvements in those practices, including
the use of space, equipment, and supplies to create, maintain and store
records;
   C.   Standards For Preparation Of Schedules: Establish standards for the
preparation of schedules providing for the retention of records of continuing
value and for the prompt and orderly disposition of records which no longer
possess sufficient administrative, fiscal, legal or research value to warrant
further retention;
   D.   Records Center: Establish, maintain and operate a center for storing
and receiving records of the several city offices pending their disposition in
a manner prescribed by law;
   E.   Micrographics Services: Establish a unit to provide micrographics
services to the several offices of the city;
   F.   Forms And Files: Establish a program for the management of forms and
files;
   G.   Protection Of Records: Establish a program for the protection of
records essential for the continuation or reestablishment of governmental
operations in the event of natural or other disaster; and
   H.   Preservation And Conservation Of Records: Establish a program for the
preservation and conservation of records designated by the state librarian or
the division as having a permanent value. (1973 Code § 2.40.100)
1-7-4: COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS:
The division may employ separately or cooperatively with another local
governmental entity a city records administrator to carry out the duties of the
division. (1973 Code § 2.40.110)
1-7-5: RECORDS COMMITTEE:
   A.   Established: A records committee is established to be known as the city
of Yerington records committee. (1973 Code § 2.40.115)
   B.   Composition: The records committee shall be composed of:
      1.   The city clerk.
      2.   The assistant city clerk.
      3.   The city manager.
      4.   Council member. (Ord. 02-02, 1-14-2002)
   C.   Duties: The records committee shall:
      1.   Approve all records retention and disposition schedules, requests
for the purchase of filing equipment or the creation of a new form, or an
application for conversion to micrographics, word processing or data
processing;
      2.   Review any request for access to information which was denied by an
official to determine whether the denial was in keeping with prevailing law;
and
      3.   Review all proposals for the expansion or modification of the
records management program and make recommendations to the city council. (1973
Code § 2.40.120)
1-7-6: RIGHTS OF CUSTODY AND CONTROL:
   A.   Records Transferred: The rights of custody and control of records
transferred to the city records center remain with the transferring office.
   B.   Archives: The rights of custody and control of accessions to the city
archives transfer to the division at the time the records are accepted as an
accession. (1973 Code § 2.40.130)
1-7-7: DISPOSITION:
   A.   Records: Records may be disposed of only in accordance with the
schedules for retention and disposition of records prepared by the division and
approved by the records committee. (1973 Code § 2.40.140)
   B.   Methods:
      1.   Records to be destroyed must be shredded or burned unless prohibited
by local ordinance.
      2.   The records administrator or a representative of the office must
supervise the destruction of all records in their care and attest that such
destruction was carried out in a method provided by law. (1973 Code § 2.40.150)
CHAPTER 8
DISCLOSURE OF IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION PROTECTION
SECTION:
1-8-1: Purpose
1-8-2: Definitions
1-8-3: Filing An Appeal
1-8-4: Reprisal Or Retaliatory Action
1-8-5: Appointment Of Hearing Officers
1-8-6: Appeal Hearings
1-8-7: Prohibition Of Threats Or Coercion
1-8-8: Disclosure Of Untruthful Information
1-8-9: Annual Summary
1-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this policy is to establish "disclosure of improper governmental
action protection" for employees of the employer who report improper
governmental action, per Nevada Revised Statutes 281.611 through 671. (Ord. 10-
06, 10-11-2010)
1-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION: Action taken by an officer or employee in the
performance of official duties which is:
   A.   In violation of state law or regulation;
   B.   In violation of city code, ordinance, or regulation adopted by the
employer;
   C.   An abuse of authority;
   D.   Of substantial and specific danger to the public health or safety; or
   E.   A gross waste of public money. (Ord. 10-06, 10-11-2010)
1-8-3: FILING AN APPEAL 1 :
An officer or employee who claims that a reprisal or retaliatory action was
taken against the officer or employee for disclosing information concerning
improper governmental action as defined above may file a written appeal with
the human resources manager or appropriate authority. (Ord. 10-06, 10-11-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. Reference: Request for hearing under the provisions of NRS 281.645.
1-8-4: REPRISAL OR RETALIATORY ACTION:
Reprisal or retaliatory action includes:
   A.   The denial of adequate personnel and equipment to perform duties;
   B.   Frequent replacement of members of the staff;
   C.   Frequent and undesirable changes in the office location;
   D.   Refusal to assign meaningful work;
   E.   Issuance of letters of reprimand or evaluations of poor performance;
   F.   Demotion;
   G.   Reduction in pay;
   H.   Denial of a promotion;
   I.   Suspension;
   J.   Dismissal;
   K.   Transfer;
   L.   Frequent changes in working hours or workdays; or
   M.   If the employee is licensed or certified by an occupational licensing
board, the filing with that board, by or on behalf of the employer, of a
complaint concerning the employee, if such action is taken in whole or in part,
because the officer or employee disclosed information concerning improper
governmental action.
A written appeal must be filed by the officer or employee within sixty (60)
days after the date the alleged reprisal or retaliatory action took place. The
reprisal or retaliatory action must have occurred within two (2) years after
the date the officer or employee disclosed information concerning improper
governmental action. The appeal must be filed with the human resources manager
or appropriate authority on a form provided by the employer. The appeal must
contain a statement that sets forth with particularity:
   A.   The facts and circumstances under which the disclosure of improper
governmental action was made; and
   B.   The reprisal or retaliatory action that is alleged to have been taken
against the officer or employee. (Ord. 10-06, 10-11-2010)
1-8-5: APPOINTMENT OF HEARING OFFICERS:
As set forth by ordinance, hearing officers shall be appointed by the
employer's governing board upon the recommendation of the appropriate
authority. The qualifications of the hearing officers require a combination of
education and experience in resolving disputes, adjudicating issues through the
interpretation of statutes, rules or regulations, or serving as a hearing
officer with the state. (Ord. 10-06, 10-11-2010)
1-8-6: APPEAL HEARINGS:
A hearing officer may reject an appeal form that is incomplete or otherwise
insufficient to commence an appeal.
When an officer or employee alleging reprisal or retaliatory action requests an
appeal hearing, he/she may represent themselves at the hearing or be
represented by an attorney or other person of the employee's or officer's
choosing. All testimony given at the hearing is under oath. The officer or
employee alleging reprisal or retaliatory action presents his/her case first
and must establish:
   A.   That the officer or employee was an officer or employee on the date of
the alleged reprisal or retaliatory action;
   B.   That the officer or employee disclosed information concerning improper
governmental action; and
   C.   The alleged reprisal or retaliatory action was taken against him/her
within two (2) years after the date he/she disclosed the information concerning
improper governmental action.
The employer then presents its case and must show that the employer did not
engage in the alleged reprisal or retaliatory action, or that the action was
taken for legitimate business purposes and was not the result of the disclosure
of information regarding improper governmental action by the officer or
employee. The employee or officer making the allegation must then show that the
stated business purpose for the action was a pretext for the reprisal or
retaliatory action.
If the hearing officer finds that the action taken was a reprisal or
retaliatory action, the hearing officer may issue an order directing the person
to desist and refrain from engaging in such action. (Ord. 10-06, 10-11-2010)
1-8-7: PROHIBITION OF THREATS OR COERCION:
An officer or employee shall not directly or indirectly use or attempt to use
the officer's or employee's official authority or influence to intimidate,
threaten, coerce, command, influence, or attempt to intimidate, threaten,
coerce, command, or influence another officer or employee in an effort to
interfere with or prevent the disclosure of information concerning improper
governmental action. The provisions of this policy shall not be used to harass
another officer or employee. (Ord. 10-06, 10-11-2010)
1-8-8: DISCLOSURE OF UNTRUTHFUL INFORMATION:
This policy does not preclude an employer from initiating proper disciplinary
action against an individual who discloses untruthful information concerning
improper governmental action. (Ord. 10-06, 10-11-2010)
1-8-9: ANNUAL SUMMARY:
As required by Nevada Revised Statutes 281.661, a summary of this policy will
be provided to employees on an annual basis. (Ord. 10-06, 10-11-2010)
CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Legislative Findings And Declarations
1-9-2: Trial By Jury
1-9-3: Persons Qualified To Act As Jurors
1-9-4: Municipal Court Policies And Procedures
1-9-5: Juror Compensation
1-9-6: Liberal Construction
1-9-7: Severability
1-9-1: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND DECLARATIONS:
The City Council hereby finds and declares:
   A.   Protecting accused criminal defendants' constitutional and legal rights
is of paramount importance in the criminal justice system;
   B.   Providing accused defendants with all constitutional and legal rights
they are owed is indispensable to the evenhanded pursuit of justice and
essential to obtaining meaningful, fair and just criminal convictions to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare;
   C.   The Yerington Municipal Court is vested with jurisdiction over all
misdemeanor criminal offenses committed within the City of Yerington;
   D.   The Nevada Supreme Court has determined that trial by jury is
constitutionally required in certain misdemeanor cases;
   E.   No applicable authority prohibits the Yerington Municipal Court from
conducting a trial by jury in a misdemeanor case in which a defendant possesses
a constitutional right to a trial by jury;
   F.   The Nevada Legislature has declared that the Yerington City Charter
shall be liberally construed to provide for the orderly government of the City
and the general welfare of its citizens;
   G.   The Nevada Legislature has declared that the City Council may exercise
all powers necessary or proper to address matters of public health, safety and
welfare within the City; and
   H.   Recognizing the authority of the Yerington Municipal Court to conduct
trials by jury in those misdemeanor cases for which trial by jury is
constitutionally or legally required promotes the public health, safety and
welfare of all citizens and visitors in the City of Yerington. (Ord. 20-01, 5-
26-2020)
1-9-2: TRIAL BY JURY:
The Yerington Municipal Court is empowered to conduct trials by jury in
misdemeanor criminal cases in which trial by jury is constitutionally required.
(Ord. 20-01, 5-26-2020)
1-9-3: PERSONS QUALIFIED TO ACT AS JURORS:
Every qualified elector of the State of Nevada who resides within the City of
Yerington and meets all legal requirements for jury service shall be a
qualified juror of the City of Yerington. (Ord. 20-01, 5-26-2020)
1-9-4: MUNICIPAL COURT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES:
The duly appointed Yerington Municipal Court Judge is hereby authorized to
adopt policies and procedures consistent with Nevada law and this Chapter as he
or she deems necessary and proper to effectuating trials by jury. (Ord. 20-01,
5-26-2020)
1-9-5: JUROR COMPENSATION:
Jurors shall be compensated in accordance with the policies and procedures
adopted by the Yerington Municipal Court. (Ord. 20-01, 5-26-2020)
1-9-6: LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION:
The provisions of this ordinance shall be liberally construed to effectively
carry out its purposes in the interest of the public health, safety, welfare
and convenience. (Ord. 20-01, 5-26-2020)
1-9-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any subsection, phrase, sentence or portion of this ordinance is for any
reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction,
such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision,
and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions. (Ord.
20-01, 5-26-2020)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION 1
SECTION:
2-1-1: Created
2-1-2: Composition
2-1-3: Terms Of Office
2-1-4: Vacancies
2-1-5: Compensation
2-1-6: Organization
2-1-7: Office
2-1-8: Bylaws, Rules And Regulations
2-1-9: Expenses
2-1-10: Annual Report
2-1-11: Powers And Duties
 
Notes
1 1. NRS §§ 268.100 through 268.220, chapter 278.
2-1-1: CREATED:
A planning commission is hereby created. (1973 Code § 2.12.010)
2-1-2: COMPOSITION:
The planning commission shall consist of seven (7) members in addition to the
mayor, city attorney, and city manager, to be appointed by the mayor, not more
than two (2) of whom shall be nonresidents of the city. (Ord. 06-04, 4-24-2006)
2-1-3: TERMS OF OFFICE:
   A.   City Officials: The mayor, city attorney and city manager shall hold
office as members of the planning commission during their tenure of office as
such city officials. (Ord. 06-04, 4-24-2006)
   B.   Appointed Members: The appointed members of the planning commission
shall hold office for four (4) years, or until their successors have been
appointed and qualified. (1973 Code § 2.12.030)
2-1-4: VACANCIES:
The mayor shall appoint a new member to fill any vacancy on the planning
commission for the unexpired term of such vacant position. (2001 Code)
2-1-5: COMPENSATION:
Members of the planning commission shall receive such compensation as the city
council shall, from time to time, determine and set. (Ord. 05-13, 10-10-2005)
2-1-6: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers: Each January, the members of the planning commission shall
elect a president and vice president from the appointed members, and may elect
a secretary who need not be a member of the commission. (Ord. 06-04, 4-24-2006)
   B.   Record Of Proceedings: The secretary shall keep an accurate record of
all proceedings. (1973 Code § 2.12.060)
2-1-7: OFFICE:
The city council shall assign to the planning commission an office or
headquarters in the city hall, if possible, in which to hold its meetings,
transact its business, and keep its records. (1973 Code § 2.12.070)
2-1-8: BYLAWS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The planning commission may adopt bylaws, rules and regulations for its
government and in connection with its duties, not inconsistent with the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes sections 268.100 through 268.220,
inclusive, with the provisions of this chapter, or with the provisions of title
10 of this code. (1973 Code § 2.12.080)
2-1-9: EXPENSES:
The planning commission shall incur no expense other than such as may be
authorized by the city council. (1973 Code § 2.12.090)
2-1-10: ANNUAL REPORT:
The planning commission shall prepare and file with the city council an annual
report at the end of each calendar year. (1973 Code § 2.12.100)
2-1-11: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning commission shall:
   A.   Recommend and advise the city council and all other public authorities
concerning:
      1.   The laying out, widening, extending, paving, parking and locating of
streets, sidewalks and boulevards;
      2.   The betterment of housing and sanitary conditions, and the
establishment of zones or districts within which lots or buildings the conduct
or operation of certain business, manufacturing or other enterprises shall be
excluded, and limiting the height, area and bulk of building and structures
therein.
   B.   Recommend to the city council and all other public authorities plans
and regulations for the future growth, development and beautification of the
city in respect to its public and private buildings and works, streets, parks,
grounds and vacant lots.
   C.   Do and perform any and all other acts and things necessary or proper to
carry out the provisions of sections 268.100 to 268.220, inclusive, Nevada
Revised Statutes, and in general to study and propose such measures as may be
for the municipal welfare.
   D.   Study and report on all maps, plats and replats of land laid out in
building lots, and the streets, alleys or other portions of the same intended
to be dedicated for public use or for the use of purchasers or owners of lots
fronting thereon or adjacent thereto and located within the city, and all plans
or plats for vacating, laying out, widening, extending, paving, parking, and
locating streets, or plans for public buildings; which shall first be submitted
to the commission for report thereon before final action shall be taken by the
city council, unless in case of emergency or the report of such commission is
unreasonably delayed. (1973 Code § 2.12.110)
   E.   Represent the city and appear and be heard by the board of county
commissioners in the matter of the approval by the board of county
commissioners of any map or plat of land laid out in streets, alleys and public
places when the same is situated within one mile outside the city limits of the
city, when such map or plat is submitted to the board of county commissioners
under the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes section 278.4725.
   F.   Receive gifts, bequests or devises of property to carry out any of the
purposes of title 10 of this code, and control distribution of the same. (1973
Code § 2.12.110; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF HEALTH 1
SECTION:
2-2-1: Composition
2-2-2: President
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-6-2 of this code for provisions regarding the city health officer.
2-2-1: COMPOSITION:
The board of health shall consist of the mayor, members of the council, and a
secretary, to be appointed by the mayor with the advice and approval of the
council, who shall be denominated the chief health officer. (1973 Code §
2.16.010)
2-2-2: PRESIDENT:
The mayor shall be ex officio president of the board of health. (1973 Code §
2.16.020)
CHAPTER 3
CHALLENGES TO MEMBERS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Property Defined
2-3-2: Challenge
2-3-3: Notice
2-3-4: Affidavit
2-3-5: Disclosure
2-3-6: Answer
2-3-7: Hearing Officer
2-3-8: Hearing
2-3-9: Decision
2-3-1: PROPERTY DEFINED:
As used in this chapter, the term "property" means any interest, right or
entitlement, the deprivation or denial of which, by the government, is limited
by one or more significant substantive restrictions on the decision to deprive
or deny the person having or seeking the interest, right or entitlement. (Ord.
07-03, 6-25-2007)
2-3-2: CHALLENGE:
Any person appearing as a party before any public body conducting a hearing
which may cause the party to be deprived of property and who believes that one
or more members of the body bear actual bias or prejudice towards the person or
that the member's pecuniary or personal interest in the outcome of the hearing
creates an appearance of partiality may challenge the participation of the
partial, biased or prejudiced member or members in the hearing. (Ord. 07-03, 6-
25-2007)
2-3-3: NOTICE:
The challenge shall be made at least ten (10) working days before the date set
for the hearing. If the facts upon which disqualification of a member is sought
are not known to the party at the time the challenge must be filed then the
challenge must be made prior to the commencement of the hearing. (Ord. 07-03,
6-25-2007)
2-3-4: AFFIDAVIT:
The challenge must be made by filing an affidavit signed under penalty of
perjury specifying the facts upon which the disqualification is sought with the
chief executive officer of the public body which will be conducting the
hearing. The chief executive officer shall forthwith deliver a copy of the
affidavit to the challenged member or members. (Ord. 07-03, 6-25-2007)
2-3-5: DISCLOSURE:
The challenged member or members may choose not to participate in the hearing
or may deliver a written answer to the chief executive officer of the body. If
the challenged member chooses not to participate in the hearing because of the
member's personal or pecuniary interest in the outcome of the hearing or
because he has received a gift or loan regarding the subject matter of the
hearing, then the member shall provide the disclosure required by Nevada
Revised Statutes 281.501(4). (Ord. 07-03, 6-25-2007)
2-3-6: ANSWER:
The answer of the person challenged must be delivered within two (2) working
days of the challenge. The answer must admit or deny the allegations set forth
in the challenge and set forth any additional facts which bear on the question
of the member or member's disqualification. (Ord. 07-03, 6-25-2007)
2-3-7: HEARING OFFICER:
If an answer is delivered, the question of the member's or members'
disqualification shall be determined by a hearing officer appointed by the
chairman or president of the public body. If the chairman or president of the
public body is the challenged member, then the appointment of a hearing officer
shall be made by the highest ranking member of the public body challenged. The
appointment of the hearing officer must be made within two (2) working days of
the delivery of the answer to the chief executive officer of the public body.
(Ord. 07-03, 6-25-2007)
2-3-8: HEARING:
The hearing officer shall forthwith hear the evidence and witnesses for and
against the disqualification of the member or members and make his decision at
the close of the hearing. The burden is upon the person challenging the member
or members of the public body to overcome a presumption of honesty and
integrity on the part of the member or members in order to obtain the
disqualification of the member or members. (Ord. 07-03, 6-25-2007)
2-3-9: DECISION:
If the decision of the hearing officer is that the member or members are
disqualified from participating in the hearing, then the member or members
shall not participate in the hearing except as any other member of the public
is entitled to participate in the hearing. (Ord. 07-03, 6-25-2007)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License Required
3-1-3: Application; Fee
3-1-4: Conditions For Approval Or Denial
3-1-5: Form; Issuance
3-1-6: Display
3-1-7: Separate License Required
3-1-8: Prohibited Business Not Permitted By License
3-1-9: License Register
3-1-10: License Fees
3-1-11: Statements And Affidavits
3-1-12: Transfer Of License
3-1-13: Duplicate License
3-1-14: Exemptions
3-1-15: Nonissuance For Delinquent Fees
3-1-16: Suspension, Cancellation Or Revocation
3-1-17: Enforcement Of Chapter
3-1-18: Audit Of Books And Records
3-1-19: Short Term License
3-1-20: Determination Of Business Category
3-1-21: Enumerated Businesses
3-1-22: Fees Based On Number Of Machines Or Tables
3-1-23: Itinerant Businesses
3-1-24: Violation; Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings indicated:
CONTRACTOR: Synonymous with the term "builder". A contractor is any person,
except a licensed architect or a registered civil engineer, acting solely in
his professional capacity who in any capacity other than as the employee of
another with wages as the sole compensation, undertakes to, or offers to
undertake to, or purports to have the capacity to undertake to, or submits a
bid to, or does himself or by or through others, construct, alter, repair, add
to, subtract from, improve, move, wreck or demolish any building, highway,
road, railroad, excavation or other structure, project, development or
improvement, or to do any part thereof. A "contractor" within the meaning of
this chapter includes subcontractor or specialty contractor, but does not
include anyone who merely furnishes materials or supplies without fabricating
them into, or consuming them in the performance of, the work of a contractor.
GROSS RECEIPTS: Includes the total amount of the sale price of all sales, the
total amount charged or received for the performance of any act, service or
employment of whatever nature, whether such service, act or employment is done
as a part of, or in connection with the sale of goods, wares, merchandise or
not, for which a charge is made or credit allowed, without any deduction
therefrom on account of the cost of the property sold, the cost of materials
used, labor or service costs, interest paid or payable, losses or other
expenses whatsoever; provided, nevertheless, that the term "gross receipts"
shall not include cash discounts allowed or taken in connection with such
receipts; and, provided further, that the term "gross receipts" does not
include the amount credited by a seller of goods to the purchaser of goods for
any property accepted by the seller as part of the sale price of goods sold
where the property so accepted by the seller is to be retained by the seller
for resale in the ordinary course of the seller's business. Any tax required by
law to be included in, or added to the purchase price and collected from the
consumer or purchaser, and such part of the sales price of any property
previously sold and returned by the purchaser to the seller which is refunded
by the seller, by way of cash or credit allowance, shall be deducted for the
purpose of determining gross receipts under this chapter.
LICENSEE: Any person, firm, association or corporation required to be licensed
under the provisions of this chapter.
LIQUOR: Beer, wine, gin, whiskey, cordials, ethyl alcohol or rum, and every
liquid containing one-half of one percent (0.5%) or more of alcohol by volume
and which is used for beverage purposes.
QUARTER: One-fourth (1/4) of a year, and said quarters shall begin with the
first day of the following months: January, April, July and October of each and
every year.
SHORT TERM LICENSE: Any contract, project, event, or work that will be
completed within a thirty (30) calendar day period.
SINGLE PROJECT LICENSE: A business license issued for any single contract,
project, or business performed within the city, not to exceed one year.
VENDING MACHINE: Any apparatus utilized for the automatic delivery of an
article, such as chewing gum or candy, contained in a reservoir, or the
automatic delivery of a service, such as a video game, music, or a pinball
machine, upon the insertion of a coin in a slot and specifically not for
gambling purposes. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person, either for himself or for any other person, to
commence or to carry on any business, trade, occupation, calling or amusement
or to advertise that he is doing so, without first having obtained a license
from the city, and without complying with any and all federal, state and local
regulations pertaining to such business, trade, occupation, calling or
amusement as contained in this chapter. The carrying on of any business, trade,
occupation, calling or amusement for which a license is required by this
chapter without first having procured a license from the city to do so and
without complying with any and all regulations contained in this chapter shall
constitute a separate violation of this chapter for each and every day that
such business, trade, occupation, calling or amusement is so carried on. (Ord.
07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-3: APPLICATION; FEE:
   A.   Contents; Form: Every person, firm, association or corporation desiring
to obtain a license under the provisions of this chapter shall submit an
application for such license to the city clerk, which application shall be on a
form provided by the city and which shall contain, but not be limited to, the
following information:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant;
      2.   The name and location of the business for which a license is sought;
      3.   The names and addresses of all persons who have any financial
interest in the business sought to be licensed;
      4.   A full and complete description of all types of businesses,
activities and occupations to be carried on by the business sought to be
licensed;
      5.   Information necessary, and the applicant's authorization, to permit
the city to perform a criminal background check of the applicant. In the event
the background check reveals any current criminal proceedings involving the
applicant, that fact may provide grounds for denial of the application.
   B.   Fee: An application fee per the city of Yerington's fee schedule is
required on all businesses. (Ord. 07-06, 8-27-2007)
3-1-4: CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL OR DENIAL:
Every application submitted under the provisions of section
3-1-3 of this chapter shall be reviewed by the city clerk. The city clerk shall
consider the application and either issue or deny the request for a license
administratively. The city clerk's issuance is conditional upon final review by
the city council at its next ensuing regular or special meeting. The city
council shall consider the issuance by the city clerk and either grant or deny
the license at such meeting. The city council shall have the power to impose on
every license granted under these chapter limitations or conditions required or
permitted by this chapter or any other law. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-5: FORM; ISSUANCE:
   A.   Issuance: Following the granting of a license, as provided in section
3-1-4 of this chapter, the city clerk shall prepare and deliver a license to
the licensee.
   B.   Form: All licenses shall be printed in a form as specified by the city
council; all licenses shall be consecutively numbered; all licenses shall be so
printed that upon issuance the following information is clearly indicated upon
the face of the license:
      1.   Date license issued;
      2.   Number of license;
      3.   Business, trade, occupation, calling, or amusement for which the
license is issued;
      4.   The time period for which the license is valid;
      5.   The name of the licensee;
      6.   The address of the licensed business, trade, occupation, calling or
amusement; and
      7.   The name under which the licensed business, trade, occupation,
calling or amusement will be conducted, unless the same is the name of the
licensee.
   C.   Required Signatures: All licenses issued by the city clerk shall be
first signed by the mayor and countersigned by the city clerk. (Ord. 07-02, 2-
26-2007)
3-1-6: DISPLAY:
All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be posted and kept, by the
licensee, in a conspicuous place in or about the place of business of the
person, firm, association or corporation who obtained the same; and, on demand,
during the usual hours of business must be exhibited to the city clerk, chief
of police, or to any other officer of the city whose duty it is to enforce the
provisions of this chapter or to collect the fees imposed under the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-7: SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
Each business, trade, occupation, calling or amusement required by this chapter
to be licensed must be separately licensed. In the event that a single person,
firm, association or corporation carries on at one location two (2) or more
businesses, trades, occupations, callings or amusements required by this
chapter to be licensed, listed in category A, B, or C of section
3-1-21 of this chapter at the same location shall be required to obtain and pay
for a separate license for each business as provided in section
3-1-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-8: PROHIBITED BUSINESS NOT PERMITTED BY LICENSE:
The payment of a license fee required by the provisions of this chapter and its
acceptance by the city and issuance of a license to any person shall not
entitle the holder to carry on any business in, or on any building or premises
designated in such license in the event that such building or premises is
situated in a locality in which the conduct of such business is in violation of
any law or ordinance, or in violation of any restrictive covenant, nor to
conduct any business for which a permit is required as a prerequisite to the
conduct of such business, nor to conduct any illegal or unlawful business.
(Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-9: LICENSE REGISTER:
The city clerk shall maintain the Caselle business license data module which
provides the names of all persons to whom licenses are issued; the business,
trade, occupation, calling or amusement licensed; the location of the licensed
business; the date of issuance and the date of expiration of each license; fees
and penalties received for each license. The city clerk shall provide such data
to the city council upon request. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-10: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Due Date:
      1.   Quarterly: All license fees which are assessed quarterly, as
specified in this chapter, shall be due and payable as follows:
 
January, February, March     1st quarter  Delinquent last business day of April
April, May, June             2nd quarter  Delinquent last business day of July
July, August, September      3rd quarter  Delinquent last business day of
                                          October
October, November, December  4th quarter  Delinquent last business day of
                                          January
 
      2.   Short Term License: All license fees assessed on a short term
license, as specified in this chapter, shall be paid upon issuance of the
license.
      3.   Single Project License: All license fees assessed on a single
project license, as specified in this chapter, shall be paid upon issuance of
the license as found on the quarterly fee matrix listed in the city of
Yerington fee schedule.
   B.   Fees Not Refundable: No license fee is refundable.
   C.   Late Penalties: Every license fee which is not paid within a period of
thirty (30) days from the day the same becomes due is declared delinquent and
the city clerk shall add to such license fee and collect, before issuing such
license, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the license fee so delinquent, but
in no case less than one dollar ($1.00), an administrative late fee as found in
the city of Yerington fee schedule, the actual cost of certified mailing and
such legal fees as may be incurred in any civil action brought in the name of
the city for the recovery of the amount of the license fee imposed by this
chapter. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-11: STATEMENTS AND AFFIDAVITS:
   A.   Not Conclusive: No statement or affidavit required under any provision
of this chapter shall be conclusive upon the city or upon any department,
bureau, officer or agent thereof, and whenever it shall appear to the
satisfaction of the city council that the statement or certificate does not set
forth the true facts required by this chapter, the city council may withhold
the approval of a license until such time as the applicant shall furnish
satisfactory evidence of the truth of such statement or affidavit.
   B.   Confidentiality: The statements or affidavits pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter seeking the issuance or renewal of a license shall
be deemed confidential in character and shall not be subject to public
inspection. It shall be the duty of the city clerk to so preserve and keep the
statements that the contents may not become known except to the persons charged
by law with the administration of this chapter. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-12: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   A.   To Another Person: No license granted or issued under any provision of
this chapter shall be in any manner transferred or assigned or authorize any
person other than is therein named as licensee to do business without the prior
approval of the city council.
   B.   To Another Location: No license granted or issued under any provision
of this chapter shall authorize the conduct of any business at a location other
than that specified in the license without the prior approval of the city
council. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-13: DUPLICATE LICENSE:
A duplicate license may be issued by the city clerk to replace any license
previously issued under this chapter which has been lost or destroyed provided
that the licensee files with the city clerk an affidavit attesting to such
facts and paying at the time of filing such affidavit a duplicate license fee
as found in the city of Yerington fee schedule. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-14: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Nonprofit, Charitable Purposes: The provisions of this chapter shall
not be deemed or construed to require the payment of a license fee to conduct,
manage or carry on any business, occupation or activity from any institution or
organization which is conducted, managed or carried on wholly for the benefit
of charitable purposes or from which profit is not a motive, either directly or
indirectly, by an individual, firm or corporation; nor shall any license be
required for the conducting of any entertainment, concert, exhibition or
lecture on scientific, historical, literary, religious, or moral subjects
whenever the receipts of such entertainment, concert, exhibition or lecture are
to be appropriated to any church or school, or to any religious or benevolent
purpose; nor shall any license be required for the conducting of any
entertainment, dance, concert, exhibition or lecture by any religious,
charitable, fraternal, educational, military, state, county or municipal
organization or association whenever the receipts of any such entertainment,
dance, concert, exhibition or lecture are to be appropriated for the purposes
and objects for which such association or organization was formed and from
which profit is not derived, either directly or indirectly, by any individual,
firm or corporation; nor shall any license be required for practicing the
religious tenets of any church or denomination; provided, however, that nothing
in this section contained shall be deemed to exempt any such institution or
organization from complying with the provisions of any ordinance of the city
requiring such institution or organization to obtain a permit from the city
council or other proper officer or officers or bodies to conduct, manage, or
carry on any such entertainment, concert, exhibition, dance or lecture.
   B.   Proof Of Exemption: Every person, firm or association who shall claim
exemption from payment of a business license either through the provisions of
this chapter or any state or federal law, shall be required to appear before
the city clerk and present documentary or other proof that the person, firm,
association or corporation is entitled to the exemption claimed and the city
clerk is empowered and it shall be his duty to require proof beyond reasonable
doubt that the party claiming exemption is so entitled by law or this chapter.
(Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-15: NONISSUANCE FOR DELINQUENT FEES:
No license for any ensuing term or unexpired license period shall knowingly be
issued to any person, who at the time of making application, is indebted to the
city for any unpaid license fee. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-16: SUSPENSION, CANCELLATION OR REVOCATION:
   A.   Causes: Any license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
or any amendment thereof, for the conducting of business, may be suspended,
canceled or revoked for good cause by the city council. Good cause for such
suspension, cancellation or revocation shall include, but is not limited to,
the following:
      1.   Nuisance: The existence of unsanitary conditions, noise,
disturbances, or other conditions at, near or in the premises which cause or
tend to create a public nuisance or which injuriously affects the public
health, safety or welfare.
      2.   Unlawful Acts: The commission of, or permitting or causing the
commission of, any act in the operation of the business which act is made
unlawful or is prohibited by any ordinance, rule or law of the city, state or
federal government; or
      3.   Fraudulent Practices And Misrepresentations: Fraudulent practices
and misrepresentation in the operation of the business, or concealment or
misrepresentation in procuring the license.
   B.   Procedure: Any license issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter may be suspended, canceled or revoked in the following manner:
      1.   Complaint: The council may, on its own motion or initiative, or upon
complaint of any person, institute proceedings to suspend, cancel or revoke a
license, by mailing a complaint setting up the alleged reason for such
proceeding to the licensee at the last address of such licensee as shown by his
application or by supplemental application filed pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Written Answer: The licensee, shall, within five (5) days of the
date of such mailing, unless an extension of time be granted by the council,
file with the city clerk a written answer to such complaint, under oath.
      3.   Hearing Scheduled: The council shall fix a day and time for a
hearing at which the licensee will be given an opportunity to be heard.
      4.   Failure To Answer Or Appear: If the licensee fails to file a written
answer within the time required, or if the licensee fails to appear at the
place and time designated for the hearing, the council may order the license
suspended, canceled or revoked.
      5.   Council Action: The council shall, within ten (10) days from the
date of such hearing, enter its order to suspend, cancel or revoke, or to
refuse to suspend, cancel or revoke said license.
   C.   Alternative Procedure: As an alternative to the procedure outlined in
the foregoing subsections, the council may, on its own initiative or upon the
complaint of any person, require the licensee to appear before the council at a
time and place fixed by the council, then and there to show cause, if any he
may have, why his license should not be suspended, canceled or revoked. The
hearing shall not be less than five (5) days from the date of service upon the
licensee of the order by mailing a copy of the order to him at his last known
address or place of business, or by making personal service upon him thereof.
The failure by the licensee to appear at the time and place designated by the
council shall, in and of itself, constitute sufficient grounds for suspension,
cancellation or revocation of the licensee's license.
   D.   Reopening Or Review Of Proceedings: There shall be no reopening or
review of the proceedings whatever before the council except when it
subsequently appears to the satisfaction of the council that the licensee's
failure to answer or appear was due to matters beyond his control, and not
through negligence on the part of the licensee. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-17: ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER:
The city clerk and/or the chief of police are empowered and shall have the duty
to see that requirements of this chapter are complied with. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-
2007)
3-1-18: AUDIT OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
   A.   Required: Every licensee whose license fee is computed under the
provisions of this chapter does, by his application for and/or acceptance of a
license under this chapter, consent to an audit of the books and records of the
licensed business by any certified public accountant, public accountant or
other qualified person designated by the city council; in no event shall such
an audit of any licensee be required more than once during any period of twelve
(12) months; refusal of any licensee to permit an audit as provided in this
section shall result in an immediate and automatic forfeiture of all business
licenses of the licensee who so refuses.
   B.   Employment Of Auditor: The city council may, from time to time, in its
sole discretion, employ certified public accountants, public accountants or
other qualified persons to audit the books and records of any business licensed
under this chapter and required to pay a license fee computed under the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Procedure:
      1.   Designation Of Time And Place: At the time the city council employs
an auditor under the provisions of subsection B of this section, it shall set a
time and place for the audit; the time set for such audit shall not be earlier
than ten (10) days following the employment of the auditor. The city council
may provide that the audit is to occur at the licensee's place of business, if
within the city, at city hall or at any other place within the city.
      2.   Notice To Licensee: Upon the order of the city council setting the
time and place of the audit, the city clerk shall forthwith notify the licensee
whose books and records are to be audited of the time and place of such audit.
Notification of the licensee may be either by personal service upon the
licensee or by certified mail directed to the licensee at the address shown on
the licensee's most recent license application, affidavit or business license;
if notification is by personal service, such service shall be made not later
than five (5) days before the date set for the audit; if notification is by
certified mail, such mailing shall be made not later than seven (7) days before
the date set for the audit. The city clerk shall cause proof of notification to
be completed and filed in the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-19: SHORT TERM LICENSE:
   A.   Power To Issue: The city clerk, as designated by the city council, may,
upon application from any person, firm, association or corporation, issue a
license under the provisions of this chapter on a short term basis.
   B.   License Fee: The license fee required on any licenses issued under the
provisions of subsection A of this section shall be at rates which are
established by a majority vote of the city council and found in the city of
Yerington fee schedule.
   C.   Term: Any license granted under the provisions of this section shall
specify the total number of days for which the license is valid and such
license shall terminate automatically at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight of the
last day so specified.
   D.   Compliance Required: Except as specifically stated in this section, any
license issued under the provisions of this section, and the application
therefor, shall be in accordance with all provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 07-
02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-20: DETERMINATION OF BUSINESS CATEGORY:
In the event that a business does not expressly nor indirectly fall within one
of the enumerated business license fee categories, the city council, after a
duly noticed hearing, will decide which licensing fee schedule is appropriate.
(Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-21: ENUMERATED BUSINESSES:
   A.   Categories:
      1.   Category A: Every firm, person, association, partnership or
corporation who engages in, conducts or maintains within the city, any of the
following named or similar professions, occupations or businesses, shall pay
for and obtain a quarterly license to carry on such profession, occupation or
business as a category A business. The rate is determined by number of
employees and gross receipts per quarter, as found on the quarterly business
license affidavit:
Advertising
Aerial pesticide application
Air ambulance
Alarm service
Artist
Asphalt pavers
Assayer
Assisted living
Auto detailing
Backflow technician
Bakery
Bank, credit union, etc.
Barber
Bicycle sales and repair
Block/rock
Bookkeeping
Boxing arena
Business of any person charging a fee for the treatment of the mind or body by
physical or mental processes except by prayer or spiritual means in accordance
with the religious tenets of any church or denomination
Cabinet construction
Cafe and restaurant
Carpet installation and cleaning
Catering
Claims adjuster
Computer sales and service
Contractor
Convenience store
Cosmetologist
Counselor
Craft store
Creamery
Credit union
Dance hall
Decorator
Delivery service
Disc jockey/karaoke
Discount store
Dog and cat hospital
Door contractor
Doughnut
Draftsman
Drain cleaner
Electrical contractor
Engraver
Entertainment
Excavating contractor
Express company
Feed and seed mill
Fence construction/repair
Finance company
Fire equipment service
Flour mill
Food preparation and sales
Foundry
Fuel distributor
General repair contractor
Golf course
Gym/fitness facility
Hair stylist
Handyman
Hawking or peddling
Herbal sales
Housecleaning
Ice manufacturer/dealer
Illustrator
Information technology
Insulation contractor
Janitorial
Junk dealers
Landscape contractor
Laundromat
Locksmith
Machine shop
Maintenance/restoration
Massage
Minimarket
Mobile mechanic
Movie theater
Nail salon
Nursing home
Office machine maintenance
Office supply
Painting contractor
Paperhanging contractor
Pawnshop
Person care center
Pest control
Pet groomer
Pet store
Photography
Planning mills
Plumbing contractor
Portable toilet/septic tank
Printer
Public relations
Publishing and printing
Quick freeze plants
Real estate
Roofing contractor
Satellite sales and service
Secondhand stores
Security contractor
Shooting gallery
Sign contractor
Skating rink
Slot machine maintenance
Stock/bond broker
Storage facility (mini)
Supply and distributing
Tailor shop
Tanning salon
Taxidermist
Theater
Towing service
Travel agency
Tree service
Truck maintenance
Trucking firm
Upholstery shop
Vehicle glass replacement
Vehicle maintenance
Vending
Video rental
Warehouse
Waste collection
Window glass contractor
Window replacement
Woodworking
Yard work
      2.   Category B: Every firm, person, association, partnership or
corporation who engages in, conducts or maintains within the city, any of the
following named or similar professions, occupations or businesses, shall pay
for and obtain a quarterly license to carry on such profession, occupation or
business as a category B business. The rate is determined by number of
employees and gross receipts per quarter, as found on the quarterly business
license affidavit:
Appliance store
Bar, saloon or cocktail lounge
Casino
Clothing store
Dealership
Furniture store
Gas station
Grocery store
Hotel
Insurance business
Jewelry store
Lapidary
Light manufacturing and sales
Liquor store
Lithographer
Lumberyard
Mercantile
Mobile home park
Motel
Newspaper
Tax consultant service
Tire service and repair
Title and/or escrow service
Title company
Trailer sales
Vehicle sales and service
      3.   Category C: Every firm, person, association, partnership or
corporation who engages in, conducts or maintains within the city, any of the
following named or similar professions, occupations or businesses, shall pay
for and obtain a quarterly license to carry on such profession, occupation or
business as a category C business. The rate is determined by number of
employees and gross receipts per quarter, as found on the quarterly business
license affidavit:
Appraiser
Architect
Attorney
Bacterialologist
Certified public accountant
Chemist
Designer
Electrologist
Engineer
Environmental consultant
Funeral director/undertaker
Geologist
Medical related profession (any)
Optometrist
Public accountant
Surveyor
Utility company
Veterinarian
      4.   Category D: Businesses in which the gross receipts exceed two
million dollars ($2,000,000.00) per quarter are designated as category D
businesses. In addition to the category A, B or C fee, category D businesses
will pay an additional two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) per quarter.
A business licensed under this section whose quarterly gross receipts or gross
sales equal more than two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) within a quarter
shall compute its quarterly category D license fee as follows:
Example: Suppose your business is in category B with gross receipts of
$4,000,000.00 and has 12 employees. Using the matrix found on the quarterly
business license affidavit, the fee would be computed as follows:
   Category B with 12 employees =   $ 240.00
   Gross receipts of $4,000,000.00 / $1,000,000.00 =   4
   4 times $250.00 =   1,000.00
   Total amount owed this quarter =   $1,240.00
   B.   Two Or More Businesses: Any person, firm, association, partnership or
corporation engaging in, conducting or maintaining two (2) or more of the
professions, occupations or businesses listed in category A, B or C of this
section, at the same location, shall be required to obtain and pay for a
separate license for each business.
   C.   Liquor Sales: Every person, firm, association or corporation who
engages in, conducts or maintains within the city, any of the following named
or similar occupations, trades, callings, or pursuits, shall pay for and obtain
a quarterly license to carry on such occupation, trade, calling or pursuit at
the rate as found listed on the liquor sales section of the city of Yerington
fee schedule:
      1.   Sale of beer or wine by a restaurant duly licensed under the
provisions of this chapter, where such beer or wine is served by the drink or
bottle for consumption on the premises, and sold only in conjunction with the
sale of meals; provided, nevertheless, that the license specified in this
subsection shall not be required of any restaurant operated in conjunction with
a bar, saloon or cocktail lounge licensed under subsection C3 of this section.
      2.   Wholesale liquor establishments, dealers or package liquor stores,
where liquor or beer is sold by the bottle and not consumed on the premises,
whether or not such package liquor store is operated in conjunction with any
other business.
      3.   Bar, saloon or cocktail lounge or other establishment where liquor
or beer is sold by the drink or the bottle, or where such liquor or beer may be
consumed on the premises.
   D.   Utility Facilities: Every person, firm, association or corporation
engaged, within the city, in the business of furnishing electric light or
electric power, distributing natural gas through lines fed from a central
plant, providing cable television either through cable lines or digitally or
furnishing telephone communication facilities shall pay for and obtain a
quarterly license to carry on such business at the rate found on the quarterly
fee matrix of the city of Yerington fee schedule.
   E.   House Of Ill Fame: Every person, firm, association or corporation who
engages in, conducts, operates or maintains a house of ill fame, house of
prostitution, house of assignation, bawdyhouse or roadhouse within the city,
shall pay for and obtain a quarterly license to carry on such occupation,
trade, calling or pursuit at the rate found on the city of Yerington fee
schedule. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-22: FEES BASED ON NUMBER OF MACHINES OR TABLES:
   A.   Slot Machines: Every person, firm, association or corporation engaged
in the business of running, operating or conducting slot machines, shall pay
for, and obtain a quarterly license at a per quarter rate as found on the
gaming section of the city of Yerington fee schedule for each and every machine
so operated.
   B.   Other Gambling Tables Or Devices: Every person, firm, association or
corporation engaged in the business of dealing, playing or operating any
roulette wheel, craps table, twenty-one game, blackjack game, faro, fan-tan,
seven-and-a-half, big injun, Klondike, keno, racehorse keno, or bingo or any
other banking or percentage game, other than draw poker, stud poker, or pan
played with cards, dice or any mechanical device or machine for money,
property, or checks redeemable in money or property, shall pay for each and
every table, wheel or game so operated, at the rate as found on the gaming
section of the city of Yerington fee schedule. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-23: ITINERANT BUSINESSES:
   A.   Circus, Carnival Or Menagerie: Every person, firm, association or
corporation who shall exhibit any circus, caravan, carnival or menagerie in the
city shall pay for and obtain a blanket license covering all shows and
mechanical contrivances at the rate as found on the itinerant business section
of the city of Yerington fee schedule for each three (3) days of operation or
fraction thereof.
   B.   Fortune Teller, Spiritualist Or Palmist: Every person, firm,
association or corporation who engages in, maintains or conducts within the
city, any of the following named occupations: fortune tellers, spiritualists or
palmists, shall pay for and obtain a license at the rate as found on the
itinerant business section of the city of Yerington fee schedule for each three
(3) days of operation or fraction thereof. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-1-24: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty: Any person, firm, association or corporation, opening,
conducting, maintaining, transacting, engaging in, carrying on, or pursuing any
business, trade, occupation, calling, profession or pursuit in this chapter,
without first having obtained from the city the license specified in this
chapter and paying the required license tax therefor, shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed the maximum municipal court fine
as found listed on the municipal court section of the city of Yerington fee
schedule, or by imprisonment in the city jail for not more than six (6) months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   B.   Additional Remedies: In addition to any criminal action against any
such person, the city shall have the right to bring a civil action to recover
the amount of the license plus all costs of suit incurred including reasonable
attorney fees. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
CHAPTER 2
RESERVED
(Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
CHAPTER 3
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: License Required
3-3-3: Issuance
3-3-4: Transferability
3-3-5: Nonprofit Organizations
3-3-6: Crime Information
3-3-7: Right Of Entry
3-3-8: Special Events
3-3-9: Revocation
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings indicated:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Any beer, lager beer, ale, porter, wine, and any
spirituous, malt or fermented liquor, wine and fruit juice or any mixture
thereof whatsoever containing one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by
volume, and not to exceed the per centum of alcohol as may be, from time to
time, authorized by the laws of the United States and the state of Nevada.
MINOR: Any person who is under the age of twenty one (21) years.
RESTAURANT OR CAFE: Any establishment charging for meals and serving any
alcoholic beverage in bottles or glasses only, to be consumed with meals.
RETAIL LIQUOR DEALER: Any person selling, dispensing, delivering, or causing to
be delivered, any alcoholic beverages, in the original containers, in
quantities of less than five (5) gallons.
RETAIL LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENT: Any place where any alcoholic beverage is sold,
dispensed or given away, in the original container, can, bottle, case, or
package, in quantities of less than five (5) gallons, where the same is not
permitted to be consumed on or about the premises where sold or given away.
SALOON OR BARROOM: Any place where any alcoholic beverage is sold, dispensed,
or given away, to be consumed on the premises where sold or otherwise
dispensed.
SPECIAL EVENT: An event conducted by any group, club, person, corporation,
association or other organization, with the exception of nonprofit
organizations, where alcohol is sold.
WHOLESALE LIQUOR DEALER: Any person who sells, delivers, or causes to be
delivered, solicits, takes, or seeks order for the sale of any alcoholic
beverage to any establishment or place of business in any quantity of five (5)
gallons or more.
WHOLESALE LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENT: Any place where any alcoholic beverage is sold
in their original containers, kegs, barrels, bottles, cans or cases, in
quantities of five (5) gallons or more, not to be consumed on the premises
where sold or given away. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Brew, Make, Manufacture, Sell Or Give Away: No person shall maintain,
operate or conduct any saloon, barroom, wholesale liquor establishment,
restaurant, cafe, hotel, brewery, or other place where any alcoholic beverage
is brewed, made, manufactured, sold, or given away, without first having
obtained from the city a license as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Sell, Offer For Sale, Solicit Or Otherwise Dispose: No person, whether
engaged in any other business or not, shall sell, offer for sale, solicit or
otherwise dispose of any alcoholic beverage without having first procured a
city license therefor upon the terms and conditions and subject to the
regulations and restrictions of this chapter.
   C.   Addition To Other Licenses: The licenses required and provided for in
this chapter shall be in addition to any other city licenses required of any
person for conducting any other business in connection with the selling or
disposing of any alcoholic beverage. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-3-3: ISSUANCE:
   A.   Approval; Payment Of Fees: Upon approval of the business license by the
Yerington city council and payment of all fees for the sale of alcohol, as
listed on the quarterly business license affidavit, a business shall be deemed
to be a licensed alcoholic beverage establishment.
   B.   Authority Granted By License: The person named on the license is
authorized to carry on the business therein specified, at the place and for the
period therein named.
   C.   Effect Of Issuance: No license issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall authorize any business other than that therein named or mentioned
to be done or transacted at any place other than is therein named or mentioned.
(Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-3-4: TRANSFERABILITY:
   A.   Licensee: No license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall,
in any manner, be assignable or transferable, nor authorize any person, other
than therein named or mentioned to transact such business.
   B.   Location: By majority vote of all the members elected to the city
council, upon a petition showing good cause therefor, the city council may
authorize a change of location for the place of doing business. (Ord. 07-02, 2-
26-2007)
3-3-5: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS:
Nonprofit organizations shall not be subjected to the terms and conditions,
rules, regulations or requirements of this title. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-3-6: CRIME INFORMATION:
Each licensee and his agents or employees, shall aid and assist the
apprehension of any person committing a crime on the premises, and shall give
all information and assistance within his power concerning any such crime to
the peace officers of the city or to the mayor. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-3-7: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
   A.   Inspection: The chief of police or any policeman of the city shall be
entitled, at all business hours, to visit and reasonably inspect every part and
portion of any place for which a license under this chapter has been issued.
   B.   Prevent Or Evade Inspection: Any attempt on the part of the proprietor
of any licensed place, or anyone in his or its employ, to prevent or evade such
inspection or to refuse to furnish such officer with all the facts or
information within his knowledge concerning any crime committed in or about his
place, shall be cause for the revocation of the license of such proprietor.
(Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-3-8: SPECIAL EVENTS:
   A.   Forty Eight Hour License: A special events liquor license shall be
issued at the direction of the city council or their designee, and payment as
found in the liquor sales section of the city of Yerington fee schedule for any
special event of approximately forty eight (48) hours' duration.
   B.   Waiver Or Refund Of Fee: The city council may waive or refund the
special events liquor license fee. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-3-9: REVOCATION:
Whenever in the judgment of the city council there exists any place under its
jurisdiction where the sale or disposition of liquor may tend to create or
constitute a public nuisance, or where by the sale or disposition of liquor a
disorderly house or place is maintained, the city council may, after complaint,
upon reasonable notice to said licensee, and after hearing the facts, by a
majority vote, revoke the license. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
CHAPTER 4
GAMBLING
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definition
3-4-2: Applicability
3-4-3: License Required
3-4-4: Noncitizen Ineligible
3-4-5: Application
3-4-6: Issuance
3-4-7: Display
3-4-8: Revocation; Reissuance
3-4-9: Poker Or Whist Games
3-4-9-1: License
3-4-9-2: Cutting Pots Prohibited
3-4-9-3: Contents Of Application
3-4-9-4: Approval Or Disapproval
3-4-9-5: Fees; Transferability
3-4-9-6: Inspection
3-4-9-7: Suspension; Revocation
3-4-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, "game" shall mean all games or devices herein
mentioned and any slot machine played for money or for checks or tokens
redeemable in money or property. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-4-2: APPLICABILITY:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit social games played in
private homes or residences for prizes. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-4-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No business shall be allowed to deal, operate, carry on, conduct, maintain or
expose for play, within the city, any game of faro, monte, roulette, keno, fan-
tan, twenty-one, blackjack, seven-and- a-half, big injun, Klondike, craps, stud
poker, draw poker, or any banking device or machine, or money, property,
checks, credit or any representative of value; or any gambling game in which
any business keeping, conducting, managing or permitted the same to be carried
on, receive, directly or indirectly, any compensation played, for keeping,
running, carrying on or permitting the game to be carried on; or play, maintain
or keep any slot machine or video machine played for money, for checks or
credit or tokens redeemable in money or property, without having first procured
a license therefor. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-4-4: NONCITIZEN INELIGIBLE:
No alien, or any person except a citizen of the United States, shall be issued
a license, nor shall directly or indirectly own, operate or control any game or
device so licensed. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-4-5: APPLICATION:
Any business which conducts, operates or carries on any gambling game, slot
machine, or any game of chance enumerated or provided for in section
3-4-3 of this chapter shall, upon proper application to the city council, have
issued a license to the owner or manager thereof for each particular device or
game or slot machine under the following conditions and regulations:
   A.   Description Of Room And Premises: The person applying for a license
shall furnish a complete description of the particular room and premises in
which the licensee desires to carry on or conduct such slot machine, device or
game, together with the location of the building, its street number, if there
is such, and any other information by which it may be definitely and readily
located and recognized.
   B.   Description Of Slot Machine, Game Or Device: The person applying for a
license shall state definitely the particular type of slot machine, or the
particular game or device which licensee desires to carry on or conduct in said
room and premises; and as so stated the same shall be specifically described in
and entered upon the license. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-4-6: ISSUANCE:
   A.   License Issued: Licenses shall be prepared by the city clerk, and shall
be issued and accounted for as is by law provided in respect to other city
licenses.
   B.   Refunds: No license money paid under this chapter shall be refunded,
whether the slot machine, game or device for which any license was issued has
voluntarily ceased or has been revoked under the provisions of this chapter, or
for any other reason. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-4-7: DISPLAY:
All licenses issued for gambling games and slot machines of every character and
description shall be posted in a conspicuous place where such gambling games
and slot machines are installed, in order that they may be inspected by
authorized state, county, and city officials. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-4-8: REVOCATION; REISSUANCE:
   A.   Revocation: The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
shall act as an immediate revocation of any and all licenses which may have
been issued to the violator, or which may have been issued for the particular
room and premises in which any such violation occurred.
   B.   Reissuance: No new or additional license under this chapter shall issue
to such violator for the room and premises in which the violation occurred for
a period of one year from the date of such revocation. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-4-9: POKER OR WHIST GAMES:
3-4-9-1: LICENSE:
   A.   Required: No person shall deal, play, carry on, or cause to be
operated, or conduct either as owner or employee, whether for hire or not,
within the city, except under a license first obtained from the city and by
paying therefor the amount hereinafter provided, any game of poker, stud poker,
five hundred, solo or whist.
   B.   Social Games Played For Drinks Or Cigars: Nothing in this section shall
be construed as prohibiting social games played only for drinks or cigars
served individually. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-4-9-2: CUTTING POTS PROHIBITED:
No person shall deal, play, carry on or cause to be operated, or conduct any of
the games mentioned in section
3-4-9-1 of this chapter where a percentage is taken out, and the deal does not
alternate. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-4-9-3: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Individual: All applications for licenses shall state the business and
place of business of the applicant, and the name in full of the applicant.
   B.   Copartnership Or Association: In case of copartnership or association,
the application shall state the names in full of each and all the copartners or
associates.
   C.   Corporation: In case of a corporation the application shall state the
names of the officers and manager thereof. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-4-9-4: APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL:
   A.   Referral For Approval: All applications for licenses or renewals
thereof shall be made by petition to the city council at a regular meeting
thereof, and shall be immediately referred to the chief of police for his
approval.
   B.   Endorsement: In no case shall a license be issued or renewed when his
disapproval is endorsed upon the petition, except by a three-fourths (3/4) vote
of the council.
   C.   Return Of Petition To Council: The chief of police shall return all
such petitions, with his approval or objection endorsed thereon, to the city
council at the next regular meeting thereof after receipt of such petitions by
him. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-4-9-5: FEES; TRANSFERABILITY:
   A.   Fees: The amount of all licenses for the carrying on, or conducting any
of the games mentioned in section
3-4-9-1 of this chapter, whether the same be a new license or the renewal of
one heretofore existing, shall be as follows:
      1.   First Game: The rate for the first game, as found in the gaming
section of the city of Yerington fee schedule per quarter, or fractional part
thereof.
      2.   Additional Games: The rate for each additional game, as found in the
gaming section of the city of Yerington fee schedule per quarter, or fractional
part thereof.
So long as the licensee plays, conducts, or carries on or operates said game in
the same place of business.
   B.   Transferability: Such license shall not be transferable. (Ord. 07-02,
2-26-2007)
3-4-9-6: INSPECTION:
   A.   Right Of Entry: The chief of police or any other police officer of the
city may, at all times, visit and reasonably inspect every part and portion of
any place for which a license under this section
3-4-9 has been issued.
   B.   Prevent Or Evade Inspection: Any attempt on the part of the proprietor
of any licensed place, or any person in his employ, to prevent or evade such
inspection shall be cause for revocation of the license of such proprietor.
(Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-4-9-7: SUSPENSION; REVOCATION:
The chief of police shall have full power and authority, when in his judgment
any licensee has violated any of the provisions of this code or any other
ordinance of the city, or any statute of the state of Nevada, to suspend
temporarily any license granted under this section
3-4-9 pending final action by the city council, which may, after reasonable
notice to such licensee, and after hearing the facts, by a majority vote,
revoke the license. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
CHAPTER 5
RESERVED
(Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
CHAPTER 6
CANVASSERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definition
3-6-2: License
3-6-3: Application
3-6-4: Investigation
3-6-5: Grounds For Refusal To Issue
3-6-6: Approval; Issuance
3-6-7: Badge
3-6-8: Term
3-6-9: Revocation
3-6-10: Appeal
3-6-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, "canvasser or solicitor" shall mean any individual,
whether resident of the city or not, traveling either by foot, wagon,
automobile, motor truck or any other type of conveyance, from place to place,
from house to house, or from street to street, taking or attempting to take
orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise, personal property of any
nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be furnished or
performed in the future whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes
for sale or whether he is collecting advance payments on such sales or not and
includes any person, who, for himself or for another person, firm or
corporation, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, tent,
railroad boxcar, hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place
within the city for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders
for future delivery. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-6-2: LICENSE:
   A.   Required: No solicitor or canvasser shall engage in such business
within the city without first obtaining a license therefor in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Deemed Additional: The license required by this chapter shall be in
addition to any other license required by any other chapter of this code. (Ord.
07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-6-3: APPLICATION:
An applicant for a license under this chapter shall file with the chief of
police a sworn application, in writing, on a form to be furnished by the police
department, which shall give the following information:
   A.   Name and description of the applicant;
   B.   Permanent home address and full local address of the applicant;
   C.   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold;
   D.   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship;
   E.   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   F.   The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold, or orders
taken for the sale thereof, are manufactured or produced, where such goods or
products are located at the time the application is filed, and the proposed
methods of delivery;
   G.   Two (2) photographs of the applicant, taken within sixty (60) days
immediately prior to the date of the filing of the application, which pictures
shall be two inches by two inches (2" x 2") showing full front view of the head
and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and distinguishing manner;
   H.   The fingerprints of the applicant and the names of at least two (2)
reliable property owners of the county, who will certify as to the applicant's
good character and business respectability as will enable an investigator to
properly evaluate such character and business responsibility;
   I.   A statement whether or not the applicant has been convicted of any
crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of the
offense and the punishment and penalty assessed therefor. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-
2007)
3-6-4: INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Fee: At the time of filing the application, a fee shall be paid by the
applicant to the city of Yerington to cover the cost of investigation of the
facts stated in the application. Fees for an application for canvassers and
solicitors shall be as found in the police section of the city of Yerington fee
schedule.
   B.   Chief Of Police To Conduct: Upon receipt of the application, the chief
of police shall cause such investigation of the applicant's business and moral
character to be made as he deems necessary for the protection of the public
good. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-6-5: GROUNDS FOR REFUSAL TO ISSUE:
The chief of police shall refuse to issue a license to any applicant who has:
   A.   Committed any act which if committed by a person already licensed under
the provisions of this chapter would be grounds for the revocation of a license
under the provisions of this chapter;
   B.   Committed any act constituting dishonesty or fraud;
   C.   A bad moral character, intemperate habits, or a bad reputation for
truth, honesty, and integrity;
   D.   Been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude or
illegally using, carrying, or possessing a dangerous weapon;
   E.   Been refused a license or had a license revoked under the provisions of
this chapter;
   F.   While unlicensed, performed any act for which a license is required by
the provisions of this chapter; or
   G.   Knowingly made any false statement in his application. (Ord. 07-02, 2-
26-2007)
3-6-6: APPROVAL; ISSUANCE:
If as a result of the investigation required by section
3-6-4 of this chapter, the character and business responsibility of the
applicant are found to be satisfactory, the chief of police shall endorse on
the application his approval and the city clerk shall execute a license
addressed to the applicant for the carrying on of the business applied for, and
deliver such license to the applicant. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-6-7: BADGE:
   A.   Issuance: The police chief shall issue to each licensee at the time of
delivery of his license a badge which shall contain the words "solicitor's
license" and the number of the license.
   B.   Wearing Required: Such badge shall, during the time the licensee is
engaged in soliciting, be worn constantly by the licensee on the front of his
outer garment in such a way as to be conspicuous. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-6-8: TERM:
Unless the license would sooner otherwise expire, all licenses issued under the
provisions of this chapter shall expire on the December 31 next following the
date of issuance. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-6-9: REVOCATION:
   A.   Grounds: Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be
revoked by the city council after notice and hearing, for any of the following
causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business as solicitor or as canvasser;
      3.   Any violation of this chapter;
      4.   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      5.   Conducting the business of soliciting or canvassing in an unlawful
manner, or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or a menace
to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing:
      1.   Written Notice: Notice of the hearing for the revocation of a
license shall be given, in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of
complaint and the time and place of hearing.
      2.   Procedure: Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the
licensee at his last known address at least five (5) days prior to the date set
for the hearing. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-6-10: APPEAL:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any person aggrieved by the action of the chief of
police in the denial of a license, as provided in section
3-6-5 of this chapter, shall have the right of appeal to the city council.
   B.   Notice Of Appeal: Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the
council, within fourteen (14) days after notice of the action complained of, a
written statement setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal.
   C.   Hearing: The notice shall set a time and place for a hearing on such
appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant in the same
manner as provided in subsection 3-6-9B of this chapter for notice of hearing
on revocation.
   D.   Council Decision: The decision and order of the council on such appeal
shall be final and conclusive. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
CHAPTER 7
AUCTIONS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Exemptions
3-7-2: License Required
3-7-3: Prerequisites To Issuance
3-7-4: Application; Fee
3-7-5: Term
3-7-6: Private Sale
3-7-7: Suspension; Revocation
3-7-1: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Particular Business Entities: Auction sales of property owned by, or in
the lawful possession, custody or control of banks, trust companies, trustees
in bankruptcy, assignees for the benefit of creditors, executors and
administrators, selling or disposing of such property under the laws of the
United States or the state of Nevada;
   B.   Judicial Sale: Property sold at judicial sales;
   C.   Common Carriers Or Public Warehousemen: Unclaimed or undelivered
property held by common carriers or public warehousemen selling or disposing of
the same for freight or storage charges;
   D.   Charitable Or Benevolent Purposes: Property being sold solely for
charitable or benevolent purposes or for any church, fair, festival or bazaar;
   E.   Pawnbrokers: Property held by a licensed pawnbroker, selling or
disposing of the same as unredeemed pledges in the manner provided by law;
provided, that not less than ten (10) days prior to the commencement of such
sale, such licensed pawnbroker shall notify the city council, in writing, of
his intention to sell or dispose of such property at such sale, and the time,
place and estimated duration thereof; and provided further, that the pledge
number of each article sold or offered for sale shall be affixed to such
article and shall be announced by the auctioneer at the time such article is
offered for sale at auction;
   F.   Secondhand Goods: The sale at public auction of secondhand household
goods by a licensee holding a valid license for the sale of secondhand goods;
   G.   Livestock: Auction sales of livestock. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall advertise for disposal, offer for sale, dispose of, or sell, or
cause or permit to be advertised for disposal, offered for sale, disposed of,
or sold, at public auction, within the city, or in any manner carry on or
conduct, or cause or permit to be carried on or conducted, within the city, a
public auction of any property whether the same shall be his own property or
the property of others, without first complying with the provisions of this
chapter and obtaining a license so to do. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-7-3: PREREQUISITES TO ISSUANCE:
No license shall be granted to any person unless, in the event jewelry is to be
sold, the jewelry is the stock in trade of a merchant who has been, for a
period of at least one year next preceding the filing of the application for
such license, continuously engaged in the city in the business of selling such
jewelry at retail and is disposing in good faith of his stock for the purpose
of retiring from business. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-7-4: APPLICATION; FEE:
   A.   Deadline To Apply: Any person desiring to obtain the license referred
to in section
3-7-2 of this chapter shall make a verified application thereof addressed to
the city council, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than forty (40) days
before the date of the commencement of any such auction sale.
   B.   Contents Of Application: Each application shall set forth the following
information:
      1.   The name, age, residence and business address of the applicant;
      2.   Length of time applicant has been engaged in business in the city,
and the character of his business;
      3.   Length of time applicant has been a resident of the city;
      4.   Time and place of any auction sale applicant may have conducted
within the city, or elsewhere, within one year prior to the date of
application;
      5.   Whether applicant is a citizen of the United States or has duly
declared his intention of becoming a citizen;
      6.   The location of the place where the auction sale will be conducted.
Whether the proposed auction sale is to be held at the applicant's existing
regular established place of business and wherein his regular business has been
operated for at least one year prior to the application;
      7.   The length of time for which the license is desired and the date
when the applicant desires to commence the auction;
      8.   The name and address of the owner of the property proposed to be
sold at the auction;
      9.   The purpose of the sale;
      10.   The name of the auctioneer who will conduct the auction;
      11.   If the property proposed to be sold at said auction is jewelry,
whether the owner thereof has been, for a period of at least one year next
preceding the filing of the application, continuously engaged within the city
in the business of selling such jewelry at retail or wholesale only, whether
such jewelry is the stock in trade of such owner in said business, and whether
such owner is disposing of his stock at the auction for the purpose of retiring
from business. The applicant shall also furnish satisfactory evidence that the
jewelry proposed to be sold is a bona fide part of the owner's stock in trade,
and that they were not secured, purchased or brought into the owner's place of
business for or in anticipation of said sale.
   C.   Fee: Each application for a license to conduct an auction shall be
accompanied by a license fee as found in the quarterly business license section
of the city of Yerington fee schedule. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-7-5: TERM:
No license granted under the provisions of this chapter shall be valid more
than one year after the first day of any auction sale authorized thereby. (Ord.
07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-7-6: PRIVATE SALE:
Other than for nonprofit organizational purposes, no property shall be sold at
private sale at the place for which a license has been granted for the conduct
of an auction sale, during the progress of such auction or on any day when such
property is advertised for sale at public auction, or in any manner other than
by public outcry and to the highest bidder. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-7-7: SUSPENSION; REVOCATION:
   A.   Grounds: The city council may, upon its own motion or upon complaint
under oath made by any person, revoke or suspend any auction sale license
issued:
      1.   If the city council, in its discretion, finds that the continuance
of the auction sale would result in detriment to the public welfare;
      2.   If the licensee has made any misstatement as to a material matter in
his application for a license;
      3.   If the licensee is not a fit or proper person to exercise the
privileges of the license;
      4.   If the licensee has violated or failed to comply with any provision
of this chapter, or in the conduct of such sale has committed or permitted the
commission of any act or practice of fraud, misrepresentation, deceit or
deception;
      5.   If the licensee has committed or permitted the commission of any act
or practice in connection with such sale or any other auction sale constituting
a violation of any law or ordinance;
      6.   If the licensee has violated or failed to comply with any rule or
regulation adopted by the city council;
      7.   If the licensee has conducted the sale in such a manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace or a menace to the health, safety or general
welfare of the public;
      8.   Whenever the city council believes that in the public interest and
necessity sufficient cause exists therefor.
   B.   Notice: When a license is revoked or suspended, the city council shall
so notify the licensee by mail or in person, and give the reasons for such
revocation or suspension. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
CHAPTER 8
RESERVED
(Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
CHAPTER 9
RESERVED
(Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
CHAPTER 10
ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Purpose And Intent
3-10-2: Definitions
3-10-3: Application
3-10-4: Location
3-10-5: Operation
3-10-6: Licenses
3-10-7: Fees
3-10-8: Inspection
3-10-9: Expiration And Renewal
3-10-10: Suspension
3-10-11: Revocation
3-10-12: Transfer Of License
3-10-13: Severability
3-10-14: Effective
3-10-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Studies: Studies conducted by the Minnesota attorney general, the
American Planning Association and cities such as St. Paul; Indianapolis;
Alexandria, Minnesota; Rochester, Minnesota; Phoenix, Arizona; Los Angeles,
California; Seattle, Washington, have studied the impacts that adult
establishments have in those communities. These studies have concluded that
adult establishments have an adverse impact on the surrounding neighborhoods.
Those impacts include increased crime rates, lower property values, increased
transiency, neighborhood blight and potential health risks. Based on these
studies and findings, the city council concludes:
      1.   Adult establishments have adverse secondary impacts of the types set
forth above.
      2.   The adverse impacts caused by adult establishments tend to diminish
if adult establishments are governed by locational requirements, licensing
requirements and health requirements.
      3.   It is not the intent of the city council to prohibit adult
establishments from having a reasonable opportunity to locate in the city.
      4.   The public health, safety, morals and general welfare will be
promoted by the city adopting regulations governing adult establishments.
   B.   Need For Licensing: The city council of the city of Yerington makes the
following findings regarding the need to license sexually oriented businesses.
The findings are based upon the experiences of other cities where such
businesses have located, as studied by city staff.
      1.   Sexually oriented businesses can contribute to an increase in
criminal activity in the area in which such businesses are located, taxing city
crime prevention programs and law enforcement services.
      2.   Sexually oriented businesses can be used as fronts for prostitution
and other criminal activity. The experience of other cities indicates that the
proper management and operation of such businesses can, however, minimize this
risk, provided the owners and operators of such facilities are regulated by
licensing or other procedures.
      3.   Sexually oriented businesses can increase the risk of exposure to
communicable diseases including, but not limited to, acquired immune deficiency
syndrome (AIDS) for which currently there is no cure. Experiences of other
cities indicate that such businesses can facilitate the spread of communicable
diseases by virtue of the design and use of the premises, thereby endangering
not only the patrons of such establishments but also the general public.
      4.   Sexually oriented businesses can cause or contribute to public
health problems by the presence of live adult entertainment in conjunction with
food and/or drink on the same premises.
      5.   The risk of criminal activity and/or public health problems can be
minimized through a licensing and regulatory scheme as prescribed herein.
   C.   Findings: It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate adult oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the
citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to:
      1.   Prevent additional criminal activity within the city;
      2.   Prevent deterioration of neighborhoods and its consequent adverse
effect on real estate values of properties within the neighborhood;
      3.   Locate adult oriented businesses away from residential areas,
schools, churches, and parks and playgrounds;
      4.   Prevent concentration of adult oriented businesses within certain
areas of the city.
   D.   Intent: The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor
effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any
communicative materials, including adult oriented materials. Similarly, it is
not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults
to adult oriented materials protected by the first amendment or to deny access
by distributors and exhibitors of adult oriented entertainment to their
intended market. (Ord. 04-03, 5-10-2004)
3-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter the terms defined in this section have the
meanings given them:
ADULT BOOK AND/OR MEDIA STORE: An establishment which excludes minors and which
has a substantial portion of its stock in trade or stock on display books,
magazines, films, videotape, or other media which are characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT CABARET: An establishment which provides dancing or other live
entertainment, if such establishment excludes minors by virtue of age from all
or part of the establishment and if such dancing or other live entertainment is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the performance, depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT ESTABLISHMENT: Any business which offers its patrons services,
entertainment, or the sale of merchandise characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, exposing, describing, discussion of, or relating to specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. Specifically included in the
term, but without limitation, are adult book and media stores, adult cabarets,
adult hotels or motels, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult modeling
studios, adult motion picture arcades, adult motion picture theaters, adult
novelty businesses, and other establishments.
ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A. A theater in an enclosed building, from
which minors are excluded from all or part of the establishment, with a
capacity for less than fifty (50) persons used for presenting motion pictures,
including, but not limited to, film and videotape, having as a dominant theme
material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   B.   Any business which presents motion pictures, from which minors are
excluded from all or part of the establishment, including films and videotapes,
having as a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, for viewing on the premises,
including, but not limited to, private booths, viewing by means of coin
operated or other mechanical devices, and the viewing of excerpts of motion
pictures offered for sale or rent.
ADULT MODELING STUDIO: An establishment, which excludes minors from all or part
of the establishment, whose major business is the provision, to customers, or
figure models who are so provided with the intent of providing sexual
stimulation to sexual gratification to such customers and who engage in
specified sexual activities or display specified anatomical areas while being
observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured, photographed, or
otherwise depicted by such customers.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE: Any place which excludes minors from all or part
of the establishment wherein coin or token operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors, or other image producing devices are maintained to show
images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A theater in an enclosed building, from which
minors are excluded from all or part of the establishment, with a capacity of
fifty (50) or more persons used regularly and routinely for presenting live
entertainment or motion pictures, including, but not limited to, film and
videotapes, having as a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS: A business, from which minors are excluded from all or
part of the establishment, which sells, offers to sell, or displays devices
which simulate human genitals or devices which are designed for sexual
stimulation.
ADULT USE: Any of the activities and businesses described herein constitute
"adult oriented businesses" which are subject to the regulations of this
chapter.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Any of the following conditions:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
      1.   Human genitals, pubic region, or pubic hair;
      2.   Buttock, anus; and
      3.   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola;
and
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, completely and
opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any of the following conditions:
   A.   An act of sexual intercourse, normal or perverted, actual or simulated,
including genital-genital, anal-genital, or oral-genital intercourse, whether
between human beings or between a human being and an animal.
   B.   Sadomasochistic abuse, meaning flagellation or torture by or upon a
person who is nude or clad in undergarments or in a revealing costume or the
condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restricted on the
part of one so clothed.
   C.   Masturbation or lewd exhibitions of the genitals including any
explicit, close up representation of a human genital organ clothed or
unclothed.
   D.   Physical contact or simulated physical contact with the clothed or
unclothed pubic areas or buttocks of a human male or female, or the breasts of
a female, whether alone or between members of the same or opposite sex or
between humans and animals in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or
gratification. (Ord. 04-03, 5-10-2004)
3-10-3: APPLICATION:
Except as in this chapter specifically provided, no structure shall be erected,
converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or altered, and no structure or land shall
be used, for any purpose nor in any manner, which is not in conformity with
this chapter.
No adult oriented business shall engage in any activity or conduct or permit
any other person to engage in any activity or conduct in or about the
establishment which is prohibited by any ordinance of the city of Yerington,
the laws of the state of Nevada, or the United States of America. Nothing in
this chapter shall be construed as authorizing or permitting conduct which is
prohibited or regulated by other statutes or ordinances, including, but not
limited to, statutes or ordinances prohibiting the exhibition, sale, or
distribution of obscene materials generally, or the exhibition, sale, or
distribution of specified materials to minors. (Ord. 04-03, 5-10-2004)
3-10-4: LOCATION:
During the term of this chapter, no adult oriented businesses shall be located
less than three hundred feet (300') from any residential zoning district
boundary or site used for residential purposes, and less than three hundred
feet (300') from any church site, from any school site, from any daycare
facility, or from any park which is adjacent to property zoned residential. In
addition, no adult oriented business may be located within three hundred feet
(300') of another adult oriented business. For purposes of this chapter, this
distance shall be a horizontal measurement from the nearest existing
residential district boundary or site used for residential purposes, church
site, school site, daycare site, park site, or another adult oriented business
site to the nearest boundary of the proposed adult oriented site. (Ord. 04-03,
5-10-2004)
3-10-5: OPERATION:
   A.   Entrances: All entrances to the business, with the exception of
emergency fire exits, which are not usable by patrons to enter the business,
shall be visible from a public right of way.
   B.   Layout: The layout of the display areas shall be designed so that the
management of the establishment and any law enforcement personnel inside the
store can observe all patrons while they have access to any merchandise offered
for sale or viewing including, but not limited to, books, magazines,
photographs, videotapes, or any other material.
   C.   Illumination: Illumination of the premises' exterior shall be adequate
to observe the location and activities of all persons on the exterior premises.
   D.   Signs: Signs for adult oriented businesses shall not exceed twenty five
(25) square feet nor contain representational depiction of an adult nature or
graphic descriptions of the adult theme of the operation. (Ord. 04-03, 5-10-
2004)
3-10-6: LICENSES:
   A.   Licenses Required: All establishments, including any business operating
at the time this chapter becomes effective, operating or intending to operate
an adult oriented business, shall apply for and obtain a license from the city
of Yerington. A person is in violation of this code if he or she operates an
adult oriented business without a valid license issued by the city.
   B.   Applications: An application for a license must be made on a form
provided by the city.
      1.   The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches (±6").
      2.   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
section and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the appropriate state, county, and local laws and codes by the health official,
fire marshal, and building official.
      3.   Application for license shall contain the address and legal
description of the property to be used; the names, addresses, phone numbers,
dates of birth of the owner, lessee, if any, the operator or manager, and all
employees; the name, address, and phone number of two (2) persons, who shall be
residents of the state of Nevada, and who may be called upon to attest to the
applicant's, manager's, or operator's character; whether the applicant,
manager, or operator has ever been convicted of a crime or offense other than a
traffic offense and, if so, complete and accurate information the disposition
thereof; the names and addresses of all creditors of the applicant, owner,
lessee, or manager insofar as the regarding credit which has been extended for
the purposes of constructing, equipping, maintaining, operating, or furnishing
or acquiring the premises, personal effects, equipment, or anything incident to
the establishment, maintenance and operation of the business.
      4.   If the application is made on behalf of a corporation, joint
business venture, partnership, or any legally constituted business association,
it shall submit along with its application, accurate and complete business
records showing the names, addresses, and dates of birth of all individuals
having an interest in the business, including partners, officers, owners, and
creditors furnishing credit for the establishment, acquisition, maintenance,
and furnishings of said business and, in the case of a corporation, the names,
addresses, and dates of birth of all officers, general managers, members of the
board of directors as well as any creditors who have extended credit for the
acquisition, maintenance, operation, or furnishing of the establishment
including the purchase or acquisition of any items of personal property for use
in said operation.
      5.   All applicants shall furnish to the city, along with their
applications, complete and accurate documentation establishing the interest of
the applicant and any other person having an interest in the premises upon
which the building is proposed to be located or the furnishings thereof,
personal property thereof, or the operation or maintenance thereof.
Documentation shall be in the form of a lease, deed, contract for deed,
mortgage deed, mortgage credit arrangement, loan agreements, security
agreements, and any other documents establishing the interest of the applicant
or any other person in the operation, acquisition or maintenance of the
enterprise.
      6.   All establishments, including any business operating at the time
this chapter becomes effective, operating or intending to operate an adult
oriented business shall be prohibited if the license fee required by this
chapter has not been paid.
      7.   All establishments operating or intending to operate an adult
oriented business shall be prohibited if anyone listed on the application has
been convicted of a crime that requires them to register as a sex offender
under Nevada statute 179C.100.
   C.   Posting: The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of
the person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the
address of the adult oriented business. The license shall be posted in a
conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the adult oriented business so
that it may be easily read at any time.
   D.   Council Action: The city council shall act to approve or disapprove the
license application within thirty (30) days from the date the application was
submitted, provided that the application contains all of the information
required by this chapter. If the application is deficient, the council shall
act on the application within thirty (30) days from the date that the
deficiency has been corrected. (Ord. 04-03, 5-10-2004)
3-10-7: FEES:
Fees to obtain a license to operate an adult oriented business shall be at the
rate as found in the city of Yerington fee schedule. (Ord. 07-02, 2-26-2007)
3-10-8: INSPECTION:
   A.   Access: An applicant or licensee shall permit health officials,
representatives of the police department, fire department, and building
inspection division, to inspect the premises of an adult oriented business for
the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or
open for business.
   B.   Refusal To Permit Inspections: A person who operates an adult oriented
business or his/her agent or employee is guilty of a misdemeanor if she or he
refuses to permit a lawful inspection of the premises by health officials,
representatives of the police department, fire department, and/or building
inspection department at any time it is occupied or open for business. Such
refusal may result in the suspension of the license as provided in section
3-10-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 04-03, 5-10-2004)
3-10-9: EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL:
   A.   Expiration: Each license shall expire at the end of the calendar year
and may be renewed only by making application as provided in subsection 3-10-6A
of this chapter. Application for renewal must be made at least thirty (30) days
before the expiration date.
   B.   Denial Of Renewal: When the city denies renewal of a license, the
applicant shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
If, subsequent to denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the
renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a
license if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date denial became
final. (Ord. 04-03, 5-10-2004)
3-10-10: SUSPENSION:
   A.   Causes Of Suspension: The city may suspend a license for a period not
to exceed thirty (30) days if it determines that licensee or an employee of a
licensee has:
      1.   Violated or is not in compliance with any provision of this chapter.
      2.   Engaged in the use of alcoholic beverages while on the adult
oriented business premises.
      3.   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
      4.   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage an adult oriented
business in a peaceful and law abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
   B.   Notice: A suspension by the city shall be preceded by written notice to
the licensee and a public hearing. The notice shall give at least ten (10)
days' notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature of
the charges against the licensee. The notice may be served upon the licensee
personally, or by leaving the same at the licensed business premises with the
person in charge thereof. (Ord. 04-03, 5-10-2004)
3-10-11: REVOCATION:
   A.   Suspended Licenses: The city may revoke a license if a cause of
suspension in section
3-10-10 of this chapter occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding twelve (12) months.
   B.   Causes Of Revocation: The city shall revoke a license if it determines
that:
      1.   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the city during the application process;
      2.   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      3.   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      4.   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the adult oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      5.   On two (2) or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period, a
person or persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises
of a crime listed in subsection 3-10-6B7 of this chapter, for which a
conviction has been obtained, and the person or persons were employees of the
adult oriented business at the time the offenses were committed;
      6.   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation or masturbation to occur in or on the
licensed premises.
   C.   Appeals: The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license.
   D.   Granting A License After Revocation: When the city revokes a license,
the revocation shall continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued
an adult oriented business license for one year from the date revocation became
effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the city finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective.
   E.   Notice: A revocation by the city shall be preceded by written notice to
the licensee and a public hearing. The notice shall give at least ten (10)
days' notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature of
the charges against the licensee. The notice may be served upon the licensee
personally, or by leaving the same at the licensed premises with the person in
charge thereof. (Ord. 04-03, 5-10-2004)
3-10-12: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A licensee shall not transfer this license to another, nor shall a licensee
operate an adult oriented business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address designated in the application. (Ord. 04-03, 5-10-
2004)
3-10-13: SEVERABILITY:
Every section, provision, or part of this chapter or any permit issued pursuant
to this chapter is declared severable from every other section, provision, or
part thereof to the extent that if any section, provision, or part of this
chapter or any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be held invalid by
a court of competent jurisdiction it shall not invalidate any other section,
provision, or part thereof. (Ord. 04-03, 5-10-2004)
3-10-14: EFFECTIVE:
This chapter shall be effective upon its passage and publication. (Ord. 04-03,
5-10-2004)
CHAPTER 11
TRANSIENT LODGING TAX
SECTION:
3-11-1: Short Title
3-11-2: Definition
3-11-3: Tax Imposed
3-11-4: Payment Of Tax; Delinquencies
3-11-5: Disposition And Use Of Tax Receipts
3-11-6: Confidentiality Of Tax Data
3-11-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the CITY OF YERINGTON TRANSIENT LODGING TAX
ORDINANCE and may be known as the YERINGTON ROOM TAX ORDINANCE. (Ord. 11-04, 4-
11-2011)
3-11-2: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this chapter, "transient lodging" is defined as all rooms
or spaces rented in hotels, motels, timeshare projects, vacation trailer parks,
campgrounds, recreational vehicle parks, and any other establishment that rents
rooms or spaces to temporary or transient guests. (Ord. 11-04, 4-11-2011)
3-11-3: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   There is hereby fixed and imposed a license tax on every person
operating, conducting or engaging in a rental business within the city of
Yerington, on the gross receipts received or derived from such rental at a rate
of ten percent (10%).
   B.   In addition to the tax imposed and set forth in subsection A of this
section, there is fixed and imposed a tax on every licensee operating,
conducting or engaging in a rental or lodging business within the city, at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the gross income received or derived for lodging or
room rentals from such endeavors, business, or enterprise. Three-eighths (3/8)
of the proceeds of said tax shall be paid to the department of taxation, state
of Nevada, for the fund for the promotion of tourism established in chapter 231
of the Nevada Revised Statutes; the remaining five-eighths (5/8) of the one
percent (1%) tax shall be deposited with the Lyon County room tax board, to be
used to advertise the resources of the county related to tourism as found in
Lyon County code 4.02, transient lodging tax. (Ord. 11-04, 4-11-2011; amd. Ord.
2023-04, 11-13-2023)
3-11-4: PAYMENT OF TAX; DELINQUENCIES:
The transient lodging tax shall be transmitted to the city clerk monthly,
within fifteen (15) days after the end of each calendar month.
If the tax imposed herein is not paid within the time set forth herein, persons
liable therefor shall pay, in addition to the tax:
   A.   Penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount due; and
   B.   Interest on the amount due at the rate of one and one-half percent
(1.5%) per month, or fraction thereof, from the date on which the tax became
due until the date of payment. (Ord. 11-04, 4-11-2011)
3-11-5: DISPOSITION AND USE OF TAX RECEIPTS:
   A.   All revenue derived from the one percent (1%) tax on gross receipts of
the rental of lodging in the city of Yerington set forth in subsection 3-11-3B
of this chapter, for the promotion of tourism, shall be divided, distributed
and used as follows:
      1.   Three-eighths (3/8) of all proceeds shall be remitted to the state
department of taxation for deposit in the fund for promotion of tourism.
      2.   Five-eighths (5/8) of all proceeds shall be deposited with the Lyon
County room tax board to be used to advertise the county's tourist attractions
to tourism as found in Lyon County code 4.02, transient lodging tax.
   B.   On all revenue derived from the remaining ten percent (10%) tax on
gross receipts of the rental of lodging, the Yerington city council shall use
the revenue for any and all lawful governmental purposes pursuant to the powers
and authority given the said city council by the Nevada Revised Statutes, and
the said city council are specifically authorized and empowered to use and
expend said revenue to promote tourism, plan, construct, finance, maintain,
operate, repair, equip, furnish, improve and manage recreational facilities.
(Ord. 11-04, 4-11-2011; amd. Ord. 2023-04, 11-13-2023)
3-11-6: CONFIDENTIALITY OF TAX DATA:
The Yerington room tax board, if such shall be created, or otherwise the
Yerington city council, is authorized to inspect all records of persons liable
for the transient lodging tax to determine compliance with this chapter. Any
information or business data obtained thereby is declared confidential and must
not be disclosed by any member, officer or employee of the room tax board or
city unless the disclosure is authorized by affirmative action of a majority of
the members of the room tax board or the city council. Continuing disclosure
may be authorized under an agreement with the Nevada department of taxation for
the exchange of information concerning taxpayers. (Ord. 11-04, 4-11-2011)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL HEALTH AND SANITATION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Inspection Of Foodstuffs
4-1-2: Communicable Diseases
4-1-1: INSPECTION OF FOODSTUFFS 1 :
The board of health and the health officer are empowered, among other things,
to inspect all meats, poultry, fish, game, bread, butter, cheese, milk, lard,
eggs, vegetables, flour, fruits, meal and all other food products offered for
sale in the city and to have any such products as are unsound, spoiled,
unwholesome or adulterated summarily destroyed. (1973 Code § 8.04.010)
 
Notes
1 1. For statutory provisions concerning food adulteration, see NRS chapter
  585.
4-1-2: COMMUNICABLE DISEASES 1 :
   A.   Reports By Householders: Every householder in the city shall report in
writing to the health officer or to the board of health, immediately, the name
of every person boarding at his own house whom he shall have reason to believe
to be sick with scarlet fever, diphtheria or any other dangerous, contagious or
infectious disease, and any deaths occurring at his own house from such
disease. (1973 Code § 8.08.010)
   B.   Quarantine Of Premises: Whenever a case of scarlet fever or any other
contagious or infectious disease exists in any house or tenement, and it shall
be deemed inexpedient to remove the person so affected to a hospital or other
place, the health officer or any member of the board of health shall require
all such persons to be kept closely confined in their respective dwellings or
places of abode, and shall immediately cause to be erected a flag or other
suitable notice setting forth the fact. No occupant thereof or any other person
shall remove such flag or notice, as long as, in the opinion of the health
officer or the board of health, it ought to remain on the premises. (1973 Code
§ 8.02.020)
 
Notes
  2. For statutory provisions regarding administration of public health, see
1 NRS chapter 439; for the provisions regarding city health boards and
  regulations, see NRS section 439.420 et seq., and title 2, chapter 2 of this
  code.
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Nuisances Defined
4-2-2: Duty To Maintain Property
4-2-3: Written Complaint
4-2-4: Investigation
4-2-5: Notice
4-2-6: Hearing
4-2-7: Abatement
4-2-8: Legal Action
4-2-9: Grant Of Continuing Authority
4-2-10: Costs Of Abatement
4-2-11: Nonexclusive Remedy
4-2-12: Penalty
4-2-1: NUISANCES DEFINED:
For the purposes of this chapter, the term "nuisance" means any condition or
use of premises or of building exteriors which is detrimental to the property
of others or which causes or tends to cause substantial diminution in the value
of other property in the neighborhood in which such premises are located. This
includes, but is not limited to, the following:
   A.   Unlawful Acts Or Omission To Perform Duty: Every act unlawfully done
and every omission to perform a duty, which act or omission shall:
      1.   Annoy, injure or endanger the safety, health, comfort or repose of
persons;
      2.   Offend public decency;
      3.   Unlawfully interfere with, befoul, obstruct or tend to obstruct, or
render dangers for passage of public park, square, street, alley, bridge,
causeway or highway or a river, stream, canal, ditch, pond or other body of
water;
      4.   In any way render persons insecure in life or the use of property.
   B.   Injurious To Health; Indecent Or Offense; Obstruction To Free Use Of
Property: Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent and offensive to
the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
   C.   Insecure Or Unsafe Buildings Or Conditions; Garbage: All insecure or
unsafe buildings, walls, chimneys, stacks or other structures, all filth,
garbage, offal, ashes, all nauseous, flammable and unhealthful matter, all
partially burned buildings and structures, and all debris resulting from fires
and demolition or abandonment of structures.
   D.   Violation Of State Law Or City Ordinance: The violation of any state
law or city ordinance which defines violation thereof as a nuisance. (1973 Code
§ 8.12.010)
   E.   Abandoned, Discarded Or Unused Objects: Abandoned, discarded or unused
objects or equipment such as machinery, furniture, stoves, household
appliances, cans, containers, boxes, waste, old building materials, trash and
other refuse. (1973 Code § 8.12.010; amd. Ord. 06-07, 12-11-2006)
   F.   Outside Storage: Outside storage of vehicles, equipment, building
materials and other property, unless fully screened from view from outside the
property and fully enclosed.
   G.   Smoke Or Air Pollution: Excessive emission of dense smoke and air
pollution caused by excessive soot, cinders, fly ash, dust, noxious acids,
fumes and gases within the city.
   H.   Noise: Excessive noise which is injurious to health or which interferes
unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property within the
city. (1973 Code § 8.12.010)
4-2-2: DUTY TO MAINTAIN PROPERTY:
No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall
maintain, keep or permit to be maintained or kept, any nuisance therein, nor
shall any such person keep, maintain or permit to be maintained or kept, such
premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value of the other
property in the neighborhood in which such premises is located. (1973 Code §
8.12.020)
4-2-3: WRITTEN COMPLAINT:
Whenever a written complaint is filed with the city clerk alleging the
existence of a "nuisance" as defined herein with the city, the city clerk shall
forthwith notify the chief of police, the fire chief, the public works director
or such other city official as may appear to the city clerk to be appropriate.
(1973 Code § 8.12.030; amd. 2001 Code)
4-2-4: INVESTIGATION:
The official to whom such notification is given by the city clerk shall
forthwith investigate the facts claimed to amount to a nuisance and shall
report verification, or lack thereof, to the city clerk within ten (10) days.
(1973 Code § 8.12.040)
4-2-5: NOTICE:
   A.   Notice To Owner; Posting: Upon receipt of such verification, the city
clerk shall mail by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice of the
complaint of existence of a nuisance to, or shall cause such notice to be
served personally upon, the person owning the premises according to the current
tax roll and to the person in possession, in charge, or in control of the yard,
lot or premises upon which the nuisance exists. Such notice shall also be
posted upon the yard, lot or premises where the nuisance exists. (1973 Code §
8.12.050)
   B.   Provision Of Notice: The notice shall require:
      1.   Commencement of work for the removal of the nuisance within seven
(7) days after personal receipt or fourteen (14) days after posting and mailing
of the notice, and removal of the nuisance within an agreed upon reasonable
time after the commencement of work; or
      2.   Within said seven (7) or fourteen (14) days, request, in writing,
that a hearing be held before the city council to determine if in fact a
nuisance does exist, whether the nuisance should be abated or removed, or that
it be shown that there is no nuisance or that the nuisance was caused by the
city. (1973 Code § 8.12.060)
4-2-6: HEARING:
   A.   Scheduled By City Manager: If work to abate and remove the nuisance is
not commenced within the required period, if the nuisance is not abated or
removed within the required period, if the nuisance is not abated or removed
within the agreed upon time after the commencement of work, or if no written
request for hearing shall be received by the city clerk within the time
specified, the city clerk shall forthwith notify the city manager who shall
forthwith fix a date to hear the proof of the complainant and of the owner or
occupant of the real property whereon the alleged nuisance is claimed to exist
and of any other person desiring to be heard, such hearing to be held not less
than twenty (20) nor more than forty five (45) days after the filing of the
complaint. (1973 Code § 8.12.070)
   B.   Hearing On Complaint: At the time fixed for the hearing, the city
council shall proceed to hear the complaint and any opponents of the complaint.
The council may adjourn the hearing from time to time, not exceeding fourteen
(14) days in all. At the hearing, it shall receive the proofs offered to
establish or controvert the facts set forth in the complaint, and on the final
hearing of the complaint, the council shall, by resolution entered on its
minutes, determine whether or not a nuisance exists, and if one does exist,
order the person responsible for such nuisance to abate the same. (1973 Code §
8.12.080)
4-2-7: ABATEMENT:
If the order is not complied with by the responsible party within five (5) days
after such service, the council shall cause the process of abatement and
removal of the nuisance to commence and make the cost of abatement a special
assessment against the real property. (1973 Code § 8.12.090)
4-2-8: LEGAL ACTION:
As an alternative to the procedure set forth in sections
4-2-6 and
4-2-7 of this chapter, the city council, upon receipt from the city clerk of
notice of the filing of a complaint alleging the existence of a nuisance, may,
by resolution, direct the city attorney to notify the person responsible for
such nuisance to abate it, and if such notice is not obeyed after service
thereof, within a reasonable time under the circumstances, as specified by the
city council, to bring legal proceedings for abatement of the nuisance, and for
recovery of compensatory and exemplary damages and costs of suit. Such
proceedings shall be under the control of the city council in the same manner
as other suits to which the city is a party. (1973 Code § 8.12.100)
4-2-9: GRANT OF CONTINUING AUTHORITY:
Notwithstanding the abatement procedures set forth in the preceding sections,
the city council may, by resolution, direct the city attorney to bring all
necessary civil actions on behalf of the city to enjoin, abate or restrain the
continued violation of any ordinance, rule or regulation enacted, adopted, or
passed by the city council and having the effect of law, the violation of which
is designated as a nuisance in such ordinance, rule or regulation. All such
proceedings shall be under the control of the city council in the same manner
as other suits to which the city is a party. No such proceedings shall be
initiated by the city attorney without making request for authority to initiate
the same. (1973 Code § 8.12.110)
4-2-10: COSTS OF ABATEMENT:
   A.   Assessment: Upon the completion of abatement and removal of a nuisance
by the city, the person in charge of the work of abating and removing the
nuisance or the public works director shall file with the city clerk a
description of the premises and a verified statement of the work done, all
expenses and costs incurred of any nature whatsoever, and the name of the owner
of the premises, if known. The owner shall be charged with the costs and
expenses.
   B.   Action By Council: The city council shall:
      1.   Determine whether the costs and expenses were proper, the name of
the owner of the premises, and the premises to be assessed;
      2.   Adopt or revise the statement by resolution levying assessment and
require the city clerk to transmit the resolution and statement to the county
and transmit a copy thereof to the county assessor and to record a copy thereof
with the county recorder;
      3.   Upon such recording, determine the assessment to be due and payable
and shall constitute a lien upon the premises and shall remain such until paid.
(1973 Code § 8.12.120; amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   Collection Of Special Assessment:
      1.   The special assessment may be collected at the same time and in the
same manner as ordinary property taxes are collected, and shall be subject to
the same penalties and the same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as
provided for ordinary property taxes. All laws applicable to the levy,
collection and enforcement of property taxes shall be applicable to such
special assessment.
      2.   The county assessor shall:
         a.   Make an assessment roll and levy a special assessment upon the
premises and against the person chargeable;
         b.   After such levy, transfer the assessment roll to the county
treasurer.
      3.   The county treasurer shall record the assessment in his office in
the same manner as street assessments are recorded. (1973 Code § 8.12.130)
4-2-11: NONEXCLUSIVE REMEDY:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent maintenance of an action by the
city against the person owning, or in possession, in charge, or in control of,
the premises to collect the expense of abatement and removal of the nuisance,
or the prosecution criminally of any such person for the maintenance of the
nuisance. (1973 Code § 8.12.140)
4-2-12: PENALTY:
Any person who maintains a "nuisance", as enumerated in section
4-2-1 of this chapter, and fails or neglects, within the required time after
notice, to comply with the requirements of such notice, is guilty of a
misdemeanor. (1973 Code § 8.12.150)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Operation Of Incinerator
4-3-2: Illegal Dumping
4-3-3: Accumulation Of Garbage And Refuse Unlawful
4-3-4: Penalty
4-3-1: OPERATION OF INCINERATOR:
No person shall operate any refuse or rubbish burner, boiler, heater, furnace
or enclosed fire in such manner as to endanger any building of the city, or
other property, by sparks or fire. (1973 Code § 8.16.010)
4-3-2: ILLEGAL DUMPING:
   A.   Definition: "Garbage" includes: swill, refuse, cans, bottles, paper,
vegetable matter, carcass of any dead animal, offal from any slaughter pen or
butcher shop, or rubbish.
   B.   Violation: Every person who wilfully places, deposits or dumps, or
causes to be placed, deposited or dumped, or who causes or allows to overflow,
any sewage sludge, cesspool or septic tank effluent, or accumulation of human
excreta or any garbage, in or upon any street, alley, public highway or road in
common use, or upon any public park or other public property or upon any
private property without the consent of the owner is guilty of a misdemeanor.
Identification of the owners of any garbage, which is disposed of in violation
of this section, creates a reasonable inference that the owner is the person
who disposed of the garbage. The fact that the disposal of the garbage was not
witnessed does not in and of itself preclude the identification of its owner.
(Ord. 329, 7-9-2001)
4-3-3: ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person to allow the accumulation of vegetable waste,
litter, garbage, junk, old car bodies or trailers, filth or refuse of any kind
or nature within or upon any private alley, yard or area except where the same
is temporarily deposited for immediate removal.
   A.   Junk Motor Vehicles: Except as provided in this section it is unlawful
to leave any unregistered or uninsured motor vehicle on public or private
property which is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative,
abandoned or discarded. All of these vehicles are considered junk motor
vehicles.
   B.   Exceptions: The provisions of subsection A of this section do not apply
to:
      1.   Business premises used as a licensed dealer, manufacturer,
distributor, auto wrecking shop and dismantler or rebuilder of motor vehicles.
      2.   Business premises used as a licensed repair shop for motor vehicles.
      3.   Junk motor vehicles placed in a completely enclosed building, behind
an obscure six foot (6') fence or not visible from any public roadway or
adjoining property.
   C.   Removal And Disposition Of Junk Motor Vehicle: Every person who
abandons a junk motor vehicle and the owner of the private property on which it
is located are jointly responsible for the cost of removal and disposition of
such motor vehicle. It shall be presumed that the last registered owner is the
person who abandoned such vehicle.
   D.   Abandoned Or Discarded Vehicle: A junk motor vehicle remaining on
public property for more than seventy two (72) hours or on private property for
more than thirty (30) days is presumed to have been abandoned or discarded by
the owner of such vehicle with the permission of the occupant and/or owner of
such private property.
   E.   Violation: Any person who violates the provisions of this section and
refuses to remove such garbage, refuse or junk motor vehicle is guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 06-07, 12-11-2006)
4-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person who wilfully and knowingly violates any provision of this chapter is
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 02-05, 8-26-2002)
CHAPTER 4
WEEDS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Weeds Defined
4-4-2: Responsibility To Cut Or Destroy
4-4-3: Notice
4-4-4: Additional Penalty
4-4-5: Hearing
4-4-6: Appeal
4-4-7: Tolling
4-4-8: Penalty
4-4-9: Severability
4-4-10:    Conflict
4-4-1: WEEDS DEFINED:
The term "weeds":
   A.   Does not include vegetation that constitutes an agricultural crop,
unless that vegetation is a health hazard or a fire or traffic hazard within
the meaning of subsection B of this section.
   B.   Includes:
      1.   Weeds more than ten inches (10") high;
      2.   Grass more than twenty inches (20") high and not within the
exception stated in subsection A of this section;
      3.   Vegetation that is a health hazard;
      4.   Vegetation that is a fire hazard because it is near combustibles; or
      5.   Vegetation that is a traffic hazard because it impairs the view of a
public thoroughfare or otherwise makes use of the thoroughfare hazardous.
      6.   The procedures set forth in this Section are in relation to weeds
only and replace those procedures set forth in Section
4-2-3 through
4-2-7. (1973 Code § 8.20.010; amd. Ord. 20-02, 5-26-2020)
4-4-2: RESPONSIBILITY TO CUT OR DESTROY:
No owner or person in charge of property may allow weeds to be on the property
or in the right of way of a public thoroughfare abutting on the property. It is
the duty of an owner or person in charge of property to cut down or destroy
grass, shrubbery, brush, bushes, weeds or other noxious vegetation as often as
needed to prevent them from becoming unsightly, from becoming a fire hazard, or
obstructing the view of signs or traffic warnings or, in the case of weeds or
other noxious vegetation, from maturing or from going to seed. (1973 Code §
8.20.010)
4-4-3: NOTICE:
The city manager shall notify the property owner, by certified mail, return
receipt requested, of the existence of weeds on the owner's property and that
the owner must abate the weeds by no later than fourteen (14) days after the
date of the notice's mailing. Such notice shall be mailed to the property
owner's address as listed on the current tax roll. (1973 Code § 8.20.010; amd.
Ord. 20-02, 5-26-2020)
4-4-4: ADDITIONAL TIME:
If the weeds are not an immediate danger to the public health, safety or
welfare and were caused by the criminal activity of a person other than the
property owner, the city manager shall afford the property owner thirty (30)
days to abate the weeds. (1973 Code § 8.20.020; amd. Ord. 20-02, 5-26-2020)
4-4-5: HEARING:
If the property owner disagrees with the abatement notice, he may schedule a
hearing with the city manager to take place no later than fourteen (14) days
after the date of the mailing of the notice. The city manager shall promptly
notify the property owner of his decision by certified mail, return receipt
requested. (Ord. 20-02, 5-26-2020)
4-4-6: APPEAL:
The property owner may appeal the city manager's decision to the Yerington city
council. The property owner must file with the city clerk his notice of appeal
by no later than fourteen (14) days after the date of the decision's mailing by
the city manager. (Ord. 20-02, 5-26-2020)
4-4-7: TOLLING:
The date by which the property owner must abate the weeds shall be tolled
pending appeal and notice of decision. (Ord. 20-02, 5-26-2020)
4-4-8: CITY ABATEMENT AND COSTS:
The city may abate the weeds on the owner's property if:
   A.   The owner has not requested a hearing within the time prescribed in
section
4-4-5 and has failed to abate within the period specified in the notice;
   B.   After a hearing in which the owner did not prevail, the owner has not
filed an appeal within the time prescribed and has failed to abate within the
period specified in the order; or
   C.   The Yerington city council has denied the owner's appeal and the owner
has failed to abate within the period specified in the order.
In accordance with Section
4-2-10, the city shall recover from the owner the money expended for labor and
materials used to abate the weeds, as set forth in the city's fee schedule.
(Ord. 20-02, 5-26-2020)
4-4-8: PENALTY:
The property owner who allows weeds to be on the property, or in the right of
way of a public thoroughfare abutting the property, in violation of this
chapter shall be punished as provided in Section
1-4-1. (Ord. 20-02, 5-26-2020)
4-4-9: SEVERABILITY:
If any subsection, phrase, sentence or portion of this ordinance is for any
reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction,
such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision,
and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions. (Ord.
20-02, 5-26-2020)
4-4-10: CONFLICT:
In relation to weeds only, should any subsection, phrase, sentence or portion
of this ordinance conflict with Section 4, Chapter 2, this ordinance shall
control. (Ord. 20-02, 5-26-2020)
CHAPTER 5
ABOVEGROUND FUEL TANKS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Findings
4-5-2: Application
4-5-3: Permit Required
4-5-4: Structural Plans
4-5-5: Use Restrictions
4-5-6: Capacity Restrictions
4-5-7: Tank Construction
4-5-8: Location On Property
4-5-9: Spill Control; Liability
4-5-10: Other Specifications And Restrictions
4-5-11: Exemptions
4-5-12: Revocation
4-5-13: Penalty
4-5-1: FINDINGS:
The city council finds and declares:
   A.   There is an increasing number of aboveground fuel tank installations
within the city by the residents thereof;
   B.   Such aboveground fuel tanks, in the absence of proper installation,
care and maintenance by their owners, constitute a potential danger to the
health and safety of the residents of the city;
   C.   At present, no guidelines exist to ensure that such aboveground fuel
tanks will be installed safely and proper maintenance procedures will be
followed; and
   D.   The enactment of the provisions of this chapter is necessary under the
police powers granted to the city pursuant to the charter of the city, to
protect the health and safety of the residents of the city. (1973 Code §
8.17.010)
4-5-2: APPLICATION:
The chief of the fire department or his designee shall consider applications
for permits to install aboveground fuel tanks within the city. After
consideration of an application, the chief of the fire department shall
recommend approval or denial of the permit to the city council. A
recommendation of approval may be made upon such conditions as the chief of the
fire department deems necessary to ensure that the aboveground fuel tank will
be installed properly and will receive proper maintenance and use to protect
the health and safety of the residents of the city. (1973 Code § 8.17.020)
4-5-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: Commencing on the effective date hereof, it is unlawful for
any person to install an aboveground fuel tank within the city without a permit
therefor approved by the city council.
   B.   Written Application: To obtain a permit to install an aboveground fuel
tank within the city, a person shall make written application therefor at the
Yerington city hall. The application shall contain such information as the
chief of the fire department and the state fire marshal deem necessary to
assist the chief of the fire department in determining whether the permit
should be approved. (1973 Code § 8.17.030)
   C.   Fee: Each application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee per
the city of Yerington fee schedule payable to the city. Fees may be waived for
governmental entities at the sole discretion of the city council. (Ord. 03-06,
10-13-2003)
   D.   Recommendation To Council: Upon receipt of the completed application,
and after its review by the state fire marshal, the chief of the fire
department shall recommend to the city council whether to approve or deny the
permit. A recommendation of approval may only be made upon a finding by the
chief of the fire department that the installation of said aboveground fuel
tank will be installed and designed in accordance with the most current edition
of the international fire code as adopted by the city of Yerington, and will in
no way jeopardize the health and safety of residents of the city. (Ord. 08-01,
3-10-2008)
   E.   Notice To Adjacent Property Owners: The chief of the fire department
shall notify, in writing, each property owner whose property is within two
hundred feet (200') of the property on which the application to install an
aboveground fuel tank has been received so that the property owner may submit
written comments concerning the application and attend the hearing at which the
application is considered.
   F.   Hearing: At the hearing, the city council shall consider the
application and any written or oral comments received from any other interested
person. The council shall limit its consideration of the above to protection of
health and safety of city residents.
   G.   Final Action By Council: The city council shall take final action on
the recommendation of the chief of the fire department as soon as practicable
after receipt thereof. Any condition imposed on the approval of the permit
shall be strictly adhered to by the applicant and failure to do so constitutes
cause for its immediate revocation.
   H.   Issuance; Records; Inspections: The chief of the fire department shall
issue the permit when directed to do so by the city council. The chief of the
fire department shall maintain a record of the date of issuance of, the
conditions imposed on, and the person to whom a permit has been issued pursuant
to this section. The chief of the fire department, from time to time, but not
less than twice yearly, shall inspect the premises which is the subject of the
permit to determine whether the permittee is in compliance with the permit
conditions.
   I.   Right To Limit: The city council has the right to limit the number of
aboveground fuel tanks to be permitted within the city. (1973 Code § 8.17.030)
4-5-4: STRUCTURAL PLANS:
   A.   Review By City: Each proposed tank installation should be designed in
accordance with the most current edition of the international fire code as
adopted by the city of Yerington and the items within this chapter. Plans
detailing the installation, location, and specifications should be submitted
for review by the fire and building departments of the city. (Ord. 08-01, 3-10-
2008)
   B.   Submittal To State Fire Marshal: Plans are required to be submitted to
the state fire marshal for review prior to the issuance of a permit. (1973 Code
§ 8.17.040)
4-5-5: USE RESTRICTIONS:
Use of the aboveground fuel storage containers shall be limited to:
   A.   Industrial use;
   B.   City government;
   C.   County government;
   D.   State government;
   E.   Federal government;
   F.   Limited commercial use by variance only.
The use by limited commercial users shall be addressed on a case by case basis
and allowed by variance procedure through the fire and building departments and
as approved by the city council. (1973 Code § 8.17.050)
4-5-6: CAPACITY RESTRICTIONS:
The total on site capacity of aboveground fuel storage containers shall be
limited to two thousand (2,000) U.S. gallons, which may be distributed among a
maximum of four (4) aboveground tanks. Any exception must be made by variance
procedure through the fire and building departments and as approved by the city
council. (1973 Code § 8.17.060)
4-5-7: TANK CONSTRUCTION:
Tanks used for the storage of fuel aboveground shall conform to all the
following tank specifications and meet with the approval of the chief of the
fire department. All tanks must carry an official certification from a
recognized testing laboratory:
   A.   Steel tanks shall be UL listed.
   B.   Steel tanks must meet requirements of NFPA 30 for aboveground tanks.
   C.   Steel tanks shall have six inch (6") emergency vents as required by
NFPA 30.
   D.   Steel tanks shall be rectangular.
   E.   Steel tank openings shall be threaded, except for detector tubes.
   F.   Steel tanks and secondary containments shall be encased in six inches
(6") of reinforced concrete.
   G.   Vaults shall have the capability of physical monitoring between primary
and secondary containment.
   H.   Vaults shall be placed on reinforced concrete or 10-gauge steel drip
pans.
   I.   Vaults shall have exterior protective epoxy coating.
   J.   Vaults shall have warning signs.
   K.   UL listed internal overfill. (1973 Code § 8.17.070)
4-5-8: LOCATION ON PROPERTY:
The following setbacks shall be required:
   A.   Adjacent Property: The aboveground fuel storage container shall be
located not less than fifteen feet (15') from adjacent property.
   B.   Public Street, Highway Or Access Road: The aboveground fuel storage
container shall be located not less than twenty five feet (25') from any public
street, highway or access road. (1973 Code § 8.17.080)
   C.   International Fire Code: All aboveground fuel storage containers shall
be placed in accordance with specifications as required in the international
fire code. (Ord. 08-01, 3-10-2008)
4-5-9: SPILL CONTROL; LIABILITY:
Spill containment, either in terms of a "leaking tank" or otherwise, shall be
required in accordance with the specifications and recommendations of the
international fire code. (Ord. 08-01, 3-10-2008)
4-5-10: OTHER SPECIFICATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
Prior to the issuance of a permit for the same, the installation of any and all
aboveground fuel storage containers must:
   A.   Conform to all regulations of the international fire code;
   B.   Conform to all regulations of the international building code;
   C.   Conform to all regulations of the international residential building
code;
   D.   Conform to all regulations of the uniform mechanical code;
   E.   Conform to all regulations of the uniform plumbing code;
   F.   Conform to all regulations of the national electrical code;
   G.   Conform to all regulations of the state fire marshal;
   H.   Conform to all regulations as contained in this code. (Ord. 08-01, 3-
10-2008)
4-5-11: EXEMPTIONS:
Exemptions to the provisions of this chapter may be allowed by the city
council, at their sole discretion, under the following circumstances:
   A.   Sufficient Property Area; Remote Location: There is sufficient property
area or the location is so remote as to not endanger the health and safety of
the residents of the city;
   B.   Temporary Storage: The installation of temporary fuel storage
containers during construction of new buildings;
   C.   Emergency: The installation of emergency fuel storage containers for
public services; and
   D.   Domestic Heating: Aboveground fuel storage containers meeting all
requirements of the environmental protection agency having a maximum capacity
of five hundred (500) U.S. gallons, and used solely for the purposes of
domestic heating. (1973 Code § 8.17.110)
4-5-12: REVOCATION:
A permit issued pursuant to section
4-5-3 of this chapter may be revoked by the city council, after hearing, for
failure by the permittee to comply with any conditions imposed by the city
council or failure to comply with any provision of this chapter. (1973 Code §
8.17.120)
4-5-13: PENALTY:
Any person who wilfully and knowingly violates any provision of this chapter is
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day on which a violation occurs constitutes a separate
offense. (1973 Code § 8.17.130; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 6
BURNING RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Authority; Authorization Required
4-6-3: Permit Required
4-6-4: Hours; Ignition; Extinguishment
4-6-5: Exceptions To Provisions
4-6-6: Fire District; Extinguishment Powers
4-6-7: Waiver Of Provisions
4-6-8: Burning Of Trash, Waste, Rubbish Or Toxic Material
4-6-9: Citation Authority
4-6-10: Violation; Penalty
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
FIRE CHIEF: The fire chief of the Mason Valley fire district or his authorized
designee.
FIRE DISTRICT: As used in this chapter, "fire district" means the Mason Valley
fire district as organized pursuant to the provisions of chapter 474 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes and created by election on January 6, 1948.
OPEN BURNING: Any fire from which the products of combustion are emitted into
the atmosphere without passing through a stack or chimney. (Ord. 14-03, 11-24-
2014)
4-6-2: AUTHORITY; AUTHORIZATION REQUIRED:
The fire chief shall establish regulations for burning within the city of
Yerington. No person shall kindle or maintain any fire for the purpose of weed
abatement, conservation, disease control, game or forest management, personnel
training, elimination of hazards, agricultural purposes and management,
recreational, educational or ceremonial purposes or authorize any such fire to
be kindled or maintained on any public or private land without first having
obtained a permit from the Mason Valley fire district. (Ord. 14-03, 11-24-2014)
4-6-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Burning under the regulations stated above shall not be done without first
obtaining a burn permit from the fire chief. The permittee shall follow the
burning regulations as stated on the burn permit and will be responsible for
fire suppression costs as stated in section
4-6-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 14-03, 11-24-2014)
4-6-4: HOURS; IGNITION; EXTINGUISHMENT:
The hours of burning shall be adopted by the fire chief. Before igniting a
fire, the permit holder must comply with procedures adopted by the Mason Valley
fire district, which includes contacting the fire chief to confirm that burning
is allowed that day. (Ord. 14-03, 11-24-2014)
4-6-5: EXCEPTIONS TO PROVISIONS:
Outdoor fires in each fire district may be used for heating, cooking or
branding in an appropriate approved fireplace or appliance at any time without
permission except as restricted by the fire chief. (Ord. 14-03, 11-24-2014)
4-6-6: FIRE DISTRICT; EXTINGUISHMENT POWERS:
The Mason Valley fire district, its officers or agents may, without further
process of law, extinguish or require to have extinguished any fire ignited or
maintained in violation of the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 14-03, 11-
24-2014)
4-6-7: WAIVER OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter may only be waived under extraordinary
circumstances by written authorization from the fire chief, or his authorized
designee of the Mason Valley fire district. (Ord. 14-03, 11-24-2014)
4-6-8: BURNING OF TRASH, WASTE, RUBBISH OR TOXIC MATERIAL:
The burning of garbage, rubbish, waste, toxic material, construction debris,
plastics or other hydrocarbon products or fuels is prohibited in the city
limits of Yerington. (Ord. 14-03, 11-24-2014)
4-6-9: CITATION AUTHORITY:
The fire chief is hereby authorized and empowered to prepare, sign and serve
misdemeanor citations for violations of this chapter in the city of Yerington.
(Ord. 14-03, 11-24-2014)
4-6-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who wilfully and knowingly violates any provision of this chapter is
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition to the penalty provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code, the violator is also responsible for all associated costs
of response and fire suppression caused by the violation. Each day on which a
violation occurs constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 14-03, 11-24-2014)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Police Chief
5-1-2: Power Of Arrest; Access To County Jail
5-1-3: Arrest For Offenses Committed In Presence Of Officer
5-1-4: Badge
5-1-5: Acting As Night Watchman
5-1-6: Special Police
5-1-1: POLICE CHIEF 1 :
The chief of police shall:
   A.   Attend Public Assemblages: When practicable, be present at all public
assemblages;
   B.   Investigate Violations: Diligently investigate all alleged violations
of city ordinances or of the provisions of the city charter of a police nature;
   C.   Visit Locations Where Liquors Are Sold: Visit all gaming houses,
saloons, dance halls or other places where liquors are sold, to see they are
conducted in an orderly manner and in compliance with the city ordinances, and
that no person be allowed to remain therein prohibited by ordinance. (1973 Code
§ 2.20.010)
 
Notes
1 1. See also city charter § 3.070.
5-1-2: POWER TO ARREST; ACCESS TO COUNTY JAIL:
All police officers are authorized to make arrests and serve other process, and
shall have access to the county jail. (1973 Code § 2.20.020; amd. 2001 Code)
5-1-3: ARREST FOR OFFENSES COMMITTED IN PRESENCE OF OFFICER:
Every police officer shall arrest all offenders for violations or breaches of
the city ordinances, when such offenses are committed in the presence of such
officers, and take the arrested person without unreasonable delay before the
police judge. (1973 Code § 2.20.030)
5-1-4: BADGE:
   A.   Wearing Required: Every police officer shall wear a badge, exhibited on
the breast of his coat, when on duty.
   B.   Description: Such badge shall bear the legend "Yerington Police". (1973
Code § 5.20.040; amd. 2001 Code)
5-1-5: ACTING AS NIGHT WATCHMAN:
Every police officer shall act as a night watchman for the city. (1973 Code §
2.20.050)
5-1-6: SPECIAL POLICE:
The chief of police may, in case of emergency, appoint, with approval of the
mayor, such special deputies as he may deem necessary. (1973 Code § 2.20.060)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: State Statute Adopted
5-2-2: Disturbing The Peace
5-2-3: Fireworks
5-2-4: Loitering Near Children
5-2-5: Property Use Control Devices
5-2-6: Consuming Or Possessing Liquor In Public Places
5-2-7: Discharging Of Firearms
5-2-1: STATE STATUTE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of title 15, crimes and punishments, chapters 193 through 207, of the
Nevada Revised Statutes, as amended, are hereby adopted by the city. Any and
all violations thereof shall be considered violations of this chapter, and each
such violation shall subject the violator thereof to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2001 Code)
5-2-2: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   Unlawful Assembly: No two (2) or more persons shall assemble for the
purpose of disturbing the public peace or committing any unlawful act within
the city and fail to disperse when being commanded to do so by a judge, justice
of the peace, chief of police, constable or other public officer. (1973 Code §
9.52.010)
   B.   Disorderly Conduct: No person shall make in any place, or suffer to be
made upon his premises or premises within his control, any noise, disorder or
tumult, disturbance of the public peace.
   C.   Obscenity: No person shall utter within the hearing of any person, any
obscene language, words or epithets, nor address to another, or utter in the
presence of another, any words, language or expression having a tendency to
create a breach of peace. (1973 Code § 9.52.020)
   D.   Indecent Or Obscene Exposure: (Rep. by Ord. 02-04, 7-22-2002)
   E.   Disturbing The Peace: No person shall maliciously and wilfully disturb
the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or family within the city by loud or
unusual noises or by tumultuous and offensive conduct, threatening, traducing,
quarreling, or challenging to fight or fighting. (1973 Code § 9.52.030)
   F.   Public Disturbance Noise From Portable Or Motor Vehicle Audio
Equipment:
      1.   While in park areas, residential or commercial zones within the
city, or in any area where residences, schools, parks, human service facilities
or commercial establishments are in obvious proximity to the source of the
sound, it is unlawful for any person to negligently cause, make or allow to be
made from audio equipment under such person's control or ownership, the
following:
         a.   Sound from a motor vehicle audio system, such as a radio, tape
player or compact disc player, which is operated at such a volume that it could
be clearly heard by a person of normal hearing at a distance of seventy five
feet (75') or more from the vehicle itself; or
         b.   Sound from portable audio equipment, such as a radio, tape player
or compact disc player, which is operated at such a volume that it could be
clearly heard by a person of normal hearing at a distance of seventy five feet
(75') or more from the source of the sound.
      2.   This subsection shall not apply to persons operating portable audio
equipment upon their own premises, such as an owner or tenant, or to persons
operating such equipment pursuant to any permit issued under the authority of
this code.
      3.   This subsection is not applicable in any district zoned M-1 or
outside the city as defined by this code and which is not located in any area
where residences, schools, parks, human service facilities or commercial
establishments are in obvious proximity to the source of the sound.
      4.   The content of the sound will not be considered in determining a
violation of this section. (1973 Code § 9.52.040)
   G.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of subsection F of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, is punishable
by a fine as listed on the city of Yerington fee schedule. (Ord. 03-07, 11-24-
2003)
5-2-3: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Keeping Or Sale; Permit Required: No person shall keep or sell, or
offer for sale, any fireworks of any nature within the city without first
obtaining a permit therefor from the city council. (1973 Code § 9.24.010)
   B.   Discharging:
      1.   Permit Required: No person shall discharge or set off within the
city any rocket, squib, firecracker, or other fireworks of any description,
without first obtaining permission from the city council.
      2.   Written Permit: Such permission shall be in writing, and shall
specifically state the time when, and the place where, such fireworks may be
discharged or set off. (1973 Code § 9.24.020)
5-2-4: LOITERING NEAR CHILDREN:
Any person who, without legitimate reason to supervise any of such children or
other legitimate reason to be at leisure in such place, loiters about any
school or public place at or near which children attend or normally congregate
is guilty of a misdemeanor. (1973 Code § 9.62.010)
5-2-5: PROPERTY USE CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Authority Of Governmental Agencies: Any governmental or official quasi-
governmental agency owning or controlling property within the city may prohibit
or restrict the use of said property by the general public so long as said
prohibition or restriction is reasonably made so as to preserve or protect the
property and the users thereof. (1973 Code § 9.68.010)
   B.   Signs Prohibiting Or Restricting Use Of Property:
      1.   The chief of police, subject to the approval of the city council,
may erect and maintain signs at appropriate locations designed to give general
notice to the public of any such prohibition or restriction of the use of any
such property.
      2.   The prohibition or restriction of such use may be between certain
hours and days and permitted at other hours or on other days, in which event
the same shall be clearly indicated on the signs erected. (1973 Code §
9.68.020)
   C.   Obedience Required: It is unlawful for any person to disobey or use any
said property in violation of any prohibition or restriction as set forth on
said use control signs. (1973 Code § 9.68.030)
   D.   Interference: It is unlawful for any person to attempt to or alter,
deface, knock down or remove any official use control sign or any part thereof
placed or erected as provided in this title. (1973 Code § 9.68.040)
   E.   Authority To Allow Variance: Anything contained in this section to the
contrary notwithstanding, any agency so prohibiting or restricting the use of
its property may formally allow, from time to time, variances on the
prohibition or restriction of the use of its property. Any agency so allowing a
variance shall notify the chief of police at least one week prior to the date
or dates of such allowance. (1973 Code § 9.68.050)
5-2-6: CONSUMING OR POSSESSING LIQUOR IN PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   Public Places Defined: For the purpose of this section, "public places"
shall be defined to be any public park, commercial parking lot, and Main Street
and its sidewalks between Pacific Street and Grove Street on Main and Virginia
Streets, and Littell Avenue on North Main Street.
   B.   Prohibited: Any person who shall consume any intoxicating liquor or
possess any open container or any intoxicating liquor without a special events
liquor license as provided in section
3-3-8 of this code, in certain "public places", as defined in subsection A of
this section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1973 Code § 9.92.070)
5-2-7: DISCHARGING OF FIREARMS:
   A.   A person may fire off or discharge a gun, rifle, pistol, ordnance or
other firearm within the city only in an agricultural zone, and only if such
discharge does not pose a danger to persons or property.
   B.   No person shall fire off or discharge within a commercial, industrial,
transitional, park or residential district of the city any ordnance, gun,
rifle, pistol or other firearm of any kind or nature whatsoever, unless
otherwise authorized by law. (Ord. 05-03, 4-11-2005)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Curfew
5-3-2: Gambling
5-3-3: Liquor Related Offenses
5-3-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Hours:
      1.   Hours Imposed: It is unlawful for any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years to frequent the streets, alleys or other public or
unoccupied grounds or public places in the city between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Sundays through Thursday and
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. on Friday and Saturday.
      2.   Extension Of Curfew: The chief of police shall be empowered to
extend the curfew on special occasions to such hour as shall be designated by
him. Request for extension of curfew for special events shall be made, in
writing, to the chief of police by the sponsors of such special event,
describing the event and its purpose and duration. (1973 Code § 9.84.010)
   B.   Parent Or Guardian Allowing Violation: No parent, guardian or other
person having the legal care and control of any minor under the age of eighteen
(18) years shall allow or permit such minor to go upon or be upon the streets,
alleys or other public places or unoccupied grounds within the city
unaccompanied by some adult person having the legal custody and control of such
minor during the hours specified in subsection A1 of this section, unless there
is a reasonable, proper and lawful necessity therefor. (1973 Code § 9.84.020)
5-3-2: GAMBLING 1 :
   A.   Gambling Or Loitering On Premises Prohibited: No person under the age
of twenty one (21) years shall be allowed to play any licensed game or slot
machine, or loiter about any room or premises wherein any game or slot machine
provided for in title 3, chapter 4 of this code are operated or conducted.
(1973 Code § 9.88.010)
   B.   Licensee, Employee Or Dealer:
      1.   Legal Action; Plea No Defense: In any legal action, it shall be no
excuse for the licensee, employee or dealer, operating or conducting a licensed
game under title 3, chapter 4 of this code to plead that he believed the party
to be twenty one (21) years old or over. (1973 Code § 9.88.020)
      2.   Permitting Violation; Penalty: Any licensee, employee or dealer
operating or conducting any game licensed under title 3, chapter 4 of this code
who permits any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to play at such
game or permits any such person to loiter about the room or premises in which
such game may be conducted or operated, shall be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1973 Code § 9.88.030)
 
Notes
1 1. For statutory provisions prohibiting minors under the age of 21 from
  gambling, see NRS § 463.350.
5-3-3: LIQUOR RELATED OFFENSES 1 :
   A.   Selling To Minors: No person shall sell, give or dispense any alcoholic
beverage to a minor. (1973 Code § 9.92.010)
   B.   Consumption Or Possession By Minors: No person under twenty one (21)
years of age shall consume or have in his possession any alcoholic beverage.
This shall not apply in the presence of the person's parent, spouse or legal
guardian who is twenty one (21) years of age or older within a privately owned
structure not open to the public. (1973 Code § 9.92.020)
 
Notes
1 1. For statutory provisions covering these offenses, see NRS §§ 202.020
  through 202.055, and 205.460.
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-4-1: Animal Control Officer
5-4-2: City Pound
5-4-3: Interference With Animal Control Officer
5-4-1: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   A.   Vacancy; Acting Animal Control Officer: If at any time there should be
no duly appointed and acting animal control officer in the city, the duties of
animal control officer shall be performed by the chief of police, or by any
veterinarian appointed by the city council, until an animal control officer is
appointed. (1973 Code § 7.12.250; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Assistants: The animal control officer may appoint one or more
assistants, should he deem such necessary, subject to the provisions of this
chapter. (1973 Code § 7.04.020; amd. 2001 Code)
5-4-2: CITY POUND:
The chief of police shall procure an enclosure, corral, livery barn or other
suitable place to be used as an impound for the safekeeping of all animals
impounded. Such arrangements shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter
and without cost to the city. (1973 Code § 7.04.040)
5-4-3: INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER 1 :
No person shall interfere with, oppose or resist the animal control officer or
any of his duly authorized assistants, while engaged in performing any duty
imposed by this chapter. (1973 Code § 7.04.030; amd. 2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 5-4B-11 for provisions dealing with interference with the
  animal control officer regarding dogs.
ARTICLE A. ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-4A-1: Livestock
5-4A-2: Animals Not Permitted
5-4A-1: LIVESTOCK 1 :
   A.   When Required:
      1.   Untethered: The animal control officer shall take up and impound any
horse, mule, cow, ass, hog, sheep or goat that may be found in or upon any
street, alley, public square, or upon any unenclosed lot or grounds, within the
city, unless such animal is securely fastened with a tether of such length as
will prevent it from reaching the streets, alleys or public squares.
      2.   Running At Large: The animal control officer shall take up and
impound each and every one of the animals named in this subsection A when
found, at any time, running at large within the corporate limits, but he shall
not take up any animal found in the immediate charge of any person who is
driving it in, through or from the city. (1973 Code § 7.04.050; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Care Of Impounded Animals:
      1.   Confinement: The animal control officer shall take diligent care
that no impounded animal is so confined as to injure itself or injure another
animal.
      2.   Mistreatment: The animal control officer shall not beat, bruise,
maim or alter such animal or change or deface any mark or brand that may be on
it, or cause or allow it to be beaten, bruised, or maimed, or cause or allow
any mark or brand upon it to be altered, changed or defaced.
      3.   Food And Water: The animal control officer shall furnish each animal
impounded with sufficient food and water during the time it is in custody.
(1973 Code § 7.04.060; amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   Sale Of Impounded Animals:
      1.   Publication Of Notice: If any impounded animal has not been redeemed
before there may be, in the opinion of the animal control officer, a
probability that the expense for which said animal may be liable will exceed
the value thereof, he shall advertise the same for not less than three (3) days
in some newspaper printed in the city, giving in such advertisement a
transcript of the description entered in his register and a notice that such
animal will be sold by him to pay charges that have and will have accrued
against it, with costs. (1973 Code § 7.04.080; amd. 2001 Code)
      2.   Location Of Sale: Every sale of impounded and unredeemed animals
shall take place in front of the door of the police courtroom between the hours
of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and one o'clock (1:00) P.M. on a day not less than
three (3) nor more than ten (10) days after the first appearance of the
advertisement required by subsection C1 of this section and at the time and
place designated therein. (1973 Code § 7.04.090)
      3.   Highest Bidder: The animal control officer shall, if not previously
redeemed, sell the animal at public auction to the highest bidder.
      4.   Bill Of Sale: Upon payment of the purchase money, the animal control
officer shall deliver the animal with a bill of sale, made in his official
capacity, to the purchaser. (1973 Code § 7.04.100; amd. 2001 Code)
      5.   Report: Within three (3) days after any sale, the animal control
officer shall file with the city clerk a statement, under oath, containing all
the matters required to set out in his register in regard to the animals sold,
which statement shall be numbered to correspond with the register number of
such animal. (1973 Code § 7.04.110; amd. 2001 Code)
      6.   Owner May Claim Proceeds: If, at any time within twelve (12) months
after any sale, any person shall prove that he was the lawful owner of the
animal sold, the city council shall allow a claim in favor of such person,
payable out of the common fund, for the particular amount paid into the
treasury on account of such animal. (1973 Code § 7.04.120)
   D.   Impoundment Register:
      1.   Required: The animal control officer shall keep a register book,
which he shall deliver to his successor in office, in which he shall enter a
full description of each animal impounded, with all natural and artificial
marks and brands, with the time when and the place where taken up. (1973 Code §
7.04.130; amd. 2001 Code)
      2.   Entry Of Sale Or Redemption: Whenever any animal has been sold or
redeemed, the animal control officer shall enter in his register, under the
same number as its description, the date it was redeemed, if redeemed, and by
whom, and the total costs and expenses, specifying each item charged against it
and paid; the date it was sold, if sold, and to whom, and for what price; and
the total costs and expenses, specifying each item charged against it, and the
balance, if any, paid to the treasurer. (1973 Code § 7.04.140; amd. 2001 Code)
   E.   Monthly Report:
      1.   Funds Collected: On the first Monday in each month the animal
control officer shall pay into the city treasury all monies arising from the
sale of animals, as provided in this article, after deducting therefrom all
costs and expenses incurred in the impounding, keeping and sale of such
animals, taking the treasurer's receipt therefor, a duplicate of which he shall
file with the city clerk.
      2.   Certified Statement: The animal control officer shall, at the same
time, make out and present to the city council a statement, under oath, of his
transactions for the previous month, giving the number of each kind of animal
impounded, the number sold, the gross amount realized from such sale, the net
amount, if any, paid into the treasury, the total amount charged by him for
feeding and keeping and the total amount of his other fees. (1973 Code §
7.04.150; amd. 2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS § 569.020.
5-4A-2: ANIMALS NOT PERMITTED:
No person shall keep any live horse, mule, cow, ass, hog, sheep, goat or
chicken within the city, excluding veterinarians, licensed kennels and those
animals kept on and in compliance with A zoned property. This section shall not
include the keeping of one potbellied pig, genus scrotusdomesicuf. (Ord. 04-04,
6-14-2004)
ARTICLE B. DOGS
SECTION:
5-4B-1: Definitions
5-4B-2: Number Permitted
5-4B-3: License Required
5-4B-4: License Fees
5-4B-5: Running At Large
5-4B-6: Impoundment
5-4B-7: Barking Dogs
5-4B-8: Dangerous Dogs
5-4B-9: Vicious Dogs
5-4B-10: Rabies
5-4B-11: Interference With Animal Control Officer Or Police Officer
5-4B-12: Violations; Penalties
5-4B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DANGEROUS DOG: A dog with a propensity for biting human beings. It is a prima
facie evidence that a dog is dangerous if it has bitten any person other than a
person trespassing on the property of the owner of the dog.
OWNER: Any individual, firm, association or corporation which owns, possesses,
maintains, harbors or has control of any male or female dog over the age of six
(6) months within the city for more than thirty (30) days.
VICIOUS DOG: A dog which, without being provoked, kills or inflicts bodily harm
upon a human being or, after its owner or keeper has been notified by a law
enforcement agency that said dog is dangerous, it continues the behavior
described in the definition of "dangerous dog" contained in this section. (1973
Code § 7.12.010)
5-4B-2: NUMBER PERMITTED:
It is unlawful for any owner to keep more than three (3) dogs of four (4)
months within the incorporated limits of the city, excluding veterinarians and
licensed kennels. (1973 Code § 7.12.020)
5-4B-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: Except as provided in subsection B2 of this section, it is
unlawful for any owner to have any dog without first obtaining a license for
such dog, and paying to the city clerk the license fee required by section
5-4B-4 of this article. (1973 Code § 7.12.030)
   B.   Application:
      1.   Form: Each owner applying for a license shall make application on a
form provided by the city clerk. The application shall state his name and
address, the name, breed, color, sex and age of each dog owned or kept by him,
and the date he acquired such dog, if acquired after July 1 of the current
year. (1973 Code § 7.12.040)
      2.   Service Animals:
         a.   Each owner of a service animal shall make an application for a
license on such form, but the license shall be issued without charge.
         b.   The term "service animal" is defined as an animal properly
trained to provide necessary assistance to disabled persons in the performance
of their daily activities. The term applies to guide dogs, hearing dogs and
helping dogs. Upon application and hearing, the city council may define other
animals as service animals. (2001 Code)
      3.   Police Dogs: Each dog used by police officers in the line of duty
shall make an application for a license on such form, but the license shall be
issued without charge. (1973 Code § 7.12.040)
   C.   Term: The license shall cover the period beginning July 1 and ending on
the following June 30, and shall be payable in advance on July 1 of each year.
No license shall be issued for a portion of a year. (1973 Code § 7.12.030)
   D.   Rabies Vaccination:
      1.   Required: Every dog over the age of six (6) months which is kept,
harbored or maintained by its owner in the city shall be vaccinated at least
every thirty six (36) months against rabies. Vaccination shall be performed
only by a doctor qualified to practice veterinary medicine in the state in
which the dog is vaccinated.
      2.   Certificate Of Vaccination: A veterinarian who vaccinates a dog to
be kept, harbored or maintained in the city shall prepare or deliver to the
owner a certificate of vaccination, in duplicate, setting forth the name and
address of the owner, sufficient information to identify the dog vaccinated,
the date of the vaccination and the type and lot of vaccine used. (Ord. 320, 4-
12-1999)
   E.   Issuance; Tag: Upon presentation of a certificate of rabies vaccination
effective for the period of licensing of the dog and the payment of the license
fee, the city clerk shall issue to the owner a license receipt and a metallic
tag for each dog licensed. The shape of the tag shall be changed each year and
the tag shall have stamped thereon the expiration date of the tag and the
number corresponding with the number on the receipt. (1973 Code § 7.12.060)
   F.   Collar Required: Every owner shall provide each dog with a collar to
which the license tag shall be affixed and shall see that the collar and tags
are constantly worn. (1973 Code § 7.12.070)
   G.   Duplicate Tags: If a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate shall be
issued by the city clerk upon presentation of a receipt showing the payment of
the license fee required by section
5-4B-4 of this article. (1973 Code § 7.12.080)
   H.   Tags Not Transferable: Dog tags are not transferable from one dog to
another. (1973 Code § 7.12.090)
5-4B-4: LICENSE FEES 1 :
   A.   Annual Fee: The fees for dog licenses and tags shall be as listed on
the city of Yerington fee schedule. (Ord. 03-08, 11-24-2003)
   B.   Penalties:
      1.   Grace Period: No penalty shall be imposed if the license is obtained
within thirty (30) days after July 1, or within thirty (30) days after the
owner comes into ownership or possession of the dog, if he did not have such
ownership or possession on July 1.
      2.   Penalty Imposed: If the dog license is not purchased within such
grace period, the owner shall pay, in addition to the regular license fee, a
penalty as follows:
         a.   If paid within the first month following the grace period, twenty
five percent (25%);
         b.   If paid within the second month following the grace period, fifty
percent (50%);
         c.   If paid within the third month following the grace period,
seventy five percent (75%);
         d.   If paid within the fourth month or any subsequent month following
the grace period, one hundred percent (100%). (1973 Code § 7.12.110)
   C.   Refunds: No refund shall be made on any dog license fee because of
death of the dog or the owner's leaving the city before expiration of the
license period. (1973 Code § 7.12.110)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsections 5-4B-3B2a and B3 of this article for waiver of fees for
  service animals and police dogs.
5-4B-5: RUNNING AT LARGE:
It is unlawful for the owner of any dog, whether licensed or unlicensed, to
suffer, permit or allow such dog to run at large on any public street, alley,
park, square or place, or on any vacant or unenclosed lot or land within the
city, other than that of the person having charge, custody or possession of
such dog. Any dog shall be deemed running at large unless led or restrained by
a substantial leash, chain, strap or cord, not more than five feet (5') in
length, attached to its collar and held by some person or made fast to some
stationary object. (1973 Code § 7.12.120)
5-4B-6: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Authority To Impound: Each police officer shall apprehend any dog found
running at large contrary to the provisions of section
5-4B-5 of this article and impound such dog in the city pound or other suitable
place.
   B.   Registry:
      1.   Required: The animal control officer shall keep a permanent record
in which he shall list all dogs impounded, giving such information as the city
council may require. The record shall include the date, description of the dog,
where it was picked up, the age, sex and breed, whether licensed or unlicensed,
whether reclaimed or disposed of, and, if disposed of, in what manner. The
record shall also include all charges and receipts of money.
      2.   Monthly Report 1 : The animal control officer shall make a monthly
report to the city council summarizing the report and including such
information as the city council may request. (1973 Code § 7.12.240; amd. 2001
Code)
   C.   Notice Of Impoundment: The owner of a licensed dog which has been
impounded shall be notified in person, by telephone or by mail, at the address
given on the license application, within one day after impounding the dog. If
the owner of the dog is unknown, written notice shall be posted for four (4)
days at the city hall describing the dog and the place and time of taking.
(1973 Code § 7.12.140; amd. 2001 Code)
   D.   Redemption; Fees: The owner of any impounded dog may reclaim the dog
upon payment of the license fee, if unpaid, and all costs and charges incurred
by the city for impounding and maintenance of the dog as listed on the city of
Yerington fee schedule. (Ord. 03-08, 11-24-2003)
   E.   Confinement Of Certain Dogs: Each dog of fierce, dangerous or vicious
propensities and all female dogs in heat, whether licensed or not, shall be at
all times confined in a substantial pen in such a manner that no other dog,
except another dog of the same owner, may come in contact with such dog. If any
such dog is found running at large, it shall be taken up and impounded and
shall not be released except upon approval of the chief of police after the
payment of the charges provided in subsection D of this section. (1973 Code §
7.12.150)
   F.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Or Diseased Dogs:
      1.   Unclaimed: The animal control officer shall keep each impounded dog
for a period of five (5) days. If, at the expiration of five (5) days from the
notice to the owner, or the posting of notice, a dog has not been reclaimed, it
may be destroyed in some humane manner or otherwise disposed of by the animal
control officer. The animal control officer may claim any dog which has been
impounded in the city pound and has not been reclaimed within the time
specified.
      2.   Diseased: Any dog which appears to be suffering from rabies or
affected with hydrophobia, mange or other infectious or dangerous disease shall
not be released but may be forthwith destroyed. (1973 Code § 7.12.160; amd.
2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-4A-1E of this chapter for additional provisions
  regarding the animal control officer's monthly report.
5-4B-7: BARKING DOGS:
   A.   Nuisance:
      1.   Declared Nuisance: It is unlawful for any dog owner to permit or
allow his dog habitually to howl, bark or in any other manner disturb the peace
and quietude of the community or any person within the city. Such conduct on
the part of any dog is a public nuisance.
      2.   Abatement: The animal control officer and all police officers of the
city shall take whatever steps they believe to be necessary to abate any such
nuisance. In seeking to abate any such nuisance occurring in the presence of an
officer, the officer may enter upon private property and take any such dog into
custody and impound it, except that no dog may be taken from any dwelling house
or other building.
      3.   Impoundment: If any dog is impounded as provided in this section,
the provisions of subsections 5-4B-6A through D and F of this article shall
apply. (1973 Code § 7.12.170; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Revocation Of License:
      1.   Third Impoundment: If any dog is impounded for the third time under
the provisions of subsection A of this section, its license shall be forthwith
revoked and no other license may be issued for such dog. It is unlawful to keep
or maintain any dog in the city after its license has been revoked.
      2.   Release: Such dog may not be released from the pound without written
permission of the chief of police, who shall first obtain from the owner a
written agreement that the dog will, if released, be permanently removed from
the city. If the owner of the dog refuses to so agree, the dog shall be
disposed of as provided in subsection 5-4B-6F of this article.
      3.   Appeal: The owner may sign such an agreement under protest and
appeal by a written notice to the city council for reinstatement of the dog's
license. Pending a decision on the appeal, the dog shall be kept outside of the
city. The city council shall set the appeal for hearing within forty five (45)
days after receipt of the notice, and give the owner the opportunity to present
witnesses in his behalf. The city council may either reinstate the license or
revoke it permanently, and its decision shall be final. (1973 Code § 7.12.180)
5-4B-8: DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   Revocation Of License: Any dog license may be revoked if the licensed
dog is found to be dangerous. (1973 Code § 7.12.190)
   B.   Notice Of Dog Bite; Impoundment: If the owner of any dog has knowledge
that the dog has bitten a human being, he shall immediately inform the police
department and deliver the dog to the pound to be held for a period of fourteen
(14) days. If the animal control officer or any police officer is informed that
any dog has bitten a human being, and the owner has failed to do either of the
things required by this subsection, he shall impound the dog at the expense of
the owner for such period of fourteen (14) days.
   C.   Pen Required: If any dog has, on a second occasion, bitten a human
being, the owner shall comply with the provisions of subsection B of this
section, but the dog shall thereafter, if kept in the city, be confined in a
secure pen at all times in such a manner that it cannot escape. The pen shall
be inspected by and subject to the approval of the chief of police. If the dog
is in the public pound, it shall not be released until the chief of police has
examined and approved the pen. If the owner of the dog refuses to provide such
pen, the provisions of subsection 5-4B-7B2 of this article shall apply.
   D.   Destruction: Any dog whose license has been revoked upon the grounds
that it is a dangerous dog shall be destroyed forthwith, if it is thereafter
observed outside the pen in which it is required to be confined. (1973 Code §
7.12.210; amd. 2001 Code)
   E.   Petition For Hearing; Second Offense: Any dog running at large which
has bitten a person is considered dangerous to the safety and health of the
community and, as such, may be destroyed. For the dog to be destroyed, a
petition must be filed with the municipal court. Once the petition for action
has been filed with the court, the dog owner, if known, will be properly
noticed and given the opportunity of a hearing prior to the destruction of the
dog. The dog will be impounded at the animal control shelter from the time of
the bite until the dog is released by the court. Any second offense of this
subsection by the same dog may result in the dog being destroyed by the chief
of police, in his discretion, without notice to the owner. (Ord. 02-03, 3-11-
2002)
5-4B-9: VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   Running At Large: If any dangerous, fierce or vicious dog found at
large cannot be safely taken up and impounded, such dog may be slain forthwith
by the animal control officer or any police officer. (1973 Code § 7.12.150;
amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Knowingly Keep Or Transfer Ownership: A person who knowingly owns or
keeps a vicious dog, for more than seven (7) days after he has actual notice
that the dog is vicious, or transfers ownership of a vicious dog after he has
actual notice that the dog is vicious, is guilty of a misdemeanor. (1973 Code §
7.12.215)
5-4B-10: RABIES:
   A.   Suspect Animal: If a dog is believed to have rabies or has been bitten
by a dog suspected of having rabies, such a dog shall be confined by the animal
control officer and placed under observation of a veterinarian at the expense
of the owner for a period of two (2) weeks. The owner shall notify the animal
control officer of the fact that his dog has been exposed to rabies and the
animal control officer may have such dog removed from the owner's premises to a
veterinary hospital and there placed under observation for a period of two (2)
weeks at the expense of the owner.
   B.   Removal From City: It is unlawful for any person knowing or suspecting
a dog has rabies to allow such dog to be taken off his premises or beyond the
limits of the city without the written permission of the animal control officer
or the chief of police.
   C.   Duty To Notify: Any person or owner upon ascertaining a dog is rabid
shall immediately notify the animal control officer or a police officer, who
shall either remove the dog to the pound or summarily destroy it. (1973 Code §
7.12.220; amd. 2001 Code)
   D.   Rabies Emergency:
      1.   Proclamation Of Emergency: Wherever it becomes necessary to
safeguard the public from the dangers of rabies, the mayor, if he deems it
necessary, shall issue a proclamation declaring a thirty (30) day period of
emergency and ordering every person owning or keeping a dog to confine it
securely on his premises during the emergency period, unless such dog has a
muzzle of sufficient strength to prevent its biting any person or animal.
      2.   Muzzle Required: Any unmuzzled dog running at large during the
period of the emergency shall be seized and impounded unless noticeably
infected with rabies.
      3.   Noticeably Infected Dogs: All dogs noticeably infected with rabies
and displaying vicious propensities may be killed by the animal control officer
or any police officer forthwith and without notice to the owner. The provisions
of subsections 5-4B-6A through D, and F and 5-4B-9A of this article shall apply
to all dogs not noticeably infected with rabies.
      4.   Extension Of Emergency Period: If at or near the end of the first or
any subsequent thirty (30) day emergency period the mayor believes the
emergency continues to exists, he may extend the emergency period from time to
time for additional thirty (30) day periods until the emergency no longer
exists. (1973 Code § 7.12.230; amd. 2001 Code)
5-4B-11: INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER OR POLICE OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person in any manner:
   A.   To interfere or attempt to interfere with the animal control officer or
any police officer in the performance of any duty imposed by the provisions of
this article;
   B.   Unlawfully to take or attempt to take any dog seized pursuant to the
provisions of such sections from the custody of the animal control officer or
any police officer;
   C.   To remove or attempt to remove from the public pound any dog impounded
therein without having first redeemed the same or obtained permission of the
animal control officer to do so. (1973 Code § 7.12.260; amd. 2001 Code)
5-4B-12: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Civil Actions For Fees And Charges: The amount of any license fee,
penalty, impounding fee or other charge under the provisions of this article,
constitutes a debt to the city. Any person liable for the payment thereof shall
be liable in an action in the name of the city in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount thereof, and also for court costs and attorney
fees. (1973 Code § 7.12.270)
   B.   Arrests: If any person is arrested without warrant for violation of any
provision of this article, unless such person demands that he be taken
forthwith before the municipal judge, the arresting officer may take the name
and address of such person and notify him, in writing, to appear before the
municipal judge at a time and place to be specified in such writing from three
(3) to ten (10) days subsequent to the date of such notice. Upon serving a
summons, in writing, to such person to appear at such time and place, the
officer may forthwith release him from custody. It is unlawful for any person
wilfully to fail to comply with such summons. (1973 Code § 7.12.280)
   C.   Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article
is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1973 Code § 7.12.280; amd. 2001 Code)
ARTICLE C. EXOTIC ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-4C-1: Findings
5-4C-2: Definitions
5-4C-3: Limitation On Number Of Permits
5-4C-4: Permit Required
5-4C-5: Enclosures
5-4C-6: Removal From Enclosure
5-4C-7: Revocation Of Permit
5-4C-8: Impoundment
5-4C-9: Responsibility Of Business Licensed To Sell
5-4C-10: Penalty
5-4C-1: FINDINGS:
The city council finds and declares:
   A.   There is an increasing incidence of importation of exotic animals into
the city by the residents hereof;
   B.   Such animals, in the absence of proper care and supervision by their
owners, constitute a potential danger to the health and safety of the residents
of the city;
   C.   At present, no guidelines exist to ensure that such animals will
receive proper care and supervision upon their importation into the city; and
   D.   The enactment of the provisions of this article is necessary under the
police powers granted to the city pursuant to the charter of the city, to
protect the health and safety of the residents of the city. (1973 Code §
7.16.010)
5-4C-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, unless the context otherwise requires, the words and
terms defined in this section have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section:
CANINE: Any member of the dog family not customarily domesticated by man.
EXOTIC ANIMAL: Any bear, canine, feline, marsupial, primate, raptor, and
reptile.
FELINE: Any member of the cat family not customarily domesticated by man.
HOOFED ANIMAL: Any ungulate animal not customarily domesticated by man.
MARSUPIAL: Kangaroos, wombats, bandicoots, opossums and related animals.
OWNER/PERSON: Does not include the owner or proprietor of a pet store or other
business duly licensed within the city to sell "exotic animals" as defined in
this article.
PRIMATE: Any mammal having more than four (4) digits with nails on hands and
feet, binocular vision, a large brainpan, and other such characteristics.
"Primate" does not include any homo sapiens.
RAPTOR: Any bird of prey.
REPTILE: Any venomous member of the family reptilia and any other member of
that family. (1973 Code § 7.16.020)
5-4C-3: LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF PERMITS:
The city council has the right to limit the number of exotic animals to be
permitted within the city. (1973 Code § 7.16.040)
5-4C-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: Commencing on the effective date hereof, it is unlawful for
any person to keep any exotic animal within the city without a permit therefor
approved by the city council.
   B.   Application: To obtain a permit to keep an exotic animal within the
city, a person shall make written application therefor at the Yerington city
hall. The application shall contain such information as the chief of police
deems necessary to assist the chief of police in determining whether the permit
should be approved. If an exotic animal is to be imported into the city, a copy
of the written approval received from the department of fish and game pursuant
to Nevada Revised Statutes section 503.597 shall accompany the application.
(1973 Code § 7.16.040)
   C.   Fee: Each application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee
listed on the city of Yerington fee schedule payable to the city to defray the
cost of interviewing abutting property owners pursuant to this section. Fees
may be waived for educational and public institutions at the sole discretion of
the city council. (Ord. 03-08, 11-24-2003)
   D.   Consideration By Chief Of Police: Upon receipt of the completed
application and after interviewing adjacent property owners, the chief of
police shall recommend to the city council whether to approve or deny the
permit. A recommendation of approval may only be made upon a finding by the
chief of police that keeping of the exotic animal will in no way jeopardize the
health and safety of residents of the city. (1973 Code § 7.16.040)
   E.   Objection By Adjacent Property Owners; Hearing: If an abutting property
owner objects to the issuance of the permit, then the animal control officer
shall set a date for a public hearing before the city council on the
application. The chief of police shall notify, in writing, each property owner
whose property is within two hundred feet (200') of the property on which the
application to keep an exotic animal has been received so that the property
owner may submit written comments concerning the application and attend the
hearing at which the application is considered. At the hearing, the city
council shall consider the application and any written or oral comments
received from any other interested person. The council shall limit its
consideration of the above to protection of health and safety of city residents
and to health and safety of the exotic animal which is the subject of the
application.
   F.   Council Action: The city council shall take final action on the
recommendation of the chief of police as soon as practicable after receipt
thereof. Any condition imposed on the approval of the permit shall be strictly
adhered to by the applicant and failure to do so constitutes cause for its
immediate revocation.
   G.   Issuance Of Permit: The chief of police shall issue the permit when
directed to do so by the city council. The chief of police shall maintain a
record of the date of issuance of, the conditions imposed on, and the person to
whom a permit has been issued pursuant to this section.
   H.   Annual Inspection: The chief of police from time to time, but not less
than twice yearly, shall inspect the premises which are the subject of the
permit to determine whether the permittee is in compliance with the permit
conditions. (1973 Code § 7.16.040)
5-4C-5: ENCLOSURES:
The following minimum enclosure and shelter requirements shall be adhered to
before an exotic animal may be kept pursuant to a permit issued under the
provisions contained in section
5-4C-4 of this article:
   A.   Primates:
      1.   Minimum Size:
         a.   Marmosets, Squirrel Monkeys: Enclosures for small size primates
such as marmosets and squirrel monkeys shall be not less than three feet by
four feet by four feet (3' x 4' x 4') (48 cubic feet) for two (2) or fewer of
such primates. The size of the enclosure shall be increased by not less than
one foot by three feet by four feet (1' x 3' x 4') (12 cubic feet) for each
additional small size primate.
         b.   Capuchins: Enclosures for medium size primates such as capuchins
shall be not less than six feet by six feet by six feet (6' x 6' x 6') (216
cubic feet) for two (2) or fewer of such primates. The size of the enclosure
shall be increased by two feet by four feet by six feet (2' x 4' x 6') (48
cubic feet) for each additional medium size primate.
         c.   Spider Monkeys, Woolies, Macaques: Enclosures for large size
primates such as spider monkeys, woolies and macaques shall not be less than
ten feet by ten feet by eight feet (10' x 10' x 8') (800 cubic feet) for two
(2) or fewer of such primates. The size of the enclosure shall be increased to
ten feet by twenty feet by eight feet (10' x 20' x 8') (1,600 cubic feet) when
there are more than two (2) but fewer than five (5) of such primates. The size
of the enclosure shall be increased by four feet by ten feet by eight feet (4'
x 10' x 8') (320 cubic feet) for each additional primate thereafter.
         d.   Chimpanzees, Gorillas, Orangutans, Gibbons: Enclosures for large
size primates such as chimpanzees, gorillas, orangutans and gibbons must meet
zoo specifications unless the chief of police determines, under the
circumstances, that stricter and stronger specifications are warranted.
      2.   Construction: Enclosures for small and medium size primates shall be
constructed of not less than eleven (11) gauge chain link or heavy wrapped
wire. The floor of such enclosure shall consist of concrete, wood or gravel.
All enclosures shall have a secure top.
      3.   Protection From Weather: All primates shall have access at all times
to an area sheltered from adverse climatic conditions. The sheltered area shall
be heated during winter months.
      4.   Security Fencing: The chief of police may require security fencing
surrounding any primate enclosure if he determines, under the circumstances,
that such fencing is warranted.
   B.   Felines:
      1.   Minimum Size:
         a.   Margays, Servals, Ocelots: Enclosures for small size felines such
as margays, servals and ocelots shall be not less than ten feet by ten feet by
six feet (10' x 10' x 6') (600 cubic feet) for two (2) or fewer such felines.
The size of the enclosure shall be increased by six feet by six feet by six
feet (6' x 6' x 6') (216 cubic feet) for each additional small size feline.
         b.   Cougars, Leopards, Jaguars: Enclosures for large size felines
such as cougars, leopards and jaguars shall be not less than ten feet by twenty
feet by eight feet (10' x 20' x 8') (1,600 cubic feet) for one of such felines.
The size of the enclosures for four (4) or more of such felines shall be
established by the chief of police on a case-by-case basis.
         c.   Lions: Enclosures for lions shall be not less than fifteen feet
by twenty feet by eight feet (15' x 20' x 8') (2,400 cubic feet) for each lion.
No more than one lion may be housed in each enclosure. When more than one lion
is kept, each additional enclosure may adjoin the primary enclosure.
         d.   Tigers: Enclosures for tigers shall be not less than fifteen feet
by twenty feet by ten feet (15' x 20' x 10') (3,000 cubic feet) for each tiger.
No more than one tiger may be housed in each enclosure. When more than one
tiger is kept, each additional enclosure may adjoin the primary enclosure.
      2.   Construction: Enclosures for small size felines shall be constructed
of not less than eleven (11) gauge chain link or heavy wrapped wire. Enclosures
for large size felines shall be constructed of not less than nine (9) gauge
chain link. The floor of all enclosures for felines shall consist of concrete
or wood. Gravel or dirt flooring may be used if the enclosure is properly
secured against escape by such felines through digging. All enclosures shall
have a secure top.
      3.   Protection From Weather: All felines shall have access at all times
to an area sheltered from adverse climatic conditions.
   C.   Canines:
      1.   Minimum Size: Enclosures for canines such as wolves and coyotes
shall be not less than ten feet by twenty feet by six feet (10' x 20' x 6')
(1,200 cubic feet) for one of such canines. The size of the enclosures shall be
increased to twenty feet by twenty feet by six feet (20' x 20' x 6') (1,400
cubic feet) when there are more than one but fewer than five (5) of such
canines. The size of the enclosure for five (5) or more of such canines shall
be established by the chief of police on a case-by-case basis.
      2.   Construction: Enclosures for canines shall be constructed of not
less than nine (8) gauge chain link. The floor of such enclosures shall consist
of concrete or wood. Gravel or dirt flooring may be used if the enclosure is
properly secured against escape by such canines through digging. All enclosures
shall have a secure top.
      3.   Exercise Area: Canines may be exercised in areas other than
enclosures of the type described in subsection C1 of this section, if done
under supervision and approved by the chief of police. However, the area shall
be fenced to a height of not less than six feet (6') by at least eleven (11)
gauge chain link.
   D.   Reptiles:
      1.   Design: Enclosures for reptiles shall be of an escape proof design
with sufficient area to ensure that the reptile obtains necessary exercise.
Enclosures shall be constructed in such a manner as to produce as closely as
possible the temperature, humidity and other conditions found in the reptiles
native environment.
      2.   Use Of Screen Wire: Enclosures for venomous reptiles shall not be
constructed of screen wire unless the wire is at least two (2) layers thick
with a space of not less than one inch (1") between layers.
      3.   Warning Sign: Enclosures for potentially dangerous or venomous
reptiles shall have an appropriate warning sign affixed thereto and shall be
equipped with a locking latch.
   E.   Bears, Hoofed Animals, Marsupials And Raptors: The size of enclosures
for bears, hoofed animals, marsupials and raptors shall be established by the
chief of police on a case-by-case basis. The chief of police will require that
the enclosures be at least equal in size to county, state or federal zoo
enclosures for such animals. Raptors shall be kept in accordance with all
applicable provisions and standards therefor which are found in the falconry
regulations of the board of wildlife commissioners of the state of Nevada.
   F.   Fencing And Gate Requirements: The chief of police may require that
security fencing and double gates be installed with any enclosure if he
determines that such fencing and gates be warranted. (1973 Code § 7.16.050)
5-4C-6: REMOVAL FROM ENCLOSURE:
   A.   Considerations For Allowing: In recommending the issuance of a permit
to keep an exotic animal, the chief of police shall specify at what times and
under what conditions the animal may be removed from its enclosure. In imposing
its conditions, the animal control officer shall consider, among other things,
and in the following order of priority:
      1.   The effect on public health and safety if such removal is allowed;
      2.   Whether the need exists for secure restraint of the animal, by leash
or other device, while the animal is removed from the enclosure;
      3.   Whether and by what method the animal will be transported to other
areas within or without the city; and
      4.   Whether the method of transportation of the animal is adequate to
ensure public health and safety.
   B.   Adherence Required; Exception: Except in cases of emergency wherein the
life, health or safety of the exotic animal is threatened or immediate medical
treatment is required, the owner thereof shall strictly adhere to each
condition imposed by the chief of police pursuant to subsection A of this
section. Failure to do so constitutes cause for immediate revocation of the
permit to keep the animal. (1973 Code § 7.16.060)
5-4C-7: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Power To Revoke: A permit issued pursuant to section
5-4C-4 of this article may be revoked by the city council, after hearing, for
failure by the permittee to comply with any provision of this article.
   B.   Transfer Of Ownership: If a permit is revoked, the owner of the animal
which is the subject of the permit shall transfer ownership of the animal by
sale or gift to another person who is capable of compliance with this article
or shall remove it from the city. If the animal is transferred, the transferee
shall apply for and obtain a permit to keep such animal. (1973 Code § 7.16.080)
5-4C-8: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Power To Impound: Any exotic animal which is kept by any person in
contravention of this article may be taken up and impounded by the chief of
police for the protection and health of the animal itself. Whenever possible,
the chief of police shall take up and impound the animal in the presence of the
owner thereof.
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment: If an animal is impounded pursuant to subsection
A of this section, the owner thereof shall be notified of that fact by the
chief of police either in person or, if the owner is not present when
impoundment occurs, by certified mail, return receipt requested. Notifications
shall be considered completed on the date that the owner of the animal is
personally notified or, if by certified mail, on the date indicated on the
return receipt.
   C.   Redemption: Any animal impounded pursuant to this section shall be
cared for at the expense of the owner thereof for a period of not more than ten
(10) days. During the period of impoundment, the owner may reclaim the animal
by paying the expenses incurred by the chief of police for the animal's care
and by complying fully with the provisions of this article. Failure to comply
with this section will subject the owner to penalty as a misdemeanor as
described in section
5-4C-10 of this article.
   D.   Sale Of Animal: At the end of the impoundment period, or sooner if the
animal has been abandoned by its owner, the animal may be sold by the chief of
police to the highest bidder, and all money received from the sale may be
applied toward payment of expenses of the animal's impoundment. Each person who
bids on the animal shall submit his bid in writing to the chief of police and
shall submit an application for a permit to keep the animal pursuant to section
5-4C-4 of this article. Application fees shall be refunded to all unsuccessful
bidders. If the amount of the highest bid exceeds the expenses of impoundment,
the excess shall be refunded to the former owner of the animal if the owner's
identity is known. If the owner's identity is not known, all money received
shall be retained by the chief of police to defray costs of operation of the
animal control center.
   E.   Notice Of Sale: If the impounded animal is sold, the chief of police
shall notify the buyer of the permit and other requirements of this article and
shall ensure that the buyer has complied or is in the process of complying with
such requirements before releasing the animal to his custody.
   F.   Advertisement In Newspaper: If the animal is not sold during the
impoundment period, the chief of police shall, by classified advertisement in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city, notify interested persons that
the animal is available for purchase at the animal control center. The
advertisement shall appear weekly in the newspaper for a period of not less
than two (2) weeks and shall be placed in the section of classified
advertisements where animals are advertised for sale. The chief of police shall
sell the animal to the highest bidder at the end of the two (2) week period in
the same manner as prescribed in subsections D and E of this section.
   G.   Unable To Sell: If the animal control officer is unable to sell the
animal, he may destroy it in a humane manner or may give the animal to any
person who is capable of complying with this article. (1973 Code § 7.16.080)
5-4C-9: RESPONSIBILITY OF BUSINESS LICENSED TO SELL:
Any proprietor of a pet store, or other business duly licensed within the city
to sell exotic animals, or any owner of an exotic animal, shall be required to
provide to any purchaser of any exotic animal an application for a permit to
keep such animal. The sale of change of ownership of any exotic animal referred
to in this article by a pet shop or a private party shall be reported to the
chief of police, in writing, within twenty four (24) hours. This section shall
apply only to purchasers who intend to keep the exotic animal within the city
limits. Failure to supply such application shall be grounds upon which the
business license of the pet store may be revoked, in addition to possible
criminal prosecution. (1973 Code § 7.16.090)
5-4C-10: PENALTY:
Any person who wilfully and knowingly violates any provision of this article is
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day on which a violation occurs constitutes a separate
offense. (1973 Code § 7.16.100; amd. 2001 Code)
ARTICLE D. CATS
SECTION:
5-4D-1: Definitions
5-4D-2: Number Permitted
5-4D-3: Unlawful Acts
5-4D-4: Impoundment
5-4D-5: Violations; Penalties
5-4D-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
CAT:    A domesticated feline animal kept as a pet as defined in Nevada Revised
        Statute (NRS) 574.615.
        A non-livestock animal set loose unrestrained, and not under the
ESTRAY: complete control of its owner, or the charge or in possession thereof,
        found roaming at-large in public or private places whether fettered or
        not.
        Feral cat means a cat that has no apparent owner or identification and
FERAL:  appears to be un-socialized to humans and unmanageable or otherwise
        demonstrates characteristics normally associated with a wild or
        undomesticated animal.
        Any individual, firm, association or corporation which owns, possesses,
OWNER:  maintains, harbors or has control of any male or female cat over the
        age of six (6) months within the city for more than thirty (30) days.
        (Ord. 22-02, 4-26-2022)
 
5-4D-2: NUMBER PERMITTED:
It is unlawful for any owner to keep more than three (3) cats within the
incorporated limits of the City, excluding veterinarians and licensed kennels.
(Ord. 22-02, 4-26-2022)
5-4D-3: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
No person shall intentionally feed any estray or feral cat, or willfully place
food in a location readily accessible to any estray or feral cat outside of a
person’s owned or leased property. (Ord. 22-02, 4-26-2022)
5-4D-4: IMPOUNDMENT:
No person shall intentionally feed any estray or feral cat, or willfully place
food in a location readily accessible to any estray or feral cat outside of a
person’s owned or leased property. (Ord. 22-02, 4-26-2022)
5-4D-5: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article is
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 22-02, 4-26-2022)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS 1
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: Compliance
6-1-3: Enforcement
6-1-4: Obedience
6-1-5: Accidents
6-1-6: Emergency Vehicles
6-1-7: Miscellaneous Offenses
 
Notes
  1. For statutory provisions concerning the regulation of vehicles and
1 traffic, see NRS chapters 481 through 486; for provisions regarding the
  powers of local authorities and prohibiting the passage of ordinances in
  conflict with state vehicle law, see NRS §§ 484.777 and 484.779.
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
indicated in this chapter:
ALLEY: Any street less than thirty feet (30') in width and which primarily
furnishes access to the rear entrances of abutting property.
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: A vehicle of the fire department, police patrol
and such ambulance and emergency vehicles of municipal departments, county or
public service corporation as are designated or authorized by the state of
Nevada.
BICYCLE: A device propelled by human power upon which a person may ride, having
two (2) tandem wheels either of which is over fourteen inches (14") in
diameter, or every such device generally recognized as a bicycle though
equipped with two (2) front or two (2) rear wheels except a moped.
BOULEVARD: A through street or highway.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: A vehicle of a type used or maintained for the
transportation of persons for hire, compensation or profit, or designed, used
or maintained primarily for the transportation of property.
CROSSWALK: A. That portion of a street ordinarily included within the
prolongation or connection of the boundary lines of sidewalks at intersections
where the intersecting streets meet at approximately right angles except the
prolongation of any such lines from any alley across the street; or
   B.   Any portion of a street distinctly indicated for pedestrians, crossing
by lines or other markings on the surface.
DRIVER: A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
GARAGE: A building or other place wherein the business of storing or
safekeeping vehicles which belong to drivers, members of the public, is
conducted for compensation.
HIGHWAY: See definition of Street.
INTERSECTION: A. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, than the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   B.   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event
such intersecting highway also include two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or
more apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of such highways shall be
regarded as a separate intersection.
   C.   The junction of an alley with a street, road or highway shall not
constitute an intersection.
LOADING ZONE: That space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials, so marked
or indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times.
MOPED: A vehicle which looks and handles essentially like a bicycle and is
propelled by a small engine which produces not more than two (2) gross brake
horsepower and which has a displacement of not more than fifty (50) cubic
centimeters, and:
   A.   Is designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground but is not a tractor; and
   B.   Is capable of a maximum speed of not more than thirty (30) miles per
hour on a flat surface with not more than one percent (1%) grade in any
direction when the motor is engaged.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled but not operated on rails.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle equipped with a seat or saddle for the use of
the driver and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact
with the ground, including a power cycle but excluding a tractor. For the
purposes of this section, the term "motorcycle" also includes four (4) and six
(6) wheel vehicles originally designed by the manufacturer for individual off-
road recreational or utility purposes.
MUFFLER: A device consisting of a series of chambers or baffle plates, or other
mechanical design, for the purpose of receiving exhaust gas from an internal
combustion engine, and is effective in reducing noise, but does not include
such a device equipped with an apparatus which permits the exhaust gas to be
discharged directly into the air without passing through such device.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS: All signs, signals, markings, and devices
not inconsistent with this title placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of guiding, directing,
warning or regulating traffic.
OPERATOR: Every individual who shall operate a vehicle as the owner thereof, or
who has control of a vehicle.
OWNER: A person who holds the legal title to a vehicle, or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with right or agreement and with an immediate right of possession
vested in the conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgager of a
vehicle is entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or
mortgager shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this title.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon a
street otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in, receiving or discharging passengers or in obedience to traffic regulations,
signs or signals, or an involuntary stopping of the vehicle by reason of cause
beyond the control of the operator of the vehicle.
PARKING METER: Any mechanical device or meter not inconsistent with this title
placed or erected for the regulation of parking by authority of this title.
Each parking meter installed shall indicate by proper legend the legal parking
time established by the city, and, when operated, shall at all times indicate
the balance of legal parking time, and at the expiration of such period shall
indicate illegal or overtime parking.
PARKING METER DISTRICT: Any restricted street upon which parking meters are
installed and in operation.
PARKING METER SPACE: Any space within a parking meter district, adjacent to a
parking meter and which is duly designated for the parking of a single vehicle
by lines painted or otherwise durably marked on the curb or on the surface of
the street adjacent to or adjoining the parking meter.
PEDESTRIAN: A person who goes or travels on foot.
PNEUMATIC TIRE: A tire inflated or capable of inflation with compressed air.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: A road or driveway not open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel.
RADAR: A radio detection device that emits and focuses a powerful scanning beam
of ultra high frequency waves and establishes through reception and timing of
reflected waves and distance, altitudes, speed and direction of motion of any
object in the path of the beam, unhindered by darkness, storm, cloud or fog.
REPAIR SHOP: A place where vehicles are repaired, rebuilt, reconditioned,
repainted or in any way maintained for the public at a charge.
RIGHT OF WAY: The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway which is improved and ordinarily used for
vehicular traffic, exclusive of the shoulder.
SEMITRAILER: A vehicle of the trailer type so designed and used in conjunction
with a motor vehicle that some part of its own weight and that of its own load
rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a highway between the curb lines or the lateral lines
of a highway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: A way or place of whatever nature open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for the purpose of vehicular travel, and shall be
deemed to include a roadway or driveway upon grounds owned by public or
semipublic institutions.
THROUGH STREET OR THROUGH HIGHWAY: A street or highway or portion thereof at
the entrance to which vehicular traffic from intersecting highways or streets
is required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other conveyances
either singly or together while using any street for purposes of travel.
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
TRAILER: Every vehicle designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle and so
constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle, except a
pole trailer.
VEHICLE: A device upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported upon a highway, except a device which is operated upon rails or
tracks. (1973 Code chapter 10.08; amd. 2001 Code)
6-1-2: COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Required: No person shall fail to comply with the provisions of this
title.
   B.   Equipment: No owner, lessor or lessee of a motor vehicle, or any person
employing or otherwise directing the driver of a motor vehicle, shall permit
the operation of a motor vehicle upon a street or highway when such vehicle is
equipped otherwise than is required or permitted by this title or by the laws
of the state of Nevada. (1973 Code § 10.04.010)
   C.   Public Officials And Employees:
      1.   The provisions of this title applicable to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, the state of Nevada, or any
county, city, town, district or any other political subdivision, subject to
such specific exceptions as are set forth in this title with reference to
authorized emergency vehicles.
      2.   The provisions of this title shall not apply to persons, teams,
motor vehicles and other equipment while actually engaged in work upon the
surface of a street or highway, but shall apply to such persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work. (1973 Code § 10.04.040)
   D.   Persons Riding Bicycles, Riding Or Driving Animals: Every person riding
a bicycle or an animal upon a roadway, and every person driving an animal,
shall be subject to the provisions of this title applicable to the driver of a
vehicle; except those provisions of this title which by their nature can have
no application. (1973 Code § 10.04.050)
6-1-3: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Police Department: The officers of the police department shall enforce
the provisions of this title.
   B.   Authority To Direct Traffic: Officers of the police department are
authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with
traffic laws; provided, that in the event of fire or other emergency, police
officers may direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding
provisions of traffic laws. (1973 Code § 10.04.020)
6-1-4: OBEDIENCE:
No person shall refuse or fail to comply with any lawful order, signal or
direction of any police officer of the city, county or state. (1973 Code §
10.04.030)
6-1-5: ACCIDENTS 1 :
   A.   Duty When Striking Person Or Occupied Vehicle:
      1.   Stop; Render Assistance: Whenever any vehicle strikes any person or
collides with an occupied vehicle, the driver of such vehicle, and all persons
in such vehicle who have or assume authority over such driver, shall
immediately cause such vehicle to stop, and shall render to the person struck
or the occupant of the vehicle collided with, all necessary assistance.
      2.   Provide Information: The driver shall also give to the occupant of
such vehicle, or person struck, the number of his vehicle, also the name and
address of the owner thereof, and the name and address of such driver and of
such passenger in the vehicle at the time of such striking or collision.
      3.   Accident Report: Every driver shall, within twenty four (24) hours,
make or cause to be made, a full report of such collision, with all details and
circumstances thereof to the police department. (1973 Code § 10.36.010)
   B.   Duty When Striking Unoccupied Vehicle Or Animal: Whenever any vehicle
strikes an unoccupied vehicle or animal, or any other object of any nature
whatsoever, the driver of such vehicle and all persons in such vehicle who have
or assume authority over such driver, shall immediately cause such vehicle to
stop and shall ascertain the name of the owner of the vehicle or animal or
other object so struck and the license number of any such vehicle, and shall
immediately make a full report of such collision, with all details and
circumstances thereof to the police department. (1973 Code § 10.36.020)
 
Notes
1 1. For statutory provisions regarding accidents and accident reports, see NRS
  §§ 484.219 through 484.249.
6-1-6: EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Right Of Way: The following vehicles shall have the right of way on any
street:
      1.   Apparatus of the fire department when going to, or on duty at, or
returning from, a fire;
      2.   All vehicles of the police department;
      3.   All ambulances; (1973 Code § 10.44.010; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law
or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may exercise
the privileges set forth in this chapter subject to the following conditions:
         a.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
         b.   Proceed past a red light, stop signal or stop sign, but only
after slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         c.   Exceed any speed limits so long as he does not endanger life or
property;
         d.   Disregard regulations governing directions of movements or
turning in specified directions.
      2.   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle
shall apply when such vehicle is making use of audible and visual signals, but
the signal does not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from
the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall such
provisions protect the driver from the consequences of his reckless disregard
for the safety of others. (1973 Code § 10.44.020)
   C.   Operation Of Vehicle On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicle Or
Official Vehicle Of Regulatory Agency: Upon the immediate approach of an
authorized emergency vehicle or an official vehicle of a regulatory agency,
making use of flashing lights meeting the requirements of subsection 3 of
Nevada Revised Statutes section 484.787, the driver of every other vehicle
shall yield the right of way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel
to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of a highway clear
of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle or official vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer.
   D.   Parking Near Fire: No person shall drive or park any vehicle within
five hundred feet (500') of any fire after the sounding of the fire alarm until
the fire apparatus shall have been removed from the vicinity of the fire. (1973
Code § 10.44.030)
   E.   Fire Lines:
      1.   Established: Any member of the fire department or the police
department may, at any fire or alarm of fire, establish fire lines by the use
of ropes or other appropriate designation.
      2.   Crossing Prohibited: When any such fire line shall have been so
established, no person shall cross the same without first receiving permission
to do so from the member of the fire department or police department in charge
of such line. (1973 Code § 10.44.040)
   F.   Driving Over Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of the fire department when laid down on any street, private driveway or
elsewhere, to be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without first securing the
consent of the fire department official in command. (1973 Code § 10.44.050)
6-1-7: MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES:
   A.   Engaging In Sports In Streets: No person shall engage in any sport,
amusement or occupation likely to impede the passage of vehicles upon any
street. (1973 Code § 10.56.010)
   B.   Quiet Zones:
      1.   Hospitals: Every street or highway within two hundred feet (200') of
a hospital building is declared to be a "zone of quiet".
      2.   Sick Chamber: The chief of police is hereby authorized to declare
any portion of a street, highway or alley within two hundred feet (200') of a
sick chamber a "zone of quiet" for temporary purposes.
      3.   Unnecessary Noise, Itinerate Music Prohibited: No person shall sound
gongs, whistles, horns, sirens, or make unnecessary noise, or itinerate music
in any "zone of quiet". (1973 Code § 10.56.020)
   C.   Driving Through Funeral Or Other Procession:
      1.   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not drive between the
vehicles, persons or animals comprising a funeral or other authorized
procession when those vehicles are properly identified by pennants or other
authorized insignia and while the funeral or procession is in motion, except
when otherwise directed by a police officer or by the driver of a vehicle
escorting the funeral procession.
      2.   This section does not apply to authorized emergency vehicles.
   D.   Obstruction To Driver's View Or Interference With Driving Mechanism:
      1.   A person shall not drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when
there are in the front seat such number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to
obstruct the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to
interfere with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
      2.   A passenger in a vehicle shall not ride in such position as to
interfere with the driver's view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with
his control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
      3.   Except as otherwise previewed in Nevada Revised Statutes section
484.6195, a vehicle must not be operated upon any highway unless the driver's
vision through any required glass equipment is normal. (2001 Code)
   E.   Riding On Unlawful Part Of Vehicle: No person shall ride, and no person
driving a motor vehicle shall knowingly permit, any person to ride on any
vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or intended for the use of
passengers, or in any position as to interfere with the driver's or operator's
view. This provision does not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary
discharge of his duty or to persons riding completely within or upon vehicle
bodies in space intended for any load on the vehicle. (1973 Code § 10.56.040)
   F.   Reckless Driving 1 : Any person who drives any vehicle in the city in
wilful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property is guilty of
reckless driving.
   G.   Careless Driving: It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a
vehicle of any kind or character in a careless manner in the city, or in other
than a careful and prudent manner, or at a rate of speed greater than is
reasonable and proper, having due regard for the traffic on, and the surface
and width of the street or highway; or at such a rate of speed as to endanger
the life, limb or property of any person; provided, that the speed of vehicle
shall not exceed that provided for in this title; and provided further, that
the mere fact that a vehicle is operated within the speed restriction contained
in this title will not constitute prima facie evidence that the vehicle was
operated in a lawful manner. (1973 Code § 10.56.050)
   H.   Depositing Injurious Materials In Roadway: No person shall throw,
deposit or place in or upon any public street any nails, tacks, crockery, scrap
iron, tin, wire, bottles, glass, thorns, thorny clippings, thorny branches of
bushes, or any other article or thing likely to puncture or injure the tire of
any vehicle, or by such acts to litter the street or highway with rubbish.
(1973 Code § 10.56.060)
   I.   Driving On Newly Laid Pavement:
      1.   Prohibited: No person shall ride or drive any vehicle or horse over
or across any pavement newly laid or repaired, across or around which there has
been placed a barrier, or at or near which there is a person or a sign stating
that the street or highway is closed.
      2.   Exception: The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to the
persons actually engaged in the paving or repair of such street or highway.
(1973 Code § 10.56.070)
   J.   Full-Time Attention Required: Every person who operates or drives any
motor vehicle on any street or highway within the city without devoting his
full time and attention to the safe operation of the same shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1973 Code § 10.56.100)
 
Notes
1 1. For provisions on reckless driving and drunk driving, see NRS §§ 484.377
  through 484.393.
CHAPTER 2
VIOLATIONS PROCEDURE 1
SECTION:
6-2-1: Form Of Citation
6-2-2: Arrest
6-2-3: Failure To Appear
6-2-4: Illegally Parked Vehicle
6-2-5: Violations; Reports
 
Notes
1 1. For statutory provisions requiring obedience to all police officers, see
  NRS § 484.253.
6-2-1: FORM OF CITATION:
The chief of police shall provide suitable serially numbered forms for
notifying violators of this title to appear and answer to charges of violating
this title. (1973 Code § 10.12.010)
6-2-2: ARREST:
Whenever any person is arrested for any violation of this title, the arrested
person shall be taken without unnecessary delay before a police judge within
the city who is nearest or most accessible with reference to the place where
the arrest is made in any of the following cases:
   A.   When the person arrested fails to exhibit his driver's license or other
satisfactory evidence of his identity;
   B.   When the person arrested refuses to give his written promise to appear
in court. (1973 Code § 10.12.020)
6-2-3: FAILURE TO APPEAR:
No person shall fail to appear before the municipal court after having
represented, in writing, to a police officer of the city that he would so
appear to answer to a charge of having violated any provision of this title.
(1973 Code § 10.12.030)
6-2-4: ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE:
   A.   Notice: Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or
stopped in violation of any of the restrictions imposed by this title or other
provisions of this code, the police officer finding such vehicle shall take its
registration number and may take other information displayed on the vehicle
which may identify its user, and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a
notice in writing on a form provided by the chief of police for the driver to
answer to the charge against him at a place and during the hours specified in
the notice. (1973 Code § 10.12.040)
   B.   Failure To Comply With Notice: If a violator of the restrictions on
stopping, standing or parking vehicles imposed by this title does not appear in
response to a notice affixed to such vehicle at the place and during the hours
specified in the notice, within ten (10) days from the date of the affixing of
such notice, he shall be guilty of violating the provisions of this title
regardless of the disposition of the charge for which the notice was affixed.
(1973 Code § 10.12.050)
   C.   Nuisance Declared; Impoundment: Any vehicle of any kind or description
whatever found parked at a place or in a manner prohibited or declared to be
unlawful for this title or in violation of the restrictions on stopping,
standing or parking imposed by this title or other sections of this code, is
declared to constitute a nuisance and may be impounded by any police officer.
   D.   Redemption: The impounded vehicle shall only be surrendered to the duly
identified owner or to the duly authorized agent of such owner upon the payment
to the garage or repair shop, of the towing and storage charges, which sum is
declared to be the pound fee covering the same. (1973 Code § 10.12.060)
   E.   Presumption From Ownership:
      1.   In any proceeding for the violation of any of the provisions of this
title or of any of the restrictions imposed by this title, the registration
plate or number thereon displayed on the vehicle involved shall be received as
prima facie evidence that the registered owner of such vehicle was then
operating the same.
      2.   If, at any hearing or proceeding, the registered owner of such
vehicle shall testify under oath, that he was not operating the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation of this title and shall subject himself to an
examination as to who, at the time, was operating such vehicle and reveal the
name of the person, or show that such vehicle was stolen, then the prima facie
evidence arising from the registration plate or number thereon shall be
overcome and the burden of proof shifted. (1973 Code § 10.12.070)
6-2-5: VIOLATIONS; REPORTS:
The chief of police shall cause to be kept a full report of every case in which
a person is charged with violations of any provisions of this title, and in the
event such person is convicted or that his bail is forfeited, an abstract
thereof shall be sent forthwith by the police judge to the motor vehicle
department of the state of Nevada. (1973 Code § 10.12.080)
CHAPTER 3
LICENSES FOR OPERATORS AND CHAUFFEURS
SECTION:
6-3-1: License Required
6-3-2: In Possession While Driving
6-3-3: Allowing Child Or Ward Under Sixteen To Drive
6-3-4: Allowing Operation By Unlicensed Driver
6-3-5: Driving While License Revoked Or Suspended
6-3-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street or alley of the city
unless such person shall be the holder of a valid operator's or chauffeur's
license issued by the state of Nevada, or unless such person shall be exempted
from such license by the law of the state of Nevada. (1973 Code § 10.16.010)
6-3-2: IN POSSESSION WHILE DRIVING:
The licensee shall have his operator's or chauffeur's license in his immediate
possession at all times when driving a motor vehicle on any street or highway
or alley within the city, and when so driving shall display the same upon
demand of any police officer enforcing the provisions of this title. (1973 Code
§ 10.16.020)
6-3-3: ALLOWING CHILD OR WARD UNDER SIXTEEN TO DRIVE:
No person shall cause or knowingly permit his child or ward under the age of
sixteen (16) years to drive a motor vehicle upon any street or alley within the
city when such minor is not authorized hereunder, or in violation of any
provision of this title. (1973 Code § 10.16.030)
6-3-4: ALLOWING OPERATION BY UNLICENSED DRIVER:
No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by him or
under his control to be driven upon any street or alley within the city by any
person who is not authorized hereunder, or in violation of any provisions of
this title. (1973 Code § 10.16.040)
6-3-5: DRIVING WHILE LICENSE REVOKED OR SUSPENDED:
Whenever the department of motor vehicles of Nevada has suspended or revoked
the license of any operator or chauffeur, such operator or chauffeur shall not
operate a vehicle on the streets or alleys within the city during the period of
suspension or revocation. (1973 Code § 10.16.050)
CHAPTER 4
RULES OF THE ROAD 1
SECTION:
6-4-1: Right Of Way
6-4-2: Driving On Right Side
6-4-3: Passing
6-4-4: Turning
6-4-5: Backing
6-4-6: Following Too Closely
6-4-7: Emerging From Alley Or Driveway
6-4-8: Hand And Arm Signals
6-4-9: Operation Of Vehicles
 
Notes
1 1. For statutory provisions covering these rules, see NRS §§ 484.251 through
  484.324, 484.333 through 484.359, and 484.445 through 484.499.
6-4-1: RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Vehicles Approaching Or Entering Intersection: The driver of a vehicle
approaching an intersection shall yield the right of way to a vehicle which has
entered the intersection from a different street or highway. (1973 Code §
10.20.010)
   B.   Vehicles Entering Intersection At Same Time: When two (2) vehicles
enter an intersection from different streets or highways at the same time, the
driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right of way to the driver of
the vehicle on the right. (1973 Code § 10.20.020)
   C.   Exception: Subsections A and B of this section shall not apply to
vehicles approaching each other from opposite directions, when the driver of
one such vehicle is intending to or is making a left turn. (1973 Code §
10.20.040)
   D.   Vehicle Turning Left At Intersection: The driver of a vehicle within an
intersection preparatory to a turn to the left shall yield the right of way to
any vehicle which has approached or is approaching the intersection from the
opposite direction and which is so close as to constitute a hazard at any time
during the turning movement, and shall continue to yield the right of way to
such approaching vehicles until such time as the left turn can be made with
reasonable safety. (1973 Code § 10.20.040)
   E.   Vehicle Entering Through Street:
      1.   The driver of any vehicle who has stopped, as required by law, at
the entrance to a through street or highway, shall yield the right of way to
other vehicles which have entered the intersection from the through street or,
which are approaching so closely on the through street or highway as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
      2.   Such driver, having so yielded, may proceed and the drivers of all
other vehicles approaching the intersection on the through street or highway
shall yield the right of way to the vehicle so proceeding into or across the
through street or highway. (1973 Code § 10.20.050)
   F.   Exceptions:
      1.   Entering From Private Road, Driveway Or Public Alley: The driver of
a vehicle entering a public street or highway from a private road, private
driveway or public alley shall yield the right of way to all vehicles
approaching on such public street or highway.
      2.   Emergency Vehicles: The driver of a vehicle upon a street or highway
shall yield the right of way to authorized emergency vehicles when the latter
are operated in response to an emergency call or in pursuit or an actual or
suspected violator or the law, and the driver thereof sounds an audible signal
by siren or electrical warning device. (1973 Code § 10.20.060)
   G.   Yielding To Fire Trucks: No person shall, in the event of fire, operate
or stand any automobile or other conveyance at a greater distance than two feet
(2') from any sidewalk upon any street along the route to be taken by the fire
truck or other fire conveyance when the fire truck or other fire conveyance is
within one block from, or in the block and street then occupied by, such
automobile or other conveyance. (1973 Code § 10.20.070)
6-4-2: DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE:
   A.   Required: Upon all streets, alleys or highways of sufficient width,
other than one-way streets or alleys, the driver of a vehicle shall drive upon
the right half of the street or highway except when the right half is out of
repair and for such reason impassable or when overtaking and passing another
vehicle subject to the limitations set forth in section
6-4-6 of this chapter. (1973 Code § 10.20.080)
   B.   Close To Right Edge Or Curb: In driving upon the right half of a
highway, the driver shall drive as closely as practicable to the right-hand
edge or curb of the highway, except when overtaking or passing another vehicle
or when placing a vehicle in position to make a left turn. (1973 Code §
10.20.090)
   C.   One-Way Streets: In driving upon a one-way street or alley, the driver
shall drive as closely as practicable to the right- hand edge or curb of the
street or alley, except when overtaking or passing or traveling parallel with
another vehicle or when placing a vehicle in position to make a left turn.
(1973 Code § 10.20.100)
   D.   Vehicles Traveling Side By Side: No two (2) or more vehicles shall
travel side by side on any street. (1973 Code § 10.20.110)
   E.   Changing From Side To Side:
      1.   No person driving, riding, propelling or in charge of any vehicle
proceeding correctly along the right side of any street or highway shall cross
over to the left side in the center or middle of a block, but shall proceed to
the nearest street intersection and make a complete turn, keeping at all times
in the right side of the street in the channel of traffic.
      2.   Under the meaning and intent of this subsection an alley shall not
be construed to be a street. (1973 Code § 10.20.120)
   F.   Roadways Laned For Traffic: Whenever any street or highway has been
divided into clearly marked lanes for traffic, drivers of vehicles shall obey
the following regulations:
      1.   Use Of Right Lane: A vehicle shall normally be driven in the lane
nearest the right-hand edge or curb of the street or highway when such lane is
available for travel, except when overtaking another vehicle or in preparation
for left turn.
      2.   Changing Lanes: A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable
entirely within a single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the
driver has first ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
      3.   Designation As Slow Moving Lane; Inside Lane: The chief of police
may designate right-hand lanes for slow moving traffic and inside lanes for
traffic moving at the speed indicated for the street under this title. When
such lanes are signposted or marked to give notice of such designations, a
vehicle may be driven in any lane allocated to traffic movement in the
direction such vehicle is proceeding. When traveling within such inside lanes,
vehicles shall be driven at approximately the maximum speed authorized in such
lanes, and speed shall not unnecessarily be decreased so as to block, hinder or
retard traffic. (1973 Code § 10.20.130)
6-4-3: PASSING:
   A.   Vehicles Proceeding In Opposite Directions: Drivers of vehicles
proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to the right, each
giving to the other at least one-half (1/2) of the main traveled portion of the
roadway, whenever possible. (1973 Code § 10.20.140)
   B.   Vehicles Proceeding In Same Direction: Except as otherwise provided in
section
6-4-6 of this chapter, the following rules shall govern the overtaking and
passing of vehicles:
      1.   Vehicle Overtaking: The driver of a vehicle overtaking another
vehicle proceeding in the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a
safe distance and shall not again drive to the right side of the street or
highway until safely clear of such overtaken vehicle.
      2.   Vehicle Overtaken: The driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way
to the right in favor of the overtaking vehicle on suitable and audible signal,
and shall not increase the speed of his vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      3.   Two Or More Continuous Lanes: In the event vehicles on a street or
highway are moving in two (2) or more substantially continuous lanes, the
provisions of subsections B1 and B2 of this section shall not be considered as
prohibiting the vehicles in one such lane overtaking or passing the vehicles in
another such lane either upon the right or the left, nor shall the provisions
of subsections B1 and B2 of this section be construed to prohibit a driver
overtaking and passing upon the right another vehicle which is making or about
to make a left turn.
      4.   Driving Left Of Center Line: The driver of a vehicle shall not drive
to the left side of the center line of a street or highway in overtaking and
passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless such left side
is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance
ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made without
impeding the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction or any vehicle overtaken. (1973 Code § 10.20.150)
   C.   School Bus:
      1.   Stop Required: The driver of any vehicle upon a street or highway,
when meeting or overtaking, from either direction, any school bus equipped with
signs and signals required by law, which has stopped on the street or highway
for the purpose of receiving or discharging children and is displaying a
flashing red light signal visible from the front and rear, shall bring his
vehicle to a stop immediately and shall not proceed past the school bus until
the flashing red signal ceases operation.
      2.   Stop Not Required: The driver of a vehicle need not stop upon
meeting or passing a school bus when the school bus is stopped at an
intersection or a place where traffic is controlled by a traffic officer or an
official traffic signal. (1973 Code § 10.20.160)
6-4-4: TURNING:
   A.   Intersections: The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an
intersection shall do as follows:
      1.   Right Turn: Approach for a right turn shall be made in the lane for
traffic nearest to the right-hand side of the highway, and the right turn shall
be made as closely as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the street
or highway.
      2.   Left Turn: Approach for a left turn shall be made in the lanes for
traffic to the right of, and nearest to, the center line of the street or
highway. The left turn shall be made by passing to the right of such center
line where it enters the intersection and upon leaving the intersection, by
passing to the right of the center line of the highway then entered.
      3.   Left Turn From Two-Way Street Into One-Way Street: Approach for a
left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street shall be made in the lane
for traffic to the right of and nearest to the center line of the highway or
street. The left turn shall be made by passing to the right of such center line
where it enters the intersection, and upon leaving the intersection by passing
to the right of the center line of the highway then entered.
      4.   Markers, Buttons Or Signs: The chief of police may, by placing
markers, buttons or signs within intersections, require and direct that a
course be traveled by vehicles turning left different from that specified in
this section, and it is unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to make a left
turn otherwise than as so directed and required by such markers, buttons or
signs. (1973 Code § 10.20.170)
   B.   U-Turns:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle shall not turn such vehicle around so as to
proceed in the opposite direction, except at an intersection.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle shall not cross the center line of Main
Street so as to park on the opposite side of the street. (1973 Code §
10.20.180)
6-4-5: BACKING:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall ride, drive or propel or cause to be
ridden, driven or propelled, in, upon or along any street any vehicle in the
backward direction, if by so doing the free and uninterrupted passage of
another vehicle is impeded, and in no event shall a person drive a vehicle back
across or into a street intersection.
   B.   Parked Diagonally: The driver of a vehicle parked diagonally and
backing away from the curb into a traffic lane shall exercise unceasing
vigilance, and in all events the approaching car shall have the right of way.
(1973 Code § 10.20.190)
6-4-6: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle closer than is
reasonable and prudent, having due regard to the speed of such vehicle and the
traffic upon, and the condition of the street or highway. (1973 Code §
10.20.200)
6-4-7: EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY:
The operator of a vehicle emerging from an alley or private driveway shall
completely stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area extending across such alley or private driveway. (1973 Code § 10.20.210)
6-4-8: HAND AND ARM SIGNALS:
   A.   Required:
      1.   The driver of any vehicle upon a street or highway, before starting,
stopping or turning from a direct line, shall first see that such movement can
be made in safety, and if any pedestrian may be affected by such movement shall
give a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn.
      2.   Whenever the operation of any other vehicle may be affected by such
movement the driver of any vehicle shall give a signal as required in
subsection B of this section plainly visible to the driver of such vehicle of
the intention to make such a movement.
      3.   The signal required in subsection B of this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm in the manner therein specified or by an
approved mechanical or electrical signal device, which has been approved by the
statutes of the state of Nevada. (1973 Code § 10.20.220)
   B.   Method Of Giving:
      1.   Required Signals: All signals required by hand and arm shall be
given from the left side of a vehicle in the following manner, and such signals
indicate as follows:
         a.   Left Turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally beyond the side of
the vehicle;
         b.   Right Turn: Hand and arm extended upward beyond the side of the
vehicle;
         c.   Stop Or Sudden Decrease Of Speed: Hand and arm extended downward
beyond the side of the vehicle.
      2.   In a closed vehicle, the signals shall be given by a proper
signalling device indicating the same signals as required by the hand and arm.
      3.   Any signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given
continuously during the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by the vehicle
before turning.
      4.   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving the appropriate signal to the driver of any vehicle
immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give such signal. (1973
Code § 10.20.230)
6-4-9: OPERATION OF VEHICLES:
   A.   On City Property Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to operate a
vehicle upon property belonging to the city without the express permission of
the city council. (1973 Code § 10.20.240)
   B.   On Private Property Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to
operate a vehicle upon any private property within the city without the express
permission of the owner or occupier of such private property. (1973 Code §
10.20.250)
   C.   Exceptions: Nothing contained in subsections A or B of this section
shall prohibit the operation of a vehicle upon any area designated by the city
or the owner or occupier of private property as a driveway, parking lot, or
other area to which access by vehicle is commonly permitted. (1973 Code §
10.20.260)
CHAPTER 5
SPEED RESTRICTIONS 1
SECTION:
6-5-1: Reckless Or Careless Driving
6-5-2: Maximum Speed Limits
6-5-3: Minimum Speed Limit
6-5-4: Restricted Speed Zones
6-5-5: Racing
6-5-6: Rapid Acceleration
6-5-7: Radar Permitted
 
Notes
1 1. For statutory provisions concerning speed regulations, see NRS §§ 484.361
  through 484.375.
6-5-1: RECKLESS OR CARELESS DRIVING:
No person shall drive a vehicle upon a street, highway or alley in violation of
the provisions of subsections 6-1-7F and G of this title. (1973 Code §
10.24.010)
6-5-2: MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS:
No person shall drive a vehicle upon a street, highway or alley in excess of
the speed indicated as follows:
   A.   Fifteen Miles Per Hour:
      1.   When passing a school building or the grounds thereof during the
school period or while children are going to or leaving or playing about said
school;
      2.   When turning a corner from one street or highway into another, or on
going through any street intersection within the city, except when traveling
along a through street or boulevard;
      3.   In public parks within the city;
      4.   In all alleys within the city;
      5.   When approaching or upon a curve or other part of a street or
highway in the event the driver's view is obstructed within a distance of one
hundred feet (100') along the street or highway in the direction in which such
driver is proceeding.
   B.   Twenty Five Miles Per Hour: Upon any through street, boulevard or
highway.
   C.   Thirty Five Miles Per Hour: Upon any through street, boulevard or
highway marked and signed by the chief of police, with the approval of the city
council, when the marking and signing indicate the allowance of such speed.
(1973 Code § 10.24.020)
6-5-3: MINIMUM SPEED LIMIT:
No person shall drive a vehicle upon a street or highway within the city at
such a slow speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of
traffic, except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation. (1973 Code
§ 10.24.030)
6-5-4: RESTRICTED SPEED ZONES:
   A.   Power To Establish: In order to protect life, limb and property, and to
facilitate the orderly movement of vehicular traffic upon the streets and
highways of the city, the city council may establish restricted speed zones.
   B.   Signs Or Signals: After the establishment of any restricted speed zone,
the chief of police shall cause to be placed upon the street and highway, where
such restricted speed zone has been established, appropriate signs or signals
giving notice thereof.
   C.   Obeyance Required: No driver of any vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any sign or signal placed in accordance with the provisions of
this section, unless otherwise directed by a police officer. (1973 Code §
10.24.040)
6-5-5: RACING:
No driver of any vehicle shall engage in a speed contest with another driver of
any type motor driven vehicle. (1973 Code § 10.24.050)
6-5-6: RAPID ACCELERATION:
No person, in operating a motor vehicle within the city, shall so accelerate
the same as to cause audible noise by the tire friction on the surface or cause
the tires of such vehicle to leave skid marks upon the surface, except when
such acceleration is reasonably necessary to avoid a collision. (1973 Code §
10.24.060)
6-5-7: RADAR PERMITTED:
It is lawful for the police department to use radar equipment for the detection
of speed violators and for the control and regulation of traffic within the
city. (1973 Code § 10.24.070)
CHAPTER 6
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES 1
SECTION:
6-6-1: Uniform System
6-6-2: Signs Prohibiting Or Limiting Left Turns
6-6-3: Obedience Required
6-6-4: Unauthorized Signs Or Signals
6-6-5: Interference
6-6-6: Signal Legend
6-6-7: Emergency Traffic Situations
6-6-8: Stop Signs
 
Notes
1 1. For statutory provisions concerning traffic control devices, see NRS §§
  484.278 through 484.289.
6-6-1: UNIFORM SYSTEM:
   A.   Authority To Provide: The chief of police, subject to the approval of
the city council, may provide a uniform system of marking and signing streets
and highways. Such system of marking and signing shall correlate with and, so
far as possible, conform to the system adopted in other parts of the state of
Nevada.
   B.   Character, Type And Placement: The chief of police, with the assistance
of the electrical engineer, subject to the approval of the city council, may
determine the character or type and place or erect upon the streets and
highways traffic-control signals at places where he shall deem necessary for
the safe and expeditious control of traffic. So far as practicable, all such
traffic- control signals shall be uniform as to type and location.
   C.   Erection And Maintenance: The chief of police, with the assistance of
the city engineer, may erect and maintain signs designating railway grade
crossings and such other signs, markings and traffic-control signals as may be
deemed necessary to direct and regulate traffic and carry out the provisions of
this title and such additional signs as may be appropriate to give notice of
parking and other regulations. (1973 Code § 10.28.010)
6-6-2: SIGNS PROHIBITING OR LIMITING LEFT TURNS:
   A.   Turns Prohibited: The chief of police, subject to the approval of the
city council, may erect and maintain signs at any street intersection, or alley
exit prohibiting the making of left turns by drivers of vehicles wherever the
chief of police shall determine that such turns would cause traffic congestion
or traffic hazard.
   B.   Prohibited Between Certain Hours: The making of such turns may be
prohibited between certain hours and permitted at other hours, in which event
the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs erected at the direction of
the chief of police.
   C.   Compliance Required: When authorized signs are erected under the
direction of the chief of police, no driver of any vehicle shall turn to the
left in violation of the directions contained on such signs. (1973 Code §
10.28.020)
6-6-3: OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
No driver of any vehicle, or the person in charge of any animal, or any
pedestrian, shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic sign or
signal placed in accordance with the provisions of this title, unless otherwise
directed by a police officer. (1973 Code § 10.28.030)
6-6-4: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS OR SIGNALS:
   A.   Unofficial Sign, Signal Or Device Prohibited: No person shall place,
maintain or display upon or in view of any street or highway any unofficial
sign, signal or device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles
an official traffic sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any
official traffic sign or signal.
   B.   Commercial Advertising: No person shall erect or maintain upon any
street or highway any traffic or highway sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   C.   Exception: Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the
erection or name of an organization authorized to erect the same by the
appropriate public authority.
   D.   Declared Nuisance: Every prohibited sign, signal or device is a public
nuisance, and the chief of police shall remove the same or cause it to be
removed without notice. (1973 Code § 10.28.040)
6-6-5: INTERFERENCE:
No person shall deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic sign
or signal placed or erected as provided in this title. (1973 Code § 10.28.050)
6-6-6: SIGNAL LEGEND:
   A.   Lights And Terms: Whenever traffic at any intersection is controlled by
traffic signals exhibiting colored lights or the words "GO," "CAUTION" or
"STOP", said lights and terms shall indicate as follows:
      1.   Green Or "GO": Traffic facing the signal may proceed, except that
vehicular traffic shall yield the right of way to pedestrians and vehicles
within the crosswalk or the intersection at the time such signals are
exhibited.
      2.   Yellow Or "CAUTION": When shown alone following the green or "GO",
traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at
the intersection, unless so close to the intersection that a stop cannot be
made in safety.
   B.   Turns: The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the right or left
at an intersection where traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals or by
a police officer shall proceed to make either turn with proper care to avoid
accident and only upon the "GO" signal, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer or by official traffic signs, or unless otherwise authorized by this
title.
   C.   Pedestrians: No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway
until green or "GO" is shown alone.
   D.   Flashing Yellow: When a yellow lens is illuminated with intermittent
flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection on such
signal only after coming to a complete stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk. (1973 Code § 10.28.060)
6-6-7: EMERGENCY TRAFFIC SITUATIONS:
   A.   Temporary Signs: Whenever the chief of police determines that an
emergency traffic situation is likely to result from the holding of public or
private assemblages, gatherings or functions, or for other reasons, he may
order temporary signs to be erected or posted indicating that the operation,
parking or standing of vehicles is prohibited on such streets and alleys as he
shall direct during the time such temporary signs are in place.
   B.   Placement And Removal Of Signs: Such signs shall remain in place during
the existence of such emergency and the chief of police shall cause such signs
to be removed promptly thereafter.
   C.   Compliance Required: When signs authorized by the provisions of this
section are in place giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person
to operate, park or stand any vehicle contrary to the direction and provision
of such signs. (1973 Code § 10.28.070)
6-6-8: STOP SIGNS:
   A.   Erection: Along any street or portion of a street designated by the
city council as a through street, or at any intersection at which vehicles are
required to stop, the chief of police shall cause to be erected and maintained
stop signs as follows:
      1.   A stop sign shall be erected on each and every street intersecting a
through street or portion thereof so designated, and at those entrances to
other intersections where a stop is required.
      2.   Every stop sign shall be erected and placed at or near the entrance
to the highway or street, or intersection where a stop is requested, and such
signs shall be as nearly uniform throughout the city as may be practicable.
(1973 Code § 10.28.080)
   B.   Stop Required:
      1.   No driver of any vehicle shall fail to stop in obedience to any sign
erected in accordance with the provisions of subsection A of this section,
except where directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control signal.
      2.   The stop required by this section shall be made before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection. (1973 Code § 10.28.090)
CHAPTER 7
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING 1
SECTION:
6-7-1: Prohibited In Specified Places
6-7-2: Overlength Vehicles
6-7-3: No Parking Areas
6-7-4: Method Of Parking
6-7-5: Parking In Alleys
6-7-6: Parking To Fill With Gasoline Or Petroleum Products
6-7-7: Certain Night Parking Prohibited
6-7-8: Time Limits
6-7-9: Preference To Vehicle In Process Of Parking
6-7-10: Parking Or Standing
6-7-11: Standing
6-7-12: Loading And Unloading
6-7-13: Special Parking Areas (Rep. by Ord. 05-10, 10-10-2005)
6-7-14: Parking Lots
6-7-15: Opening Vehicle Doors Into Traffic
6-7-16: Applicability
 
Notes
1 1. NRS §§ 484.395 through 484.443.
6-7-1: PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   A.   A person shall not stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or official traffic control device, in any of
the following places: (Ord. 02-01, 1-14-2002)
      1.   On a sidewalk;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant in a place where
parallel parking is permitted, or within twenty feet (20') of a fire hydrant if
angle parking is permitted and a local ordinance requires the greater distance;
      5.   On a crosswalk; (2001 Code)
      6.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a crosswalk when parallel parking;
(Ord. 02-01, 1-14-2002)
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any official traffic
control signal located at the side of a highway;
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone;
(2001 Code)
      9.   Within twenty feet (20') of any intersection of two (2) streets;
(Ord. 02-01, 1-14-2002)
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of a driveway entrance to any fire station
and, on the side of a highway opposite the entrance to any fire station, within
seventy five feet (75') of that entrance;
      11.   Alongside or opposite any highway excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      12.   On the highway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge of
or curb of a highway;
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or within a highway
tunnel;
      14.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection B of this section,
within five feet (5') of a public or private driveway;
      15.   At any place where official traffic control devices prohibit
stopping, standing or parking; (2001 Code)
      16.   Between the curb and edge of roadway and property line;
      17.   Within three feet (3') of an intersection of a street and an alley;
and
      18.   Other than within designated diagonal parking lanes on Main Street.
(Ord. 02-01, 1-14-2002)
   B.   The provisions of subsection A14 of this section do not apply to a
person operating a vehicle of the United States postal service if the vehicle
is being operated for the official business of the United States postal
service.
   C.   A person shall not move a vehicle not owned by him into any prohibited
area or away from a curb to a distance which is unlawful.
   D.   A local authority may place official traffic control devices
prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any
highway where in its opinion stopping, standing or parking is dangerous to
those using the highway or where the vehicles which are stopping, standing or
parking would unduly interfere with the free movement of traffic. It is
unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any vehicle in violation of the
restrictions stated on those devices. (2001 Code)
6-7-2: OVER LENGTH VEHICLES:
   A.   Diagonal Parking On Main Street Prohibited: It is unlawful for the
driver of any vehicle or of any vehicle and trailer or semitrailer having an
overall length of more than twenty one feet (21') to stand or park diagonally
with the curb on Main Street at any time except in accordance with a permit
issued by the chief of police. A vehicle carrying passengers may stop for the
purpose of picking up or discharging passengers at designated bus stops. (1973
Code § 10.32.020)
   B.   Parking Time Limited: It is unlawful for the driver of any vehicle or
of any vehicle and trailer having an overall length of twenty one feet (21') to
stand or park the same at any time on any street or highway or alley in a
residential area for more than one hour after a request to move the same has
been made by the property owner or the police department. This subsection shall
not apply to such a vehicle parked immediately in front of the property of the
owner or agent of the owner. (1973 Code § 10.32.030)
6-7-3: NO PARKING AREAS:
   A.   Designated: In such areas as are designated by the city council as "no
parking or stopping" areas, the chief of police shall cause such areas to be
appropriately marked by red paint placed and maintained upon the entire curb
surface within such area.
   B.   Parking Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand or
park a vehicle in any area designated as a "no parking or stopping" area.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   Bus: A bus may stop in such a red zone when the same has been
authorized, marked or signed as a bus stop.
      2.   Taxi: A taxi or other vehicle for the transportation of persons or
property for hire may stop in certain red zones as provided in this title.
      3.   Utility Vehicles, Emergency Vehicles: Utility vehicles and
authorized emergency vehicles of the city may stop in such a red zone, if such
vehicle is there in line of duty. (1973 Code § 10.32.050)
6-7-4: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   Parallel: It is unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle in a
roadway other than parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the
direction of traffic and with the right hand wheels of the vehicle within
eighteen inches (18") of the curb line or edge of the roadway, or where angle
parking is so allowed, except as hereinafter provided in this chapter.
   B.   Backed To The Curb: It is lawful to back a vehicle to the curb only for
such time as shall be necessary to load or unload merchandise or material, and
then only if ample space is left in the roadway for traffic to pass such a
vehicle.
   C.   Number Of Vehicles Allowed In Designated Parking Spaces On City
Streets; Exception:
      1.   Except as provided in this section, it is unlawful to park more than
one motor vehicle in any designated parking space.
      2.   More than one motorcycle may park in the same designated parking
space, provided, however, that no part of any motorcycle so parked extends
beyond the limits of the parking space. (Ord. 06-08, 12-11-2006)
6-7-5: PARKING IN ALLEYS:
   A.   Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle in any
public alley of the city, except those vehicles that come within the provisions
of section
6-7-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Business District:
      1.   Time Restriction; Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to
park any vehicle in any alley within the boundaries of the business district
for a longer period of time than shall be necessary to load or unload goods,
wares or merchandise from or to any business establishment in such district at
any time without first obtaining a permit from the chief of police.
      2.   Obstruction Prohibited: It is unlawful to park such a vehicle in
such a manner as to obstruct the movements of other vehicles through such
alley. (1973 Code § 10.32.080)
6-7-6: PARKING TO FILL WITH GASOLINE OR PETROLEUM PRODUCTS:
   A.   Parking Prohibited: It is unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to
stand or park the same upon any street or highway for the purpose of
introducing gasoline or other product of petroleum into such vehicle.
   B.   Filling Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to introduce gasoline
or other petroleum product into any vehicle while the same is standing or
parked upon any street or highway.
   C.   Exception: It is lawful to so introduce gasoline or other fuel into a
vehicle from a container not exceeding five (5) gallons in capacity in the
event the fuel supply in the vehicle has become exhausted. (1973 Code §
10.32.040)
6-7-7: CERTAIN NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for the owner, driver or any person in charge of a motor vehicle
to cause or permit the same to be or remain parked at the curb at any time
between four o'clock (4:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the same day
signed and posted to that effect. (1973 Code § 10.32.090)
6-7-8: TIME LIMITS:
   A.   One Hour Limit:
      1.   When signs, authorized by action of the city council, are in place
giving notice thereof, no person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon any
street for a period of time longer than one hour.
      2.   The provisions of this section shall be subject to the application
of special or more restrictive provisions contained in this title and relating
to the parking of vehicles. (1973 Code § 10.32.100)
   B.   Seventy Two Hour Limit: No person shall park a vehicle upon any street,
with the exception of Main Street, for more than seventy two (72) hours. (1973
Code § 10.32.110)
6-7-9: PREFERENCE TO VEHICLE IN PROCESS OF PARKING:
Whenever a space is vacant next to a curb, sufficient only for the parking of
one vehicle, and any vehicle has stopped in the line of traffic for the purpose
of backing into said space, such vehicle shall have the preferential right to
such parking space over any following vehicle. (1973 Code § 10.32.120)
6-7-10: PARKING OR STANDING:
   A.   Leaving Children Or Others In Vehicle:
      1.   Locked Doors: It is unlawful for any person to leave standing or
parked any vehicle when the doors thereof are locked and in which there is a
person who cannot readily escape therefrom. (1973 Code § 10.32.130)
      2.   Children: It is unlawful for any person to leave a child unattended
in any standing or parked vehicle where, due to physical disability, age,
infirmity or device such child is left unable to remove itself from the vehicle
if necessary to avoid harm, death or other peril. (2001 Code)
   B.   Permit Required For Certain Vehicles:
      1.   Sale Of Goods, Wares, Merchandise, Produce Or Foodstuffs: No person
shall stand or park any vehicle, wagon or pushcart from which goods, wares,
merchandise, fruits, vegetables or foodstuffs are sold, displayed, solicited,
or offered for sale or bartered or exchanged, or any lunch wagon or eating car
or vehicle, on any portion of any street within the city without first
obtaining a written permit to do so from the city council, which shall
designate the specific location in which such vehicle, wagon or pushcart shall
stand. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to persons delivering
such articles from a store or other fixed place of business or distribution
upon order of or by agreement with a customer.
      2.   Transportation Of Persons Or Property:
         a.   No person shall park or stand any vehicle or wagon used or
intended to be used in the transportation of persons or property for hire on
any street while awaiting patronage for such vehicle or wagon without first
obtaining a permit to do so from the city council, which shall designate the
specific location where such vehicle may stand, and such location shall be
signed indicating that it has been reserved for the use of the particular named
person. When so signed it shall be unlawful for any person other than the
person designated to park or stand a vehicle in such space.
         b.   It is unlawful for the owner or person in charge of any vehicle
used in carrying passengers, freight, baggage or merchandise for hire to permit
such vehicle to stand or remain in front of any place of business without first
obtaining the written consent of the tenant of such place of business.
      3.   Displayed For Sale: No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any
street for the purpose of displaying such vehicle for sale by sign or
otherwise.
      4.   Location Designated:
         a.   Use Of Designated Location Required: Whenever any permit is
granted under the provisions of this section and a particular location has been
designated, no person shall park or stand any vehicle, wagon or pushcart on any
location other than as designated in such permit.
         b.   Violation: In the event the holder of any such permit is
convicted in any court of competent jurisdiction for violating any of the
provisions of this section, such permit shall be forthwith revoked by the city
council upon the filing of the record of such conviction with the city council.
No permit thereafter shall be issued to such person until six (6) months shall
have elapsed from the date of such revocation. (1973 Code § 10.32.140)
6-7-11: STANDING:
   A.   Setting Brakes; Stopping Motor: No person having control or charge of a
motor vehicle shall allow such vehicle to stand on any street or highway
unattended without first effectively setting the brakes thereon and stopping
the motor.
   B.   Wheels Turned To Curb: When standing upon any perceptible grade, the
front wheels of such vehicle shall be turned to the curb of right-hand side of
the highway or street. (1973 Code § 10.32.150)
   C.   Machinery In Motion: It is unlawful for any person to leave unattended
upon any public street or highway or alley any motor vehicle while any part of
its machinery is running, or is in motion, except for the purpose of operating
refrigeration equipment of said vehicle or a trailer or semitrailer connected
therewith. (1973 Code § 10.32.160)
6-7-12: LOADING AND UNLOADING:
   A.   Zones Designated: When areas are designated by the city council as
"loading zones" and have been appropriately marked with yellow paint placed and
maintained upon the entire curb surface along such area, it is unlawful for any
person to stop or stand a vehicle except for the purpose of loading or
unloading passengers or materials to the establishment for which the area was
designated.
   B.   Time Limitation: The loading or unloading of passengers shall not
consume more than three (3) minutes, and the loading or unloading of materials
shall not consume more than twenty (20) minutes, unless permission is obtained
from the chief of police authorizing the standing of a vehicle for a longer
period while unloading or loading materials.
   C.   Hotels: Where a proper sign is erected in front of a hotel, the time
for loading or unloading passengers and their luggage shall not consume more
than twenty (20) minutes.
   D.   Commercial Deliveries; Express And Parcel Post: The loading or
unloading of materials shall apply only to commercial deliveries and to the
delivery or pickup of express and parcel post package and United States mail.
   E.   Passengers To Include Baggage: The loading or unloading of passengers
shall include the loading or unloading of personal baggage. (1973 Code §
10.32.170)
6-7-13: SPECIAL PARKING AREAS:
(Rep. by Ord. 05-10, 10-10-2005)
6-7-14: PARKING LOTS:
   A.   Definition: The term "parking lot" as used in this title shall be
construed to mean and include any place maintained for the outdoor parking of
motor vehicles, excepting on a street or alley, where such parking is permitted
upon payment of compensation or where such parking is made available to patrons
or customers of any place of business.
   B.   Applicable Provisions: The provisions of sections
6-1-4,
6-1-5,
6-3-3 through
6-3-5,
6-4-7,
6-5-6, and subsection 6-1-7F of this title shall be applicable to the operation
of motor vehicles upon any parking lot within the city. (1973 Code § 10.04.060)
6-7-15: OPENING VEHICLE DOORS INTO TRAFFIC:
   A.   Opening Door: No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the
side available to moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do
so.
   B.   Leaving Open: No person shall leave a door open upon the side of a
vehicle available to moving traffic for a period of time longer than necessary
to load or unload passengers. (1973 Code § 10.32.190)
6-7-16: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Prohibiting Stopping, Standing Or Parking: The provisions of this
chapter prohibiting the stopping, standing or parking of a vehicle shall apply
at all times or at those times herein specified, except when it is necessary to
stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with the direction of a police officer or
official traffic control device.
   B.   Imposing Time Limitations: The provisions of this chapter imposing a
time limit on standing or parking shall not relieve any person from the duty to
observe other and more restrictive provisions hereof or of any other ordinance
of the city or statute of the state of Nevada prohibiting or limiting the
standing or parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(1973 Code § 10.32.200)
CHAPTER 8
RESIDENTIAL AREA TRAFFIC AND PARKING
SECTION:
6-8-1: Policy
6-8-2: Applicability
6-8-3: Vehicular Traffic (Rep. by Ord. 06-05, 5-22-2006)
6-8-4: Parking
6-8-5: Exceptions
6-8-6: Penalty
6-8-1: POLICY:
It is the policy of the city to reduce hazardous traffic conditions resulting
from the use of streets within areas zoned for residential uses from the
vehicular movement and parking of vehicles by persons using districts zoned for
commercial, industrial or conditional uses permitted in special districts to
protect such residential districts from polluted air, excessive noise, and
trash and refuse caused by the entry of such vehicles; to preserve the
character of those districts as residential districts; to promote efficiency in
the maintenance of the streets, the safety of children and others, and the
peace, good order and welfare of the inhabitants of the city. (1973 Code §
10.34.010)
6-8-2: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter and the sections thereof apply to all the streets and other areas
of any R-1, R-2 and R-3 zoned district within the city, unless the city
specifically excludes a certain area or street by official city council action.
(1973 Code § 10.34.020)
6-8-3: VEHICULAR TRAFFIC:
(Rep. by Ord. 06-05, 5-22-2006)
6-8-4: PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park any semitractor, semitrailer, farm
implement or equipment, vehicles exceeding six (6) tons, school buses, and
other similar vehicles on any street or in any area specified in section
6-8-2 of this chapter. (1973 Code § 10.34.040)
6-8-5: EXCEPTIONS:
There shall be no exceptions of the requirements and provisions of this chapter
unless a special permit or waiver is granted by the city council, or its
authorized representative. (1973 Code § 10.34.050)
6-8-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating or allowing to be violated any provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1973 Code § 10.34.060)
CHAPTER 9
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT 1
SECTION:
6-9-1: State Registration
6-9-2: Brakes
6-9-3: Horns; Warning Devices
6-9-4: Lights
6-9-5: Mufflers
6-9-6: Modified Exhaust System
6-9-7: Exhaust Pipes On Diesel Powered Vehicles
6-9-8: Tires
 
Notes
1 1. For statutory provisions regarding vehicle equipment regulations, see NRS
  §§ 484.541 through 484.701.
6-9-1: STATE REGISTRATION 1 :
It is unlawful for any person to operate, or for the owner thereof knowingly to
permit the operation, of any motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer upon any
street, highway or alley unless the same has been registered, and has attached
thereto and conspicuously displayed thereon the number of plate currently
assigned thereto by the motor vehicle department of the state of Nevada, unless
such vehicle, trailer or semitrailer is exempted from such registration by the
laws of the state of Nevada. (1973 Code § 10.40.010)
 
Notes
1 2. For statutory provisions concerning vehicle registration, see NRS chapter
  482.
6-9-2: BRAKES:
   A.   Motor Vehicle: Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle or moped,
when operated within the city, shall be equipped with brakes adequate to
control the movement of and to stop hold such vehicle, including means which
shall be effective to apply the brakes to at least two (2) wheels.
   B.   Motorcycle: Every motorcycle or moped, when operated within the city,
shall be equipped with at least one brake.
   C.   Capability Of Stopping Required: No person shall operate any vehicle
within the city which shall not be capable, at all times and under all
conditions of loading, of being stopped on a dry, smooth, level street free
from loose material, upon application of the service brake, or of being
decelerated at such a sustained rate as is specified by the statutes of the
state of Nevada. (1973 Code § 10.40.020; amd. 2001 Code)
6-9-3: HORNS; WARNING DEVICES:
   A.   Horn:
      1.   Required: No person shall operate any vehicle upon the streets or
alleys of the city, which is not equipped with a horn in good working order and
capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of
not less than two hundred feet (200').
      2.   Sound Emitted: No horn shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh
sound or a whistle.
      3.   Use Required: Every person operating a vehicle shall, when
reasonably necessary to ensure safe operation, give audible warning with his
horn and it is unlawful to otherwise use such horn.
   B.   Siren, Whistle, Bell, Red Or Blue Light:
      1.   Use Restricted: No person shall use upon a vehicle any siren,
whistle, bell or red or blue light except on emergency equipment of the city or
other governmental agency, or other emergency equipment of the city or other
governmental agency, or other emergency equipment authorized by the state of
Nevada.
      2.   Authorized Emergency Vehicles: Any authorized emergency vehicle may
be equipped with a siren, whistle or bell capable of emitting sound audible
under normal conditions from a distance of not less than five hundred feet
(500'). It is unlawful to use such siren except when such vehicle is operated
in response to an emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or
suspected violator of the law, in which event the driver of such vehicle shall
sound such siren or electric warning device, when necessary to warn pedestrians
and other drivers of the approach thereof. (1973 Code § 10.40.030)
6-9-4: LIGHTS:
   A.   Required: No person shall operate any vehicle, upon any street or
highway, that is not equipped with the lighting equipment required by the laws
of the state of Nevada.
   B.   Failure To Display: It is unlawful for any person driving or in charge
of a vehicle to fail to display lights in compliance with the laws of the state
of Nevada.
   C.   Conformity Required: It is unlawful for any person to operate any
vehicle, upon any street or highway, that is equipped with lighting equipment
that is not in conformity with the requirements of the laws of the state of
Nevada. (1973 Code § 10.40.040)
6-9-5: MUFFLERS:
   A.   Mufflers Required: Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped
with a muffler in good working order and in constant operation to prevent
emissions greater than those allowed by rules and regulations established by
the department. No person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device
upon a motor vehicle on a highway.
   B.   Excessive Fumes Or Smoke: The engine and power mechanism of every motor
vehicle shall be so equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive
fumes or smoke. (2001 Code)
6-9-6: MODIFIED EXHAUST SYSTEM:
   A.   Modification Prohibited: No person shall modify the exhaust system of a
motor vehicle in a manner which will amplify or increase the noise emitted by
the motor of such vehicle above that emitted by the muffler originally
installed on the vehicle.
   B.   Original Muffler: The original muffler shall comply with all of the
requirements of the original equipment. (1973 Code § 10.40.060)
6-9-7: EXHAUST PIPES ON DIESEL POWERED VEHICLES:
   A.   Location: No person shall operate any vehicle powered by a diesel
engine within the city unless the extreme end of the exhaust pipe therefrom
terminates at a point above the top of the cab or body of such vehicle,
whichever is higher.
   B.   Exception: This section shall not apply to diesel powered automobiles,
new diesel pickups or vehicles converted from gasoline to diesel powered
engines. (1973 Code § 10.40.070)
6-9-8: TIRES:
   A.   Prohibited: Except as provided in subsection B of this section, a
person shall not operate any motor vehicle equipped with tires which have on
the periphery any block, flange, cleat, ridge, bead or any other protuberance
of metal or wood which projects beyond the thread of the traction surface of
the tire.
   B.   Allowed: This section does not prohibit:
      1.   Tire Chains Or Traction Devices: Tire chains or traction devices
approved by the director;
      2.   Embedded Wire: Pneumatic tires which have embedded therein wire
exceeding 0.075 inch in diameter and which are so constructed that under no
conditions will the percentage of metal in contact with the roadway exceed five
percent (5%) of the total tire area in contact with the roadway, except that
during the first one thousand (1,000) miles of use, the metal in contact with
the roadway may exceed five percent (5%) of the tire area in contact with the
roadway but must not exceed twenty percent (20%) of that area.
      3.   Studs: Pneumatic tires containing metal-type studs of tungsten
carbide or other suitable material which are so inserted or constructed that
under no conditions will the percentage of metal in contact with the roadway
exceed three percent (3%) of the total tire area in contact with the roadway,
but such tires may only be used between October 1 and April 30. (1973 Code §
10.40.080)
CHAPTER 10
STREET USE RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
6-10-1: Weight Restrictions
6-10-2: Tire Restrictions
6-10-3: Dripping Oil Or Gasoline
6-10-4: Repairing On Street
6-10-5: Loads
6-10-1: WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS 1 :
   A.   Maximum Weight; Permit Required: No traction engine, trailer, or motor
or other vehicle, shall be operated upon any highway, street or alley within
the city, nor shall any object be moved over or upon any such street, alley or
highway upon wheels, rollers, or otherwise, in excess of a total weight of
eighteen thousand (18,000) pounds per axle, including vehicle, object or
contrivance and load, without first obtaining from the city engineer a permit
so to do.
   B.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to the following streets:
      1.   Bridge Street;
      2.   Main Street. (1973 Code § 10.48.010)
 
Notes
1 1. For statutory provisions regarding size, weight and load restrictions, see
  NRS §§ 484.737 through 484.775.
6-10-2: TIRE RESTRICTIONS 1 :
No person shall ride, drive or propel, or cause or permit to be ridden, driven
or propelled, along or upon any pavement or top- dressed street, any vehicle or
traction engine any tire of which is not a pneumatic tire, or that has a sharp
or uneven surface, or any tire or wheel to which is attached cleats or spikes
or uneven surfaces, or any device that will cause damage to the paving,
macadamizing or top dressing of such street. (1973 Code § 10.48.020)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section 6-9-8 of this title.
6-10-3: DRIPPING OIL OR GASOLINE:
It is unlawful for any person owning or operating any vehicle, machinery or
apparatus using gasoline or other byproduct of petroleum, to drain or permit to
drip or run from the crankcase or gear case or from any other part of the
vehicle or machinery any gasoline, oil or other petroleum product, upon any
street or highway. (1973 Code § 10.48.030)
6-10-4: REPAIRING ON STREET:
No person shall construct or cause to be repaired any vehicle or any part of
any vehicle upon any street or highway or alley, except minor repairs. (1973
Code § 10.48.040)
6-10-5: LOADS:
   A.   Sifting Or Leaking: It is unlawful for any person to drive or move any
vehicle on any street or highway unless such vehicle is so constructed or
loaded as to prevent its contents from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise
escaping therefrom. (1973 Code § 10.48.050)
   B.   Transferring: It is unlawful to transfer merchandise from one vehicle
to another upon any street except in the event that one such vehicle has been
damaged or become disabled and cannot be removed from the street with safety
until the same has been unloaded. (1973 Code § 10.48.060)
   C.   Flag Or Light Required:
      1.   Flag: Whenever the load of any vehicle shall extend more than four
feet (4') beyond the rear of the bed or body thereof, there shall be displayed
at the end of such load, in such position as to be clearly visible at all times
from the rear of such load, a red flag not less than twelve inches (12") both
in length and width.
      2.   Light: Between one-half (1/2) hour after sunset and one-half (1/2)
hour before sunrise there shall be displayed at the end of any such load a
yellow or red light plainly visible under normal atmospheric conditions at
least two hundred feet (200') from the rear of such vehicle. (1973 Code §
10.48.070)
CHAPTER 11
PEDESTRIANS 1
SECTION:
6-11-1: Crossing At Crosswalks
6-11-2: Crossing At Other Than Crosswalks
6-11-3: Crossing At Controlled Intersections
6-11-4: Using Right Half Of Crosswalk
6-11-5: Hitchhiking
 
Notes
1 1. For statutory provisions regarding pedestrians' rights and duties, see NRS
  §§ 484.325 through 484.331.
6-11-1: CROSSING AT CROSSWALKS:
   A.   Vehicle To Yield:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to a pedestrian
crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked
crosswalk at an intersection, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      2.   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping,
if need be, to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling or when a pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half
of the roadway as to be in danger.
   B.   Passing Prohibited: Whenever any vehicle has stopped at a marked
crosswalk or at any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a
pedestrian to cross the roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from the rear shall not overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
   C.   Leaving Curb: No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place,
and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is
impossible for the driver to yield.
   D.   Loitering Prohibited: No pedestrian shall loiter in a crosswalk for the
purpose of soliciting a ride, employment or business. (1973 Code § 10.68.010)
6-11-2: CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS:
   A.   Pedestrian To Yield: Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point
other than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   Driver To Use Care: The provision of this section shall not relieve the
driver of a vehicle from the duty to exercise due care for the safety of any
pedestrian upon a roadway.
   C.   Route: No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than a
route at right angles to the curb or by the route to the opposite curb, except
in a marked crosswalk. (1973 Code § 10.68.020)
6-11-3: CROSSING AT CONTROLLED INTERSECTIONS:
At intersections where traffic is controlled by a traffic-control signal device
or by police officers, pedestrians shall not cross the roadway against a red or
stop signal. (1973 Code § 10.68.030)
6-11-4: USING RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK:
Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks. (1973 Code § 10.68.040)
6-11-5: HITCHHIKING:
No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride from
the driver of any vehicle. (1973 Code § 10.68.050)
CHAPTER 12
BICYCLES 1
SECTION:
6-12-1: Lamps, Reflectors And Brakes
6-12-2: Riding
6-12-3: Clinging To Moving Vehicles
6-12-4: Parking
 
Notes
1 1. For statutory provisions concerning traffic regulations for bicycles, see
  NRS §§ 484.501 through 484.513.
6-12-1: LAMPS, REFLECTORS AND BRAKES:
   A.   Lamps And Reflectors: Every bicycle when in use at night must be
equipped with:
      1.   A lamp on the front which emits a white light visible from a
distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front;
      2.   A red reflector on the rear of a type approved by the department
which must be visible from fifty feet (50') to three hundred feet (300') to the
rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor
vehicle; and
      3.   Reflective material of a sufficient size and reflectivity to be
visible from both sides of the bicycle for six hundred feet (600') when
directly in front of the lawful lower beams of the headlamps of a motor
vehicle, or in lieu of such material, a lighted lamp visible from both sides
from a distance of at least five hundred feet (500').
   B.   Brakes: Every bicycle must be equipped with a brake which will enable
the operator to make the wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (2001 Code)
6-12-2: RIDING:
   A.   Number Of Persons: No person shall carry upon any bicycle upon any
street, highway or alley, a number of persons greater than that for which such
bicycle is designed and equipped. (1973 Code § 10.60.020)
   B.   Right Side Of Roadway: Every person operating a bicycle upon a street,
highway or alley shall ride as near to the right-hand side of the roadway as
practicable and shall exercise due care when passing a standing vehicle or a
vehicle proceeding in the same direction. (1973 Code § 10.60.030)
   C.   Sidewalks: It is unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle upon any
sidewalk located along the following street within the city:
      Main Street between Bridge Street and Goldfield Avenue.
No use of any sidewalk shall impair the right of way of a pedestrian. (1973
Code § 10.60.040)
   D.   More Than Two Abreast: No persons shall operate bicycles upon any
street, highway or alley in a group of more than two (2) bicycles abreast of
one another. (1973 Code § 10.60.050)
6-12-3: CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES:
No person operating a bicycle upon any street, highway or alley shall attach
such bicycle or himself to any moving vehicle. (1973 Code § 10.60.060)
6-12-4: PARKING:
No person shall park or stand a bicycle upon any street or sidewalk, other than
in a bicycle rack, or against a building, or at the curb in such a manner as to
afford the least obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (1973 Code § 10.60.070)
CHAPTER 13
MOTORCYCLES 1
SECTION:
6-13-1: Driver's License Required
6-13-2: Driving By Unauthorized Persons
6-13-3: Carrying Passengers
6-13-4: Position While Operating
6-13-5: Handlebars
6-13-6: Wheel Fenders
6-13-7: Protective Gear
6-13-8: Lights; Reflectors
6-13-9: Brakes
6-13-10: Mirrors
6-13-11: Muffler
6-13-12: Rights And Duties Of Driver
6-13-13: Use Of Traffic Lanes
6-13-14: Unlawful Passing; Riding Abreast
6-13-15: Delivery Of Driver's License On Request
6-13-16: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. For the provisions concerning motorcycle licenses and regulations, see NRS
  chapter 486.
6-13-1: DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
Except for a nonresident who is at least sixteen (16) years of age and is
authorized by the state of his residency to drive a motorcycle, a person shall
not drive a motorcycle upon a street or highway within the city, unless such
person holds a valid motorcycle driver's license issued pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 486 or a driver's license issued pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 483 endorsed to authorize the holder to drive a
motorcycle. (1973 Code § 10.64.010)
6-13-2: DRIVING BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS:
No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motorcycle owned by him or
under his control to be driven upon any highway by any person who is not
authorized by Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 486 to drive a motorcycle. (1973
Code § 10.64.020)
6-13-3: CARRYING PASSENGERS:
   A.   Designed For Passengers: A motorcycle or moped shall not be driven upon
a highway while carrying more than one person unless such motorcycle or moped
is designed by the manufacturer to carry more than one person.
   B.   Passenger: A passenger shall ride:
      1.   Behind the driver and astride the permanent or regular seat which
was designed for two (2) persons;
      2.   Astride another seat firmly attached at the rear of the driver; or
      3.   In a sidecar attached.
   C.   Footrests: Every such motorcycle or moped designed for transporting a
passenger shall be equipped with footrests adjusted to fit such passenger.
(1973 Code § 10.64.030; amd. 2001 Code)
6-13-4: POSITION WHILE OPERATING:
   A.   Permanent, Regular Seat: A person driving a motorcycle or moped shall
ride only upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   B.   Position Of Seat: A person shall not drive a motorcycle or moped with
the seat for the driver so positioned that the driver, when sitting astride the
seat with the motorcycle or moped in a stopped and upright position, cannot
reach the ground with both feet simultaneously. (1973 Code § 10.64.040; amd.
2001 Code)
6-13-5: HANDLEBARS:
   A.   Height Of Handlebar: A person shall not drive a motorcycle or moped
equipped with handlebars which extend above the uppermost portion of the
driver's shoulders when the driver sits on the seat and the seat is depressed
by the weight of the driver.
   B.   Position Of Driver's Hands: The driver of a motorcycle or moped shall
drive with at least one hand on a handlebar at all times. (2001 Code)
6-13-6: WHEEL FENDERS:
A person shall not drive a motorcycle or moped unless the wheels are protected
by fenders to prevent the throwing of rocks, dirt, water or other substances to
the rear. (1973 Code § 10.64.070; amd. 2001 Code)
6-13-7: PROTECTIVE GEAR:
   A.   Headgear, Glasses, Goggles Or Face Shields: Except as provided in
subsections B and C of this section, when any motorcycle, except a trimobile or
moped, is being driven on a street, highway or alley within the city, the
driver and passenger shall wear protective headgear securely fastened on the
head and protective glasses, goggles or face shields, which headgear, glasses,
goggles and face shields shall meet standards adopted by the department of
motor vehicles of the state of Nevada in accordance with the provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes subsection 486.231 (1).
   B.   Windscreen: When a motorcycle or a trimobile is equipped with a
transparent windscreen meeting standards adopted by the Department of Motor
Vehicles of the state of Nevada adopted in accordance with the provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes subsection 486.231 (1), the driver and passenger shall
not be required to wear glasses, goggles or face shields.
   C.   Parades: When a motorcycle is being driven in a parade authorized by
the city, the driver and passenger shall not be required to wear the protective
devices provided for in this section. (1973 Code § 10.64.080; amd. 2001 Code)
   D.   When a three-wheel motorcycle, on which the driver and passengers ride
within an enclosed cab, is being driven on a highway, the driver and passengers
are not required to wear the protective devices required by this section. (2001
Code)
   E.   State Standards: A person shall not sell, offer for sale or distribute
any protective headgear, glasses, goggles or face shields for use by any
drivers or passengers of motorcycles or transparent windscreens for motorcycles
unless such equipment is of a type and specification meeting the standards
therefor adopted by the department of motor vehicles of the state of Nevada.
   F.   Federal Standards: The provisions of this section shall not prohibit
the sale of protective headgear, glasses, goggles or face shields which comply
with the rules and regulations adopted by the United States department of
transportation. (1973 Code § 10.64.090)
6-13-8: LIGHTS; REFLECTORS:
   A.   Headlights:
      1.   Required: Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and
not more than two (2) headlamps.
      2.   Location: Every such headlamp shall be located at a height of not
more than fifty four inches (54") nor less than twenty four inches (24") from
the ground as measured from the center of the lamp to the level ground upon
which such motorcycle stands without a load. (1973 Code § 10.64.130)
      3.   Use Required: Every motorcycle or moped upon a highway or street of
this city at any time from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset to one-half (1/2)
hour before sunrise and at any other time when, because of insufficient light
or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles on the highway or
street are not clearly discernible at a distance of one thousand feet (1,000')
ahead shall display lighted lamps and illuminating devices as respectively
required in this chapter. (1973 Code § 10.64.100; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Stop Lights; Turn Signals:
      1.   Required: Every motorcycle upon a highway shall be equipped with
stop lights and turn signals to be lighted in the manner prescribed for the use
of such devices. (1973 Code § 10.64.100)
      2.   Electric Turn Signals: Every motorcycle manufactured after January
1, 1972, shall be equipped with electric turn signal lamps.
      3.   Location: Such lamps shall be located on the front and rear and
shall indicate an intention to turn by flashing lights in the direction toward
which the turn is to be made.
         a.   Front: The lamps showing to the front shall be mounted on the
same level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable and, when signaling,
shall emit white or amber light, or any shade of light between white and amber.
         b.   Rear: The lamps showing to the rear shall be mounted on the same
level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, and, when signaling, shall
emit red or amber light, or any shade of light between red and amber. (1973
Code § 10.64.120)
   C.   Taillights:
      1.   Required: Every motorcycle or moped shall be equipped with at least
one tail lamp mounted on the rear, which, when lighted as required by this
chapter, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of five hundred
feet (500') to the rear.
      2.   Wiring: Such lamp shall be wired to be lighted whenever the headlamp
is lighted. (1973 Code § 10.64.110; amd. 2001 Code)
   D.   Reflectors:
      1.   Required; Location: Every motorcycle or moped shall carry on the
rear at least one reflector, which shall be mounted at a height not less than
twenty inches (20") nor more than sixty inches (60") from the ground as
measured from the center of the reflector to the level ground upon which such
motorcycle stands without a load.
      2.   Size, Character, Mounting: Each such reflector shall be of a size
and character and so mounted as to be visible at night from all distances
within three hundred feet (300') when directly in front of lawful upper beams
of headlamps. (1973 Code § 10.64.140; amd. 2001 Code)
6-13-9: BRAKES:
Every motorcycle or moped shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the
stopping and holding as prescribed in Nevada Revised Statutes sections 484.593
and 484.595. (1973 Code § 10.64.150; amd. 2001 Code)
6-13-10: MIRRORS:
Every motorcycle or moped shall be equipped with two (2) mirrors, each
containing a reflection surface not less than three inches (3") in diameter,
with one mirror mounted on each handlebar, in positions enabling the driver to
view clearly the highway for a distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear.
(1973 Code § 10.64.160; amd. 2001 Code)
6-13-11: MUFFLER:
Every motorcycle driven on a highway shall be equipped with an effective and
operating muffler. (1973 Code § 10.64.200)
6-13-12: RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF DRIVER:
A person driving a motorcycle or moped upon a highway is entitled to all the
rights and subject to all the duties applicable to the drivers of motor
vehicles as provided by law, except those provisions which by their nature can
have no application. (1973 Code § 10.64.170; amd. 2001 Code)
6-13-13: USE OF TRAFFIC LANES:
Every motorcycle or moped when being driven on the highway is entitled to full
use of the traffic lane it is occupying, and a person shall not drive another
motor vehicle in a manner which would deprive any such motorcycle of such use.
(1973 Code § 10.64.180; amd. 2001 Code)
6-13-14: UNLAWFUL PASSING; RIDING ABREAST:
   A.   Driving Between Vehicles: A person, except a police officer in the
performance of his duty, shall not drive a motorcycle or moped between moving
or stationary vehicles occupying adjacent traffic lanes.
   B.   Riding Abreast:
      1.   Prohibited: Except as provided in subsection B2 of this section, a
person shall not drive a motorcycle, moped or trimobile abreast of or overtake
or pass another vehicle within the same traffic lane.
      2.   Allowed: Motorcycles and mopeds may, with the consent of the
drivers, be operated no more than two (2) abreast in a single traffic lane.
(1973 Code § 10.64.190; amd. 2001 Code)
6-13-15: DELIVERY OF DRIVER'S LICENSE ON REQUEST:
Every person driving a motorcycle shall manually deliver his license to drive a
motorcycle to any police officer or court upon request therefor by such officer
or court. (1973 Code § 10.64.210)
6-13-16: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor,
and shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1973 Code § 10.64.220)
CHAPTER 14
SKATEBOARDS, COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER BLADES, SCOOTERS, MOTORIZED
SKATEBOARDS, AND SIMILAR DEVICES
SECTION:
6-14-1: Use Restricted
6-14-2: Penalty
6-14-1: USE RESTRICTED:
   A.   Human-Propelled Devices: It is unlawful for any person to use coasters,
skateboards, roller skates, roller blades, scooters and similar human-propelled
devices, upon any of the following streets, except while crossing a street
within a crosswalk and, when so crossing, such person shall have all the rights
and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to pedestrians on Main
Street, between Bridge Street and Goldfield Avenue.
   B.   Motorized Devices: It is unlawful for any person to use coasters,
skateboards, roller skates, roller blades, scooters, motorized skateboards, and
similar devices, except motorized devices used by the handicapped, upon any
sidewalk located along the following street within the city: Main Street,
between Bridge Street and Goldfield Avenue. No use of any sidewalk shall impair
the right of way of a pedestrian.
   C.   Exception: It is unlawful for any person to use any motorized devices
on any sidewalks anywhere within the city, except those motorized devices used
by the handicapped such as motorized or electrically operated wheelchairs and
carts. (1973 Code § 10.61.010; amd. 2001 Code)
6-14-2: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition, the municipal court judge may order that any
coasters, skateboards, roller skates, roller blades, scooters, motorized
skateboards and similar devices used in violation of this chapter be impounded
and retained until further order of the court. (1973 Code § 10.61.020; amd.
2001 Code)
CHAPTER 15
TAXICABS
SECTION:
6-15-1: Convicted Persons
6-15-2: Fingerprinting Of Applicant
6-15-1: CONVICTED PERSONS:
   A.   Definition: "Convicted person" as used in this section is defined in
the same manner as the same term is defined in section 207.080 Nevada Revised
Statutes.
   B.   Driving Or Operating: No convicted person shall drive or operate a
taxicab within the city.
   C.   Ownership Or Registration: No taxicab owned by or registered to any
convicted person shall be driven or operated within the city. (1973 Code §
10.56.080)
6-15-2: FINGERPRINTING OF APPLICANT:
Every person applying for a taxicab license or permit to drive shall be
fingerprinted. (1973 Code § 10.56.090)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Right Of Way And Easement Permits
7-1-2: Street Names
7-1-3: Blocking Public Sidewalk
7-1-1: RIGHT OF WAY AND EASEMENT PERMITS 1 :
   A.   Short Title: This section shall be known as the CITY OF YERINGTON RIGHT
OF WAY AND EASEMENT USE PERMIT ORDINANCE. (1973 Code § 12.04.010)
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires, the following definitions apply:
CITY: The city of Yerington.
CITY RIGHT OF WAY: The entire width of a public right of way. This includes
land, property or interest therein offered for, acquired for, dedicated to, or
developed as a public right of way or easement, regardless of the improved
status.
CONTRACTOR: Any person, public utility, private utility, district, that
performs an excavation, street cut or encroachment.
COUNCIL: The Yerington city council; governing board of the city of Yerington.
DEPARTMENT: City of Yerington public works department.
DIRECTOR: City of Yerington public works director.
ENCROACHMENT: Any activity within a city right of way or easement which would
tend to conflict with existing improvement or impede traffic, vehicular or
pedestrian, or otherwise interfere with city improvement therein.
EXCAVATION: The movement or removal of earth, rock, pavement or other material
in or on the ground. The term includes augering, backfilling, digging,
ditching, drilling, grading, ripping, trenching and tunneling.
LICENSED CONTRACTOR: A person who possesses a license issued under Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 624 and a city business license which the person
wishes to engage in construction activities.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, district or
organization.
STREET CUT: Any excavation in any manner in any portion of a city right of way
improved surface or utility location. (1973 Code § 12.04.020; amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   Permits Required: It is unlawful for any person to excavate within a
city right of way or easement without first having obtained a permit from the
city. (1973 Code § 12.04.030)
   D.   Permit Application:
      1.   Issuance: The director is authorized to issue written permits
allowing the permittee to do any of the following:
         a.   Make an excavation or street cut upon a city right of way;
         b.   To construct, install, build, place any improvement which when
completed, does not impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic upon a city right of
way.
      2.   Application:
         a.   All applications for a permit under this section shall be made to
the department of public works.
         b.   All applications shall be in writing on forms provided by the
city.
         c.   Each applicant shall have a licensed contractor perform any work
described in the application and shall provide the contractor's name, license
number, and address, unless the requirements of this section are waived by the
city manager or director. Waiver cannot, however, apply to a pavement cut.
      3.   Application Contents: Each application shall include the following
information:
         a.   The name of the applicant who assumes responsibility for
compliance;
         b.   The name or names of property owners abutting that portion of the
right of way or easement upon which the encroachment or street cut is to be
made;
         c.   The legal description or assessor parcel number(s) abutting the
right of way or easement upon which the encroachment or street cut is to be
made;
         d.   A legible drawing or plat which shows the proposed encroachment
or street cut in relationship to the city right of way and adjoining
properties. The depth, size, and height of the proposed work, and all other
information deemed necessary to reasonably display the proposed work by the
director.
         e.   Provide the time and date of commencement of work and estimated
time and date of completion;
         f.   Notification to "USA DIG" is an absolute necessity prior to
construction along with notification to city public works and shall be
certified to be the applicant;
         g.   On a request for a permit, a guarantee bond, letter of credit, or
cash deposit may be required for the proper protection of the city. The
guarantee amount shall be one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated
improvements to be posted prior to commencement of work;
         h.   All work performed must comply with standards for public works
construction (orange book), city code, and manual of uniform traffic control
devices. (1973 Code § 12.04.040; amd. 2001 Code)
   E.   Permit Fees: Permit fees, any and all fees associated with a city
excavation and/or street cut request shall be as listed on the city of
Yerington fee schedule. (Ord. 03-10, 1-12-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. For statutory provisions authorizing charter cities to accept loans or
  grants for public works, see NRS § 168.450.
7-1-2: STREET NAMES:
   A.   Names Designated: The names of the streets and alleys of the city shall
be those designated and set out on the official map of the city on file in the
office of the city clerk. (1973 Code § 12.08.010)
   B.   Name Signs: The city officer in charge of streets shall put or have put
in proper and conspicuous places, suitable signs with the names of streets of
the city thereon. (1973 Code § 12.08.020)
7-1-3: BLOCKING PUBLIC SIDEWALK:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall linger or loiter on a public sidewalk so as
to impede the use thereof or the use of a public doorway by a member of the
general public. (1973 Code § 12.10.010)
   B.   Penalty: A violation of this section shall be punished as a
misdemeanor. (1973 Code § 12.10.020)
CHAPTER 2
PARKS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Purpose
7-2-3: Scope
7-2-4: Compliance Required
7-2-5: Dogs
7-2-6: Vehicles
7-2-7: Animals
7-2-8: Litter
7-2-9: Flora And Fauna
7-2-10: Swimming
7-2-11: Camping
7-2-12: Wastewater
7-2-13: Glass
7-2-14: Handbills
7-2-15: Children
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
PARK: Any area designated by the city council as a public park, playground or
recreational facility.
PERSONS: All persons, associations, partnerships, firms, corporations or public
entities. (1973 Code § 6.04.010)
7-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the use of city parks and to protect
the right of all Lyon County residents to enjoy the park system. (1973 Code §
6.04.020)
7-2-3: SCOPE:
Unless otherwise designated, the provisions of this chapter shall apply to all
parks, govern the use of all parks, and the observance of such provisions shall
be a condition under which the public may use the parks. (1973 Code § 6.04.030)
7-2-4: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: No person shall enter, be or remain in any park of the city
unless he complies with this chapter and the regulations promulgated under this
chapter.
   B.   Authority To Eject Or Expel: The Yerington police department is
authorized to eject and expel from a park any person who violates the
provisions of this chapter or any other law, ordinance or rule that may be in
effect at the time of such violation.
   C.   Ejected Or Expelled Persons: No person who has been ejected or expelled
under the provisions of this section shall refuse to leave any park as ordered
nor shall the person return to the park within twenty four (24) hours of such
ejection or expulsion without the permission of the chief of police.
   D.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions contained in
this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day on which a violation occurs constitutes a separate
offense. (1973 Code § 6.04.040; amd. 2001 Code)
7-2-5: DOGS:
   A.   Prohibited; Exception: No person who owns, harbors or keeps, or who has
possession, charge, care, custody or control of any dog, except dogs used to
aid handicapped persons with their master, shall cause, permit, suffer or allow
such dog to enter or remain in any park or portion thereof; provided, that this
prohibition shall not apply to any person participating in a dog training class
being conducted under the sponsorship of or pursuant to the express written
permission of the city council.
   B.   Authority To Eject Or Expel: The police department is authorized to
eject and expel from a park any person who violates the provisions of this
chapter or any other law, ordinance or rule that may be in effect at the time
of such violation. (1973 Code § 6.04.050)
7-2-6: VEHICLES:
No person shall operate or park any "vehicle" as defined in the Nevada Revised
Statutes, within a park except in areas designated for such use. (1973 Code §
6.04.060)
7-2-7: ANIMALS:
No person shall ride, hitch, fasten, lead, drive or let loose any animal or
fowl of any kind in any park except in areas designated for such use. (1973
Code § 6.04.070)
7-2-8: LITTER:
No person shall deposit or leave any garbage, trash, cans, bottles, papers or
other refuse of any nature in any park except in the receptacles provided
therefor. (1973 Code § 6.04.080)
7-2-9: FLORA AND FAUNA:
   A.   Flora: No person shall dig, remove, destroy, injure, mutilate or cut
any tree, plant, shrub, bloom or flower, or any portion thereof, growing in any
park.
   B.   Fauna: No person shall take, seize, molest, injure, catch or hunt any
bird, reptile, fish or animal in any park.
   C.   Exception: This section shall not apply to persons having received
prior written permission from the city council, or in areas designated for such
use. (1973 Code § 6.04.090)
7-2-10: SWIMMING:
No person may swim, bathe, wade in or pollute the water of any fountain, pond,
lake or stream in any park except places designated for such purposes. (1973
Code § 6.04.100)
7-2-11: CAMPING:
No person shall camp, lodge or otherwise remain overnight in any park except at
a place designated for such purpose, or with prior written approval of the city
council. (1973 Code § 6.04.110)
7-2-12: WASTEWATER:
No person shall wash any article or dispose of any wastewater or other waste
liquid in any park other than in facilities provided for such purposes. (1973
Code § 6.04.120)
7-2-13: GLASS:
No person shall possess any glass container in any park, excepting those
containers holding food stuffs or substances used in the preparation of a meal
to be consumed on the park site. (1973 Code § 6.04.130)
7-2-14: HANDBILLS:
No person within any park shall distribute any handbill or circular, or post,
place or erect any bill, notice, paper or advertising device or other matter of
any kind without the prior written approval from the city council. (1973 Code §
6.04.140)
7-2-15: CHILDREN:
No parent, guardian or other person having the care, custody or control of any
child under the age of eight (8) years shall cause, permit or allow such child
to be in any public park or recreation area having a lake or pond within the
boundaries of such park or recreation area unless such child is accompanied by
a person not less than sixteen (16) years of age. (1973 Code § 6.04.150)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
SECTION:
7-3-1: Applicability
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Advisory Commission
7-3-4: Airport Manager
7-3-5: Use And Operation
7-3-6: Aircraft Operators
7-3-7: Wrecked Aircraft
7-3-8: Business Activities
7-3-9: Use, Lease Of Ground
7-3-10: Fees
7-3-11: Penalty
7-3-1: APPLICABILITY:
The rules and regulations set forth in this chapter, and all orders,
instructions, rules and regulations promulgated under authority prescribed in
this chapter, shall apply to and be in full force and effect upon the Yerington
airport as it is now or may hereafter be constituted. All persons using the
facilities of the Yerington airport shall observe these rules and regulations,
shall be a condition under which all persons may use such facilities. (1973
Code § 2.32.010)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, known as the YERINGTON MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
CODE, certain words and phrases are defined and certain provisions shall be
construed as set out in this section unless it becomes apparent from their
context that a different meaning is intended.
AIRCRAFT: A vehicle used or designed for navigation of or flight in the air
such as any aeroplane, airplane, gas bag, flying machine, balloon, or any
flying contrivance now known or hereinafter invented.
AIRPORT: Yerington Municipal Airport.
AIRPORT MANAGEMENT: The management entity or person appointed by the city
council to work in this capacity.
BUSINESS, COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY: The use of the airport by any person, group,
club, association, or corporation as a base for the conducting of commercial
activities for the carrying for hire of passengers, freight, express or mail,
for paid instruction in aviation or any aviation-related field, for the sale of
fuels, aviation supplies and materials, for aircraft rental, sales, maintenance
or service, or for any other aviation or nonaviation commercial activity
including the sale of refreshments or any commodity or service.
CAB: Civil Aeronautics Board.
CONTROL ZONE: That airspace of defined geographic-dimensions designated by the
FAA above and surrounding the airport within which the control tower exercises
authority.
FAA: The federal aviation administration of the United States of America.
LANDING AREA: The public use runway and taxiway system of the air terminal
maintained by the city for landing, taking off and taxiing by the public, and
includes the areas between the runways and taxiways and the necessary clearance
areas.
LESSEES: Qualified lessees of commercial airport facilities at the Yerington
municipal airport.
LESSOR: The city acting in the proprietary capacity with respect to the
airport.
OPERATIONAL AREAS: Any place on the landing area of the air terminal and also
includes the public use taxiways and ramps and the necessary rights of way and
clearance areas therefor, but does not include any such areas under lease to a
tenant or lessee on the air terminal.
OPERATOR: One who operates aircraft.
OWNER: The registered and/or legal owner of an aircraft according to the files
and records of the FAA.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association or body politic, and includes any trustee, receiver,
assignee or other similar representative thereof.
RAMP: An area designated as a ramp and used for the parking and maneuvering,
loading and unloading, and servicing of aircraft while they are on the ground.
ROAD: All areas designated as public use roads or streets for the exclusive use
of ground vehicles, but does not include any such areas under lease to a tenant
or lessee on the air terminal.
SERVICING OF AIRCRAFT: Only the oiling and fueling thereof.
TAXIWAYS: All areas designated as public use taxiways and used for the
exclusive use of aircraft movement while on the ground, but does not include
any such areas under lease to a tenant or lessee on the air terminal.
UNDEVELOPED AREAS: All the land on the air terminal except that defined as
operational areas and roads, and except that land legally used by or under
lease to a tenant or lessee. (1973 Code § 2.32.020)
7-3-3: ADVISORY COMMISSION:
   A.   Appointment: The council may, at its discretion, appoint an airport
advisory commission to make recommendations to the council as may be necessary
for the safe and reliable management of the airport. (1973 Code § 2.32.030)
   B.   Duties: The airport advisory commission will prepare rules and
regulations for the management and operation of the airport. Such rules and
regulations will be submitted to the city council for approval after which they
will be binding upon all persons using or involved in management or operation
of the airport. Such rules and regulations will be subject to review and change
or amendment as recommended by the airport advisory commission and approved by
the city council. (1973 Code § 2.32.040)
7-3-4: AIRPORT MANAGER:
The council may, at its discretion, appoint an airport manager to implement and
supervise the council's policies and directives at the Yerington airport. (1973
Code § 2.32.030)
7-3-5: USE AND OPERATION:
   A.   Special Events: Special events such as air shows, air races, sky
diving, and all events requiring the general use of the airport, other than
normal or routine airport traffic, shall be held only upon the prior approval
of the council, subject to all applicable FAA regulations and on such dates, in
such areas, and upon such terms and conditions as shall be specified by the
council. (1973 Code § 3.32.050)
   B.   Hours Of Operation: The airport shall be open for public use at all
hours of the day, subject to restrictions imposed by FAA and/or local
regulations. (1973 Code § 2.32.060)
   C.   Use Constitutes Acceptance Of Regulations: The use of the airport or
any of its facilities in any manner constitutes an acceptance by the user of
these rules and regulations and shall create an obligation on the part of the
user to abide by and obey those rules and regulations now and later promulgated
by the city council. (1973 Code § 2.32.070)
7-3-6: AIRCRAFT OPERATORS:
Every person operating an aircraft shall comply with and operate such aircraft
in conformity with these rules and regulations, and all pertinent rules,
regulations, orders and rulings of the CAB and the FAA. (1973 Code § 2.32.080)
7-3-7: WRECKED AIRCRAFT:
   A.   Removal: In the event any aircraft is wrecked or damaged to the extent
that it cannot be moved under its own power, the airport management shall be
notified as soon as possible. Subject to governmental or other investigations
and inspection of the wreckage, the owner or pilot of the wrecked or damaged
aircraft, or the owner's agent or legal representative shall, as soon as
reasonably possible, remove such aircraft to a place or location designated by
the airport management.
   B.   Failure To Remove: In the event the owner of the aircraft fails for any
reason to remove the wrecked or damaged aircraft from the airport as may be
requested by the airport manager, or to remove it from the traffic areas as
indicated in this chapter, the airport manager may cause the removal and
storage, or disposal of such wrecked or damaged aircraft at the expense of the
aircraft owner. (1973 Code § 2.32.090)
7-3-8: BUSINESS ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Compliance With Regulations Required: Subject to applicable orders,
certificates or permits of the CAB or the FAA, or their successors, no person
shall use the airport, or any portion thereof, or any of its improvements or
facilities for revenue producing commercial, business, personal or aeronautical
activities who has not first complied with this chapter and such rules and
regulations as are hereafter approved by the city council as well as
appropriate permits and licenses for such activities from the city and entered
into such written leases and other agreements prescribed by the city, or agreed
upon by the city and such person. (1973 Code § 2.32.100)
7-3-9: USE, LEASE OF GROUND:
   A.   Application: Application for leases of ground on the airport, or for
permission to carry on any commercial, business or aeronautical activity on the
airport, with the necessary permits and licenses, shall be made to the city
manager.
   B.   Council Action: The city manager shall present the application to the
council by at least its next meeting. The council may, if it deems it
advisable, have a public hearing upon the application.
   C.   Required Information And Materials: The applicant shall submit
information and material necessary, to the satisfaction of the council, that
the applicant can qualify and will comply with this chapter.
   D.   Required Signatures: The application shall be signed and submitted by
every party owning an interest in the business, those who will be managing the
business, every partner of a partnership, and each director and officer of a
corporation. (1973 Code § 2.32.110)
   E.   Review By Airport Advisory Commission: (Rep. by Ord. 03-10, 1-12-2004)
   F.   Grounds For Denial: The council may deny the application for any of the
following:
      1.   The applicant for any reason does not meet the qualifications,
standards and requirements established by these rules and regulations.
      2.   The applicant's proposed operations or construction will create a
safety hazard on the airport.
      3.   The granting of the application will require the council to spend
city funds, or to supply labor or materials in connection with the proposed
operations to an extent which or at a time when the council is unwilling to
enter into such arrangement; or the operation will result in a financial loss
to the city.
      4.   There is no appropriate, adequate or available space or building on
the airport to accommodate the entire activity of the applicant at the time of
the application.
      5.   The proposed operation or airport development or construction does
not comply with the master plan of the airport.
      6.   The development or use of the area requested by the applicant will
result in depriving existing fixed base operators of portions of the area in
which they are operating; or will result in a congestion of aircraft or
buildings; or will result in unduly interfering with the operations of any
present fixed base operator on the airport through problems in connection with
aircraft traffic or service; or preventing free access to the fixed base
operator's area.
      7.   Any party applying or interested in the business has supplied the
council with any false information or has misrepresented any material fact in
his application or in supporting documents; or has failed to make full
disclosure on his application or in supporting documents.
      8.   Any party applying or interested in the business has a record of
violating these rules and regulations or the rules and regulations of any other
airport, or the civil air regulations, the federal aviation regulations and/or
other rules and regulations applicable to the airport.
      9.   Any party applying or interested in the business has defaulted in
the performance of any lease or other agreement with the city or county.
      10.   Any party applying or interested in the business has a credit
report which contains derogatory information and does not appear to be a person
of satisfactory business responsibility and reputation.
      11.   The applicant does not appear to have, or have access to, finances
necessary to conduct the proposed operation for a minimum period of six (6)
months.
      12.   Any party applying or interested in the business has been convicted
of any crime or violation of any ordinance of such a nature that it indicates
to the council that the applicant would not be a desirable operator on the
airport.
      13.   The protection of the health, welfare, safety or morals of the
inhabitants of the city or the county require such denial.
   G.   Council Authority: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed
to prohibit the council from granting or denying, for any reason it deems
sufficient, an application to do business on the airport for the purpose of
selling, furnishing or of establishing nonaviation products and supplies or any
service or business of a nonaeronautical nature, or the application by a person
for an area on the airport for the personal nonprofit use of such person.
   H.   Insurance:
      1.   Required: All fixed base operators, special services operators, and
flying clubs must obtain public liability and property damage insurance with a
hold harmless agreement in favor the city, its officers and employees in the
following amounts:
 
Public liability, per person   $100,000.00
Public liability, per accident 300,000.00
Property damage                100,000.00
 
      2.   Certificate Of Insurance: Certificates of insurance will be kept on
file at all times with the airport manager. Thirty (30) days' prior notice of
cancellation shall also be filed with the airport manager. (1973 Code §
2.32.120)
7-3-10: FEES:
All airport fees, i.e., tiedown, parking, landing, etc., will be per schedule
established by the city council. Adoption and alterations of airport fees
schedule shall be by resolution of the council. Such schedule will be posted in
full view for operators and owners, and such posting shall constitute
notification. The schedule of fees shall become a part of the rules and
regulations governing management,and operation of the airport. (1973 Code §
2.32.130)
7-3-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1973 Code § 2.32.140; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CITY BOUNDARIES AND ANNEXATIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Purpose
7-4-2: Annexations
7-4-3: City Boundaries; Plat
7-4-4: Additions To City Limits
7-4-5: Municipal Services
7-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to record current City boundaries and any future
additions to the City limits. (Ord. 04-09, 12-20-2004)
7-4-2: ANNEXATIONS:
The City may annex territory by following the procedure provided for the
annexation of cities in those sections of Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 268,
as amended from time to time, which apply to counties having a population of
less than two hundred thousand (200,000). (Ord. 04-09, 12-20-2004)
7-4-3: CITY BOUNDARIES; PLAT:
The territory embraced in the City is that certain land described in the
official plat required by Nevada Revised Statutes 234.250 to be filed with the
County Recorder and County Assessor of Lyon County, as such plat is amended
from time to time. (Ord. 04-09, 12-20-2004)
7-4-4: ADDITIONS TO CITY LIMITS:
Date Ordinance Acreage Added
Date       Ordinance Acreage Added
12-20-2004 04-09     1,363.95
3-14-2005  05-02     3,193.88
10-10-2005 05-12     89.148
4-24-2006  06-02     233.530
6-9-2014   14-02     1.56
10-12-2015 15-01     13,072.69
1-22-2018  18-01     3,251.38
6-11-2018  18-03     20.7
1-10-2022  22-01     25.27
5-23-2022  22-03     .96
 
7-4-5: MUNICIPAL SERVICES:
The City of Yerington shall not be required to pay for the extension of
Municipal services to the territory annexed, but intends that Municipal
services shall be extended at the expense of the property owners and according
to demand, need and benefit of the respective property owners, and in
accordance with the policies, Code, and the applicable provisions of Nevada
Revised Statutes. The City will furnish police protection and maintenance of
installed, improved and accepted utilities, streets and public recreation
facilities in the annexation area. (Ord. 05-02, 3-14-2005)
CHAPTER 5
CITY PROPERTY APPRAISERS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Purpose Of Appraiser Provisions
7-5-2: List Of Qualified Appraisers
7-5-3: Appraiser Selection Process
7-5-1: PURPOSE OF APPRAISER PROVISIONS:
Pursuant to the legislative mandate of chapter 381, statutes of Nevada 2005 and
chapter 496, statutes of Nevada 2005 (AB 312 and SB 394 of the 73rd session of
the Nevada legislature), the city council of the city of Yerington does hereby
adopt this chapter establishing the procedures for creating and amending a list
of appraisers qualified to conduct appraisals of real property offered for sale
or lease by the council. This chapter applies when the city is offering real
property for sale or lease except as otherwise provided by state law including,
but not limited to, those exceptions contained in section 52.2 of chapter 496,
statutes of Nevada 2005. For the purposes of Nevada Revised Statutes 244.281(3)
only, the council hereby finds and resolves that all city owned parcels are
worth more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) if offered for sale and
authorizes the director of public works to follow the procedures of section
7-5-3 of this chapter to select appraisers without first having to obtain
another resolution of the council. (Ord. 07-01, 1-22-2007)
7-5-2: LIST OF QUALIFIED APPRAISERS:
   A.   The director of department of public works shall obtain from the Nevada
real estate division a list of all general appraisers in Lyon County. The
director shall send a request for qualification to each appraiser on that list
to determine which appraisers are interested in performing appraisals for sale
or lease of city property. The request for qualifications shall ask the
appraiser to designate whether he or she is willing and qualified to provide an
appraisal for the following four types of property: residential; general
commercial/industrial; ranches; and open space. The request shall also ask
whether the appraiser will and is qualified to appraise city owned property to
be leased. An appraiser who fails to respond to the request for qualifications
for at least one category of property within the time specified in the request
is not eligible to perform appraisals for the city until requests for
qualifications are next released.
   B.   From the responses to the request for qualifications the director shall
prepare a list of appraisers qualified to conduct appraisals of real property
offered for sale or lease by the council. The following standards shall be used
to determine minimum qualifications:
      1.   The appraiser must possess all necessary licenses;
      2.   The appraiser must not have violated professional appraiser
standards or statutory requirements in the performance of appraisals or cannot
have been disciplined or fined by any state or federal agency for conduct that
relates to the ability of the appraiser to perform the work to be required by
the city;
      3.   The appraiser must have the ability to obtain and maintain insurance
coverage as required by the city;
      4.   The appraiser must have the professional qualifications and
experience for the specific appraisal required by the city;
      5.   During the five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the
appointment by the city, the appraiser cannot have filed as a debtor in a
business capacity under the provisions of the United States bankruptcy code or
breached any contracts with a public agency or person in this state or any
other state;
      6.   The appraiser's application must be truthful and complete; and
      7.   The appraiser must execute the application form and consent to and
have the ability to satisfy all terms and conditions contained in any proposed
contract for appraisal services presented by the city.
   C.   Appraisers on the list shall keep the director informed of any change
in the status of standards listed in subsections B1 through B6 of this section.
The change in the appraiser's status or failure to maintain the minimum
qualifications is cause for immediate removal from the list by the director.
The director shall provide written notice to any appraiser of his or her
removal.
   D.   The names on the list shall be labeled to indicate the appraiser's
willingness and qualification to perform the following types of appraisals:
residential; general commercial/industrial; ranches; open space; and city owned
property to be leased. The names on the list must be organized in a random
order in a fashion determined by the director.
   E.   The names of appraisers who are organized in a firm of appraisers may
be placed on the list independently if each is independently qualified. No two
(2) appraisers from the same firm can be selected to appraise the same real
property. An appraiser who cannot be selected because of an appraisal firm
relationship retains his or her place on the list for the next appraisal
required by the city.
   F.   From time to time the director shall obtain a new list from the state
real estate division and follow the procedures in subsections A and B of this
section to assemble a new list. An appraiser whose name is stricken from the
list as required in subsection 7-5-3B of this chapter may be added to the new
list if properly qualified and responsive. (Ord. 07-01, 1-22-2007)
7-5-3: APPRAISER SELECTION PROCESS:
   A.   When an appraisal is required for the sale or lease of city real
property, the director shall send a request for proposal to the appraiser whose
name is next on the list for the type of property appraisal required, and who
has not been hired by the city for an appraisal since the last time the list
was assembled or reordered. The request shall identify the property to be
appraised, the desired terms and conditions of appraisal and the requirements
for the response to the request for proposal. The response from the appraiser
must include: a statement of specific qualifications to do the type of
appraisal required; a proposal that complies with the terms and conditions of
the request for proposal; the names of other appraisers in the appraiser's
firm, if any; a disclosure statement which includes, without limitation, all
sources of income of the appraiser that may constitute a conflict of interest,
any prior appraisal by the appraiser of the subject property and any
relationship of the appraiser with the city, the owner of the subject property
or the owners of any adjoining property to the one being appraised; and a
statement that the appraiser is not related within the first degree of
consanguinity or affinity to any person who has an interest in the real
property or an adjoining property.
   B.   If an appraiser responds to the request in terms that are responsive
and satisfactory to the director, the appraiser's proposal shall be presented
to the city council which shall verify the qualifications of the appraiser. The
determination of the council as to qualifications is conclusive. An appraiser's
name shall be stricken from the list for the type of appraisal requested if the
appraiser does not satisfactorily respond to the request as determined by the
director or the council declines to verify the appraiser's qualifications.
   C.   The director shall use the list and repeat the selection procedures
until the council approves an appraiser. To expedite the selection process, the
director may send a request for proposal to more than one appraiser on the
list. Those appraisers who respond but are not selected shall retain their
places on the list. The director may also send the name of more than one
appraiser to the board but shall report to the board the order of the
appraisers on the list. (Ord. 07-01, 1-22-2007)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATER AND SEWER RATES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Public Works Director
8-1-2: Water Rates
8-1-3: Sewer Rates
8-1-4: Statements
8-1-5: Sewer Connections
8-1-6: Sewers; Enforcement Responsibility
8-1-7: Grease Interceptors
8-1-8: Water Rights Dedication Or Payment
8-1-1: PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR:
   A.   Office Created: The office of public works director is hereby created.
(1973 Code § 13.04.010; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Powers And Duties: The public works director shall:
      1.   Have sole charge and management of the municipal water plant, the
care and custody of the pump house, engines, motor pumps, tanks, pipes, tools,
implements and materials in and used in connection with the municipal plant,
and be responsible for the safety of the property entrusted to his care,
subject at all times to the orders of the city council;
      2.   Keep a duplicate inventory of all property belonging to the
municipal water system one copy of which shall be filed with the city clerk,
check the same monthly and turn over all property to his successor;
      3.   Perform and do all things required of him by the city council
relating to the operation of the municipal water plant, and have charge of all
repairs and changes to any part of the system;
      4.   Have direction and control of all his assistants. (1973 Code §
13.04.020; amd. 2001 Code)
8-1-2: WATER RATES:
The city council shall, from time to time, by minute order:
   A.   Rules And Regulations: Fix such rules and regulations as may be
required; and
   B.   Rates: Fix the rates to be charged for water or service connections.
(1973 Code § 13.12.010)
8-1-3: SEWER RATES:
The city council shall, from time to time, by minute order:
   A.   Rules And Regulations: Fix such rules and regulations as may be
required; and
   B.   Rates: Fix the rates to be charged for sewer service and service
connections. (1973 Code § 13.24.010)
8-1-4: STATEMENTS:
   A.   Monthly Bills: All bills for water or sewer services, or both, shall be
rendered monthly and jointly at the established rates in advance or such bills
may be rendered on a regularly established day of each and every month in which
the service was rendered.
   B.   Separate Charges: Each bill shall show separately the amount of the
sewer service charges and the amount of the bill for water. (1973 Code §
13.24.020)
   C.   Unpaid Bills: All regular bills for sewer and water issued by the city
remaining unpaid after fifteen (15) days from the date of billing shall incur
monthly interest at the rate listed on the current city of Yerington fee
schedule, interest on past due accounts.
   D.   Returned Checks: All checks returned to the city shall be assessed a
fee and shall incur monthly interest at the rate listed on the current city of
Yerington fee schedule, interest on past due accounts. These fees will be in
addition to the face value of the check and added to the customer's account.
(Ord. 03-03, 9-8-2003)
   E.   Notification: All sewer and water bills issued by the city shall
include notification to the customer as follows: (1973 Code § 13.34.030)
      1.   The same shall incur monthly interest at the rate listed on the
current city of Yerington fee schedule, interest on past due accounts, for all
past due accounts;
      2.   All unpaid bills are considered past due fifteen (15) days after
mailing, at which time a twenty four (24) hour termination of service
notification may be issued by the city; (Ord. 03-03, 9-8-2003)
      3.   The statements regularly issued shall include notification to the
customer that statement amounts contested may be inquired into at the city
clerk's office; (1973 Code § 13.34.030)
      4.   Customers may question improper billings by contacting the city
clerk within seven (7) days following the receipt of the city's decision with
regard to the unpaid balance;
      5.   Customers be notified that to avoid termination of service, the
customer must deposit the disputed billing amount with the city and pay all
subsequent bills pending resolution of disputed amounts. (1973 Code §
13.34.030; amd. 2001 Code)
   F.   Discontinuance Of Service For Nonpayment: If any bill for water or
service charges, or part thereof, is not paid in full within forty five (45)
days after the billing date, a twenty four (24) hour termination of water
service notification shall be posted on the front door of the facility and an
administrative fee at the rate found on the current city of Yerington fee
schedule, administrative fee (posting 24 hour notice), will be added to the
bill. If the invoice is not paid in full within the twenty four (24) hour
period, the water service shall be immediately discontinued and shut off
without further notice to the customer. An administrative fee at the rate found
on the current city of Yerington fee schedule, administrative fee (shutting
water off for nonpayment), will be added to the bill. Service will not be
restored until the account is paid in full. (Ord. 03-03, 9-8-2003)
   G.   Owner's Responsibility: All water and sewer bills are the sole
responsibility of the owner of the property served. If service has been
discontinued and an outstanding balance exists, service will not be restored
until all sums owed are paid in full. (Ord. 09-01, 2-9-2009)
8-1-5: SEWER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Connection Required: All industrial, business and residential
establishments within the city shall be connected with the municipal sewer
system, and no other method of sewage disposal shall be used; provided, such
establishments are capable of being served by and through the municipal system
at the established rates.
   B.   Failure Or Refusal To Connect: If the owner of any improved property
fails or refuses to make such connection after having been notified so to do by
city officials, the city may discontinue furnishing water to the property.
(1973 Code § 13.20.010)
   C.   Connection Charge: For connecting improved property within the city to
the municipal sewer system see fees as listed on the city of Yerington fee
schedule. (Ord. 03-11, 1-12-2004)
   D.   Maximum Connection Length: The total length of the connection, from the
sewer line to the property line, shall not exceed fifty feet (50'). (1973 Code
§ 13.20.020; amd. 2001 Code)
   E.   Service Outside City: The city council may, from time to time, make and
enter into contracts for the collection, carriage and treatment of sewage from
property located outside the limits of the city and providing for payment to
the city of proper charges for such service. (1973 Code § 13.28.010)
8-1-6: SEWERS; ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITY:
All officers of the city shall take all action necessary or appropriate to
enforce the provisions of sections
8-1-3 through
8-1-5 of this chapter. (1973 Code § 13.32.010)
8-1-7: GREASE INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words
shall have the meanings set forth in this subsection:
    EXCESSIVE SEWAGE: That amount of sewerage discharged to a trunk sewer,
either directly or indirectly, which creates a stoppage, plugging, breaking or
any reduction in sewer capacity of the city.
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS: Any person, business or organization that prepares food
and/or cleans utensils necessary in the preparation and serving of food on a
regular basis. Residential use is excluded.
   GARAGE: Establishments that service, repair, wash or refurbish motor
vehicles, farm equipment, construction equipment, aircraft, tractors and
trailers and the like.
   GREASE INTERCEPTOR: A device that is designed in accordance with the uniform
plumbing code, appendix H, and installed in such a manner as to separate and
retain grease that is produced in food preparation and serving areas, and, at
the same time, permitting normal sewage to be discharged into the system.
   INSPECTOR: The person designated by the city to inspect grease interceptors
for proper construction, installation, operation, and maintenance.
   PUMPER: A qualified person or firm who has a city business license to remove
and dispose of grease. (1973 Code § 13.44.010)
   B.   Grease, Sand/Oil Interceptors Required: Auto or machinery wash racks,
or floor or slab used for cleaning machinery, machine parts or autos shall
drain or discharge into a grease interceptor. Grease interceptors will be
required on all new construction commenced after the effective date hereof. All
such structures, drains, or lines which utilize the city storm drains or waste
water treatment facility shall comply with this section and that of the uniform
plumbing code. (1973 Code § 13.44.020)
   C.   Grease Interceptor Required:
      1.   All food establishments producing grease or grease byproducts and
introduce said grease into the sanitary sewer system within the city shall
install an approved grease interceptor in accordance with the uniform plumbing
code within one hundred eighty (180) days of the passage hereof. Each grease
interceptor shall be so installed to be easily accessible for inspection by the
city. The approved grease interceptor shall be designed and installed by a
qualified firm having a city business license. Grease emulsifiers or enzymes
are prohibited for use in grease interceptors. (1973 Code § 13.44.030; amd.
2001 Code)
      2.   If an existing grease interceptor or grease trap device that was
legally or properly installed in an establishment prior to the effective date
hereof is effective in removing grease and is designed and installed in such a
manner that it can be inspected and properly maintained, then the requirement
of a device conforming to the uniform plumbing code, appendix H, shall be
waived by the city. However, if such existing grease interceptor or trap is
incapable or becomes incapable of effectively retaining grease, the city shall
issue a written notice that requires the owner/operator of such establishment
to install the grease interceptor required by this section within one hundred
eighty (180) days. (1973 Code § 13.44.030)
   D.   Inspections:
      1.   Accessibility: All grease interceptors/traps shall be readily
accessible for inspection and shall be properly maintained to ensure that
accumulations of grease do not impair the efficiency of the interceptor/trap or
are not discharged with the effluent.
      2.   Required Records: Each establishment shall keep a record of every
time the interceptor/trap is cleaned, which shall include the date, the name of
the pumper, and such records shall be available to review by city authorities.
      3.   Improper Maintenance: Any interceptor/trap shall not be considered
properly maintained if accumulation of grease totals more than twenty five
percent (25%) of the interceptor/trap operative fluid capacity.
      4.   Periodic Inspections: Inspections will be made periodically by the
city and without prior notice.
      5.   Notice Of Violation: If it is found that the interceptor/trap in any
establishment is improperly maintained or required records are not being kept,
a notice of violation will be issued to the operator. If, on any subsequent
inspection, it is found that the aforesaid condition continues to exist, such
violation shall constitute a misdemeanor. (1973 Code § 13.44.040)
   E.   Extension For Compliance: If, as a result of this section, an undue
financial hardship can be demonstrated by an establishment, the city manager
may, upon request of the establishment, extend the time to comply with this
section, for an additional period of six (6) months. (1973 Code § 13.44.050)
8-1-8: WATER RIGHTS DEDICATION OR PAYMENT:
   A.   Purpose:
      1.   Due to growth within the city of Yerington, it is necessary to
develop policy to protect and plan for future use of the city's certificated
water rights to serve future applicants.
      2.   It would be inequitable to require existing water customers to pay
the costs related to serve future applicants.
      3.   The city adopts this section to ensure that future applicants pay
all costs associated with providing them water service.
   B.   Definitions:
    APPLICANT: Any person or entity that applies for water service from the
city.
   CITY: The city of Yerington.
   CONNECTION FEES: Fees paid to the city for connecting applicant's property
to the city's water system.
   CUSTOMER: Any person or entity being served water from the city prior to the
passage date hereof.
   DEDICATION OF FACILITIES: To transfer ownership of facilities to the city,
whether within or without the city's limits.
   DEDICATION OF WATER RIGHTS: To transfer water rights by deed or other lawful
means to the city together with all documentation necessary to completely
conclude the transfer.
   DEVELOPER: Any person or entity that applies for water service to supply
four (4) or more water services through a single application.
   FACILITIES: Consists of physical facilities, including, but not limited to,
wells, casings, pumps, pipes, motors, related electrical installations, valves,
fittings, water treatment installations and easements.
   FAIR VALUE OF WATER RIGHTS: That value of city owned water rights as
determined by the Yerington city council from time to time.
   PERSON: Any applicant that applies for water service.
   STATE ENGINEER: The Nevada state engineer in the division of water
resources, department of conservation and natural resources of the state of
Nevada.
   WATER RIGHTS: Ground water rights available to serve applicants recognized
as valid by the state engineer as permitted (certificated or uncertificated)
rights, in good standing on the records of the state engineer, free and clear
of encumbrances (except for conditions of the permit) or claims of others, the
place of use of which is capable of being transferred to the city of
Yerington's service area and the manner of use of which is capable of being
changed to municipal, and, if applicable, the point(s) of diversion of which is
(are) capable of being changed.
   C.   Payment For Water Rights Or Dedication Of Water Rights In Lieu Of
Payment:
      1.   All applicants desiring water service from the city must pay fair
value for the amount of water rights required to serve the applicant.
      2.   In the alternative to paying fair value, and in the city's sole
discretion, an applicant may dedicate to the city that amount of water rights
required to serve the applicant. In the event of dedication rather than
payment, applicant will be solely responsible for all costs associated with the
transfer of the water rights to city.
      3.   City's approval of an applicant's application for water service
shall not impose any obligation on the city to install any infrastructure or
improvements to the city's water system necessary to connect applicant's
property to the system or to provide water service. Rather, the applicant is
responsible for all such costs.
   D.   Dedication Of Facilities And Payment For Facilities:
      1.   An applicant shall, at its sole expense and as a condition to the
city's obligation to serve the applicant with municipal water, install and
dedicate all facilities necessary to deliver the water to the applicant.
      2.   All facilities to be constructed and dedicated to the city must be
approved by the city prior to construction.
      3.   Prior to the city's acceptance of dedication for facilities that
will actually pump or produce water, the applicant shall provide a well
driller's log and a water quality analysis from a Nevada state certified
laboratory, approved by the city, that will enable the city to determine
whether such water source meets city's water standards, and, if not, to
determine the level and type of treatment needed to bring the water up to city
standards. Only facilities that meet city standards will be accepted by the
city.
   E.   Applications:
      1.   All applications shall be submitted to the city by the applicant
with such information and on such forms as may be required by the city,
together with all required fees.
      2.   The application shall include all information necessary to enable
the city to assess the application, and to determine the fair value payment or
the amount of water rights to be dedicated to the city, including, but not
limited to:
         a.   An accurate legal description, proof of ownership, and vicinity
maps depicting the location and elevations (5 foot contours) of the development
to be served in relation to the city's existing service area;
         b.   An estimate of the domestic and fire protection water
requirements for the development to the satisfaction of the city;
         c.   A description of the quantity and quality of the water rights
proposed to be dedicated to the city, if any, to the satisfaction of the city;
         d.   Sufficient project details to enable the city to develop
preliminary engineering plans and specifications describing the improvements
and/or alterations to the city's existing water facilities and the related cost
to provide the expanded water service to the proposed development;
         e.   Sufficient project details to enable the city to develop
preliminary engineering plans and specifications describing the size and
location of feeder mains, project mains, and other necessary facilities and the
related cost to provide the expanded water service to the proposed development;
         f.   Nonrefundable application fees as set forth on the applicable
city of Yerington fee schedule; and
         g.   A cash advance, to be determined by the city, to cover the
estimated cost for legal, engineering and other essential services incurred by
the city to evaluate the impact that the proposed development will have on the
city's existing water supplies, distribution facilities and existing customers.
In lieu of the cash advance, the applicant may provide a bond, letter of credit
or other guarantee acceptable to the city. This advance must be paid within ten
(10) days of the city advising the applicant of the amount of the advance,
following submission of the application to the city; and
         h.   Such other information as the city may reasonably require.
      3.   Within sixty (60) days of the city's receipt of a complete
application, the city shall act on the application and either approve the
application, with or without conditions, or disapprove the application.
   F.   Time For Payment Of Fair Value Or Dedication Of Water Rights Thereof
And Time For Dedication Of Facilities Or Payment Of Costs Thereof: The fair
value payment shall be made to the city by the applicant within ten (10) days
of the city's approval of the final map. If not paid as required above, the
application shall be deemed void without further action by the city. If water
rights are permitted to be dedicated to the city in lieu of cash payment, all
necessary applications, documentation and fees deemed necessary by the city
shall be submitted as determined by the city.
   G.   Exclusivity Of Dedications: All property dedicated to the city shall be
within the city's sole control, and those persons or entities dedicating such
property shall have no further right with regard thereto. Said property may be
used by the city in performance of its obligations to serve the municipal needs
of its other customers wherever they may be lawfully served.
   H.   Abandonment Of Application, Refunds:
      1.   All applications approved by the city shall remain in good standing,
subject to the provisions of this section and compliance by the applicant with
all conditions established by the city, so long as the applicant's building
permit issued by Lyon County or the city of Yerington remains in full force and
effect. In the event the applicant fails to obtain its building permit within
one year of the approval of the application, the city's approval shall
automatically expire.
      2.   In the event a building permit issued by Lyon County or the city of
Yerington lapses, the application with the city shall also lapse and any action
theretofore taken by the city on the application, including any "will serve"
letter issued shall be deemed canceled without any action by the city. In such
event the city shall retain, without further obligation of any kind to the
applicant, all fees and deposits previously paid to the city as well as all
property transferred to the city.
      3.   A developer who does not intend to pursue his development may apply
for the return of dedicated water rights and/or a refund of any payments for
the fair value of water rights, provided construction of the project has not
begun. The city shall retain all other fees.
      4.   Filing and application fees, if applicable, are not refundable under
any circumstances.
   I.   On Site Development Costs And Connection Fees:
      1.   All cost of water distribution facilities, including, but not
limited to, all meters and connections to the city's closest appropriately
sized water main, shall be paid by the applicant.
      2.   Payment for all connection fees established by the Yerington city
council, as revised from time to time shall only be made to the city when a
building permit is issued.
      3.   In the event a development has not been completed within two (2)
years of the date of approval of the development by the city, the city may
sever any physical connection between the city's water system and the
development, and take such other steps as may be necessary to protect the
city's system. All costs incurred by the city to sever such physical
connections and for other work undertaken to ensure the safety and integrity of
the city's system shall be paid by the applicant.
      4.   The city council shall, from time to time, establish connection
fees.
   J.   Criteria For Fair Value Payment And Dedication Of Water Rights To City:
      1.   Fair Value Payment: The amount of fair value payment is computed in
annual acre feet of water as follows:
AFA = Acre foot annually
FS = The fee can be found in the city of Yerington fee schedule as adjusted
from time to time by the Yerington city council.
Type AFA Cost
Type                                                                  AFA  Cost
a. Single-family residence                                            1.0  FS
b. Each separate living unit in an apartment house, town-house,       0.75 FS
condominium, motel or hotel (with kitchen)
c. Each motel or hotel unit (without a kitchen)                       0.25 FS
d. Each recreation vehicle space                                      0.25 FS
e. For each 1,000 square feet of landscaped area around apartments,
motels, hotels, townhouses, condominiums, commercial and retail       0.25 FS
facilities
f. Commercial and retail facilities for each 1,000                    0.25 FS
square feet of structural improvements
g. Casinos, convention space, industrial and all types of development TBD  FS
to be determined on a case by case basis by the city council
 
      2.   Dedicated Water Rights: The amount of water rights to be dedicated
to the city of Yerington in connection with water applications is as follows:
(AFA = Acre foot annually)
Type AFA
Type                                                                       AFA
a. Single-family residence                                                 1.0
b. Each separate living unit in an apartment house, town-house,            0.75
condominium, motel or hotel (with kitchen)
c. Each motel or hotel unit (without a kitchen)                            0.75
d. Each recreation vehicle space                                           0.25
e. For each 1,000 square feet of landscaped area around apartments,        0.25
motels, hotels, townhouses, condominiums, commercial and retail facilities
f. Commercial and retail facilities for each 1,000 square feet of          0.25
structural improvements
g. Casinos, convention space, industrial and all types of development to   TBD
be determined on a case by case basis by the city council
 
      3.   Revisions And Additions: The amount of water rights to be dedicated
to the city by persons proposing developments may be revised or expanded from
time to time by the city council. (Ord. 05-01, 2-28-2005)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SERVICE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Application
8-2-2: Connection
8-2-3: Directions Where Mains Not Laid Out In Streets
8-2-4: Opening Trenches; Attaching To Mains; Altering Service Pipes
8-2-5: Grade Of Curb Cutoff Boxes
8-2-6: Size Of Tap And Service Pipe
8-2-7: Opening And Closing Curb Cocks
8-2-8: Connections Outside City
8-2-9: Plumber Construed As Agent Of Property Owner
8-2-10: Plumber Leaving Water Turned On
8-2-11: Discontinuance Of Service At Owner's Request
8-2-12: Supplying Water To Another Person
8-2-13: Restricted Use
8-2-14: Tampering With Water System Or Property
8-2-15: Pools And Tanks
8-2-16: Standpipe
8-2-17: Waste Of Water
8-2-18:    Discontinuance Of Service
8-2-19:    Restoration Of Service
8-2-20:    Penalty
8-2-1: APPLICATION:
   A.   Written Application: Any person desiring a water supply from the city
waterworks shall make a written or printed application at the office of the
city clerk. (1973 Code § 13.08.010)
   B.   Contents: Each application for water service shall give the name of the
plumber selected to introduce the water to the premises of the consumer; give
the location, kind of building, the number of families occupying the building,
and the entire area of ground to be supplied; and fully and truly state the
purpose for which the water is to be used. The applicant will be required to
provide a copy of a government-issued identification such as a current driver's
license. (1973 Code § 13.08.020; amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   Agreement Of Compliance: Each application for water service shall
contain an agreement that the applicant will be governed by the rules and
regulations prescribed by the city council for the control of the water supply.
   D.   Signatures: Each application for water service shall be signed by the
owner of the premises for which the water is wanted or by his duly authorized
attorney. (1973 Code § 13.08.040)
   E.   Connection Fees: Each application for water service shall be
accompanied by the prescribed fees for making service connection. (1973 Code §
13.08.050)
   F.   Approval: Each application for water service shall be approved by the
public works director. (1973 Code § 13.08.020; amd. 2001 Code)
   G.   Deposit Requirements - New Service; Residential And Commercial: All new
residential and commercial service connections shall be charged a refundable
deposit as set forth in the City of Yerington Fee Schedule by resolution of the
City Council.
   H.   Deposit Requirement When Service Has Been Disconnected For Non-Payment;
Residential and Commercial: All customers who have had their service
disconnected for non-payment shall be required to pay a refundable deposit set
forth in the City of Yerington Fee Schedule by resolution of the City Council.
   I.   Refund Of Deposit:
      1.   The customer making the deposit may request a refund provided the
customer has timely paid all required utility payments for twelve (12) months.
      2.   Upon voluntary termination of services, the City shall:
         a.   If the customer pays the entire balance owed on the account
within thirty (30) calendar days of the "final" bill, return the entire deposit
to the address provided by the customer; or
         b.   At the customer's request, apply the deposit against the balance
on the final bill. If the final bill is less than the deposit, the remaining
balance shall be forwarded to the customer at the address provided.
      3.   If services are terminated for non-payment, the City retains the
right to apply any deposit against that account. The customer will be charged a
new deposit upon seeking reconnection or a new service at another address.
      4.   Requests for refunds of deposit must be made in writing to City
Hall. The City Clerk shall be responsible to verify whether the requirements of
division (1) are met. If the requirements are met, the City Clerk shall issue a
refund check to the customer within thirty (30) calendar days of the written
request. If the customer failed to meet the requirements for a refund, the City
Clerk shall issue a letter to the customer explaining the reason for the
denial.
      5.   In the event a customer, who made a deposit on their account,
subsequently dies prior to a refund, the deposit shall first be applied against
the outstanding water bill, if any. Any remaining balance shall then be
refunded to the customer's next of kin as determined by a Court of competent
jurisdiction or upon valid proof of next of kin. (Ord. 19-01, 1-13-20)
8-2-2: CONNECTION:
No connection shall be made on the city side of the curb cutoff by any person
for any purpose except as authorized by the public works director or his
assistant. (1973 Code § 13.16.030; amd. 2001 Code)
8-2-3: DIRECTIONS WHERE MAINS NOT LAID OUT IN STREET:
When water mains have not been laid in front of any premises to be supplied
with water, a map or diagram or other explicit direction shall be furnished the
applicant by the public works director as to the point of attachment to street
main, the method of attachment, the position and depth of the service pipe in
the street, and the material of which the same shall be composed. (1973 Code §
13.16.040; amd. 2001 Code)
8-2-4: OPENING TRENCHES; ATTACHING TO MAINS; ALTERING SERVICE PIPES:
No person shall:
   A.   Open Trench: Open any trench in the streets or alleys of the city for
the purpose of laying any service connecting with the water mains of the city;
   B.   Make Attachment: Make any attachment with any water main of the city;
or
   C.   Alter Service Pipe: Make any alteration in any service pipe without
first obtaining the approval of the public works director. (1973 Code §
13.16.050; amd. 2001 Code)
8-2-5: GRADE OF CURB CUTOFF BOXES:
Curb cutoff boxes shall be placed at proper grade by the public works director
when installed and no changes thereof shall be made except by the public works
director or at his direction. (1973 Code § 13.16.060; amd. 2001 Code)
8-2-6: SIZE OF TAP AND SERVICE PIPE:
The size of the tap to be inserted in a water main and the size and quality of
the service pipe between the tap in the street main and the curb line, curb
cock and curb box, under any application shall be a minimum of three-fourths
inch (3/4"). (1973 Code § 13.16.080; amd. 2001 Code)
8-2-7: OPENING AND CLOSING CURB COCKS:
   A.   Done By Public Works Director: The turning on and off of the city water
at the curb cock shall be done by the public works director or some person
designated by him for that purpose.
   B.   Prohibited: No person other than herein stated shall at any time or for
any purpose close or open such cock. (1973 Code § 13.16.090)
8-2-8: CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE CITY:
   A.   Power To Authorize: When the city council deems it feasible, it may
authorize water service to users beyond the corporate limits of the city.
   B.   User To Furnish: In such cases, the water user shall furnish all water
lines and the necessary work and labor for the installation thereof from the
nearest mains within the city to the property owned by such water user.
   C.   Single Premises: Not more than one residence building or premises shall
be supplied through any one connection.
   D.   Charges: Each such connection shall be charged at the metered rates
established from time to time by the city council. (1973 Code § 13.16.070)
8-2-9: PLUMBER CONSTRUED AS AGENT OF PROPERTY OWNER:
   A.   The plumber named in any application for water shall be considered the
agent of the owner of the premises while employed in the prosecution of the
worked named in the application.
   B.   The city shall in no way be responsible for his acts while so employed.
(1973 Code § 13.16.100)
8-2-10: PLUMBER LEAVING WATER TURNED ON:
No plumber shall leave the water turned on for any purpose after completing any
plumbing work. (1973 Code § 13.16.010)
8-2-11: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE AT OWNER'S REQUEST:
   A.   Application For Discontinuance: If the owner of any premises on which
water is being used desires to discontinue the use of water from any service,
he shall make an application for that purpose at the office of the city clerk.
   B.   Water Rents: After the date of the receipt of such application, the
water rents accruing for such service shall cease for the period for which such
service shall be shut off, providing the period of such discontinuance be not
less than one month. (1973 Code § 13.08.070)
8-2-12: SUPPLYING WATER TO ANOTHER PERSON:
No water user shall supply any other consumer who is not already paying for
water without first making application therefor to the public works director.
(1973 Code § 13.08.080; amd. 2001 Code)
8-2-13: RESTRICTED USE:
The city council may, by motion, restrict the use of city water from time to
time by the implementation of either of the orders of restriction set forth
below. The orders of restriction need not be applied in sequence.
   A.   First Order: The first order of restriction shall limit water use as
follows:
      1.   Residences and businesses with addresses ending in even numbers may
use water only on even-numbered days of the month; and residences and
businesses with addresses ending in odd numbers may use water only on odd-
numbered days of the month, for the following uses: for sprinkling of lawns,
gardens and shrubbery; the washing of vehicles (except commercial car washes);
and other similar exterior uses.
      2.   Users who do not have a specific address may use water for the
reasons specified in subsection A1 of this subsection on Mondays, Wednesdays
and Fridays only.
      3.   Water use in the event of an emergency shall be excluded from this
order of restriction.
   B.   Second Order: The second order of restriction shall prohibit the use of
water for the reasons specified in subsection A1 of this section.
   C.   Compliance Required: No person shall wilfully violate this section or
any restriction ordered by the city council.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who wilfully violates this section or any
restriction ordered by the city council in accordance herewith shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1973 Code § 13.08.090)
8-2-14: TAMPERING WITH WATER SYSTEM OR PROPERTY:
   A.   No person except the public works director or someone authorized by
him, shall tap the mains or pipes of the city water system or in any way
interfere with the works or service of said system.
   B.   No person, without permission of the public works director, shall enter
any buildings or enclosure, climb up any ladder, tower or tank of the water
system or touch any machinery, material or tools, or open any fire hydrant,
change any meter, gauge, register or valve, or in any way interfere with the
property of the city water system. (1973 Code § 13.16.020; amd. 2001 Code)
8-2-15: POOLS AND TANKS:
   A.   Permission Required: When a large quantity of water is desired for
filling a swimming pool or for other purposes requiring one thousand (1,000)
gallons or more of water, arrangements shall be made with the city prior to
taking such water. Permission to take water in such quantities shall be given
only if it can be safely delivered and if other customers will not be
inconvenienced.
   B.   Penalty: Any person who wilfully violates this section and takes any
such large quantity of water without first obtaining permission from the city
shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1973 Code § 13.08.100)
8-2-16: STANDPIPE:
When water is in limited supply, access to water from the standpipe will be
closed to public and private use. (1973 Code § 13.08.110)
8-2-17: WASTE OF WATER:
The wasteful use of water, at any time, will not be tolerated. Property owners
who fail to practice water conservation will receive one warning notice.
Failure to correct the wasteful practice will result in a citation being
issued. (1973 Code § 13.08.120)
8-2-18:  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   Voluntary Termination Of Service:
      1.   A customer may request to have a service discontinued by delivering
written notice to City Hall at least one (1) business day before the date of
requested discontinuance. Charges for water service will terminate on the date
the service is disconnected.
      2.   Emergency situations do not require this prior notice. If the reason
for the emergency shut off is the lack of an appropriate shut off at the
building or residence, the customer shall be required to reimburse the City for
the emergency service on a time and material basis and will be required to
install, at the owner's expense, a shut off valve near the service entrance
into the house per Section 8-2-4(L) above.
      3.   Except in emergency situations, customers requesting discontinuance
of water service must do so by signing a request for discontinuance of service,
must pay their balance in full and pay a disconnection fee, the amount to be
established by resolution of the City Council.
      4.   Customers requesting discontinuance of water service in non-
emergency situations during non-regular working hours will be charged a call-
out fee as established by resolution of the City Council.
   B.   Discontinuance Due To Non-Payment:
      1.   Policy: It is the policy of the City to discontinue utility services
to a residential or business unit if monthly utility billing (including water
and sewer) is not paid for two consecutive billing cycles (two months).
      2.   Procedure: The City shall provide the affected service location
written notice, sent to the customer's billing address, informing the customer
that the City intends to discontinue services and provide the date, which will
be at least ten (10) calendar days from the date the City mails the notice, of
its intent to terminate services. If the City does not receive a response from
the customer within ten (10) calendar days, the City shall affix a second
written notice in a conspicuous place at the service location where service is
to be terminated. Such second notice shall be given at least three (3) business
days before services are terminated.
         a.   Service Of Initial Written Notice: The initial notice must be
served upon the customer by depositing the notice with the United States Postal
Service, properly addressed and postage prepaid, for delivery by first-class
mail to the customer's last known mailing address. The initial notice shall be
deemed completed on the date the notice is deposited with the United States
Postal Service, properly addressed and postage prepaid, for delivery by first-
class mail to the customer's last known mailing address.
         b.   Contents Of Written Notice: The initial and second notice shall
contain the following:
         (1)   The account number and address to which services are to be
terminated;
         (2)   The date on which the termination will occur;
         (3)   The reason for the intended termination, including, if the
intended termination is for nonpayment, a statement designating the bill as one
for actual or estimated use and specifying the total amount owed, the period
over which that amount was incurred and the minimum payment required to avoid
termination;
         (4)   The procedures the customer may use to dispute or appeal from
the intended termination, providing the address and telephone number for the
City;
         (5)   A statement that the City will promptly investigate any
complaint or dispute and provide the customer its written decision on the
matter;
         (6)   A statement that if the customer wishes to dispute any fact or
interpretation of a regulation relied upon by the City in its decision to
terminate services, the customer must appeal to the City Council;
         (7)   A statement that services will not be terminated before a
resolution of the dispute if the customer pays the questioned portion of the
bill at the time the dispute arises and pays all subsequent bills;
         (8)   An explanation of any arrangements for payment which the utility
offers to customers who have difficulty in paying their bills, including any
deferred payment programs;
         (9)   An explanation of the restrictions on the termination when
dangerous to the customer's health; and
         (10)   An explanation of the utility's fee schedule and procedures for
reconnecting service.
      3.   A customer whose service has been disconnected for non-payment will
be required to pay a disconnection fee. Before services will be reconnected the
customer will be required to pay any remaining balance on the account, pay a
reconnection fee, pay a new deposit, and/or sign a contract for a deferred
payment plan.
      4.   The City retains the right to require any customer who has failed to
make timely payments on their services, or who have had their water turned off
due to non-payment, to pay a deposit as a condition precedent for water and
sewer services being reauthorized.
      5.   Bills for water service are due and payable on or before the 15th of
each month and become delinquent on the 25th day of each month. Delinquent
accounts will be charged one and one half percent (1.5%) interest on the
outstanding account balance.
   C.   The City may involuntarily terminate service to any customer with prior
written notice for:
      1.   Non-payment of delinquent bill for water services provided;
      2.   Failure to make a security deposit for water service or an
installment payment on a delinquent bill;
      3.   Negligent or wasteful use of water on the premises of the customer;
         a.   The City may terminate service for wasting water where the water
from a customer's premises is flowing into, under, upon or over any public
street, avenue, alley, sidewalk or highway, or so excessively upon the
customer's own premises as to constitute a waste of water in the determination
of the appropriate City personnel or the Yerington Police Department.
         b.   The City may charge the customer a civil penalty for wasting
water or violating the City's seasonal watering restrictions as identified in
Section 8-2-20.
         c.   The City may terminate water service for violation of the City's
seasonal watering restrictions.
      4.   Violation of any rules contained in this Code.
   D.   The City may involuntarily terminate service to any customer without
prior written notice for the following:
      1.   If an unsafe or hazardous condition related to water service is
found to exist on the customer's premises,
      2.   If the use of water service by any apparatus, appliances, equipment
or otherwise on the customer's premises is found to be detrimental or damaging
to the facilities or services of the City, or to other customers;
      3.   Upon the order of any court;
      4.   If the acts of the customer or the conditions upon the customer's
premises are such as to indicate to the City that the customer intends to
defraud it;
      5.   If the City has discovered that a customer has obtained service by
fraudulent means, or has diverted the water service for unauthorized use, or
has stolen water service by means of opening a valve or meter that was closed
for non-payment or failure to open an account.
         a.   The City will not restore service to such customer until that
customer has complied with the rules and reasonable requirements of the City
and the City has been reimbursed for the full amount of the service rendered
and the actual cost to the City incurred by reason of the fraudulent use.
         b.   The illegal taking of services without paying for them is a
misdemeanor.
      5.   If the City has tried diligently to meet the requirements for notice
in Section 8-2-18(B) above, but has not been able to give such notice;
      6.   If an event occurs which could not have been reasonably anticipated
or controlled and which requires the termination of service;
      7.   If the location where service is provided has been abandoned; or
      8.   If the customer is providing services to another location. (Ord. 19-
01, 1-13-20)
8-2-19:  RESTORATION OF SERVICE:
A.   Reconnection Fees: Where service has been terminated for any reason, the
City shall charge a reconnection fee, the amount of which shall be set by the
City Council by resolution, which must be paid prior to reconnection to water
service.
B.   If the customer requests connection of service after regular working hours
of the Water Department, the customer shall pay a fee, set by the City Council
by resolution, to cover costs of overtime and equipment usage.
C.   Water service shall not be re-established until all delinquent bills plus
interest at the rate of one and one half percent (1.5%) per month and the
reconnection fee set by resolution of the City Council and any legal fees are
paid in full or the customer has signed a deferred payment plan agreement.
D.   The City shall not issue "Will Serve" letters for new service to any
individual, person, company, contractor or corporation with any delinquent
water bills. (Ord. 19-01, 1-13-20)
8-2-20:   PENALTY:
Any person who willfully and knowingly violates any provision of this chapter
is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day on which a violation occurs constitutes a separate
offense. (1973 Code § 13.08.130; amd. 2001 Code; Ord. 19-01, 1-13-20)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER CONSTRUCTION; WASTEWATER DISCHARGE AND TREATMENT
SECTION:
8-3-1: Scope
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Administration
8-3-4: Inspectors
8-3-5: Approval Of Plans
8-3-6: Sewer Construction; Sewer Use
8-3-7: Industrial Wastewater
8-3-8: Trade Secrets
8-3-9: Trucker's Discharge Permit
8-3-10: Notice To Violators
8-3-11: Penalty
8-3-1: SCOPE:
   A.   Interpretation: This chapter shall be interpreted in accordance with
the definitions set forth in section
8-3-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Applicability: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the direct
or indirect discharge of all liquid-carried wastes to facilities of the city.
This chapter, among other things, provides for the regulation of sewer
construction in areas within the city, the quantity and quality of discharged
wastes, the degree of waste pretreatment required, the approval of plans for
sewer construction, the issuance of permits for industrial wastewater discharge
and of other miscellaneous permits and the establishment of penalties for
violation of this chapter. (1973 Code § 13.3.010)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions given in this section shall be used in the interpretation of
this chapter, the issuance of permits, the making of charges for service, and
all other operations of this chapter unless another meaning for the word is
apparent from the context:
BOD OR BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND: The measure of decomposable organic material
in domestic or industrial wastewaters as represented by the oxygen utilized
over a period of five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C) and as
determined by the appropriate procedure in standard methods.
COD OR CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND: The measure of chemically decomposable material
in domestic or industrial wastewater as represented by the oxygen utilized as
determined by the appropriate procedure described in standard methods.
CHLORINE DEMAND: The difference between the amount of chlorine added to a
wastewater sample and the amount remaining at the end of a thirty (30) minute
period as determined by the procedures given in standard methods.
DISCHARGER: Any person that discharges or causes a discharge to a public sewer.
DISSOLVED SOLIDS OR DISSOLVED MATTER: The solid matter in solution in the
wastewater and shall be obtained by evaporation of a sample from which all
suspended matter has been removed by filtration as determined by the procedures
in standard methods.
DOMESTIC WASTEWATER: The water-carried wastes produced from noncommercial or
nonindustrial activities and which result from normal human living processes.
EFFLUENT: The liquid outflow of any facility designed to treat, convey or
retain wastewater.
FORMULA: The industrial wastewater treatment surcharge formula as set forth in
subsection 8-3-7E of this chapter.
GRAVITY SEPARATION INTERCEPTOR: Any facility designed, constructed and operated
for the purpose of removing and retaining dangerous, deleterious or prohibited
constituents from wastewater by differential gravity separation before
discharge to the public sewer.
HOUSE CONNECTION: The sewer connecting the building sewer or building waste
drainage system to the public sewer for the purpose of conveying domestic
wastewater.
INDUSTRIAL CONNECTION SEWER: The sewer connecting the building sewer or
building waste drainage system to the public sewer for the purpose of conveying
industrial wastewater.
INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER: All water-carried wastes and wastewater of the community
excluding domestic wastewater and uncontaminated water, and shall include all
wastewater from any producing, manufacturing, processing, institutional,
commercial, agricultural, or other operation where the wastewater discharged
includes significant quantities of wastes of nonhuman origin.
INSPECTOR: A person authorized by the city to inspect wastewater generation,
conveyance, processing and disposal facilities.
LATERAL SEWER, COLLECTING SEWER OR MAINLINE SEWER: The public sewer usually
eight inches (8") or larger in diameter and used to collect wastewater from
house connection and industrial connection sewers and transport it to trunk
sewers. Lateral, collecting or mainline sewers are normally built and
maintained by the city.
PEAK FLOW RATE: The average rate at which wastewater is discharged to a public
sewer during the highest thirty (30) minute flow period in the preceding twelve
(12) months.
PUBLIC SEWER: Any sewer dedicated to public use and whose use is controlled by
the city.
RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL: Material containing chemical elements that spontaneously
change their atomic structure by emitting any particles, rays or energy forms.
SEWAGE: Wastewater.
SEWAGE PUMPING PLANT: Any facility designed and constructed to raise wastewater
in elevation or to overcome head losses due to pipeline friction.
SEWERAGE: Any and all facilities used for collecting, conveying, pumping,
treating and disposing of wastewater.
SEWERAGE SYSTEM: A network of wastewater collection, conveyance, treatment and
disposal facilities interconnected by sewers, and owned by the city.
SOLID WASTES: The nonliquid-carried wastes normally considered to be suitable
for disposal with refuse at sanitary landfill refuse disposal sites.
STANDARD METHODS: The current edition of standard methods for the examination
of water and wastewater as published by the American public health association.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS OR SUSPENDED MATTER: The insoluble solid matter suspended in
wastewater that is separable by laboratory filtration in accordance with the
procedure described in standard methods.
TRUNK SEWER: A sewer constructed, maintained and operated by the city that
conveys wastewater to city treatment facilities and into which lateral and
collecting sewers discharge.
UNCONTAMINATED WATER: Any wasted water of the community not contaminated or
polluted with wastewater and which is suitable or could readily be made
suitable for discharge to a municipal storm water drainage system.
USER: Discharger.
WASTEWATER: The water-carried wastes of the community derived from human or
industrial sources including domestic wastewater and industrial wastewater.
Rainwater, ground water or drainage of uncontaminated water is not wastewater.
(1973 Code §§ 13.36.080 through 13.36.360)
8-3-3: ADMINISTRATION:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the city shall administer, implement and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or duties imposed
upon the city may be delegated by the city council to persons acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of the city. (1973 Code § 13.36.020)
8-3-4: INSPECTORS:
   A.   Power To Inspect: Inspection of every facility that is involved
directly or indirectly with the discharge of wastewater to the city sewerage
systems may be made by the city. These facilities shall include, but not be
limited to: sewers; sewage pumping plants; pollution control plants; all
industrial processes; industrial wastewater generation, conveyance and
pretreatment facilities, devices and connection sewers; and all similar
sewerage facilities. Inspections may be made to determine that such facilities
are maintained and operated properly and are adequate to meet the provisions of
this chapter.
   B.   Access: Access to all of the above facilities or to other facilities
directly or indirectly connected to the city sewerage systems shall be given to
authorized personnel of the city at all reasonable times including those
occasioned by emergency conditions. Any permanent or temporary obstruction to
easy access to the sewerage facility to be inspected shall promptly be removed
by the facility user or owner at the written request of the city and shall not
be replaced.
   C.   Interference; Refusal: No person shall interfere with, delay, resist or
refuse entrance to an authorized city inspector attempting to inspect any
wastewater generation, conveyance or treatment facility connected directly or
indirectly to the city sewerage systems. (1973 Code § 13.36.040)
8-3-5: APPROVAL OF PLANS:
   A.   Approval: The city will approve plans for sewerage construction, issue
a permit for industrial wastewater discharge or any other permit under this
chapter only if it appears to the city that the sewerage construction, sewer
connection, industrial wastewater discharge or other procedure conforms to the
requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Fees; Charges: All required fees and charges shall be paid before
approval of plans or issuance of a permit.
   C.   No Relief From Duties Imposed: The approval of plans or the issuance of
a permit shall not relieve the discharger of any duty imposed upon him pursuant
to this chapter. (1973 Code § 13.36.050)
8-3-6: SEWER CONSTRUCTION; SEWER USE:
   A.   Approval Of Plans:
      1.   Required: No person, other than employees of the city, or
maintenance workers of the city, shall construct or cause to be constructed, or
alter or cause to be altered, any public sewer, lateral sewer, house connection
or industrial connection sewer over six inches (6") in diameter, sewage pumping
plant, pollution control plant, or other sewerage facility within the city
where existing or proposed wastewater flows will discharge directly or
indirectly to facilities of the city without first obtaining approval of
sewerage construction plans from the city.
      2.   Submission Of Plans: The applicant shall submit to the city for
approval, construction plans and such specifications and other details as
required to describe fully the proposed sewerage facility. The city may require
that the plans shall have been prepared under the supervision of and shall be
signed by an engineer of suitable training registered in the state.
      3.   Permit Required Prior To Approval: Plans for sewerage construction
shall not be approved by the city for any facility which will convey industrial
wastewater unless the discharger has first obtained a city permit for
industrial wastewater discharge.
      4.   Design Requirements: Plans for sewerage construction shall meet all
design requirements of the city and shall also meet all sanitary sewer design
standards as established from time to time by the city.
      5.   Inspection: Inspection of all sewerage construction under this
section shall be made by personnel of the city.
      6.   Term Of Approval: An approval of plans for sewerage construction
shall expire one year after the date of approval unless construction has been
initiated. (1973 Code § 13.36.370)
   B.   Permit For Sewer Six Inches Or Smaller Connecting Directly To Trunk
Sewer:
      1.   Application For Permit: Any person desiring to connect a sewer six
inches (6") or smaller in diameter directly to a trunk sewer of the city shall
make written application to the city on a city application form. The applicant
shall complete the form and furnish such additional information as required by
the city to substantiate that the proposed work or use will comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Required: A trunk sewer
connection permit will not be issued for any sewer which will convey industrial
wastewaters unless the discharger has first obtained a city permit for
industrial wastewater discharge.
      3.   Direct Attachment: Direct attachment of a sewer six inches (6") or
smaller in diameter to a trunk sewer will be permitted only if the city
determines that a suitable local sewer is not available, that adequate trunk
sewer capacity exists, that the connection will function properly and that the
connection will not adversely affect existing or anticipated facilities or
operations of the city.
      4.   Manner Of Construction; Location; Inspection: Sewers six inches (6")
or smaller in diameter to be attached directly to a trunk sewer shall be
constructed in a manner and at the location specified by the city. Inspection
of the connections to a trunk sewer shall be made by personnel of the city.
      5.   Sewers Exceeding Six Inches: No sewer exceeding six inches (6") in
diameter shall be connected directly to a trunk sewer without the prior
approval of plans for sewerage construction by the city. (1973 Code §
13.36.380)
   C.   Inspection Of Connection:
      1.   Prior To Cutting Into Sewer: All sewers to be attached directly to a
trunk sewer shall be inspected by personnel of the city during construction. At
least forty eight (48) hours prior to cutting into the city sewer, the city
shall be notified. In making a connection to a trunk sewer, no physical
alteration of the city facilities shall commence until an inspector is present.
      2.   Prior To Removal Of Downstream Bulkhead: Sewerage facilities which
will not be directly connected to a city sewer will not be inspected routinely
by the city during construction. Upon completion of construction and prior to
removal of the downstream bulkhead and upon receiving forty eight (48) hours
notice, the city will inspect the work to determine if it has been constructed
in a satisfactory manner and to determine if all facilities are cleaned of
construction debris that could be flushed into the city sewers.
      3.   Final Inspection; Approval: No wastewater shall be discharged into
any sewerage facility tributary to a city facility prior to obtaining
inspection and approval of sewerage construction by the city. (1973 Code §
13.36.390)
   D.   Discharge Of Rainwater Or Uncontaminated Water: No person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged any rainwater, storm water, ground water,
street drainage, subsurface drainage, yard drainage, water from yard fountains,
ponds or lawn sprays or any other uncontaminated water into any sewerage
facility which directly or indirectly discharges to sewerage facilities owned
by the city. (1973 Code § 13.36.400)
   E.   Industrial Wastewater Discharges: No industrial wastewaters shall be
discharged to a trunk sewer or to a sewer discharging directly or indirectly to
a trunk sewer until a permit for industrial wastewater discharge has been
approved by the city. (1973 Code § 13.36.410)
   F.   Improper Use Of Connected Sewers; Disconnection:
      1.   Improper Use Or Maintenance: The city reserves the right to inspect
any existing lateral or collecting sewers that discharge wastewater directly or
indirectly to trunk sewers. If it is found that such lateral or collecting
sewers are improperly used or improperly maintained, thereby causing discharge
of septic wastewater, excessive ground water, debris or any other objectionable
substance to the city sewers, the city will give notice of the unsatisfactory
condition to the offending discharger and shall direct the condition be
corrected.
      2.   Continued Noncompliance: In cases of continued noncompliance with
the city directive, the city may disconnect the offending sewer from the city
sewerage system. (1973 Code § 13.36.420)
   G.   Excessive Sewer Maintenance Expense:
      1.   Charged To Offending Discharger: No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged to a trunk sewer, either directly or indirectly, any waste
that creates a stoppage, plugging, breakage, any reduction in sewer capacity or
any other damage to sewers or sewerage facilities of the city. Any excessive
sewer or sewerage maintenance expenses or any other expenses attributable
thereto will be charged to the offending discharger by the city.
      2.   Refusal To Pay: Any refusal to pay excessive maintenance expenses
duly authorized by the city shall constitute a violation of this chapter. (1973
Code § 13.36.430)
8-3-7: INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER:
   A.   Permit For Industrial Wastewater Discharge:
      1.   Required: No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any
industrial wastewaters directly or indirectly to sewerage facilities owned by
the city without first obtaining a city permit for industrial wastewater
discharge.
      2.   Permit Requirements: The permit for industrial wastewater discharge
may require pretreatment of industrial wastewaters before discharge,
restriction of peak flow discharges, discharge of certain wastewaters only to
specified sewers of the city, relocation of point of discharge, prohibition of
discharge of certain wastewater components, restriction of discharge to certain
hours of the day, payment of additional charges to defray increased costs of
the city created by the wastewater discharge and such other conditions as may
be required to effectuate the purpose of this chapter.
      3.   Transferability: No city permit for industrial wastewater discharge
is transferable without the prior written consent of the city.
      4.   Amended Permit: No person shall discharge industrial wastewaters in
excess of the quantity or quality limitations set by the permit for industrial
wastewater discharge. Any person desiring to discharge wastewaters or use
facilities which are not in conformance with the industrial wastewater permit
should apply to the city for an amended permit. (1973 Code § 13.36.440)
   B.   Application:
      1.   Form; Additional Information: Applicants for a permit for industrial
wastewater discharge shall complete a city application form available at the
office of the city clerk. The city may require additional information on the
characteristics of the wastewater discharge beyond that required on the
application form.
      2.   Processing Of Application: Upon receipt of all required information,
the application shall be processed and, upon approval, be signed by a
representative of the city and one copy returned to the applicant. When
properly signed, the application form shall constitute a valid permit for
industrial wastewater discharge.
      3.   Application Approval: The application shall be approved if the
applicant has complied with all applicable requirements of this chapter and
furnished to the city all requested information and if the city determines that
there is adequate capacity in the city facilities to convey, treat and dispose
of the wastewaters. (1973 Code § 13.36.450)
   C.   Changes In Restrictions: The city may change the restrictions or
conditions of a permit for industrial wastewater discharge from time to time as
circumstances may require. The city shall allow an industrial discharger a
reasonable period of time to comply with any changes in the industrial
wastewater permit required by the city. (1973 Code § 13.36.460)
   D.   Prohibited Discharges:
      1.   Technical Determinations: In most cases, the concentration or amount
of any particular constituent which will be judged to be excessive or
unreasonable cannot be foreseen but will depend on the results of technical
determinations and the actions of regulatory agencies. The list of constituents
which may be regulated provides specific limits only where they are now
reasonably well established. The other constituents in the list are presented
with the objective of enumerating the types of wastes which will be regulated
from time to time.
      2.   Discharge Prohibited: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged to a public sewer, which directly or indirectly connects to the city
sewerage systems, the following wastes:
         a.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, solvent, fuel oil or any liquid,
solid or gas that would cause or tend to cause flammable or explosive
conditions to result in the sewerage system;
         b.   Any waste containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases
in such quantities that, alone or in combination with other waste substances,
may create a hazard for humans, animals or the local environment, interfere
detrimentally with wastewater treatment processes, cause a public nuisance, or
cause any hazardous condition to occur in the sewerage system;
         c.   Any waste having a pH lower than 6.0, or having any corrosive or
detrimental characteristic that may cause injury to wastewater treatment or
maintenance personnel or may cause damage to structures, equipment or other
physical facilities of the sewerage system;
         d.   Any solid or viscous substances of such size or in such quantity
that they may cause obstruction to flow in the sewer or be detrimental to
proper wastewater treatment plant operations. These objectionable substances
include, but are not limited to: asphalt, dead animals, offal, ashes, sand,
mud, straw, industrial process shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, whole blood, paunch manure, bones, hair and fleshings,
entrails, paper dishes, paper cups, milk containers or other similar paper
products, either whole or ground;
         e.   Any rainwater, storm water, ground water, street drainage,
subsurface drainage, roof drainage, yard drainage, water from yard fountains,
ponds or lawn sprays or any other uncontaminated water;
         f.   Any excessive quantity of water added for the purpose of diluting
wastes which would otherwise exceed applicable maximum concentration
limitations;
         g.   Any excessive quantities of nonbiodegradable cutting oil,
commonly called soluble oil, which form persistent water emulsions;
         h.   Any excessive concentrations of nonbiodegradable oil, petroleum
oil or refined petroleum products;
         i.   Any dispersed biodegradable oils and fats, such as lard, tallow
or vegetable oil in excessive concentrations that would tend to cause adverse
effects on the sewerage system;
         j.   Any waste with an excessively high concentration of cyanide;
         k.   Any unreasonably large amounts of undissolved or dissolved
solids;
         l.   Any wastes with excessively high BOD, COD or decomposable organic
content;
         m.   Any abnormally strong odorous waste or waste tending to create
odors;
         n.   Any excessive quantities of waste containing over one-tenth
milligram/liter (0.1 mg/l) of dissolved sulfides;
         o.   Any wastes with a pH high enough to cause alkaline incrustations
on sewer walls;
         p.   Any substance promoting or causing the promotion of toxic gases;
         q.   Any excessive quantity of waste having a temperature of one
hundred twenty degrees Fahrenheit (120°F) or higher;
         r.   Any excessive quantity of wastes requiring an excessive quantity
of chlorine or other chemical compound used for disinfection purposes;
         s.   Any excessive amounts of chlorinated hydrocarbon or organic
phosphorus type compounds;
         t.   Any excessive amounts of deionized water, steam condensate or
distilled water;
         u.   Any excessive quantity of waste containing substances that may
precipitate, solidify or become viscous at temperatures between fifty degrees
Fahrenheit (50°F) and one hundred degrees Fahrenheit (100°F);
         v.   Any waste producing excessive discoloration of wastewater or
treatment plant effluent;
         w.   Any garbage or waste that is not ground sufficiently to pass
through a three-eighths inch (3/8") screen;
         x.   Any wastes containing excessive quantities of iron, boron,
chromium, phenols, plastic resins, copper, nickel, zinc, lead, mercury,
cadmium, selenium, arsenic or any other objectionable materials toxic to
humans, animals, the local environment or to biological or other wastewater
treatment processes;
         y.   Any blow down or bleed water from cooling towers or other
evaporative coolers exceeding one-third (1/3) of the makeup water;
         z.   Any single-pass cooling water;
         aa.   Any excessive quantities of radioactive material wastes;
         bb.   Recognizable portions of the human anatomy.
      3.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any public
sewer which directly or indirectly connects to the city sewerage system any
wastes, if in the opinion of the city such wastes may have an adverse or
harmful effect on sewers, maintenance personnel, wastewater treatment plant
personnel or equipment, treatment plant effluent quality, public or private
property, or may otherwise endanger the public, the local environment or create
a public nuisance. The city, in determining the acceptability of specific
wastes, shall consider the nature of the waste and the adequacy and nature of
the collection, treatment and disposal system available to accept the waste.
      4.   The city may from time to time prepare a list of the maximum
permissible quantities or concentrations of certain constituents in industrial
wastewater flows and otherwise issue detailed directions for meeting the
requirements of this section.
   E.   Industrial Wastewater Treatment Surcharge:
      1.   Annual Charge: An industrial wastewater treatment surcharge shall be
paid to the city annually, following the fiscal year in which charges accrue,
by those industrial wastewater dischargers whose contribution of flow, chemical
oxygen demand, suspended solids, or peak flow create costs in excess of the
value of their sewer service charges.
      2.   Basis Of Charge: The treatment surcharge shall be based on the
appropriate city sewerage system's total maintenance, operation and capital
expenditures for providing industrial wastewater collection treatment and
disposal services as described in subsection F of this section. (1973 Code §
13.36.500)
      3.   Computation Formula: The annual industrial wastewater treatment
surcharge shall be computed by the following formula:
   Surcharge   =   a (V) + b (COD) + c (SS) + dM (P) charge.
   Where:
Surcharge   =   Net annual industrial wastewater treatment surcharge in
dollars. No refund will be made if a negative number results;
   V   =   Total annual volume of flow, in millions of gallons;
Charge   =   The sum of the sewer service charges paid by the discharger in
compliance with section
8-1-3 and subsection 8-1-5E of this chapter over the accrual year;
COD   =   Total annual discharge of chemical oxygen demand, in thousands of
pounds;
SS   =   Total annual discharges of suspended solids, in thousands of pounds;
P   =   Peak discharge rate over a thirty (30) minute period, occurring between
the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
determined by averaging a maximum of ten (10) substantiated peak flow rate
measurements of the accrual year in gallons per minute. Values of "P" less than
ten (10) gallons per minute shall be considered equal to zero;
A   =   Average discharge rate, determined by dividing "V" by the total annual
hours of operation or working time for the industrial discharger, converted to
gallons per minute. (See "M");
a,b,c, & d   =   Unit charge rates adopted annually by the city based upon the
projected annual total costs for wastewater collection, treatment and disposal,
in dollars per unit, as described in subsection F of this section;
   M   =   A multiplying factor accounting for increased city costs due to high
ratios of industrial discharger peak to average flow rates (P/A). Factor M is
currently 1.
   (1973 Code § 13.36.500; amd. 2001 Code)
      4.   Establishment Of Total Flows, COD, Suspended Solids And Peak Flow
Rates: The quantities for yearly total flows, COD, suspended solids and peak
flow rates used in the above formula may be established by engineering
estimation; short term sampling, analysis and flow measurement extrapolated to
a yearly total; or by extensive sampling, analysis and flow measurement, all as
approved by the city. The city shall set the minimum requirements for sampling,
analysis and flow measurement by the discharger necessary to establish
quantities to be used in the above formula.
      5.   Nighttime Discharge: If the industrial discharger elects or is
required by the city to discharge the peak rates of industrial flow during the
nighttime hours between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.,
the flow discharge shall be made approximately uniform during these ten (10)
nighttime hours. Certain industrial dischargers may be prohibited from
discharging peak flows during the nighttime hours if these flows would
adversely affect city operations. (1973 Code § 13.36.500)
   F.   Unit Charge Rates For Industrial Wastewater Treatment Surcharge:
      1.   Established Annually: Unit charge rates "a", "b", "c", and "d" in
the industrial wastewater treatment surcharge shall be established annually or
at greater intervals if no significant changes occur for the sewerage system by
the procedure described herein and shall be adopted by the city.
      2.   Parameters: For the sewerage system, appropriate unit charge rate
parameters for flow, chemical oxygen demand and suspended solids (respectively
designated "a" [in dollars per million gallons], "b" [in dollars per 1,000
pounds of COD] and "c" [in dollars per 1,000 pounds of suspended solids]) shall
be determined by the following method:
         a.   Capital Outlay: The total capital outlay for construction of
sewerage facilities including debt principal and interest over the next five
(5) fiscal years shall be estimated and distributed among the three (3)
parameters in accordance with the city determination of the percentage of the
total existing capital facilities of the sewerage system predominantly related
to each parameter.
         b.   Operation And Maintenance: The total operation and maintenance
costs of the system shall be estimated for the next five (5) fiscal years and
distributed among the three (3) parameters in accordance with the city
determination as to which charges are predominantly related to each parameter.
         c.   Total Capital Costs And Operation And Maintenance: The sum of the
capital costs and operation and maintenance costs determined for each parameter
in subsections F2a and F2b of this section shall be divided by the projected
five (5) year total volume of wastewater and weight of COD and suspended solids
to be treated by the sewerage system in order to obtain the unit charge rates
"a", "b", and "c" for the system.
      3.   Peak Flow Rate: For the sewerage system, the unit charge rate
related to peak flow rate and designated "d" (in dollars per gallon per minute
of peak flow) shall be determined by the following method:
         a.   The total nondepreciated value of the historic capital investment
in the system shall be divided by the total peak hydraulic capacity of all
treatment facilities in the system to determine a unit cost per million gallons
per day of peak flow capacity.
         b.   The unit cost determined in subsection F3a of this section shall
be amortized over thirty (30) years at six percent (6%) interest and converted
to a gallon per minute basis to obtain the unit charge rate "d". (1973 Code §
13.36.510)
   G.   Annual Treatability Charge: An annual treatability charge as listed on
the city of Yerington fee schedule shall be paid by those industrial
dischargers having wastes of such a character as to impose unusual operation
and maintenance or capital costs upon the city which are unrelated to total
peak flow volume, chemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, or peak flow rates.
Such charges shall be reasonably calculated to defray costs attributable to
such wastes. (Ord. 03-11, 1-12-2004)
   H.   Pretreatment:
      1.   Systems Or Devices: An industrial wastewater pretreatment system or
device may be required by the city to treat industrial flows prior to discharge
to the sewer when it is necessary to restrict or prevent the discharge to the
sewer of certain waste constituents, to distribute more equally over a longer
time period any peak discharges of industrial wastewaters, or to accomplish any
pretreatment result required by the city. All pretreatment systems or devices
shall be approved by the city but such approval shall not absolve the
industrial effluent limitation required by the city. In special cases, the city
may require construction of sewer lines by the discharger to convey certain
industrial wastes to a specific city trunk sewer. All pretreatment systems
judged by the city to require engineering design shall have plans prepared and
signed by an engineer of suitable discipline licensed in the state.
      2.   When Required: Pretreatment of industrial wastewaters shall be
required pursuant to section 307(b) of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972 where mandatory by the regulations on pretreatment standards
for incompatible pollutants discharged into a public sewer system published by
the environmental protection agency. Said pretreatment shall be consistent with
the effluent limitation guidelines published by the environmental protection
agency pursuant to section 301(b) and 304(b) of said federal water pollution
control act. (1973 Code § 13.36.530)
   I.   Sampling, Analysis And Flow Measurements:
      1.   Periodic Measurements: Periodic measurements of flow rates, flow
volumes, COD and suspended solids for use in determining the annual industrial
wastewater treatment surcharge and such measurements of other constituents
believed necessary by the city shall be made by all industrial wastewater
dischargers, unless specifically relieved of such obligation by the city. All
sampling, analyses and flow measurements of industrial wastewaters shall be
performed by an independent laboratory, by a laboratory of an industrial
discharger approved by the city or by personnel of the city or hired by the
city. If performed by city personnel, an appropriate charge shall be paid by
the discharger requesting the tests. Prior to submittal to the city of data
developed in the laboratory of an industrial discharger, the results shall be
verified by a responsible administrative official of the industrial discharger
under the penalty of perjury.
      2.   Procedure For Analyses: All wastewater analyses shall be conducted
in accordance with the appropriate procedure contained in standard methods. If
no appropriate procedure is contained therein, the standard procedure of the
industry or a procedure judged satisfactory by the city shall be used to
measure wastewater constituents. Any independent laboratory or discharger
performing tests shall furnish and require test data or information on the test
methods or equipment used, if requested to do so by the city.
      3.   Control Manhole Or Similar Device: All dischargers making periodic
measurements shall furnish and install a control manhole or other appropriate
location a calibrated flume, weir, flow meter or similar device approved by the
city and suitable to measure the industrial wastewater flow rate and total
volume. A flow indicating, recording and totalizing register may be required by
the city. In lieu of wastewater flow measurement, the city may accept records
of water usage and adjust the flow volumes by suitable factors to determine
peak and average flow rates for the specific industrial wastewater discharge.
      4.   Subject To Inspection: The sampling, analysis and flow measurement
procedures, equipment and results shall be subject at any time to inspection by
the city. Sampling and flow measurement facilities shall be such as to provide
safe access to authorized personnel.
      5.   Minimum Requirements: Those industrial wastewater dischargers
required by the city to make periodic measurements of industrial wastewater
flows and constituents shall annually make the minimum number of such
measurements required. The minimum requirement for such periodic measurements
shall be at least one 24-hour measurement per year. Representative samples of
the industrial wastewater shall be obtained at least once per hour over the
twenty four (24) hour period, properly refrigerated, composited according to
measured flow rates during the twenty four (24) hours and analyzed for the
specified wastewater constituents. Dischargers required to sample on only a few
days per year shall sample during the periods of highest wastewater flow and
wastewater constituent discharges. Industrial plants with large fluctuations in
quantity or quality of wastewater may be required to provide continuous
sampling and analysis for every working day. When required by the city,
dischargers shall install and maintain in proper order automatic flow-
proportional sampling equipment and/or automatic analysis and recording
equipment.
      6.   Verification Of Quantities: Measurements to verify the quantities of
waste flows and waste constituents reported by industrial dischargers will be
conducted on a random basis by personnel of the city. (1973 Code § 13.36.540)
   J.   Discrepancies Between Actual And Reported Quantities:
      1.   Should measurements or other investigations reveal that the
industrial discharger is discharging a flow rate, or a quantity of flow,
chemical oxygen demand or suspended solids significantly in excess of that
stated on the industrial wastewater permit or in excess of the quantities
reported to the city by the discharger and upon which the industrial wastewater
treatment surcharge is based, the discharger shall apply for an amended
industrial wastewater permit and shall be assessed for all delinquent charges
together with any penalty and interest. Before these charges shall be assessed
at least two (2) additional twenty four (24) hour samples and flow measurements
shall be obtained by the city with all costs of sampling and analysis to be
paid by the discharger.
      2.   For the purpose of establishing the correct treatment surcharge, the
data obtained in these samplings along with any other relevant information
obtained by the city or presented by the discharger, shall be used by the city
in determining the quantity parameters for use in the surcharge formula. An
industrial discharger found in violation shall, in the absence of other
evidence, be presumed to have been discharging at the determined parameter
values over the preceding three (3) years or subsequent to the previous city
verification of quantity parameters, whichever period is shorter. (1973 Code §
13.36.550)
   K.   Suspension:
      1.   Power To Suspend: The city may suspend a permit for industrial
wastewater discharge for a period of not to exceed forty five (45) days when
such suspension is necessary in order to stop a discharge which presents an
imminent hazard to the public health, safety or welfare, to the local
environment, or to the city sewerage system.
      2.   Notice Of Suspension; Failure To Comply: Any discharger notified of
a suspension of his industrial wastewater permit shall immediately cease and
desist the discharge of all industrial wastewater to the sewerage system. In
the event of a failure of the discharger to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the city shall take such steps as are reasonably necessary to
ensure compliance.
      3.   Request For Hearing: Any suspended discharger may file with the city
a request for a hearing in which event the city council shall meet within
fourteen (14) days of the receipt by the city of such request.
      4.   Hearing: The council shall hold a hearing on the suspension and
shall either confirm or revoke the action of the city. Reasonable notice of the
hearing shall be given to the suspended discharger. At this hearing, the
suspended discharger may appear personally or through counsel, cross-examine
witnesses, and present evidence in his own behalf.
      5.   Stay Of Suspension: In the event that the council fails to meet
within the time set forth above or fails to make a determination within a
reasonable time after the close of the hearing, the order of suspension shall
be stayed until a determination is made either confirming or revoking the
action of the city.
      6.   Reinstatement: The city shall reinstate the industrial wastewater
permit upon proof of satisfactory compliance with all discharge requirements of
the city. (1973 Code § 13.36.470)
   L.   Revocation:
      1.   Power To Revoke: The city may revoke a permit for industrial
wastewater discharge upon a finding that the discharger has violated any
provision of this chapter.
      2.   Hearing; Notice: No revocation shall be ordered until a hearing on
the question has been held by the city council. At this hearing, the discharger
may appear personally or through counsel, cross-examine witnesses and present
evidence in his own behalf. Notice of the hearing shall be given to the
discharger at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of hearing.
      3.   Cease Use: Any discharger whose industrial wastewater permit has
been revoked shall immediately stop all discharge of any liquid carried wastes
covered by the permit to any public sewer that is tributary to a sewer or
sewerage system of the city. The city may disconnect or permanently block from
such public sewer the industrial connection sewer of any discharger whose
permit has been revoked if such action is necessary to ensure compliance with
the order of revocation.
      4.   Reapplication: Before any further discharge of industrial wastewater
may be made by the discharger, he must apply for a new city permit for
industrial wastewater discharge, pay all charges that would be required upon
initial application together with all delinquent fees, charges and penalties
and such other sums as the discharger may owe to the city. Costs incurred by
the city in revoking the permit and disconnecting the industrial connection
sewer shall be paid for by the discharger before issuance of a new permit for
industrial wastewater discharge. (1973 Code § 13.36.480)
8-3-8: TRADE SECRETS:
In respect to trade secrets, it is determined that the public interest served
by not making said records public clearly outweighs the public interest served
by the disclosure of said records. Accordingly, any trade secrets acquired by
the city in the course of implementation or enforcement of this chapter shall
not be made public except to that extent necessary to enforce this chapter.
(1973 Code § 13.26.570)
8-3-9: TRUCKER'S DISCHARGE PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: All persons owning vacuum or cesspool pump trucks or
other liquid waste transport trucks and desiring to discharge septic tank,
seepage pit, interceptor or cesspool contents, industrial liquid wastes or
other liquid wastes to sewerage facilities of the city or to facilities that
discharge directly or indirectly to such sewerage facilities shall first have a
valid city trucker's discharge permit.
   B.   Application; Fee: All applicants for a trucker's discharge permit shall
complete the application form, pay the appropriate fee, receive a copy of the
city regulations governing discharge to sewers of liquid wastes from trucks and
shall agree, in writing, to abide by these regulations.
   C.   Truck Transported Industrial Wastes: Discharge of septic tank, seepage
pit, interceptor or cesspool contents or other wastes containing no industrial
wastes may be made by trucks holding a city permit at the city designated
public dumping manhole. Truck transported industrial wastes shall be discharged
only at the locations specified by the city for the specific waste. The city
may require payment for treatment and disposal costs or may refuse permission
to discharge certain prohibited wastes.
   D.   Violation: Any person negligently or wilfully violating the city
requirements for liquid waste discharges from trucks shall be in violation of
this chapter and may have his permit revoked by the city. (1973 Code §
13.36.560)
8-3-10: NOTICE TO VIOLATORS:
The city shall notify any person found to be in violation of this chapter or of
any limitation or requirement of a permit issued hereunder before the city
takes any action to implement subsection 8-3-7L and section
8-3-11 of this chapter and the city shall take no such action until the lapse
of ten (10) days from the date notice is given. (1973 Code § 13.36.030)
8-3-11: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Every person violating any provision of this chapter, or any
condition or limitation of a permit or plan approval issued pursuant thereto,
is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, is punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1973 Code § 13.36.070; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Continuing Violation: Each day during which any violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense punishable as provided above. (1973 Code §
13.36.070)
   C.   Civil Liability: Any person, who intentionally or negligently violates
any provision of this chapter pertaining to the subject matter of either
subsection C1 or C2 of this section or any condition or limitation of a permit
or plan approval related thereto, shall be civilly liable to the city in an
amount as listed on the city of Yerington fee schedule.
      1.   The pretreatment of any industrial wastewater which would otherwise
be detrimental to the treatment works or its proper and efficient operation and
maintenance.
      2.   The prevention of the entry of such wastewater into the collecting
system and treatment works. (Ord. 03-11, 1-12-2004)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER CODE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Connection Required
8-4-3: Sewer Service
8-4-4: Connections
8-4-5: Main Extension/Enlargement
8-4-6: Refusal To Serve
8-4-7: Unlawful Installations
8-4-8: Altering Connections Prohibited
8-4-9: Connection Of Inflow Sources Prohibited
8-4-10: Prohibited Discharges
8-4-11: Continuance Of Service
8-4-12: Continuity Of Service
8-4-13: Inspection
8-4-14: Testing
8-4-15: Determination Of Character Of Wastewater
8-4-16: Pretreatment
8-4-17: Rates And Charges
8-4-17-1: Sewer Revenue System
8-4-17-2: Sewer Connection Charges
8-4-17-3: User Charge System
8-4-17-4: User Charge Rate
8-4-17-5: Equivalent Dwelling Unit (EDU)
8-4-17-6: Equivalent Dwelling Unit Benchmarks
8-4-17-7: Residential User Charge Rate
8-4-17-8: Commercial/Industrial User Charge Rate
8-4-17-9: Annual User Charge Rate (UCR)
8-4-17-10: Surcharges
8-4-17-11: Infiltration/Inflow Costs
8-4-17-12: Biennial Review Of Operation And Maintenance Charges
8-4-17-13: Financial Management System
8-4-18: Connections Outside City Limits
8-4-19: Termination
8-4-20: Appeals
8-4-21: Septic Tanks
8-4-22: Penalty
8-4-23: Amendments
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter in a specified time and at a specified
temperature, usually at five (5) days and twenty degrees centigrade (20°C).
CAPITAL COSTS: Costs of major rehabilitation, expansion or upgrading required
as facilities reach the end of their useful life.
CAPITAL OUTLAYS: Expenditures which result in the acquisition of, or addition
to, fixed or capital assets.
CONNECTION CHARGE: A fee charged in order to equalize the investment in sewer
plant equipment and related facilities. The charge is applied to all new users
of sewer facilities in approximate proportion to their anticipated usage and is
for the right of service in the system. All connection charges and fees
collected are deposited in the capitalization fund.
COUNCIL: The duly elected city council of the city.
DEPARTMENT: The division of municipal government empowered by the city council
with the responsibility for and authority over the operations and policies of
the wastewater treatment facilities of the city.
DIRECTOR: The director of public works of the city, or any of the director of
public work's duly authorized representatives.
EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNITS (EDU): The equivalent wastewater flow contributed by
a user, calculated by totaling the total number of wastewater discharging
fixtures and their flow contribution, measured in fixture units. EDUs may also
be charged for wastewater characteristics in excess of the standard amounts as
defined in section
8-4-17-6 of this chapter, equivalent dwelling unit benchmarks.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: The accounting and budgetary procedures utilized
in the development and application of the user charge system, following
generally accepted accounting principles and those of the governmental
accounting standards board. The accounts of the city are organized on the basis
of funds and account groups, each of which is considered a separate accounting
entity. The operations of each fund are accounted for with a separate set of
self-balancing accounts that comprise its assets, liabilities, fund equity,
revenues and expenditures, or expenses, as appropriate.
FIXED ASSETS: Permanent property such as land, buildings, sewer collection
pipelines, tanks and other similar property.
FIXTURE UNIT: The arbitrary value assigned to various plumbing fixtures based
upon the latest edition of the uniform plumbing code and the fixture's typical
discharge loading contribution to the sewer system. Fixture units are utilized
herein in the development of proportional connection charges and user charge
rates. See definition of Sewage Fixtures.
INFILTRATION: Water other than wastewater that enters a sewerage system,
including sewer service connections, from the ground, through such means as
defective pipes, pipe joint connections, manholes, or similar means.
INFLOW: Water other than wastewater that enters a sewerage system through such
sources as roof, yard and cellar drains, catchbasins, surface runoff, street
wastewater or drainage.
MAY: Permissive.
MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM: The system of conduits, pumps, treatment plants and
structures used for the purpose of conveying from their source, treating in any
manner and conveying to final points of disposal all wastes of any nature
permitted by this chapter to enter said system. Specifically included as
integral parts of the system are all conduits of any nature forming a network
of conduits or connected directly or indirectly to said network; all pumps,
treatment plants and structures of any kind used in connection with the
collection, treatment, and disposal of the wastes handled by the system; and
all appurtenances to any of the above, either physically or functionally
connected thereto. "Sanitary sewers", as defined herein, are all included as
parts of the municipal sewer system.
OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT (OM&R): Those functions that result in
expenditures during the useful life of the treatment works for materials,
labor, utilities, and other items which are necessary for managing and
maintaining the sewage works to achieve the capacity and performance for which
such works were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance"
includes "replacement" as defined below. The term shall exclude expenditures
for fixed or capital assets and any consideration of or for debt service or
depreciation.
PREMISES: A continuous tract of land, building, or group of adjacent buildings
under a single control with respect to use of sewer and responsibility for
payment thereof. Subdivision of such use or responsibility shall constitute a
division into separate "premises" as herein defined, except that where more
than one dwelling is being served through the same sewer service, in which case
each of said dwellings shall constitute separate premises and shall be subject
to the same separate charges as if separate single-family dwellings.
REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
"replacement". The term excludes replacement of any fixed or capital asset.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer intended to carry only sanitary or sanitary and
industrial wastewater from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants
and institutions.
SEWER USE ORDINANCE: The legally binding document which establishes parameters
controlling connection to, and wastes contributed to a wastewater treatment
system, including a mandate that all residences shall be connected; all
connections shall be properly designed and constructed; the introduction of
hazardous or toxic wastes which may threaten public safety or the plant's
physical integrity shall be prohibited; and new sources of inflow are
prohibited.
SEWERAGE FIXTURES: Approved type installed receptacles, devices or appliances
which are supplied with water or which receive liquid or liquid-borne wastes,
and discharge such wastes into the drainage system to which they may be
directly or indirectly connected. Industrial or commercial tanks, vats, and
similar processing equipment are not sewerage fixtures, but may be connected to
or discharged into approved sewerage fixtures.
SHALL: Imperative.
STORM DRAIN: A sewer line intended to carry only storm water, surface runoff,
street wash waters and drainage.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
TREATMENT WORKS: Includes without limitation the generality of the foregoing,
mains, laterals, wyes, tees, meters and collections, treatment and disposal
plants.
USER: A recipient of wastewater treatment services.
Commercial User: All retail stores, restaurants, office buildings, laundries
and other private or public businesses and service establishments.
Industrial User: Includes any nongovernmental, nonresidential user or publicly-
owned treatment works which is identified in the standard industrial
classification manual, 1972, office of management and budget, as amended and
supplemented, under the following divisions:
Division A - Agriculture, forestry, and fishing;
Division B - Mining;
         Division D - Manufacturing;
Division E - Transportation, communications, electric, gas and sanitary; and
Division I - Services.
Residential User: Any contributor to the city's treatment works whose lot,
parcel or real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes only.
USER CHARGE FUND: The fiscal account to which all user charge system revenues
shall accrue and through which funds are disbursed to meet only OM&R expenses.
USER CHARGE RATE (UCR): The charge assessed users of the wastewater treatment
facility to obtain revenue to fund the user's share of the OM&R expenses. The
rate is determined by a schedule set by the council.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of the community. It may be a combination of liquid
and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial
plants, and institutions. Wastewater shall specifically exclude uncontaminated
water such as ground water, rainwater, and surface drainage. (1973 Code §
13.40.010)
8-4-2: CONNECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   Availability: Each owner of houses, buildings or other properties used
for human occupancy, employment, recreation, commercial, industrial or other
like purposes situated within the incorporated areas of the city shall connect
to such sewer within ninety (90) days after such sewer is available for use
wherever the public sewer system is available within four hundred feet (400')
of the nearest property line.
   B.   Responsibility For Connection: Connections to the sewer system are the
sole responsibility of the owner of the property so connected.
   C.   Exception: Anything contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding,
in the event that a residence is connected to a septic tank which meets
environmental protection agency standards, this section shall not apply
thereto. (1973 Code § 13.40.130)
8-4-3: SEWER SERVICE:
   A.   Applications:
      1.   Content: Each applicant for sewer service shall be required to sign,
on a form provided by the department, an application which shall set forth:
         a.   Date;
         b.   Location of premises to be served, giving street address and
description of property to be served;
         c.   Applicant's name and mailing address and the name and mailing
address of the legal owner of the premises;
         d.   Purpose for which the property will be used (residential,
commercial, apartments, etc.);
         e.   Person and address to which the monthly bills are to be mailed;
         f.   The date the applicant will be ready for sewer service;
         g.   The name of the contracting or plumbing agency that will be
connecting the premises to the city sewer system (new connections only);
         h.   If the applicant is not the legal owner of the property, the
applicant shall provide written evidence of authorization to apply for service
from the legal owner of the property.
      2.   Purpose: The application is merely a written request for service and
does not bind the applicant to take service for any period of time, nor does it
bind the city to serve except under reasonable conditions.
      3.   Responsibility: The legal owner is responsible for the payment of
all sewer charges at the premises for which an application is made. Only the
legal owner of the premises may request termination of sewer service or a
change in the person or address to which the monthly sewer bill is to be sent.
   B.   Change In Customer's Sewerage Fixtures, Equipment Or Operation: A
customer making any change in the size, character or extent of the equipment or
operation for which the service is utilized shall immediately file with the
department a new application for additional service.
   C.   Sewer Service Laterals: All sewer service laterals shall be constructed
and maintained by the property owner in accordance with department standards,
rules and regulations. (1973 Code § 13.40.050)
   D.   Credit And Payment:
      1.   Establishment And Maintenance: Each applicant for service shall
establish and maintain credit to the satisfaction of the department before
service will be rendered.
      2.   Loss And Reestablishment Of Credit: Any amount due for sewer service
that remains unpaid for twenty (20) days after presentation of a bill during
the depositor's first year of service may be deducted from the guarantee
deposit and service shall be subject to discontinuance until the deposit is
again restored to the original amount. Any such unpaid amount accruing
subsequently to the depositor's first year of service, where the premises are
owned by the depositor, may also be deducted from any guarantee deposit
remaining in the department's possession.
      3.   Bills And Collections: All bills for sewer service or for having
sewer service available shall be rendered monthly on the last day of the month
in which the services were used or were available. In the event any such bill
is not paid in full within fifteen (15) days after the date when rendered,
sewer service, as well as water service, may be discontinued and shut off, as
provided by the laws of the state and the ordinances of the city. (1973 Code §
13.40.480)
8-4-4: CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Design And Construction: No new connection shall be made to the
municipal sewer system unless the same is properly designed and constructed
complying with the uniform building code and the uniform plumbing code, latest
editions.
   B.   Prohibited: All "inflow sources" as defined in EPA regulations, section
40, CFR part 35, including, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar, yard and
area drains, foundation drains, sump pumps, cooling water discharges, drains
from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm
sewers and combined sewers, catchbasins, storm waters, surface runoff, street
wash waters or drainage, shall not be permitted to be connected to the sewer
system. (1973 Code § 13.40.210)
8-4-5: MAIN EXTENSION/ENLARGEMENT:
Sewer main facilities may be extended by a subdivider, developer, property
owner, or other person in accordance with plans and specifications submitted
to, and approved by, the city engineer and the department. All sewer main
extensions shall comply with the following minimum standards for construction:
   A.   Inside Diameter: The inside diameter of every sewer main shall not be
less than eight inches (8"), except as may be permitted by the city engineer.
   B.   Slope: The minimum slopes for sanitary sewers shall be as follows,
unless otherwise permitted by the city engineer:
 
6 inch sanitary sewer  0.0049 feet/foot
8 inch sanitary sewer  0.0034 feet/foot
10 inch sanitary sewer 0.0025 feet/foot
12 inch sanitary sewer 0.0025 feet/foot
15 inch sanitary sewer 0.0015 feet/foot
 
   C.   Plans And Specifications; Cost: The subdivider, developer, property
owner, or other person shall construct all sewer mains in accordance with the
plans and specifications as submitted to, and approved by, the city engineer;
and pay any and all costs for the minimum size sewer main required for this
development, as determined by the city engineer.
   D.   Dedication Of Mains: Upon connection to the sewer system, the
subdivider, developer, property owner, or other person shall dedicate all sewer
mains located on property owned or controlled to the city. After dedication,
and after a one year contractor warranty period has expired, the city will
operate and maintain the sewer main located on said property.
   E.   Construction Of Larger Mains: Whenever in the opinion of the city
council or city engineer, it is desirable for the city's benefit that a sewer
main be constructed of a capacity larger than the minimum capacity set forth in
subsections A and B of this section, the city will pay the difference in pipe
material cost for the oversized sewer main. The subdivider, developer, property
owner, or other person shall be required to purchase materials, construct and
install such oversized sewer main. (1973 Code § 13.40.230)
8-4-6: REFUSAL TO SERVE:
   A.   Conditions Of Refusal: The department may refuse to serve an applicant
for service under the following conditions:
      1.   If the applicant fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter;
      2.   If the intended use of the service is of such a nature that it will
be detrimental or injurious to existing customers;
      3.   If, in the judgment of the department, the applicant's installation
for utilizing the service is unsafe or hazardous, or subject to freezing, or of
such nature that satisfactory service cannot be rendered;
      4.   Where service has been discontinued for fraudulent use, the
department will not serve an applicant until it is determined that all
conditions of fraudulent use or practice have been corrected;
      5.   If, in the judgment of the department, there is insufficient
capacity to serve the applicant.
   B.   Notification To Applicant: When an applicant is refused service under
the provisions of this chapter, the department will notify the applicant that
an appeal of the decision of the department may be made to the city council.
(1973 Code § 13.40.110)
8-4-7: UNLAWFUL INSTALLATIONS:
It is unlawful to install, change, bypass, adjust or alter any metering device
or any piping arrangement connected therewith as to show the quantity of sewage
discharged from the premises to be less than the actual quantity. (1973 Code §
13.40.140)
8-4-8: ALTERING CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to change, bypass, adjust, or alter any piping arrangement,
including metering devices, from a premises, or to connect to the sewer system
without the prior written consent of the department. (1973 Code § 13.40.220)
8-4-9: CONNECTION OF INFLOW SOURCES PROHIBITED:
All sources of inflow including, but not limited to, roof leaders; cellar, yard
and area drains; catchbasins; manholes; etc., shall be prohibited from
connection to the sewer system. (1973 Code § 13.40.240)
8-4-10: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   Sewers:
      1.   Wastewater, waste, or any matter having any of the following
characteristics or constituents shall not, under any circumstance, be
discharged into, be placed where they might find their way into, or be allowed
to run, leak or escape into any part of the sewer system:
         a.   Ashes, cinders, sand, earth, coal, rubbish or any matter which is
chemically or physically stable for at least five (5) days at twenty degrees
centigrade (20°C) or which would form a deposit or obstruction or damage or
reduce the capacity of the sewer into which it was placed;
         b.   Inflammable, explosive or poisonous liquids, gases or solids or
any matter which after entrance into a sewer might reasonably be expected to
form into flammable, explosive or poisonous liquids, gases or solids;
         c.   Liquid matter of any nature containing suspended solids in excess
of one thousand (1,000) parts per million;
         d.   Matter of any nature containing five (5) day biochemical oxygen
demand in excess of three hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l);
         e.   Animal or vegetable greases, oils or matter containing animal or
vegetable greases or oils of any nature in excess of three hundred (300) parts
per million;
         f.   Liquid matter with a log hydrogen ion (pH) concentration below
5.5 or above 9.0 measured at the point where discharge enters the sewer main;
         g.   Any matter that would be poisonous to or inhibit the biologic
organisms associated with any sewage treatment process, and which in the
opinion of the department, might interfere with the satisfactory operation of
any treatment facility or any portion of the sewer system.
      2.   Upon obtaining the written approval of the director, sewage wastes
or other matter herein excluded may be discharged into the sewage system upon
the payment to the city of the additional costs for processing the same as
hereinafter provided and set forth. (1973 Code § 13.40.020)
   B.   Storm Drains: In addition to the matter excluded heretofore, all other
matter of any nature shall be excluded from those parts of the sewer system
designated by the director as storm sewers, excepting only surface drainage
waters. All drainage waters shall be directed into storm sewers only under the
authorization and direction of the director. (1973 Code § 13.40.030)
   C.   Sanitary Sewers: In addition to the matter excluded heretofore, all
surface drainage water (inflow) shall be excluded from all parts of the sewer
system designated by the director as the sanitary sewer system. (1973 Code §
13.40.040)
8-4-11: CONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
Sewer service will continue to be provided to the property regardless of
whether or not water service has been shut off. (1973 Code § 13.40.060)
8-4-12: CONTINUITY OF SERVICE:
   A.   Emergency Interruptions: The department will make all reasonable
efforts to prevent interruptions to service, if and when such interruptions
occur, and will endeavor to reestablish service with the shortest possible
delay consistent with the safety of its customers and the general public.
   B.   Scheduled Interruptions: Whenever the department finds it necessary to
schedule an interruption to its service, it will, where feasible, notify all
customers to be affected by the interruptions, stating the approximate time and
anticipated duration of the interruption. Scheduled interruptions will be made
at such hours as will provide least inconvenience to the customers consistent
with reasonable department operations. (1973 Code § 13.40.120)
8-4-13: INSPECTION:
   A.   Power To Inspect: Authorized individuals, including employees and
officials of the city, may enter any premises connected to the sewer system and
the treatment facility to ascertain if all applicable ordinances and
regulations are being met. If an exception to compliance with a law or
ordinance is noted, the owner of said premises, or said owner's agent, shall,
upon notice, cause such sewer or its attachments to be so altered, repaired or
reconstructed so as to make them conform to the requirements of the laws and
ordinances within fifteen (15) days from the date of receipt of such notice.
   B.   Commercial/Industrial User: Authorized individuals, including employees
and officials of the city, may enter any commercial/industrial user facility to
determine occupancy thereof without prior notice, if such facility qualifies
for an occupancy rate reduction as allowed for pursuant to section
8-4-17-8 of this chapter. (1973 Code § 13.40.150)
8-4-14: TESTING:
   A.   Right Of Entry: Authorized city officials and employees may enter upon
any and all premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of inspection,
observation, management, sampling and testing of wastewater in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter or of other relevant local, state or federal
regulations.
   B.   Interference; Obstruction: It shall be unlawful for any person to
prevent or attempt to prevent any such entrance or obstruct or interfere with
any such officer or employee while so engaged. (1973 Code § 13.40.160)
8-4-15: DETERMINATION OF CHARACTER OF WASTEWATER:
   A.   Proposed Discharge: Prior to the introduction of any material which may
reasonably be expected to threaten public safety, effluent water quality, the
physical integrity of the plant, or which may possibly violate any section of
this chapter or any state or federal regulations, the department shall be
apprised of such proposed discharge, and upon analysis shall issue, within
twenty one (21) days, conditional approval permits or prohibition.
   B.   Analysis: The department shall have responsibility for instituting and/
or completing such analysis, assigning costs for such analysis and issuing
permits. The fact that any matter has been discharged into the sewer system
prior to the passage of this chapter or subsequent thereto without any
objection from the department does not constitute a valid right to so discharge
such matter. If it is discovered that matter being discharged into the sewer
does not conform to the requirements of this chapter, the department may
immediately stop the discharge of such matter into the sewer system. (1973 Code
§ 13.40.190)
8-4-16: PRETREATMENT:
   A.   Compliance With Discharge Standards: Any discharged matter or
wastewater which may be made to comply with the discharge standards contained
herein, may be discharged into the sewer system, provided it is treated prior
to discharge (pretreatment) thereby bringing it into compliance with the
declared standards.
   B.   Pretreatment Plants: Such pretreatment plants shall be understood to
include grease traps, chemical or biochemical plants, sedimentation chambers
and any other devices which effect a change of any nature in the
characteristics of the matter being treated. Any and all such devices and
equipment shall be:
      1.   Subject to the approval of the department;
      2.   Issued a written permit of approval by the department prior to
operation;
      3.   Provided with all necessary features of construction to permit
inspection of operations and testing of material passing through them;
      4.   Open to the inspection of the department at any time.
   C.   Alternative To Pretreatment: The producer, in lieu of the treatment of
said sewage as hereinabove provided, may, with the written approval of the
department, discharge said sewage, waste or other matter into said sewage
system, subject to the provisions of this chapter and subject to the payment of
the additional cost of the treatment thereof, as hereinafter provided. (1973
Code § 13.40.200)
8-4-17: RATES AND CHARGES:
8-4-17-1: SEWER REVENUE SYSTEM:
   A.   System Responsibility: The city's sewer revenue system shall be
responsible for the fiscal operations of the city's wastewater treatment
facilities. The sewer revenue system shall consist of several rate components,
with appropriate accounts maintained as deemed necessary. (1973 Code §
13.40.260)
   B.   Components: The components of the system shall include:
      1.   Capital Charges: Assessed to customers to recover nonOM&R costs;
      2.   User Charges: Assessed to customer to cover normal OM&R costs;
      3.   Sewer Connection Charges: Assessed to customers through fees charged
to new users of the system for the privilege of connection to and use of the
system as defined in section
8-4-17-2 of this chapter;
      4.   Fees, penalties and special charges;
      5.   Sewer Fund: There shall be created in the city treasury a fund to be
known as the sewer fund to which sewer revenues shall accrue and from which
funds shall be disbursed for all purposes necessary to maintain and operate the
city sewer system. (1973 Code § 13.40.270)
8-4-17-2: SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES:
   A.   Initial Or New Connections: For each initial or new connection made to
the sewer system, there shall be charged an initial payment in the form of a
connection fee in accordance with the following schedules:
      1.   Residential Units: Each separate residential unit, or other
individual housing unit within a multi-family dwelling, apartment house or
trailer court, shall be considered one equivalent dwelling unit (EDU). The
connection charge per EDU shall be as listed. The connection charge shall apply
to all parcels and lots which have not previously been served by the municipal
sewer system, and each lot of any new subdivision to be served by the municipal
sewer system.
      2.   Commercial And Industrial: For all initial or new commercial and
industrial sewer connections, the connection charge shall be based upon the
number of standard fixture units (SFU).
      3.   Determination Of Sewer Fixture Unit Count: The department will
conduct a fixture unit survey at the time a building permit is requested. This
will be done through an assessment of the construction plans provided by the
applicant and/or an inspection of any existing facilities. The final count will
be based upon the final inspection of the completed structure.
   B.   Payment: The sewer connection charge shall be payable on demand to the
city at the time the building inspector issues a building permit. Any
additional charges incurred due to increased fixture unit count upon completion
of the facility shall be paid prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   C.   Residences: Until further resolution of the city council, the rate for
sewer use and connection to the sewer system for all residences shall be
calculated at one equivalent dwelling unit per dwelling unit.
   D.   Not Specifically Identified: All sewer users not specifically
identified in subsection A1 or A2 of this section shall be classified as
commercial or industrial users and based upon the number of standard fixture
units (SFU). (1973 Code § 13.40.280)
8-4-17-3: USER CHARGE SYSTEM:
The user charge system shall mean the charge assessed users of the wastewater
treatment facility to obtain revenue to fund the user's share of the OM&R
expenses. The rate is determined by a schedule set by the council. (1973 Code §
13.40.300)
8-4-17-4: USER CHARGE RATE:
The user charge rate shall generate revenue sufficient to met OM&R costs,
thereby assuring the facility's fiscal operational viability, through charges
to customers. (1973 Code § 13.40.350)
8-4-17-5: EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT (EDU):
The equivalent dwelling unit shall form the basis for the user charge system.
An equivalent dwelling unit shall be the equivalent volume of three hundred
fifty (350) gallons per day, ten thousand five hundred (10,500) gallons per
month, and one hundred twenty six thousand (126,000) gallons per year.
   A.   Residential: Residential equivalent dwelling units shall be calculated
according to the following scale:
 
Single-family dwelling    1 unit per dwelling unit
Multiple-family dwelling  1 unit per dwelling unit
Apartment or rental units 1 unit per dwelling unit
Trailer court             1 unit per dwelling unit
 
   B.   Commercial/Residential: If there are facilities for metering the
wastewater flow from a commercial or industrial user, the equivalent dwelling
unit shall be determined on the basis of the actual measured wastewater flow.
If no metering facilities exist, commercial and industrial equivalent dwelling
units shall be calculated based upon the number of standard fixture units
(SFU). (1973 Code § 13.40.360)
8-4-17-6: EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT BENCHMARKS:
For the purposes of calculation of surcharges as described below, the following
shall be considered benchmarks of the
typical residential discharge:
 
Parameter Domestic Wastewater Strength Loading
BOD       250 mg/l                     0.65 lbs/day
SS        250 mg/1                     0.46 lbs/day
 
   Sewer fixture unit equivalent: 25.
8-4-17-7: RESIDENTIAL USER CHARGE RATE:
A uniform rate shall be assessed based upon the average discharge volume and
strength of the predominate user class. The rate shall be as set by the city
council, and shall be revisable by resolution of the city council. (1973 Code §
13.40.380)
8-4-17-8: COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL USER CHARGE RATE:
   A.   Not Specifically Identified Uses: All sewer users not specifically
identified above shall be classified as commercial/industrial users and their
user charge rate shall be based upon the total number of equivalent dwelling
units (EDUs) for the facility, with the addition of any appropriate surcharges
for wastewater characteristics.
   B.   Commercial And Industrial User Rate: The commercial and industrial user
rate shall be based upon the number of EDUs of the premises.
   C.   Hospitals, Extended Care Facilities, Assisted Living Facilities Or
Convalescent Homes: A new commercial facility limited to hospitals, extended
care facilities, assisted living facilities or convalescent homes constructed
to serve as housing for persons by the room or bed may be allowed an occupancy
rate reduction as follows:
From the date of final inspection, a qualifying facility will be allowed a
fifty percent (50%) sewer rate reduction for up to six (6) months provided the
occupancy has not exceeded fifty percent (50%). (1973 Code § 13.40.390)
8-4-17-9: ANNUAL USER CHARGE RATE (UCR):
The annual user charge rate shall be based on the following formula for one
equivalent dwelling unit (EDU).
   Annual User Charge
   Rate (per EDU) = (OM&R budget)
   (Total EDU on system)
(1973 Code § 13.40.400)
8-4-17-10: SURCHARGES:
   A.   High Strength Discharges: A surcharge shall be levied upon commercial
or industrial customers whose discharge loadings exceed those listed in section
8-4-17-6 of this chapter. The surcharge shall be based on treatment costs of
additional loadings above standard loading levels, expressed as additional EDUs
or fractions thereof. Additional EDUs shall be calculated by the ratio of
discharged pounds per day of BOD or SS to the residential loading as listed in
section
8-4-17-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Discharge Permit Fees/Toxic Pollutants: All commercial and industrial
discharger must obtain a discharge permit at time of service application. All
dischargers whose anticipated discharge level of toxic pollutants will increase
the cost of treating the wastewater shall pay for such increased costs. (1973
Code § 13.40.410)
8-4-17-11: INFILTRATION/INFLOW COSTS:
Costs for treatment of infiltration and inflow shall be included with the
operation, maintenance and replacement expenses and shall be distributed among
all customers in proportion to their usage of the treatment facilities. (1973
Code § 13.40.430)
8-4-17-12: BIENNIAL REVIEW OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE CHARGES:
The city council shall review, not less often than every two (2) years, the
contribution of users and user classes, the total cost of operation and
maintenance of treatment works, and its user charge system. If necessary, the
city council shall revise the charges for users to accomplish the following:
   A.   Generate Sufficient Revenue: Generate sufficient revenue to pay the
total operation and maintenance costs necessary for the proper operation and
maintenance, including necessary equipment replacement, of the treatment works.
   B.   Apply Excess Revenues: Apply excess revenues collected from users to
the costs of operation and maintenance. (1973 Code § 13.40.440)
8-4-17-13: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM:
   A.   System: The "financial management system", as previously defined, shall
prescribe accounting budgetary procedures to accurately depict revenue
requirements and procedures to generate revenue sufficient to operate and
maintain the wastewater collection and treatment system. (1973 Code §
13.40.310)
   B.   Separate Accounts: Separate accounts shall be maintained for the user
charge fund and the capitalization fund. (1973 Code § 13.40.320)
   C.   Operation, Maintenance And Replacement (OM&R) Costs: Operation,
maintenance and replacement costs of the treatment system shall be enumerated
through a line item budget including the following categories:
      1.   Salaries and wages;
      2.   Indirect salary and wage costs;
      3.   Contractual services;
      4.   Materials and supplies;
      5.   Utilities;
      6.   Equipment replacement;
      7.   Administrative expenses.
OM&R costs shall include the costs required to achieve and maintain compliance
with discharge permits. (1973 Code § 13.40.330)
   D.   Revenue Gained Through Sale Of Treatment: Revenue gained through sale
or use of treatment related byproducts shall be credited to the user charge
fund. (1973 Code § 13.40.340)
8-4-18: CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: Sewage from premises located outside the city limits
may be discharged into the municipal sewer system only after a permit has been
issued by the department, which permit shall be subject to termination at any
time at the direction of the department.
   B.   Terms And Conditions: Owners of property outside the corporate limits
of the city, but adjacent to and abutting upon a sanitary sewer main owned by
the city, may, upon receipt of a permit from the department, discharge sewage
into said sanitary sewer. Such permit shall be issued only upon the written
application of the owner and subject to the following terms and conditions:
      1.   The owner, for any such permit, shall attach to the application a
construction permit duly issued to applicant or applicant's contractor by the
appropriate county and/or political subdivision for the construction of a side
sewer, provided such a permit be required by said agency;
      2.   The owner or owner's licensed contractor shall pay fees and obtain a
permit for a side sewer from the city and shall construct the side sewer in
strict compliance with the specifications of the city governing the
construction and maintenance of side sewers;
      3.   The user shall agree to pay a connection charge for the sewer
service in conformance with the rate schedule established by the city;
      4.   The user shall agree to pay monthly user fees in accordance with the
user charge system and capitalization charge system as established by the
council;
      5.   All ordinances, rules, regulations, and procedures relating to the
removal, maintenance, and connection to sanitary sewers in the city shall apply
with equal force to such sewer connection, and any violation of any such
ordinance, rule, regulation, or procedure by any owner of property connected to
a city sewer pursuant to the provisions hereof may result in the disconnection
of said sewer and/or water by the city, in which event the owner of the
property shall forfeit all rights to any connection privileges acquired
pursuant to the provisions of this section;
      6.   The owner or occupant of any property connected to the sanitary
sewer system of the city pursuant to the provisions hereof shall permit an
inspection of that owner's premises at any and all reasonable times by the city
for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not the use of said sanitary sewer
is in accordance with the ordinances, rules, and regulations of the city
pertaining thereto;
      7.   In the event of a change in occupancy, the new user shall likewise
be invoiced for payments as provided herein. The refusal to make said payments
may result in the disconnection of the sewer and/or water by the city. (1973
Code § 13.40.290)
8-4-19: TERMINATION:
   A.   Noncompliance With Rules: The department may terminate water and/or
sewer service to any customer for violation of these rules after it has given
the customer written notice of such intention. (1973 Code § 13.40.070)
   B.   Unsafe Condition: If any condition is found to exist on a customer's
premises which constitutes a hazard to health or which threatens to damage any
portion of the city sewer system, the service may be terminated without notice
in an emergency situation. The department shall notify the customer, in
writing, of the reasons for the discontinuance and the corrective action to be
taken by the customer before service can be restored. (1973 Code § 13.40.080)
   C.   Fraudulent Use Of Service: When the department declares that a customer
has obtained service by fraudulent means, the service to that customer may be
discontinued without notice. The department shall not restore service to such
customer until that customer has complied with the city sewer code and rules
and reasonable requirements of the department, and the department has been
reimbursed for the full amount of the service rendered and the actual cost to
the department incurred by reason of the fraudulent use. Connection to the
sewer system without having first obtained the necessary permits shall be
considered such fraudulent use. (1973 Code § 13.40.090)
   D.   Procedure For Nonpayment:
      1.   Notice Of Termination: Each billing for sewer service shall indicate
the date due for payment of that billing. If payment is not received within
fifteen (15) days of the date due, the payment shall be deemed past due. If any
bill for sewer or service charges, or part thereof, is not paid in full within
forty five (45) days after the billing date, a twenty four (24) hour
termination of water service notification shall be posted on the front door of
the facility and an administrative fee at the rate found on the current city of
Yerington fee schedule, administrative fee (posting 24 hour notice) will be
added to the bill. If the invoice is not paid in full within the twenty four
(24) hour period, the water service shall be immediately discontinued and shut
off without further notice to the customer. An administrative fee at the rate
found on the current city of Yerington fee schedule, administrative fee
(shutting water off for nonpayment) will be added to the bill. Service will not
be restored until the account is paid in full. (Ord. 03-03, 9-8-2003)
      2.   Request For Hearing: The owner or applicant applying for service, or
the occupant of the premises, may request to present their position concerning
termination of sewer services to the city council and the city council's action
shall be final.
      3.   Failure To Appear: Failure of the owner, customer or occupant to
appear before the city council after having requested such right, as provided
above, will cause the sewer service to be terminated on the next working day.
      4.   Lien: On the date of termination of sewer services, or any date
thereafter, the city may cause to be filed with the Lyon County recorder a
statement of the amount due and unpaid for sewer services and a description of
the property to which the services were rendered to perfect a lien against the
property. (1973 Code § 13.40.450)
8-4-20: APPEALS:
The city council shall review any decision made by the director, the city
engineer, or representatives or agents thereof, in interpreting, applying or
enforcing the provisions of this chapter, upon the receipt of an application or
petition, in writing, requesting a review of such decision. In exercising its
powers of review, the city council may, in conformity with the provisions of
the law, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order,
requirements, decision or determination of the director. The city council may
also initiate a review of the director's or city engineer's interpretation of
the provisions of this chapter by a motion and by a vote of a majority of the
quorum or a majority of the members present, if such number exceeds a quorum.
In all cases, the decision of the city council shall be final. (1973 Code §
13.40.460)
8-4-21: SEPTIC TANKS:
   A.   Contents: It is unlawful for anyone to discharge the contents of any
septic tank, cesspool or chemical toilet into the sewer system of the city
except in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (1973 Code §
13.40.170)
   B.   Notice Of Services: Any licensed septic tank servicing business shall
notify the department, on a quarterly basis, of those septic tanks within the
incorporated areas of the city that were serviced during the previous quarter.
(1973 Code § 13.40.175)
   C.   Designation Of Places And Manner Of Discharge: The department may
designate, in writing, the particular points where the contents of septic
tanks, cesspools or chemical toilets can be discharged into the sewer system,
and the manner in which said contents shall be discharged. No matter prohibited
from sewers by this chapter shall be permitted to be so discharged. (1973 Code
§ 13.40.180)
8-4-22: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day's violation of the provisions of this chapter is
deemed a separate offense. (1973 Code § 13.40.470; amd. 2001 Code)
8-4-23: AMENDMENTS:
The city council shall have the power and duty to adopt, and may from time to
time amend, rules and regulations for the operation of the municipal sewer
system including, but not limited to, rules and regulations concerning the
method of hooking up, and the type of use of the sewer, so long as such
amendments are not in conflict with the rules and regulations of the U.S.
environmental protection agency, Nevada division of environmental protection or
city law. (1973 Code § 13.40.250)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION CODES
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Codes Adopted; General Administration
9-1-3: Amendments; Administrative And Technical
9-1-4: Violations And Penalties
9-1-5: Existing Codes
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be referred to as the CITY OF YERINGTON BUILDING CODE. (Ord.
18-04, 1-14-2019)
9-1-2: CODES ADOPTED; GENERAL ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Codes Adopted: Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 244.105, 278.580,
278.583 and 444.350, the City of Yerington does hereby adopt the following
codes, as amended herein that will be collectively known as the Yerington
Building Codes.
All contents of the codes, including appendices, figures and tables are adopted
unless specifically deleted herein.
      1.   2018 edition of the International Building Code.
      2.   2018 edition of the International Residential Code.
      3.   2018 edition of the International Existing Building Code.
      4.   2018 edition of the International Energy Conservation Code.
      5.   2018 edition of the International Fuel Gas Code.
      6.   2018 edition of the International Mechanical Code.
      7.   2018 edition of the Uniform Mechanical Code.
      8.   2018 edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code.
      9.   2017 edition of the National Electrical Code.
All contents of the above codes are adopted as amended herein.
   B.   Substitutions: Where the word "county" appears in the codes, the word
"City" shall be substituted and wherever the words "Board of County
Commissioners" appear, the words "City Council" shall be substituted.
   C.   Authority: The City Council is empowered to hear and decide appeals of
order, decisions or determinations made by an official relative to the
application and interpretation of the "Building Codes of the City of
Yerington". The City Council is further empowered to adopt rules and
regulations governing the procedures for such appeals. The Council may delegate
this authority to the appropriate Fire District Board for appeals concerning
interpretation and enforcement of the International Fire Code. Any reference to
a "Board of Appeals" and the authority or procedure of said "Board of Appeals"
is hereby deleted from the "Building Codes of the City of Yerington".
   D.   Fees: The City Council will establish fees for City of Yerington
permits, services and inspections provided pursuant to the several codes.
Related tables contained in the codes are not adopted for that purpose.
   E.   Conflict: Any section or provision set forth in the several codes which
may be in conflict with the Nevada State Constitution or Nevada Revised
Statutes is not adopted.
   F.   Water Distribution And Sewage Disposal Systems: Where differences occur
between the provisions of the published codes and the requirements of the State
or local authority regarding water distribution and sewage disposal systems,
the requirements of the State or local authority shall apply.
   G.   Differences With State Provisions: Where differences occur between the
provisions of the published codes and the requirements of the Nevada Division
of Manufactured Housing, Division of Health or the Division of Environmental
Protection, the more stringent requirements shall apply as determined by the
City building official.
   H.   Differences With State Fire Marshal Requirements: Where differences
occur between the provisions of the published codes and the requirements of the
Nevada State Fire Marshal and appropriate Fire Prevention District, the codes
and amendments adopted by the Nevada State Fire Marshal and the appropriate
Fire Prevention District shall apply.
   I.   Differences With City Codes: Where differences occur between the
provisions of the published codes and the titled City of Yerington codes, the
more stringent shall apply as determined by the City building official. (Ord.
18-04, 1-14-2019)
9-1-3: AMENDMENTS; ADMINISTRATIVE AND TECHNICAL:
Administrative and technical amendments to the adopted 2018 International Codes
and 2017 and 2018 Uniform Codes are as found in the:
   2018 Northern Nevada Amendments to the:
   2018 Edition of the International Building Code
   2018 Edition of the International Residential Code
   2018 Edition of the International Existing Building Code
   2018 Edition of the International Energy Conservation Code
   2018 Edition of the International Fuel Gas Code
   2018 Edition of the International Mechanical Code
   2018 Edition of the Uniform Mechanical Code
   2018 Edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code
   2017 Edition of the National Electrical Code
As published by the Northern Nevada Chapter of the International Code Council
on September 12, 2018.
(Ord. 18-04, 1-14-2019)
9-1-4: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation:
      1.   Any person or corporation who violates any provision of the several
codes hereby adopted shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished under title 1, chapter 4, "General Penalty", of this
Code.
   B.   Civil Penalties:
      1.   Abatement Procedures: If the owner of a noncomplying building or
structure refuses to obey an abatement order made by the City Council, the City
may proceed with abatement and levy a lien upon the property for the expense
thereof.
      2.   Business License Revocation: The City of Yerington business license
of any person or corporation which, holding such license, violates the
provisions hereof, may be terminated or canceled after a duly noticed public
hearing and a finding that the person or corporation has violated or caused
violation of the provisions hereof. (Ord. 18-04, 1-14-2019)
9-1-5: EXISTING CODES:
All International and Uniform Codes heretofore adopted by reference as part of
this Code are repealed and hereby replaced. However, said codes may remain in
effect, temporarily, as a part of this Code to the extent that construction
projects that are underway or for which building permits have been issued
pursuant to such codes, may proceed to completion. Upon completion of such
construction projects and/or expiration of such building permits, the said
codes shall be of no further force and effect. (Ord. 18-04, 1-14-2019)
ARTICLE A. MOBILE HOME STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-1A-1: Compliance Required
9-1A-2: Adopted
9-1A-3: Setup Fees
9-1A-4: Sewer And Water
9-1A-5: Uses Permitted
9-1A-6: Site Provisions
9-1A-7: Manufactured Home Permit
9-1A-8: Converting Manufactured Home To Real Property
9-1A-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
Nevada Revised Statutes section 489.251 directs that regulations be adopted by
the state pertaining to safety standards for installation, support and tiedown
of mobile homes or commercial coaches and to inspection of plumbing, heating,
cooling, fuel burning and electrical systems connections. (Ord. 11-03, 3-28-
2011)
9-1A-2: ADOPTED:
The latest edition of the mobile homes standards act rules and regulations
adopted by the Nevada department of commerce, manufactured housing division, is
declared to be the latest edition of said rules and regulations applicable in
the city together with changes, additions or modifications thereto and therein
as set out in this chapter. (Ord. 11-03, 3-28-2011)
9-1A-3: SETUP FEES:
The following mobile home setup fees, in addition to those provided in chapter
489 Nevada Revised Statutes and section 325 of the said rules and regulations,
will be charged:
   A.   City Inspection Fees: For setup inspection in a mobile home park or
where services are installed and only connections are made, shall be set by
resolution of the city council.
   B.   State Inspection Fees: The state setup inspection fee, plus a fee equal
thereto will be required by the city for administration and inspection
coordination. (Ord. 11-03, 3-28-2011)
9-1A-4: SEWER AND WATER:
   A.   Outside Mobile Home Park: Each mobile home not within a mobile home
park shall be considered a dwelling and subject to the same fees as set by the
city council.
   B.   Mobile Home Parks: Mobile home parks shall be subject to a privilege to
connect fee for sewer and water service as set by the city council. (Ord. 11-
03, 3-28-2011)
9-1A-5: USES PERMITTED:
No manufactured home (MH) shall be permitted in the city except as follows:
   A.   Zoning: As a permanent single-family dwelling in those areas designated
by the city as residential districts that are not also within the boundaries of
a historic district established pursuant to chapters 384.005 and 384.100 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes. For the purposes of this exception, the MH must be in
compliance with each of the following conditions:
      1.   Must be permanently affixed to the residential lot. All manufactured
homes shall have running gear, tongues, axles, and wheels removed at the time
of installation.
      2.   Must be manufactured within five (5) years immediately preceding the
date on which it is affixed to the residential lot pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes 278.02095.
      3.   Must have exterior siding and roofing which is similar in color,
material and appearance to the exterior siding and roofing primarily used on
other single-family residential dwellings within three hundred feet (300') of
the manufactured home.
         a.   The minimum roof pitch allowed on a manufactured home is three to
twelve (3:12).
         b.   No roofing or siding materials may be used which are not allowed
in the building codes adopted by the city of Yerington. Unfinished galvanized
steel or unfinished aluminum roofing shall not be permitted.
      4.   Must consist of more than one section.
      5.   Must consist of at least one thousand two hundred (1,200) square
feet of living area.
      6.   The MH foundation must be a full, poured in place, perimeter
foundation similar to that used for any other single-family home with a crawl
space below.
   B.   Mobile Home Parks: MHs are permitted as a single-family dwelling in
established mobile home parks.
   C.   Sales Office: As a sales office used in conjunction with manufactured
home sales.
   D.   Nonresidential Districts: Manufactured homes are not permitted in
nonresidential zoning districts unless specifically authorized by the
provisions of this title, state and federal laws.
   E.   Watchman's Quarters: By special use permit, as a watchman's quarters
used in conjunction with an M-1 zoned industrial use or a mining site, with a
maximum of one MH per parcel. Must comply with all other regulations set forth
in this title.
   F.   Restrictive Covenants: The provisions of this chapter do not abrogate a
recorded restrictive covenant prohibiting manufactured homes. (Ord. 11-03, 3-
28-2011)
9-1A-6: SITE PROVISIONS:
Manufactured homes shall comply with all requirements, plans, setbacks and
development standards required of equivalent buildings. (Ord. 11-03, 3-28-2011)
9-1A-7: MANUFACTURED HOME PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required; Fee: Prior to moving a manufactured home on any lot or
parcel for the purpose of establishing a single-family residence, an
installation permit must first be obtained from the city building department.
It is unlawful for any person to do any construction, erection, alteration,
installation, addition, reconstruction or moving of any manufactured home
unless the appropriate permit has first been obtained from the building
department.
   B.   Application For Permit; Documents And Information: Permit applications
shall contain all documents and information as required by the building
department. Such applications may be reviewed by other departments of state or
local government for compliance with the laws and ordinances under their
jurisdiction. If the building department is satisfied that the work described
in an application for permit and plans filed therewith conform to the
requirements of this code and other pertinent laws and ordinances, it may issue
the appropriate permit(s).
All work done under the permit(s) shall be done in accordance with the approved
plans. Plans and specifications shall not be changed, modified or altered
without authorization from the building official. (Ord. 11-03, 3-28-2011)
9-1A-8: CONVERTING MANUFACTURED HOME TO REAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Conversion: All manufactured homes and factory built housing installed
on or after July 1, 1998, that are eligible for conversion under Nevada law,
shall be converted to real property pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section
361.244.
   B.   Agreement To Convert Requirement: All persons or entities seeking a
manufactured home installation permit shall complete an agreement to convert to
real property prior to the city of Yerington issuing the installation permit.
The agreement will require that the applicant complete the real property
conversion and that the MH or factory built housing be taxed as real property.
   C.   Qualifications: In order to have a manufactured home assessed as real
property, the MH must be permanently affixed to concrete footings, with full
perimeter foundation that complies with the current building codes, meets city
of Yerington permit and state law requirements, and, in all cases, the "running
gear" attached to the home must be completely removed from and from under the
MH.
   D.   Compliance: Real property conversion shall comply with all federal,
state and local requirements. (Ord. 11-03, 3-28-2011)
CHAPTER 2
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Purpose
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-3: General Provisions
9-2-4: Design Standards
9-2-5: Tentative Map
9-2-6: Final Map
9-2-7: Administration And Enforcement
9-2-1: PURPOSE:
As an alternative to conventional development approaches, the planned unit
development (PUD) procedures and policies are set forth to enhance the city's
public health, safety, and general welfare as the city increasingly urbanizes;
to encourage innovations in development, while encouraging unique design.
Nothing should be assumed by the applicant for such a development that basic
standards should be less than otherwise required of a subdivision, particularly
the quality of improvements. (1973 Code § 16A.04.010)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BUILDING ENVELOPE: A site created within a planned unit development for the
purpose of defining a building site for the ultimate transfer of land with a
specific building.
BUILDING SITE: A parcel or lot of land containing not less than the prescribed
minimum area required by any applicable regulations existing at the time and
occupied or intended to be occupied by buildings or structures.
CITY OFFICIALS: City engineer, city council, fire chief, planning commission,
city manager, building department, building inspector, public works director,
police chief, and city clerk shall be those of, and/or empowered to act for,
the city.
COMMON AREA: An area set aside within a land development for the use in common
by the residents thereof; such areas shall be subject to conditions, covenants
and restrictions (CC&Rs) which must be submitted to the city and recorded with
the county recorder.
DEVELOPER OR SUBDIVIDER: A person, firm or individual owner engaged in the act
of causing a land development.
DWELLING UNIT: A place of residence and may be located in either a single or
multiple-dwelling unit building.
FINAL MAP: A map prepared in accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes section
278.360, the provisions of the statute of this chapter, which is designed to be
placed on record in the office of the county recorder.
IMPROVEMENT PLANS: An engineering plan submitted by a civil engineer registered
in Nevada showing the location and construction details of all improvements
required for the developer.
IMPROVEMENT, PRIVATE: Those utility facilities, improvements, private streets,
highways and easements which are not offered for dedication to the city and are
to be maintained by the developer or owners, associations or utility.
OWNER: An individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership or
corporation having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be
developed to commence and maintain proceedings to develop the same under this
chapter. While used herein in the masculine gender and singular number, it
means the feminine and neuter gender and plural number whenever required.
PARK: A public or private open space reserved from dwelling unit development
for use by occupants of the development or the public.
PATH: A way designed for use primarily by pedestrians.
Private Path: A right of way established for the benefit of the owners of
certain building sites which may be specifically designed for that purpose on a
recorded map or provided by an easement deed.
Public Path: A right of way dedicated by a development map or deed to the city.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An area of land controlled by a landowner which is to
be developed as a single entity for a number of dwelling units, the plan for
which does not correspond in lot size, bulk or type of dwelling, density, lot
coverage and required open space to the regulations established in any one
residential district, created, from time to time, under the provisions of any
zoning ordinance enacted pursuant to law. The planned unit development shall
conform with underlying zoning.
PRINT: A blueprint, photostat, direct process print or other copy which
reproduces exactly the original drawing from which it was made.
PRIVATE STREET: Any parcel of land or nonexclusive easement not owned by a
public body and not accepted for dedication to the public which is used or
intended to be used for vehicular access to a building site.
STREET: Lands devoted primarily to vehicular traffic use, extending the
boundaries of the right of way, whether designated as a highway, avenue,
boulevard, freeway, place, land, drive, etc.
SUBDIVISION LAND DEVELOPMENT OR DEVELOPMENT: Any land, vacant or improved,
which is divided or proposed to be divided into five (5) or more lots, parcels,
sites, units, plots, separate interest or interests in common for the purpose
of any transfer, development or any proposed transfer or development unless
exempted or partially exempted under subsection A or B of this definition:
   A.   Does not apply to industrially or commercially zoned subdivisions, to
the extent such are exempted by Nevada Revised Statutes subsection 278.325(1).
The division of land into large parcels is authorized in Nevada Revised
Statutes sections 278.471 through 278.4725, inclusive.
   B.   Unless a method of disposition is adopted for the purpose of evading
this chapter or would have the effect of evading this chapter, the term
"subdivision" does not apply to:
      1.   Any division of land which is ordered by any court in this state or
created by operation of law;
      2.   A lien, mortgage, deed of trust or any security instrument;
      3.   A security or unit of interest in any investment trust regulated
under the laws of this state or any other interest in an investment entity;
      4.   Cemetery lots;
      5.   An interest in oil, gas, minerals or building materials which are
now or thereafter severed from the surface ownership of real property;
      6.   Any division of land for transfer or development into four (4) or
fewer lots, parcels, sites, units or plots.
TENTATIVE MAP: A map to show the design of a proposed planned unit development,
the contents of which are outlined in section
9-2-5 of this chapter. (1973 Code § 16A.08.010)
9-2-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   General Provisions: Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section
278A.090, this chapter sets forth the standards and conditions by which a
proposed planned unit development is evaluated. Nevada Revised Statutes
sections 278A.010 through 278A.590 are included by reference and made a part
hereof. More restrictive or pronounced interpretation by this chapter shall
prevail. (1973 Code § 16A.12.010)
   B.   Density And Intensity Use Of Land: The number of dwelling units allowed
may be flexible relative to the number of dwelling units per acre that would be
permitted by the zoning regulations otherwise applicable to the site. (1973
Code § 16A.12.020)
   C.   Common Open Space: All common areas including parks and open space
shall not be less than twenty percent (20%) of the total gross area proposed to
be developed. Compliance with provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes section
278A.120 is required. (1973 Code § 16A.12.030)
   D.   Dedication Of Land; Common Interest: Common areas are recognized by the
city to be set aside for use of those occupants of the development. The city
requires an association for the common interest community which may not be
dissolved or dispose of any common area by sale or otherwise, without first
offering to dedicate the common area to the city. The offer must be accepted or
rejected within one hundred twenty (120) days. The association requirement for
common areas must include maintenance and care of all such common areas,
pursuant to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes sections 278A.170,
278A.180, and 278A.190. All such association formation documents shall be
submitted to the city attorney for review and approval prior to recordation of
a final map. (1973 Code § 16A.12.040)
9-2-4: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   General: The standards set by this section shall be the minimum
standard of the city, unless otherwise established by the city council within
the hearing process required for approval of a planned unit development
tentative map. Compliance with Nevada Revised Statutes sections 278A.240 to
278A.360, inclusive, shall be required. (1973 Code § 16A.16.010)
   B.   Minimum Site Area: The minimum site area is a gross three (3) acres.
(1973 Code § 16A.16.020)
   C.   Types Of Units: A planned unit development may consist of attached or
detached single-family units, townhouses, cluster units, condominiums, garden
apartments or any combination thereof. (1973 Code § 16A.16.030)
   D.   Fire And Emergency Standards: Fire hydrants shall be installed and
provided with minimum fire flow requirements as specified in the uniform fire
code, appendix III-A of division III, inclusive. Fire hydrant locations and
distribution as specified in appendix III-B. (1973 Code § 16A.16.040)
   E.   Fire Lanes: Fire lanes shall be provided as required by the fire
district. Fire lanes may be grass areas. (1973 Code § 16A.16.050)
   F.   Exterior Lighting: Minimum lighting within the proposed development,
public or private, shall conform to the street lighting requirements of title
11 of this code. In addition, outside lighting will be required on all
pedestrianways, common use facilities, parking lots, etc., as recommended by
the city. (1973 Code § 16A.16.060)
   G.   Parking Requirements: A minimum of two and one-half (21/2) parking
spaces per dwelling unit shall be provided. One space minimum shall be provided
at each dwelling site within the project. (1973 Code § 16A.16.070)
   H.   Setback Requirements: The perimeter of the proposed planned unit
development shall have a minimum twenty foot (20') setback, measured from the
stem wall or footing of a structure to the property line. Building setbacks
from one structure to the other shall be a minimum of ten feet (10'), measured
as described above. Building setbacks from a street, public or private, shall
be a minimum of twenty feet (20'), measured from the stem wall or footing to
the right of way, if public, or edge of street improvements, if private. (1973
Code § 16A.16.080)
   I.   Streets Or Drives, Construction And Design: The streets or drives
within a proposed development shall be public. All design standards of title 11
of this code (subdivision ordinance) shall be required. The internal streets or
drives proposed shall also consider the following minimum standards:
      1.   Structural Standards: All structural standards, i.e., grading, base,
and pavement per standards and specifications of the city (Orange Book);
      2.   Minimum Width:
         a.   Traveled Way: Minimum travelled way width twenty four feet (24')
for two-way traffic and minimum twelve feet (12') for one- way traffic. No on-
street parking with this design width;
         b.   Right Of Way: Minimum right-of-way width may be less than
otherwise required, depending on the type of design proposed and subject to
approval by the city prior to submission of a tentative map;
      3.   Inspection Of Improvements: Construction of all improvements shall
be subject to inspection by the city public works department;
      4.   Street Signs: All streets or drives shall be clearly identified with
standard city street signs and located per city requirements. (1973 Code §
16A.16.090)
   J.   Utilities: All utilities for service to the planned unit development
shall comply with the respective service entities, i.e., TV, cable, telephone,
electrical, water, sewer, etc. With respect to services provided by the city,
the following requirements shall apply:
      1.   If each individual living unit within the PUD is proposed to be sold
with the land as a lot, parcel or envelope, the privilege-to-connect fee of the
city shall apply to each such living unit regardless of the location of the
meter or meters.
      2.   If each individual living unit within the PUD is proposed to be
rented or leased, the fee schedule should apply based on line and/or meter size
for the first unit and a lower additional fee for the second and subsequent
units, as adopted and amended from time to time by the city council.
      3.   All utilities shall be underground. (1973 Code § 16A.16.100)
9-2-5: TENTATIVE MAP:
   A.   Application: An application for a tentative map approval of the plan
for a planned unit development must be filed by or in behalf of the landowner.
The application form, procedure, time constraints and content, shall be the
same as required of a subdivision, see title 11, chapter 3 of this code.
   B.   Additional Requirements: Because of the unique nature of design
latitudes for a planned unit development, the additional requirements on a
tentative map are:
      1.   The specific calculations on lands within the proposed project by
area and percentage to the whole with respect to open area, lot, parcel or
envelope areas, areas for private individual use (if any) and streets, drives
and parking;
      2.   The form of organization proposed to own and maintain any common
open space;
      3.   The use and the approximate height, bulk and locations of buildings
and other proposed structures, i.e., carports, solid waste containment,
fencing, etc.;
      4.   The ratio of residential to nonresidential use proposed;
      5.   Storm water collection system and design proposed shall meet minimum
subdivision standards of the city;
      6.   The substance of covenants, grants or easements or other
restrictions proposed to be imposed upon the use of land, buildings and
structures, including proposed easements or grants for public utilities;
      7.   Vehicle parking details, by occupied space per vehicle with specific
dimensions;
      8.   Walkways and pedestrian paths should be identified on the tentative
map, along with the type of construction proposed. (1973 Code § 16A.20.010)
   C.   Public Hearing; Notice: After filing and receipt of all material and
fees as required under this chapter, a public hearing on the application shall
be held by the planning commission, public notice of which shall be given in
the manner prescribed by law for hearings on amendments to a zoning or land use
ordinance. All additional provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes sections
278A.480 to 278A.520, inclusive, shall apply to any such hearing and findings
of the city. (1973 Code § 16A.20.020)
   D.   Time Requirements:
      1.   Planning Commission: The city may refer the matter to staff for
further report, but the public hearings shall be concluded by the planning
commission within sixty (60) days after the date of the first public hearing,
unless landowner consents, in writing, to an extension of time within which the
hearings shall be concluded.
      2.   City Council: The city council, within thirty (30) days, shall act
on the recommendation of the planning commission, unless such time is extended
by consent of the landowner, in writing. (1973 Code § 16A.20.030)
   E.   Findings Of Fact: The grant or denial of tentative approval by minute
action must set forth the reasons for the grant, with or without conditions, or
for the denial, and the minutes must set forth with particularity in what
respects the plan would or would not be in the public interest, including but
not limited to findings on the following:
      1.   In what respects the plan is or is not consistent with the statement
of objectives of a planned unit development;
      2.   The extent to which the plan departs from zoning and subdivision
regulations otherwise applicable to the property, including, but not limited
to, density, bulk and use, and the reasons why these departures are or are not
deemed to be in the public interest;
      3.   The ratio of residential to nonresidential use in the planned unit
development;
      4.   The purpose, location and amount of the common open space in the
planned unit development, the reliability of the proposals for maintenance and
conservation of the common open space, and the adequacy or inadequacy of the
amount and purpose of the common open space as related to the proposed density
and type of residential development;
      5.   The physical design of the plan and the manner in which the design
does or does not make adequate provision for public services, provide adequate
control over vehicular traffic, and further the amenities of light and air,
recreation and visual enjoyment;
      6.   The relationship, beneficial or adverse, of the proposed planned
unit development to the neighborhood in which it is proposed to be established.
(1973 Code § 16A.20.040)
9-2-6: FINAL MAP:
A request for final map approval of a planned unit development must be made
within the constraints for such filing of a subdivision as prescribed in
sections
11-5-2 through
11-5-9 of this code, inclusive. (1973 Code § 16A.24.010)
9-2-7: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Decisions Final: Any decision of the city under this chapter grating or
denying tentative or final approval of the plan or authorizing or refusing to
authorize a modification in a plan is a final administrative decision and is
subject to judicial review in properly presented cases 1 . (1973 Code §
16A.28.010)
   B.   Limitation: No action or proceeding may be commenced for the purpose of
seeking judicial relief or review from or with respect to any final action,
decision or order of the city, unless the action or proceeding is commenced
within twenty five (25) days after the date of final action by the city
council1. (1973 Code § 16A.28.020)
   C.   Other Provisions: As specified in title 11, chapter 2 of this code, all
such provisions therein for exceptions, waivers, amendments, violations and
penalties shall apply hereto and made a part hereof. (1973 Code § 16A.28.030)
 
Notes
1 1. See NRS § 278A.590.
CHAPTER 3
HOUSE NUMBERING
SECTION:
9-3-1: Street Numbering System
9-3-2: House Numbers
9-3-1: STREET NUMBERING SYSTEM:
   A.   The numbering of houses on streets within the city shall proceed from a
central point:
      1.   East and west, from Main Street;
      2.   North and south, from Van Ness and Broadway Streets.
   B.   Odd numbers shall be on the west and south sides of streets, and even
numbers on the east and north sides of the streets. (1973 Code § 14.40.010)
9-3-2: HOUSE NUMBERS:
   A.   Numbers Assigned: To each unit of twenty five feet (25') along each
side of each street a number shall be assigned by the fire chief.
   B.   Specifications: The owner of any house, or apartment within any unit
shall put on such house, or apartment in a conspicuous place, the number or
numbers thereof, in plain legible figures not less than three inches (3") in
height. (1973 Code § 14.40.020)
CHAPTER 4
MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose
9-4-2: Scope
9-4-3: Jurisdiction
9-4-4: Definitions
9-4-5: Mobile Homes Authorized
9-4-6: Permits Required
9-4-7: Development Plan
9-4-8: Development Standards
9-4-9: Operation And Management
9-4-10: Permitted Uses
9-4-11: Variances
9-4-12: Penalty
9-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens of the city by providing minimum standards to prevent
overcrowding of land to avoid congestion in the streets, to stabilize and
protect the residential character of mobile home parks and surrounding areas,
to encourage development providing open spaces and planned site designs, to
ensure protection of the natural landscape and character of the area, to
eliminate incompatible uses of facilities, and to provide adequate water
supply, sewage disposal and sanitation for all mobile home parks and
recreational vehicle parks. (1973 Code § 15.04.010)
9-4-2: SCOPE:
It is not the intent of the provisions of this chapter to abrogate or annul any
easement, deed restriction or other agreement between individuals; provided,
however, that whenever the provisions of this chapter impose a greater
restriction upon the use of land and buildings within mobile home parks and
recreational vehicle parks, the provisions of this chapter shall govern. (1973
Code § 15.04.030)
9-4-3: JURISDICTION:
The jurisdiction of this chapter shall include all lands and waters of the
city. (1973 Code § 15.04.020)
9-4-4: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; words in the
singular include the plural and vice versa.
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory and the word "may" is permissive; the
word "persons" includes an agency, association, firm, partnership or
corporation as well as an individual.
   C.   Terms not herein defined shall have the meaning customarily assigned
thereto. (1973 Code § 15.08.010)
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A subordinate building on the same lot with a principal
building or use, the purpose of which is customarily incidental to the main
building or use. When attached to the principal building, the accessory
building shall be required to maintain the same yard setbacks as those of the
principal building.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof and used or built for the shelter or
enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind, including, but
not limited to, carports, ramadas and awnings.
CABANA: Any portable, demountable or permanent cabin, room, enclosure or other
building erected, constructed or placed on any mobile home site or recreational
vehicle site.
CARPORT: Any accessory building having one or more open sides, used by
occupants of a mobile home park or recreational vehicle park for the parking of
an automobile or other motorized vehicle.
CENTRAL ACCESSORY BUILDING: A structure housing toilet, lavatory and such other
facilities as are required or permitted by this chapter.
DRIVEWAY: A thoroughfare provided and maintained as the principal means of
access to the abutting mobile home or recreational vehicle sites.
MOBILE HOME: A structure eight feet (8') or greater in width and forty feet
(40') or greater in length designed to be moveable but not self motive, when
provided with utilities, and meeting the requirements of this chapter and other
applicable laws, and shall be considered a structure suitable for human
occupancy.
MOBILE HOME PARK: An area, parcel or tract of land having as its principal use
the rental, leasing or occupancy of space by two (2) or more mobile homes, on a
permanent or semipermanent basis, including any accessory buildings, structures
or uses customarily incidental thereto.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: A portion of land within a mobile home park used or intended
to be used for parking of one mobile home, including the land covered by the
mobile home, required yards and parking area, and attached or detached
accessory buildings and structures and open space.
OPEN SPACE: A common area, including, but not limited to, recreation and
greenbelt areas, set aside for enjoyment and/or recreation of all park
inhabitants.
PARKING SPACE: A fully accessible space for the parking of permitted vehicles,
each space shall be a minimum of eight feet by nineteen feet (8' x 19').
PRINCIPAL BUILDING: A building including a mobile home or group of buildings
within which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which the building is
located. A mobile home used as a principal building is limited to mobile home
parks.
RAMADA: Any roof or shade structure installed, erected or used above a mobile
home, recreational vehicle, lot, space or portion thereof.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Includes the following structures:
Camping Trailer: A folding structure usually made of canvas, mounted on wheels
and designed for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and
vacation use.
Motor Home: A portable, temporary dwelling used for travel, recreation and
vacation constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled vehicle.
Pickup Coach: A structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis for use as
a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation use.
Travel Trailer: A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis, designed to
be used as temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation use, having a
body width not exceeding eight feet (8') and body length not exceeding forty
feet (40').          
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: Includes two (2) types of recreational vehicle parks
as follows, each subject to certain requirements upon issuance of a special use
permit:
   A.   Type A: A parcel or tract of land having as its principal use the
rental or occupancy of space, not to exceed one year, by two (2) or more
recreational vehicles, including accessory buildings, structures or uses
customarily incidental thereto; and
   B.   Type B: A parcel or tract of land, operated in conjunction with another
principal business (i.e., motel, restaurant, service station, etc.), and having
as its principal use the transient rental or occupancy of space, not to exceed
seventy two (72) hours, by two (2) or more recreational vehicles including
accessory buildings and structures, or uses customarily incidental thereto.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE: A portion of land within a recreational vehicle
park used or intended to be used for parking of one recreational vehicle,
including the land covered by the recreational vehicle, required yards and
parking area, and attached or detached accessory buildings and structures and
open space.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between a lot line and the nearest
point of a building, structure, or use including the distance between
buildings, mobile homes, recreational vehicles and related uses.
SWIMMING POOL: Any constructed pool used for swimming, bathing or wading,
whether below ground or above, regardless of depth or surface area.
UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION OR OCCUPANCY: Any mobile home, recreational vehicle,
park, structure or building and any facility which is dangerous or detrimental
to human life or health through either lack of maintenance or repair generally,
or because of unsafe or improper construction or installation. (1973 Code §§
15.08.010 through 15.08.200)
9-4-5: MOBILE HOMES AUTHORIZED:
   A.   Installation: In those areas allowing the installation of mobile homes,
said mobile home is authorized when installed in conformity with provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes, the regulations adopted by the manufactured housing
division of the department of commerce and the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Construction: Any mobile home installed in the city must be constructed
to or meet the federal mobile home standards effective June 15, 1976. This
requirement does not pertain to any mobile home which is already installed in
any area of the city as long as the continuing use of such complies with this
chapter. (1973 Code § 15.04.010)
9-4-6: PERMITS REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to do any conversion, erection, alteration,
addition, moving or allow occupancy of any lot, site or space within a mobile
home park without said mobile home park having first obtained a special use
permit and a building permit to do so. (1973 Code § 15.16.010)
9-4-7: DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Submission Of Plan:
      1.   Prior To Construction: Prior to beginning construction, every
applicant for a mobile home park shall submit eight (8) copies of the site and
development plans to the city clerk, together with the required fees as
established by resolution of the city council.
      2.   After Completion: Upon completion of the project, the developer
shall, within ninety (90) days, provide three (3) sets of "as built", that is,
plans showing, as a minimum, any and all details of the park as constructed and
including a showing of compliance with all details of the initial development
plans.
   B.   Contents Of Plan: Such development plans shall include as a minimum the
following:
      1.   Mechanical And Structural Plans: Complete mechanical and structural
plans of the work to be performed;
      2.   Name; Location: The proposed name of the park, location by section,
township and range, and a legal description of the land;
      3.   Owner: The name, address and phone number of the owner and
applicant;
      4.   Professional Engineer; Architect: The name, address and phone number
of the professional engineer or architect preparing the plans;
      5.   Scale, North Arrow, Sheets Numbers; Date: The scale, north arrow,
sheet numbers, and date of map preparation;
      6.   Small Scale Map: A small scale map showing relationship of mobile
home park to existing neighborhood and the existing zoning of the site and
adjacent properties;
      7.   Public Streets: The location, width and names of all public streets
within or adjacent to the park;
      8.   Topography: The topography by contour of the site, adequate to show
the character of the drainage of the land;
      9.   Boundaries; Gross Acreage: The dimensions of all boundaries of park
and gross acreage of park;
      10.   Spaces: The dimension of all mobile home spaces and the total
number of spaces;
      11.   Open Space Recreational Area: The dimension and net acreage of open
space recreational area;
      12.   Landscaping plans;
      13.   Sewage:
         a.   Method: The sewage disposal method and details of collection;
         b.   Letter Agreement: A "will serve" letter from the municipality or
commercial supplier agreeing to provide service to the mobile home park for
sewage disposal if the mobile home park is to be supplied from a municipal or
commercial system;
         c.   Septic System: If a septic system is proposed, a letter approving
the proposed system from the Nevada state department of health must be
submitted;
      14.   Water:
         a.   Method: The water supply method and details of distribution,
detail of water meter location and details of fire hydrant placement;
         b.   Letter Agreement: A "will serve" letter from the municipality or
commercial supplier agreeing to provide service to the mobile home park for
water supply, if the mobile home park is to be supplied from a municipal or
commercial system;
         c.   Private System: If a private water system is proposed, a letter
approving the proposed water supply from the Nevada state department of health
must be submitted;
      15.   Electricity: The location of existing and proposed electrical
distribution lines;
      16.   Gas: The location of existing and proposed gas distribution lines;
      17.   Trash And Garbage Disposal: Trash and garbage disposal methods and
locations;
      18.   Accessory Buildings And Structures: The location, dimensions, and
designation of all accessory buildings and structures;
      19.   Signs: A sketch showing location and size of any proposed
identification signs including advertising copy proposed on the face of such
sign;
      20.   Existing Condition Of Site: The existing condition of the site
including buildings, structures and wells, drainage ditches, existing and
proposed storm drainage details;
      21.   Fences: The location and description of permanent fencing.
   C.   Approval Required: No mobile home park shall be constructed, altered or
remodeled in the city unless a mobile home park development plan has first been
approved by the city. The city council or planning commission shall not approve
a mobile home park development plan unless written approval has been received
from the public works department, fire department and the appropriate state
agencies. Once the plans have received final approval, the developer shall
develop the project within one year or the plans will expire. An extension may
be issued for one year. (1973 Code § 15.16.010)
9-4-8: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Intent: The standards set forth in this section are intended to
encourage development from a site plan design approach to protect the natural
environment and character of the city, and to provide open spaces and densities
comparable to low density, multi-family areas, permitting certain accessory and
complementary uses and structures which assure protection of the environment.
(1973 Code § 15.20.010)
   B.   Standards:
      1.   City Requirements And Regulations: All mobile home parks shall be
developed in accordance with the existing city code requirements and standards
for the city. The standards of development for the location width, layout and
serving of public and private streets and highways, alleys, ways for public
service facilities, storm water drainage, water supply and distribution,
sanitary services, sewage collection and fire protection shall be in accordance
with those standards adopted by the city.
      2.   State Health Regulations: All mobile home parks shall also be
developed in accordance with the state board of health mobile home park
regulations.
      3.   Location: All mobile home parks shall be located on a well drained
site.
      4.   Site Area: The minimum mobile home park site area is one-half (1/2)
acre (21,780 square feet).
      5.   Building Height: The maximum building height shall be two (2)
stories or twenty six feet (26').
      6.   Fences: Mobile home parks may be fenced with a fence no more than
six feet (6') in height around the entire boundary of the park. Fence heights
at street intersections shall comply with city fence height requirements.
Fencing materials shall be subject to approval by the city public works
director.
      7.   Landscaping: Exposed ground surfaces shall be covered with turf,
stone screening or other materials capable of preventing soil erosion and
eliminating dust.
      8.   Off-Street Parking:
         a.   Mobile Home Lot Or Space: Each mobile home lot or space shall
have a designated minimum of two (2) off-street parking spaces not less than
eight feet (8') wide by nineteen feet (19') long.
         b.   Guest Parking: Each mobile home park shall have not less than one
guest parking space for each three (3) mobile home units.
      9.   On-Street Parking: Where streets are less than forty feet (40') in
width, no on-street parking shall be allowed. In any case, all streets shall be
at least thirty feet (30') wide.
      10.   Space: A mobile home space must have an area of:
         a.   At least two thousand eight hundred eighty (2,880) square feet,
if the lot is designed for a mobile home fourteen feet (14') or less in width;
         b.   At least four thousand (4,000) square feet, if the lot is
designed for a mobile home more than fourteen feet (14') in width;
         c.   A minimum net mobile home space width shall be thirty five feet
(35').
      11.   Placement: The placement of a mobile home on individual spaces:
         a.   If the front, back or side of a mobile home contains a door
opening, the setback shall be ten feet (10') minimum on each such side;
         b.   If the front, back or side of a mobile home does not contain a
door opening, the setback shall be five feet (5') minimum on each such side.
      12.   Detached Accessory Structures: Detached accessory structures shall
observe a ten foot (10') setback from any other structure or mobile home.
      13.   Streets:
         a.   Specifications: All streets shall be in accordance with the
standard details for public works construction.
         b.   Signs; Lighting: All streets shall be properly signed and lighted
with at least the equivalent of a one hundred (100) watt lamp for each one
hundred (100) lineal feet of street.
      14.   Fire Hydrants: In every mobile home park there shall be installed
fire hydrants of the number and size, and in such location as may be required
by the fire department.
      15.   Numbered Lots: Each mobile home lot shall be numbered and the
number displayed to be visible from the street fronting the lot.
      16.   Natural Gas Service: All mobile home parks shall be served by
natural gas, where available.
      17.   Utilities: All utilities shall be installed underground.
      18.   Public Telephone: A minimum of one public telephone shall be
required.
      19.   Skirting: All mobile homes shall be skirted.
         a.   Skirting shall be of durable materials suitable for exterior
exposure, and be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's installation
instructions. It shall be secured, as necessary, to assure stability, to
minimize vibrations, to minimize susceptibility to wind damage and to
compensate for possible frost heave.
         b.   If combustion air for heat-producing appliances is taken from
within the underfloor area, ventilation shall be adequate to assure proper
operation of the appliances.
         c.   Use of combustible material (such as hay, straw, cardboard, etc.)
shall be prohibited.
      20.   Refuse Or Garbage: Trash disposal sites:
         a.   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the parks shall
be so conducted as to create no health hazards or air pollution.
         b.   All refuse or garbage shall be stored in approved containers
which are watertight and rodentproof and shall be located within a one hundred
fifty foot (150') radius from any mobile home lot or space or as approved by
the city public works department.
         c.   Refuse containers shall be kept in a sanitary condition.
         d.   Refuse and garbage shall be collected and disposed of in
accordance with local requirements. (1973 Code § 15.20.020)
9-4-9: OPERATION AND MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Inspection And Certification Prerequisite To Occupancy And Use: No
mobile home park or recreational vehicle park shall be used for occupancy until
final inspection and written approval is obtained from the health department
and a certificate of use occupancy has been obtained from the city public works
director. (1973 Code § 15.24.010)
   B.   Management And Maintenance Requirements:
      1.   Caretaker Or Manager Required: It is unlawful for any person to
operate, maintain or permit the operation or maintenance of any mobile home
park where spaces are rented or leased unless there is a caretaker, owner or
manager to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Maintenance: All service facilities, accessory buildings and the
grounds of mobile home parks shall be maintained in a clean and sightly
condition and kept free of any condition which will menace the health or
constitute a nuisance to the occupants or public.
      3.   Location Of Vehicles: The persons in charge of the mobile home park
shall require that mobile homes, recreational vehicles and automobiles be
located on their respective sites. (1973 Code § 15.24.020)
   C.   Business License Required: A business license shall be obtained from
the city by the owner or operator of a mobile home park where lots or spaces
are to be rented or leased. (1973 Code § 15.24.030)
9-4-10: PERMITTED USES:
The uses permitted within mobile home parks are:
   A.   Mobile home parks are permitted within the areas defined by title 10 of
this code;
   B.   One independent mobile home, for residential purposes only, per space
or site or a principal use;
   C.   One carport, cabana, ramada or patio or detached storage room per
mobile home;
   D.   Community recreation building and facilities, laundry, car wash or
storage facility serving the mobile home park residents only;
   E.   One management office and/or one single-family dwelling or mobile home
used exclusively for living quarters and office by the operator or manager of
the mobile home park;
   F.   Certain portions of a mobile home park may be designated as a
recreational vehicle park. Any areas so designated shall comply with the
special use permit requirements of title 10 of this code and the recreational
vehicle park improvement standards. The spaces shall be separated from the
mobile homes space by view obstruction buffer or roadway;
   G.   Restrictions of permitted uses:
      1.   No childcare facilities are allowed within a mobile home,
      2.   No home occupations are allowed,
      3.   All other uses not specifically authorized hereunder or under title
10 of this code as it applies to mobile home parks. (1973 Code § 15.12.010)
9-4-11: VARIANCES:
   A.   Existing Parks: This section does not apply to existing mobile home
parks, except when an existing mobile home park is remodeled, expanded, or
reconstructed.
   B.   Power To Grant: The city may grant a variance to waive any of the
requirements of this chapter with respect to a particular development at the
time of approval.
   C.   Criteria For Approval: Such variances shall not be granted unless the
developer has submitted an application with the city and the city finds that
each of the following conditions exist:
      1.   There are special conditions or circumstances particular to the
proper justification of the variance;
      2.   Strict application of the requirements of this chapter would cause
extraordinary and unnecessary hardship in developing the property;
      3.   Such waiver would not in effect nullify the objectives of the
chapter or any other law or ordinance applicable to the development;
      4.   Such waiver would not be injurious to adjacent properties or
detrimental to the health, safety, convenience and welfare of the public.
   D.   Conditions: The variance may contain conditions. Failure to conform to
such conditions will be grounds for disapproval. (1973 Code § 15.28.010)
9-4-12: PENALTY:
The penalty for violation of any provision of this chapter shall be as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1973 Code § 15.32.010; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 5
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Definitions
9-5-2: Purpose
9-5-3: Nuisance Declared
9-5-4: Parking In Streets, Alleys And Public Places
9-5-5: Permits Required
9-5-6: Recreational Vehicles On Private Premises
9-5-7: General Regulations
9-5-8: Sewer Facilities
9-5-9: Plumbing
9-5-10: Uses Permitted By Special Use Permit
9-5-11: Site And Development Plans; Fees
9-5-12: Site And Structure Requirements
9-5-13: Health And Safety Requirements
9-5-14: Park Management
9-5-15: Penalty
9-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings indicated:
DRY CAMPING SPACE: A recreational vehicle space that provides neither water nor
sanitary sewer services.
PARK: To permit to remain standing or waiting or not in motion.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any truck, wagon or other vehicle or structure equipped
for moving, or adapted for being moved about on wheels, runners or otherwise,
and providing living or sleeping quarters or accommodations for one or more
persons or facilities for conduct of any business enterprise.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A place equipped as in this chapter provided for the
parking and accommodation of recreational vehicles.
STALL: A space set apart in a recreational vehicle park, and equipped as in
this chapter provided, for the parking or accommodation of one recreational
vehicle.
TEMPORARY OVERFLOW PARKING: Parking in a space approved by the city as a
temporary overflow parking space. Parking in such a temporary overflow space
shall not exceed one hundred sixty eight (168) hours by any recreational
vehicle. (Ord. 07-08, 11-26-2007)
9-5-2: PURPOSE:
The standards provided in this chapter are intended to encourage development
providing sufficient open space and complementary uses under conditions which
assure protection of the character of the district in which the park is
located. (Ord. 07-08, 11-26-2007)
9-5-3: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Every recreational vehicle or recreational vehicle park used, occupied or
maintained within the city contrary to the provisions of this chapter is and
constitutes a nuisance and subject to be abated in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 07-08, 11-26-2007)
9-5-4: PARKING IN STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC PLACES:
No person shall park any vehicle in any location or for any length of time
which would constitute violation of the provisions of title 6, chapter 7 of
this code. (Ord. 07-08, 11-26-2007)
9-5-5: PERMITS REQUIRED:
No recreational vehicle park shall be constructed or occupied in the city
limits unless all the required permits have first been obtained. (Ord. 07-08,
11-26-2007)
9-5-6: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PREMISES:
   A.   Use Prohibited: No person shall occupy or utilize for living or
sleeping quarters or business purposes any recreational vehicle parked within
the city other than in a stall at a recreational vehicle park.
   B.   Permitting Use Prohibited: No owner, occupant or other person having
charge or control of any lot or tract of land within the city, other than a
recreational vehicle park, shall permit any person to occupy for living or
sleeping quarters or business purposes any recreational vehicle parked thereon.
(Ord. 07-08, 11-26-2007)
9-5-7: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall operate or maintain a recreational
vehicle park within the city unless all the required permits have first been
obtained from the city or other agency as required.
   B.   Compliance Required: Recreational vehicle parks maintained within the
city shall comply with the provisions of this chapter and with all other
applicable ordinances of the city.
   C.   Caretaker: A responsible attendant or caretaker, owner or operator
shall be in charge at all times to keep the recreational vehicle park, its
facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. They shall
be answerable, with the licensees, for any violation of the provisions of this
chapter.
   D.   Parking In Stall Required: No owner, proprietor or other person in
charge of a recreational vehicle park shall permit any recreational vehicle to
be occupied for living or sleeping quarters or business purposes at such
recreational vehicle park except when parked in a stall or temporary overflow
area.
   E.   Electricity: Every recreational vehicle park shall be wired so as to
furnish electrical service at each stall for patrons desiring the same.
   F.   Water:
      1.   Outdoor Taps: Water service shall be conveniently provided from
outdoor taps by the recreational vehicle park owner except in spaces designated
for dry camping.
      2.   Faucet: Where water taps are located at each stall, the faucet shall
be not less than eighteen inches (18") above the drain connections.
   G.   Toilet Facilities: There shall be not less than one toilet for men and
not less than one for women, for each ten (10) stalls, or fraction thereof,
exclusively for use of patrons of the recreational vehicle park. (Ord. 07-08,
11-26-2007)
9-5-8: SEWER FACILITIES:
   A.   Main Sewer:
      1.   Minimum Size: Every recreational vehicle park shall have a cast
iron, ABS or equivalent main sewer, which shall comply with the rules governing
sewers connected with the public sewer system of the city, and which shall be
not less than four inches (4") in diameter.
      2.   Increased Diameter: The diameter of such main sewers shall be
increased one inch (1") for each additional eight (8) stalls, or fraction
thereof, in excess of eight (8).
   B.   Drain Intake; Trap: Each stall shall have an adequate drain intake, and
a three inch (3") trap shall be installed between the intake of the drain and
the main sewer of the recreational vehicle park. Where there are stalls on both
sides of an intake, two (2) connections therewith will be permitted and one
trap will be required for both.
   C.   Standpipes: Standpipes shall be not less than three inch (3")
nongalvanized pipe, which shall be threaded and shall be capped when not in
use.
   D.   Branch Line Connections: Three inch (3") branch sewer lines shall not
have more than two (2) recreational connections each and shall be cast, ABS, or
nongalvanized iron pipe. (Ord. 07-08, 11-26-2007)
9-5-9: PLUMBING:
All cleanouts, vents, toilets and other plumbing appliances, fixtures and
facilities shall conform to the requirements of the Nevada state health
division and the requirements of chapter 1, article D of this title. (Ord. 07-
08, 11-26-2007)
9-5-10: USES PERMITTED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
The following uses are permitted by a special use permit issued by the city:
Community recreational building and facilities, laundry, car and truck wash,
boat or ministorage facilities serving the recreational park only.
Management office and/or single-family dwelling or mobile home used exclusively
for living quarters and office by the operator or manager of the park.
One detached carport, one detached cabana, ramada or patio and one detached
storage room per recreational vehicle space.
One independent recreational vehicle and/or two (2) vehicles per vehicle space
as the principal use.
Recreational vehicle parks. (Ord. 07-08, 11-26-2007)
9-5-11: SITE AND DEVELOPMENT PLANS; FEES:
   A.   Submission Of Plans; Fees: Every applicant for a recreational vehicle
park shall submit four (4) copies twenty four inches by thirty two inches (24"
x 32") and nine (9) copies eleven inches by seventeen inches (11" x 17") of the
site and development plan to public works together with the required fees as
established from time to time by resolution by the city council and found in
the Yerington fee schedule. Said plans and specifications shall include, as a
minimum, the following:
      1.   Complete mechanical and structural plans of the work to be
performed, drawn to scale.
      2.   All spaces, roadways, walks, leaching fields, electrical lines,
outlets and voltage, buildings, patios, other structures or fences and building
elevations.
      3.   Proposed name of park, location by section, township and range and a
legal description of the land.
      4.   Name and address of the owner and/or applicant.
      5.   Name, address and phone number of engineer, architect or surveyor
preparing plan.
      6.   Scale, north arrow and date of the map.
      7.   A small scale location map showing relationship of park to existing
neighborhood and the existing zoning of the site and adjacent properties.
      8.   The location, widths and names of all public streets within or
adjacent to park.
      9.   Topography, by contours, of the site, adequate to show the character
and drainage of the land.
      10.   Dimensions of all boundaries of park and gross acreage of park.
      11.   Dimensions and net acreage of open space recreational area.
      12.   Landscaping plans.
      13.   Sewage disposal method and details of distribution.
      14.   Water supply method and details of distribution.
      15.   Locations, dimensions and designations of all accessory buildings
and structures.
      16.   Sketch showing location and size of any proposed identification
signs, including all advertising copy proposed on the face of such signs.
      17.   Existing conditions of site, including buildings, structures and
wells, drainage ditches and such additional information that may be required.
      18.   Letter approving proposed water supply and sewage disposal systems
(if private systems are proposed) from the Nevada state department of health.
      19.   A "will serve" letter for water supply and sewage disposal if
recreational vehicle park is to be supplied from municipal or commercial
systems.
      20.   Existing and proposed electrical distribution lines.
      21.   Trash disposal location and screening method.
   B.   Approval Or Disapproval Of Plans: The planning commission shall
recommend approval, conditional approval or disapproval of all site and all
development plans to the city council. The planning commission may reject and/
or disapprove a development under any of the following circumstances:
      1.   If the use to be made of the property as proposed is a use
prohibited by any ordinance, statute, law or other valid regulation.
      2.   If the property is deemed to be unhealthful or unsuitable for
occupancy.
      3.   If the property cannot be safely and reasonably developed within the
present levels of knowledge.
      4.   If the development of the property is of such character or nature as
to be contrary to the best interest of the city.
Such rejection shall be supported by a written finding by the planning
commission detailing the reasons and causes for such rejection. (Ord. 07-08,
11-26-2007)
9-5-12: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Development Standards:
      1.   Minimum park site area: One acre.
      2.   Maximum building height: Two (2) stories or thirty feet (30'),
whichever is greater.
      3.   Minimum net site area per recreational vehicle space: One thousand
(1,000) square feet.
      4.   Minimum setback of any building or recreational vehicle from any
public street line: Ten feet (10').
      5.   Minimum setback from the exterior boundary line of the recreational
vehicle park for any building or recreational vehicle: Ten feet (10').
   B.   General Design Requirements: The following are general requirements:
      1.   Landscaping; Parking Areas:
         a.   Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every recreational
vehicle parking space shall be landscaped. Each vehicle parking space shall
have a minimum width of ten feet (10').
         b.   Exposed ground surfaces in all other parts of the recreational
vehicle park shall be covered with stone screening or other approved organic
material or protected with a vegetative growth that is capable of preventing
soil erosion and eliminating objectionable dust.
      2.   Density: The density shall not exceed twenty five (25) recreational
vehicle spaces per gross acre of park site.
      3.   Recreation Area Or Open Space: In all recreational vehicle parks
there shall be at least one recreation area or open space accessible from all
vehicle spaces. The size of such recreation area or open space shall not be
less than five percent (5%) of gross park area and shall be landscaped in an
approved manner.
      4.   Pedestrianways: Pedestrian accessways shall have a minimum width of
five feet (5') and shall be surfaced with a material as approved by the city.
      5.   Sewage Disposal: Fifty percent (50%) of the recreational vehicle
spaces within a recreational vehicle park shall be provided with individual
sewer connections and shall be constructed in accordance with applicable state
and local controls. The other fifty percent (50%) of the spaces may be used for
dry camping.
      6.   Sanitary Stations: One sanitary station shall be provided as
required by the Nevada health division or the uniform plumbing code as adopted
by the city, whichever is greater.
      7.   Electrical Systems: An electrical outlet supplying at least one
hundred ten (110) volts, which is in compliance with all state and local laws
and codes, shall be provided for each space.
      8.   Fences: Each recreational vehicle park shall be fenced with a
screening fence not more than six feet (6') nor less than four feet (4') in
height around the entire boundary of the park. Fencing materials and height
shall be subject to approval by the city council.
   C.   Street System: The following is the street system:
      1.   Streets Required; Design: All vehicle spaces shall be provided with
safe and convenient vehicular access from public or private streets to each
vehicle parking space; alignment width and gradient is as may be required by
city code.
      2.   Surfacing: All streets shall be paved and shall be well drained with
either valley gutter or rolled curbing.
      3.   Access: Access to the recreational vehicle parks shall be designed
to minimize congestion and movement of traffic on adjacent streets. All traffic
ingress and egress from such parks shall be through controlled entrances and
exits.
      4.   Internal Streets, Off Street Parking And Maneuvering:
         a.   Twenty feet (20') minimum paved width for internal streets having
two-way traffic; one-way streets shall have a minimum paved width of twelve
feet (12') or as required by this code.
         b.   Each recreational vehicle park shall provide sufficient parking
and maneuvering space and an off street parking space shall be provided for a
tow vehicle.
         c.   Streets shall be properly signed.
   D.   Signs And Lighting:
      1.   All streets and driveways shall be properly signed and shall be
lighted at night with at least the equivalent of a fifty (50) watt lamp for
each one hundred (100) linear feet of street.
      2.   All accessory buildings for public use shall have each room and
building clearly signed as to its particular use.
      3.   Restrooms shall be clearly signed and illuminated.
      4.   Signs identifying buildings and rooms shall not exceed two (2)
square feet in area and naming the use only.
      5.   One business identification sign advertising the recreational
vehicle park located on the premises shall be subject to this code.
   E.   Central Accessory Buildings:
      1.   A central accessory building containing the necessary toilet and
plumbing fixtures shall be provided in all recreational vehicle parks when
required by this code. Such building or structure shall be conveniently located
within a radius of five hundred feet (500') to the vehicle spaces or spaces to
be served and shall conform to the requirements of the Nevada health division.
      2.   Central accessory buildings housing toilet facilities shall be
moistureproof, permanent structures complying with all applicable laws
regulating such construction and equipment. Toilet facilities for men and women
shall be separated by a soundproof wall. Each toilet, washbasin, bathtub or
shower stall shall be in a private compartment with a door to ensure privacy.
Floors shall be constructed of water impervious materials sloping to a floor
drain connecting with the sewage system.
      3.   Sewage and waste from showers, baths, basins and toilets shall be
discharged into the water system in compliance with applicable regulations of
the health department. (Ord. 07-08, 11-26-2007)
9-5-13: HEALTH AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All recreational vehicle parks shall be developed in accordance with
the existing codes, requirements and standards of public health and safety.
   B.   All service facilities, accessory buildings and grounds of a
recreational vehicle park shall be maintained in a clean and sightly condition
and kept free of any condition which will menace the health or constitute a
nuisance to the occupants or public.
   C.   The person in charge of the park shall require that dogs, cats or other
pets be controlled so as not to create a nuisance. (Ord. 07-08, 11-26-2007)
9-5-14: PARK MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Manager Or Caretaker: It is unlawful for any person to operate or
maintain or permit the operation or maintenance of any recreational vehicle
park where space or sites are rented or leased unless there is a caretaker,
owner or manager in the park.
   B.   Register Kept: Every owner or operator of a recreational vehicle park
having lots, spaces or sites for lease or rent shall maintain a register
containing a record of all recreational vehicles and tow vehicles and
occupants. Such register shall be made available to law enforcement personnel
and/or persons authorized by the city council. The register shall contain:
      1.   The names and addresses of the vehicle occupants.
      2.   The make, model, year, license number and state where issued and the
owner of each recreational vehicle and tow vehicle parked in the park.
      3.   The arrival and departure dates of every recreational vehicle.
The register records shall be kept for a period of three (3) years. The city
council may, from time to time, in its sole discretion, authorize audit of the
register records for compliance but in no case shall the records be reviewed
less than annually, during the special use permit review. (Ord. 07-08, 11-26-
2007)
9-5-15: PENALTY:
The penalty for violation of any provision of this chapter shall be the same as
provided for violation of a misdemeanor under state law and each such violation
shall subject the violator thereof to a penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 07-08, 11-26-2007)
CHAPTER 6
LANDSCAPING
SECTION:
9-6-1: Purpose, Scope And Authority
9-6-2: Definitions
9-6-3: Applicability And Exceptions
9-6-4: Special Landscaping Requirements
9-6-5: Landscape Plan
9-6-6: Specific Standards
9-6-7: Bonding Requirements
9-6-8: Maintenance
9-6-9: Discretionary Authority
9-6-1: PURPOSE, SCOPE AND AUTHORITY:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare of the people of the city by establishing regulations for the
installation and maintenance of landscaping according to recognized resource
efficient principles, and to provide for the protection of existing vegetation,
where appropriate. The regulations are intended to accomplish the following:
   A.   Enhance the aesthetics of the community;
   B.   Conserve water and other natural and energy resources by requiring the
use of resource efficient guidelines and principles;
   C.   Provide environmental controls such as, but not limited to, the
reduction of noise, dust and erosion;
   D.   Reduce air pollution by encouraging the use of vegetation for air
filtration, absorption of carbon dioxide and production of oxygen;
   E.   Assist in ground water recharge;
   F.   Reduce visual pollution which might otherwise occur within a developed
area;
   G.   Establish a greater sense of privacy from visual and physical
intrusion; and
   H.   Encourage a balanced landscape approach with a variety of landscape
materials. (Ord. 06-01, 1-25-2006)
9-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, the words and
terms defined in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to them herein:
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: The use of land, buildings and structures on any property
in the city subject to this title, except single-family dwellings and two-
family dwellings, and shall include new developments, planned developments, and
the expansion of existing developments, where the site is not in conformance
with landscaping and irrigation requirements of this chapter.
EVERGREEN: Any plant with foliage that persists and remains year round.
HYDROSEEDING: The application of seed within a suspended liquid medium that is
sprayed onto a prepared surface.
LANDSCAPED AREA: Shall consist of a given percentage of the "site area" of a
"development project", as designated in section
9-6-6 of this chapter, and shall be composed of a combination of turf grasses,
trees, shrubs, hedges, vines, ground covers, and other living plant materials;
inert materials such as decorative rock, bark, and wood chips; concrete curbing
(or railroad ties or landscape timbers), permeable walkways, decks, patios, and
other amenities.
MAINTENANCE: Shall consist of any management required for the well being of the
plant and appearance of the landscaped area.
MULCH: A covering over the soil used for water retention, soil erosion and dust
control, as well as for aesthetic purposes. Examples include rock products,
wood products, and vegetative byproducts.
PARKING AREA: Those portions of a site area designated for motor vehicle use,
including, but not limited to, parking stalls, parking spaces, driveways and
access driveways.
PERMEABLE SURFACE: A hard, porous material that allows water penetration into
the soil.
RESOURCE EFFICIENT IRRIGATION: The application of water to a specific area
based on plant requirements.
RESOURCE EFFICIENT LANDSCAPING: A method of landscaping intended to conserve
water and other natural resources by encouraging the following principles:
   A.   Practical turf areas.
   B.   The use of water conserving plant material.
   C.   The grouping of plants with similar water requirements.
   D.   An irrigation system designed to meet plant needs.
   E.   The installation of permeable hard surfaces to encourage ground water
recharge and reuse, and to discourage runoff.
   F.   The use of water harvesting techniques.
   G.   The use of mulches.
   H.   The use of soil amendments.
   I.   Soil analysis.
RESOURCE EFFICIENT LANDSCAPING MATERIAL: Any of the following material:
   A.   Living material, including, but not limited to, turf grass, ground
covers, shrubs, vines, hedges, or trees which have been identified as those
which are drought tolerant or low water use varieties, indigenous to or
adaptable to this climate, and which can survive, once established, on minimal
irrigation or natural rainfall; and
   B.   Nonliving material including, but not limited to, rocks, gravel, sand,
tile, bricks, bark, decorative concrete, and wood.
SEEDING: The application of seed onto a prepared surface.
SHADE TREE: A large deciduous plant with a mature crown diameter of at least
fifteen feet (15') and having a trunk that, at maturity, is kept clear of
leaves and branches at least six feet (6') above grade.
SITE AREA: The site area consists of the surface area of a development project
including public right of way areas between property lines and paved sidewalks
or streets.
TURF GRASS: Any species of grass that grows together and can be mowed, planted
and maintained in areas of pedestrian, aesthetic or recreational activity.
WATER HARVESTING SYSTEM: Any combination of techniques that results in storm or
flood waters captured on site, for later plant use or return to the water
table.
XERISCAPE: Landscapes are defined as balanced quality landscaping that
conserves water and protects the environment. Also known as "hardscape". (Ord.
06-01, 1-25-2006)
9-6-3: APPLICABILITY AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Applicability: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the
following:
      1.   All new development projects, including model homes for
subdivisions.
      2.   An expansion to any existing building on any site, when the site is
not in conformance with this chapter, according to the percentage of site area
required to be landscaped and irrigated, and/or the number of trees required.
Landscaping shall be required in accordance with section
9-6-6 of this chapter in an amount which is proportionate to such expansion as
demonstrated in the following example:
   Existing building = 10,000 square feet
   Expansion = 1,000 square feet or 10 percent increase
   Zoning = C2; 15 percent required
   0.10 X 0.15 = 0.015 or 1.5 percent of the site is to be landscaped
      3.   If a proposed building expansion exceeds seventy five percent (75%)
of the present size of the building, the site must be brought into compliance
with the current landscape ordinance.
   B.   Exceptions: The provisions of this chapter (except for section
9-6-8 of this chapter) do not apply to the following:
      1.   Single-family dwelling units or duplexes on separate lots, except
commonly owned areas in planned developments.
      2.   Building permits for interior remodel except in change of use from
residential to nonresidential or single-family to multi-family.
      3.   Permits such as, but not limited to, reroofing, siding, temporary
power, change of electrical service, change of furnace, mobile home setup,
addition of interior plumbing, addition of interior electrical, fencing, on and
off premises signs, and encroachment.
      4.   Development projects where the existing vegetation to be retained
meets or exceeds the requirements of this section. (Ord. 06-01, 1-25-2006)
9-6-4: SPECIAL LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
Special landscaping requirements, which may be greater or lesser than those
required in this chapter, may be imposed by the city council on projects which
are proposed for areas of specific city interest, such as, but not limited to,
redevelopment districts. These special requirements may include the use of
specific types of landscaping materials and/or design features to coordinate
with adopted design guidelines for the area in question. (Ord. 06-01, 1-25-
2006)
9-6-5: LANDSCAPE PLAN:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, an approved landscape
plan shall be on file with the public works director prior to site plan
approval or the issuance of a building permit.
   B.   The landscape plan shall be prepared by a landscape architect
registered in the state of Nevada, or other person permitted to prepare
landscaping plans pursuant to chapter 623A of the Nevada Revised Statutes.
   C.   The landscape and irrigation plan shall be neatly drawn at a convenient
commonly used engineering or architectural scale. Two (2) blue line or black
line prints of the plan shall be furnished to the public works director. The
plan shall include the following information:
      1.   Scale, north arrow, location of adjacent streets, property lines,
easements, sidewalks, drives, paved areas, utilities, buildings, existing trees
(including street trees), and any other natural or manmade site features
influencing the use of the site.
      2.   Construction details pertinent to installation of the landscape in
accordance with city standards.
      3.   A note or calculation sheet with all landscape calculations relevant
to the application of this section.
      4.   A plant list giving the common and botanical names of plants to be
used. This plant list shall be arranged in legend form with a key number
assigned to each plant. On the plan, each plant shall be identified by a key
number. The size of the plant, its spacing and the quantity to be used shall
follow the legend, as the following example illustrates:
EXAMPLE PLANT LIST
Botanical Name         Common Name      Size      Quantity
Coreopsis grandiflora  Coreopsis        Flat      144
Celtis occidentalis    Common hackberry 1" cal.   9
Cytissus craecox       Warminster broom 1 gal.    27
Buddleia davidii       Butterfly bush   5 gal.    5
Hedera Helix ’BalticaBaltic ivy       Flat      72
Robinia idahoensis     Idaho locust     2" cal.   10
Cedrus deodara         Deodar cedar     5' height 12
Artemisia tridentate   Big sagebrush    1 gal.    20
 
      5.   Irrigation plans (at the same scale as the landscape plans), and
specifications which comply with the uniform plumbing code, ensure the correct
irrigation coverage and include the following:
         a.   Scale, north arrow, locations of adjacent streets, property
lines, easements, sidewalks, drives, paved areas, buildings, including street
trees, and any other natural or manmade site features influencing the use of
the site.
         b.   Identification and description of automatic irrigation components
to ensure that vegetation is adequately serviced through water conserving
features.
         c.   Indication of the system point of connection and size, water
pressure available and maximum demand of the system in gallons per minute.
         d.   Irrigation equipment specified must be identified by
manufacturer's name and equipment identification number.
         e.   Cross connection devices installed as follows:
            (1)   Single-family or duplex residential model homes shall have a
pressure vacuum breaker installed on the main line of the irrigation system
upstream of the control valves.
            (2)   All other development shall have reduced pressure backflow
preventor (r.p. device).
         f.   All locations of irrigation valves, controllers, hose bibs, quick
coupler valves, sprinkler heads, and backflow preventors. Sprinkler location on
plans shall also include pattern of sprays (i.e., full circle, half circle),
psi, radius of throw and gallons per minute.
         g.   Irrigation details must be used to clarify particular situations.
Typical details should include backflow prevention devices, valves, irrigation
heads, and irrigation controllers.
         h.   Schedule 40 PVC is required for all pressure lines and under all
paved areas. Piping must be installed a minimum of twelve inches (12")
underground for nonpressure irrigation lines and eighteen inches (18")
underground for constant pressure irrigation lines. Adequate freeze protection
shall be provided. Schedule 40 PVC or equivalent sleeving under sidewalks or
driveways is recommended.
         i.   Landscape irrigation shall be separately metered.
         j.   A recommended irrigation system operation schedule that includes
four (4) seasonal changes shall be required.
      6.   Other relevant information such as, but not limited to, elevations,
sections and construction details, necessary to provide an accurate description
of the work to be performed may be required by the building department.
      7.   When the landscape has been installed, the preparer of the plans or
his similarly licensed successor, shall certify, as soon as practicable, on a
form provided by the public works department, that the landscaping as required
under this chapter has been substantially provided on the project. When the
building department receives such certification, the city may issue a
certificate of occupancy for the project.
   D.   A copy of the approved landscape plan shall be kept on the job site
until the project is inspected and accepted by the city. (Ord. 06-01, 1-25-
2006)
9-6-6: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
   A.   All landscaping materials shall aesthetically enhance and be
environmentally compatible with the site area. The landscaping shall be
installed to enhance the view of the property from the public streets(s)
adjoining the property. Insofar as is practical, the trees used shall represent
a mixture of deciduous and coniferous varieties. Existing trees and shrubs may
be incorporated into a landscaped area as long as they are healthy and in good
condition and do not conflict with plant location requirements of this chapter
(such as in parking areas).
   B.   The minimum portion of the site area to be landscaped, as defined in
this section, shall be as follows:
      1.   Residential districts (R-1 through R-7 inclusive): Twenty percent
(20%) of the site area for all permitted uses with or without a special use
permit, except single-family and two-family dwellings;
      2.   Public facilities district: As determined by the planning
commission;
      3.   Limited commercial district (C-1): Twenty percent (20%);
      4.   General commercial district (C-2): Fifteen percent (15%);
      5.   Industrial district: Six percent (6%) which shall include
landscaping strips along major street frontages. These landscaping strips shall
be no less than ten feet (10') in width regardless of the percentage of the
site area involved;
      6.   Street medians: One hundred percent (100%). Xeriscape is encouraged
for medians.
   C.   The minimum number of trees to be planted in the required landscape
area shall be one tree per three hundred (300) square feet in residential
zoning districts and one tree per five hundred (500) square feet in other
zoning districts. Parking lot trees per subsection H of this section are in
addition to this requirement.
   D.   Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of six feet (6') in height at time
of planting. Fifty percent (50%) of deciduous trees shall be a minimum caliper
of one inch (1") at time of planting and fifty percent (50%) shall be a minimum
caliper of two inches (2") at time of planting.
   E.   Sixty percent (60%) of container grown shrubs and plants (excluding
trees), and excluding those plants grown in flats, shall be minimum five (5)
gallon size at time of planting, and the remainder shall be minimum one gallon
size at time of planting.
   F.   The latest edition of the "American Standard For Nursery Stock" by the
American Association of Nurserymen shall be the criterion for sizes and grades
of plant materials.
   G.   Use of turf:
      1.   The minimum dimension of each lawn or turf area shall be eight feet
(8').
      2.   The maximum slope of lawn or turf area shall be four to one (4:1).
      3.   Turf may not constitute more than fifty percent (50%) of the
required landscape area.
   H.   Parking area landscaping is in addition to other required landscaping.
The parking area shall be subject to the following minimum standards:
      1.   Each planter island containing a tree shall have a minimum area of
three hundred (300) square feet for double loaded parking and one hundred fifty
(150) square feet for single loaded parking, with a nine foot (9') minimum
interior width.
      2.   At least one shade tree shall be planted for each seven (7) parking
spaces for parking lots under one hundred twenty five (125) spaces in size; for
those over one hundred twenty five (125) spaces, at least one shade tree shall
be planted for each ten (10) parking spaces.
      3.   Shade trees shall be planted in such a manner as to provide the
maximum amount of shading in the parking area. A maximum of fifty percent (50%)
of the trees shall be allowed in the perimeter of the parking area.
      4.   All areas utilized for landscaping shall be surrounded by curbing at
least six inches (6") in height and four inches (4") in width, and shall be
constructed of reinforced concrete, masonry, treated railroad ties, or other
material acceptable to the public works director.
      5.   Landscaping strips, a minimum of ten feet (10') in width (except as
otherwise specified in this title) shall be provided along public street
frontages and of the total required trees, one tree shall be planted in the
landscaping strips for each twenty five feet (25') of street frontage. This
requirement is not in addition to the number of trees required in the parking
area.
   I.   Ground covering shall be provided over the entire landscape area to
prevent erosion, inhibit weed growth, and to present an aesthetically pleasing
appearance. Ground covering may include:
      1.   Living plants, such as shrubs, turf grasses, vines, meadow grasses
and wildflowers, or other living ground covers.
      2.   Wood chips, bark, decorative rock, or other nonliving materials may
also be used.
      3.   Nonliving materials may not be used for more than ten percent (10%)
of the total landscaped area and excludes the areas of temporary coverage
allowed for all plant and ground cover maturity. Plastic, steel, or other
appropriate edging material shall be provided around ground cover beds to
retain loose ground cover material.
      4.   If approved by the city council, Xeriscape may be used for up to
ninety percent (90%) of the total landscaped area.
   J.   Soil in planted areas shall be loosened to a minimum depth of eight
inches (8") and improved by incorporating a minimum of two inches (2") of
organic soil amendment into the top six inches (6") of soil prior to planting.
   K.   Planted areas shall be mulched. The mulch shall be a minimum four
inches (4") in depth to decrease water evaporation. Nonporous material, such as
plastic sheets, shall not be placed under the mulch.
   L.   The following types of trees shall not be used in landscaping as
required by this chapter because of undesirable characteristics: Populus genus
(poplars and cottonwoods), Salix genus (willows), Ulmus genus and Zelkova genus
(zelkova) (elms), and Elaeagnus angustifolia (Russian olive).
   M.   If specimens of these trees exist on a site to be landscaped, they may
be retained and counted towards the required number of trees. However, the
property owner, or the individual responsible for landscape maintenance, must
ensure that the trees are maintained in a manner to minimize the noxious
characteristics of the trees.
   N.   All new landscaped areas shall be watered by a water conserving
irrigation system including drip, low arching and/or low gallonage heads, as
appropriate, controlled by an automatic timer.
      1.   Manual control of the irrigation system or hand watering may be
permitted for landscape installations in preexisting paved areas which could
not otherwise be trenched, or in isolated planters.
      2.   Drip irrigation is encouraged, where appropriate, to conserve water
and inhibit weed growth.
      3.   Storm water and runoff harvesting to supplement drip irrigation are
encouraged where possible for both new plantings and preserved vegetation.
(Ord. 06-01, 1-25-2006)
9-6-7: BONDING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All landscaping material for a development project shall be installed
in accordance with the landscape plan. The city council will ordinarily require
a good and sufficient surety bond, written by a surety company authorized to do
business in this state, to be filed with the city clerk prior to issuance of a
certificate of occupancy if the landscaping is not satisfactorily installed at
the time a certificate of occupancy or business license is requested.
   B.   In lieu of filing a surety bond, cash, a cashier's check, or a letter
of credit issued by a bank licensed in this state may be filed with the city
clerk.
   C.   The bond, cash deposit, cashier's check, or letter of credit shall be
in an amount equal to three dollars ($3.00) per square foot of total landscape
area.
   D.   The landscaping shall be inspected by the public works director to
ensure proper installation according to the approved landscape plan. The bond,
or equivalent surety, will not be released until final approval of the
landscaping.
   E.   If the landscaping material is not installed in accordance with the
landscape plan, the city council may cause the bond, cash deposit, or letter of
credit to be forfeited in an amount necessary to complete the installation.
(Ord. 06-01, 1-25-2006)
9-6-8: MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Each owner, operator or other person in control of a development
project, shall be required at all times to keep all landscaping materials in
good health, repair and maintenance. The city may require the immediate
replacement of any and all dead or damaged plant materials.
   B.   If any portion of the landscaping material or irrigation equipment is
damaged, destroyed or otherwise injured, the owner, operator or other person in
control of the development project shall replace or repair the damage or injury
within thirty (30) days following notification from the public works director
of the damage. If the season of the year makes this repair or replacement
infeasible within the thirty (30) day period, the person responsible for the
landscaping shall schedule an appropriate time for the accomplishment of this
work with the public works director.
   C.   If the repair or replacement is not accomplished in a timely fashion as
described in subsection B of this section, the public works director may
initiate proceedings to revoke the special use permit or business license for
the subject use. (Ord. 06-01, 1-25-2006)
9-6-9: DISCRETIONARY AUTHORITY:
   A.   The planning commission may vary the requirements of this chapter by
twenty percent (20%). This administrative discretion may be applied to the
required site area, the number of trees, or any other numerically quantifiable
provision such as, but not limited to, the amount of turf or nonliving
materials allowed within the required landscape area.
   B.   The city council may vary the requirements of this chapter if it finds
that the strict application of this chapter would work an undue hardship on the
property owner or would be contrary to the public interest. (Ord. 06-01, 1-25-
2006)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Definitions
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the YERINGTON ZONING ORDINANCE and may be so
cited. (1973 Code § 17.04.010)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the provisions of this title shall be to promote the public
health, safety, morals, convenience and general welfare, to lessen traffic
congestion in the streets, to provide light and air for all buildings, to avoid
understandable concentrations of population, to prevent overcrowding of land
and to facilitate adequate provision of transportation, water, sewage, schools,
parks and other public requirements, and to provide the economic and social
advantages gained from a comprehensively planned use of land resources. (1973
Code § 17.04.020)
10-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
indicated in this section:
ACCESSORY BUILDING: See definition of Building, Accessory.
ALLEY: A public thoroughfare or way of less than thirty feet (30') in width, or
a secondary means of access to abutting property.
AUTO COURT, MOTEL: Two (2) or more accommodations for sleeping within a
building used mainly by transients with an individual and/or private parking
area attached or accessible to each unit.
AUTO SERVICE STATION: An area used exclusively for retail sales of fuels or
oils, having storage tanks and pumps located thereon and including minor
automotive repair and washing, but not including body repairs or battery
rebuilding.
BILLBOARD: An outdoor advertisement making a material or service known; the
matter so advertised being remote from point of sale.
BOARDING HOUSE OR ROOMING HOUSE: A building or portion thereof (not a motel)
where for compensation, meals or lodging, or both, are provided for more than
three (3) guests.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and used
for the enclosure of persons, chattels or animals.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A detached subordinate building, the use of which is
incidental to that of the main building on that lot.
BUILDING, MAIN: A structure devoted to the principal use of the lot on which it
is situated.
BUILDING SETBACK: The distance between the property line and the nearest wall
of the structure.
CHILDCARE FACILITY: A use where care is provided for unrelated children subject
to the requirements of the state and the city. Categories allowed include:
Childcare
Family daycare
Family home
Group home
CONSTRUCT: Includes erect, reconstruct, alter, and move in or upon.
DEPTH OF LOT: See definition of Lot Depth.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, used exclusively for residential
purposes but not including hotels, clubs, boarding houses, rooming houses or
institutions.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A detached building used by two (2) or more families
living independently.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached building used by one family. A single-
family dwelling includes a "manufactured home" as defined in Nevada Revised
Statutes section 278.02095.
FAMILY: Any number of people living together as a nonprofit housekeeping unit
and using common cooking facilities.
FRONT OF LOT: See definition of Lot, Front.
FRONT YARD: See definition of Yard, Front.
GAMING: Any legally constituted gambling enterprise authorized under state law,
other than slot machines, when such machines are operated incidental to the
conduct of a business.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A space intended for and used by the private automobiles of
families resident upon the property where it is located.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building for the care, repair, storage, hire or equipment of
automobiles, including showrooms for the display or sale of new automobiles.
HOME OCCUPATION: A use customarily carried on by the dwelling occupant and
incidental to the primary residential purpose, provided the residential
character of the property is not changed. Such uses are subject to the
following:
   A.   Not more than one occupation in any single dwelling;
   B.   Such use is confined to the occupants of the dwelling and not to exceed
two (2) persons associated with the business;
   C.   No sale of goods, samples, materials or other objects on the premises,
nor any storage or manufacture thereof;
   D.   Not more than one room containing more than twenty five percent (25%)
of the total floor area of the dwelling for such use;
   E.   A sign not larger than seventy two (72) square inches in connection
thereto;
   F.   No addition, alteration or remodeling which would change the
residential character of the unit;
   G.   No occupation which would or might produce noise, odor, dust, smoke, or
electrical disturbance or in any way interfere with the peace, contentment and
general welfare of the area;
   H.   The use of special equipment or the repair or manufacture of goods or
equipment may be approved subject to conditions;
   I.   No home occupations of any use entailing food handling, processing or
packing, harboring of animals, automobile body and/or fender repair or similar
activity; and
   J.   The use shall not impact vehicular traffic or parking.
JUNKYARD: Any space used for storage, abandonment or sale of junk, scrap
material or similar waste, including the dismantling, demolition or abandonment
of vehicles, machinery or parts.
LIVING UNIT: One or more rooms in a dwelling used or designed for use by one
family exclusively.
LOT: A distinct part or parcel of land which is a portion of a subdivision,
divided with the intent to transfer ownership or for building purposes and
which abuts a means of access.
LOT DEPTH: The distance from the front to the rear lot lines, measured in the
mean direction of the side lot lines.
LOT, FRONT: The narrowest dimension of a lot fronting a street.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured at
right angles to the lot depth at the midpoint between the front and rear lot
lines.
MAIN BUILDING: See definition of Building, Main.
MOBILE HOME PARKS: An area, parcel, or tract of land having as its principal
use the rental, leasing or occupancy of space by two (2) or more mobile homes
on a permanent or semipermanent basis, including accessory buildings,
structures or uses customarily incidental thereto.
MOTEL: See definition of Auto Court, Motel.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING: See definition of Dwelling, Multiple-Family.
NONCONFORMANCE: Any use not in conformity with the provisions as set forth in
this title and applicable to the district in which such use is located.
PARCEL: Any contiguous unit or units of land in the possession of, or recorded
as the property of, one person.
PRIVATE GARAGE: See definition of Garage, Private.
PUBLIC GARAGE: See definition of Garage, Public.
REAR YARD: See definition of Yard, Rear.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A parcel or tract of land having as its principal
use by the general public as temporary living quarters for recreational,
educational, or vacation purposes, of two (2) or more spaces which provide
power, water or sewer utility hookups for recreational vehicles.
REQUIRED AREA: The minimum area and width of a lot or a parcel necessary to
permit its use under the provisions of this title and means, for the purpose of
this title:
   A.   Any lot shown as part of a subdivision recorded as a final plat in the
manner provided by law; or
   B.   Any parcel of land separated as a lot prior to November 8, 1963; or
   C.   Any lot or parcel which has an area and width not less than that
required in the regulations set forth as applicable in the land use district in
which it is located.
RESIDENTIAL INDUSTRY: The creation, construction, fabrication or assembly of
artwork or craftwork within a dwelling, store or shop or within an accessory
building thereto.
   A.   Specific uses permitted are pottery work, jewelry making, metal work
not using equipment larger than hand tools, woodworking, sign painting,
homemade clothing, leather work, lapidary, painting, sculpture, and similar
uses.
   B.   When allowed in a residential district, no public display of stock in
trade shall be allowed within the dwelling or accessory buildings nor shall the
use change the residential character of the dwelling.
   C.   When allowed in a commercial district, the use shall not change the
retail nature of the store or shop.
   D.   The use shall not cause any sustained, unpleasant or unusual noises,
vibrations, noxious fumes or odors nor cause any parking or traffic congestion
within the immediate area thereof.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House Or Rooming House.
SIDE YARD: See definition of Yard, Side.
SIGN: Any advertising method by which a person, profession, business, commodity
or fact is made known as relating to the property upon which such advertisement
is located.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: See definition of Dwelling, Single-Family.
STREET: A public thoroughfare thirty (30) or more feet in width which affords a
primary access to abutting property.
TEMPORARY BUILDING: A detached subordinate building the use of which is
incidental to that of the main building on the same lot or parcel, on skids, or
having no footing or foundation and less than two hundred (200) square feet in
size.
USED: Includes arranged, designed or intended to be used.
WIDTH OF LOT: See definition of Lot Width.
YARD: An open space on the same lot or parcel with the building, extending from
the building to the nearest lot line, to be unoccupied and unobstructed except
as otherwise provided.
YARD, FRONT: A yard lying between the front of the main building and the front
lot line and extending across the full width of the lot or parcel.
YARD, REAR: A yard lying between the rear of the main building and the rear lot
line and extending across the full width of the lot or parcel.
YARD, SIDE: A yard lying between the side lot line and the main building and
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line. (1973 Code chapter
17.08; amd. Ord. 324, 2-28-2000; Ord. 326, 10-9-2000; Ord. 04-05, 6-28-2004;
Ord. 05-09, 9-12-2005)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-2-1: Interpretation
10-2-2: Application
10-2-3: Responsibility For Enforcement
10-2-4: Permits
10-2-5: Fees
10-2-6: Penalties
10-2-1: INTERPRETATION:
In interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be held
to be minimum provisions only for the promotion of the public health, safety,
morals, comfort, property and general welfare of the public. (1973 Code §
17.12.010)
10-2-2: APPLICATION:
When this title imposes a greater restriction upon the use of land or upon
height, bulk, location or use of buildings than is required by existing
provisions of law or by private covenant or other restriction, the provisions
of this title shall prevail. Private covenants or other restrictions which
impose more restrictive conditions than contained in this title are not
superseded. (1973 Code § 17.12.010)
10-2-3: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENFORCEMENT:
The city manager, the city clerk and all other officials concerned with the
issuance of licenses and permits shall enforce the provisions of this title.
(1973 Code § 17.12.020)
10-2-4: PERMITS:
   A.   Compliance Required: No building permit shall be issued for the
erection or use of any structure or part thereof, or for the use of any land,
which is not in accordance with the provisions of this title.
   B.   Certificate Of Occupancy: A certificate of occupancy shall be obtained
from the building department before actual occupancy of any structure for which
a building permit is required.
   C.   Contrary To Provisions: Any permit issued contrary to the provisions
herein contained shall be void and of no effect.
   D.   Variance: In the case where a variance has been allowed, a permit
sufficient to allow such work authorized, subject to conditions as imposed,
shall be issued, providing such permit shall not be issued until all time
limits for appeal have been exhausted and no appeal has been filed. (1973 Code
§ 17.12.040)
   E.   All Taxes Shall Be Paid: No application shall be accepted or considered
filed with the city of Yerington until the taxes due on the subject property
have been paid. This provision shall apply, but not be limited to, all
applications for change of land, master plan amendments, special use permits,
variances, reversion to acreage, parcel maps, division into large parcels,
tentative maps, final maps, building permits and mobile home permits. Proof of
payment of all taxes due shall be certified by the county treasurer. (Ord. 11-
01, 2-28-2011)
10-2-5: FEES:
Before accepting any application for a change of land use district, special use
permit, or variance, the city shall charge and collect a nonrefundable filing
fee. A schedule of filing fees, established for the purpose of defraying the
city's costs incidental to case processing, shall be adopted by resolution of
the city council and kept in the office of the city clerk. (1973 Code §
17.12.050)
10-2-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   Cumulative: All remedies provided in this title shall be cumulative and
not exclusive.
   B.   Responsibility To Correct: The conviction and punishment of any person
shall not relieve such person from the responsibility of correcting prohibited
conditions or removing prohibited buildings or improvements, nor prevent the
enforced correction or removal thereof. (1973 Code § 17.12.030)
CHAPTER 3
DISTRICTS GENERALLY
SECTION:
10-3-1: Established And Enumerated
10-3-2: Factors In Council Considerations
10-3-3: Vacated Rights Of Way
10-3-4: Annexed Lands
10-3-5: Applicability
10-3-6: Zoning Map
10-3-7: Uses
10-3-8: Lots Divided Into Separate Ownerships
10-3-9: Setbacks
10-3-1: ESTABLISHED AND ENUMERATED:
In order to classify, regulate, restrict and segregate the use of land, the
location, use and bulk of structures, and to carry out the purposes of this
title, land use districts are established, as follows:
R-1 Single-family residence
R-2 Limited multiple-residence
R-3 Multiple-residence
R-C Transition use residence
R-4 Single-family residence
R-5 Single-family residence
R-6 Single-family residence
R-7 Single-family residence
R-8 Single-family residence
R-9 Single-family residence
C-1 Limited commercial
C-2 General commercial
M-1 Industrial
M-2 Special industrial
A   Interim agricultural
 
(1973 Code § 17.20.010; amd. Ord. 04-02, 5-10-2004; Ord. 05-05, 6-13-2005; Ord.
06-06, 10-9-2006; Ord. 16-03, 5-23-2016)
10-3-2: FACTORS IN COUNCIL CONSIDERATIONS:
In the creation of this title and land use plan, the city council has given
careful consideration to the suitability of each district for the regulations
applied thereto, and the location and extent of each district and the
comprehensive grouping and arrangement of the various uses and the densities of
populations in accordance with a well considered plan for the development of
the city and its desirable relationship to adjoining jurisdictions. (1973 Code
§ 17.20.020)
10-3-3: VACATED RIGHTS OF WAY:
Where a dedicated street or alley is abandoned, the regulations applicable to
abutting properties shall apply to that portion of such right of way as
vacated. (1973 Code § 17.20.030)
10-3-4: ANNEXED LANDS:
Land annexed to the city shall, upon date of annexation, be classified by the
planning commission and city council in a zone appropriate to its location and
relationship to the master plan. (1973 Code § 17.20.040)
10-3-5: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The provisions of this title are in effect upon all land within the
boundaries of each district established.
   B.   No lot or parcel of land, nor any building, shall be used or occupied
for any purpose or in any manner not specifically permitted in the regulations
as applicable to the land use district in which such lot or building is
situated. (1973 Code § 17.20.050)
10-3-6: ZONING MAP:
   A.   Adopted By Reference: The districts enumerated in section
10-3-1 of this chapter and boundaries of said districts are established and
adopted as shown on that map entitled "Land Use Map, A Part Of The Master Plan
Of Yerington, Nevada", which map is made a part of this title together with all
notations, references, date and other information thereon.
   B.   Amendments: All subsequent changes and amendments to the plan or this
title shall be equally effective as if incorporated in the plan as adopted.
(1973 Code § 17.20.060)
   C.   Interpretation Of Boundaries: Where uncertainty exists as to the
boundaries of land use districts as shown on the zoning map, the following
applies:
      1.   Boundaries are intended to parallel street lines or to follow lot
lines as they existed on November 8, 1963, unless specifically shown otherwise.
      2.   In cases of uncertainty, the planning commission shall interpret the
intent of the boundary location. (1973 Code § 17.20.070)
10-3-7: USES:
   A.   Prohibition: The express enumeration in this title of a particular
class of building or use in any district shall be determined a prohibition of
such building or use in all more restrictive districts unless so specified.
(1973 Code § 17.20.080)
   B.   Within Hotels And Motels: A hotel or motel may contain such business
uses as are customary and incidental thereto, providing such business uses,
unless otherwise permitted, have all public entrances thereto restricted to the
interior of the hotel and no advertising or displays are visible from the
outside thereof. (1973 Code § 17.20.090)
10-3-8: LOTS DIVIDED INTO SEPARATE OWNERSHIPS:
Where a lot is divided into separate ownerships, and the area of either portion
is such that the number and location of buildings thereon no longer conform to
the lot area requirements of the districts, in the determination of the
permissive number and location of buildings on either portion, both parts shall
be considered as one unit. (1973 Code § 17.20.100)
10-3-9: SETBACKS:
   A.   Construction Prohibited: No building shall be constructed within the
setback distance and no portion of a building extended into said distance shall
be altered.
   B.   Accessory Or Temporary Buildings: Accessory buildings and temporary
buildings less than two hundred (200) square feet in size may be placed in a
rear yard not closer than five feet (5') from the rear or side property line.
Accessory buildings over two hundred (200) square feet in size must comply with
the provisions of section
10-4-1 of this title.
   C.   Corner Lots Or Parcels: When a building setback distance is required on
both street fronts of a corner lot or parcel, such setback distance shall
prevail regardless of the side yard requirements of the situation.
   D.   Yard Requirements: Except for the above, all yard setbacks shall comply
with the provisions of chapters 4 through 7, inclusive, of this title, as each
zone district has yard requirements therein. (Ord. 326, 10-9-2000)
CHAPTER 4
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Accessory Buildings
10-4-2: Area Regulations
10-4-3: Yards
10-4-4: Walls, Fences And Barriers
10-4-5: Building Height
10-4-1: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Permanent Main Building Required; Temporary Building: No person shall
construct or locate in any residential area any private garages or other
accessory buildings without a permissive main building, except that a temporary
building may be allowed pending the erection and completion of a permanent use.
No permit shall be issued for any temporary structure unless a permit also be
issued at the same time for the permanent building, and the temporary building
be either removed or converted to an allowed use upon the completion of the
main building.
   B.   Detached Accessory Building: A detached accessory building not
exceeding fifteen feet (15') in height may occupy not more than one-half (1/2)
of the total rear yard area if not closer than ten feet (10') to the rear
property line.
   C.   Corner Lot: In case of a corner lot abutting two (2) streets, no
accessory building shall be erected so as to encroach upon the front half of
such lots. (1973 Code § 17.24.010)
10-4-2: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Reduction Of Lot Or Parcel: No lot or parcel shall be so reduced in
area so as to be less in any dimension than is required by the regulations
applicable to the land use district in which it is located.
   B.   Use Of Required Area: No portion of any lot or parcel which is part of
required area for one building shall be used as a part of a required area for
any other building. When a portion of any lot or parcel is sold or transferred
and the area of that portion or the portion remaining no longer conforms to the
required area, as defined in the respective land use district, the portion sold
and the portion remaining shall be considered as one parcel only in determining
the allowable number and location of buildings on both parcels.
   C.   Minimum Requirements: The minimum square footage requirements of this
title are in addition to and not in lieu of the requirements of the uniform
building code. (1973 Code § 17.24.020)
10-4-3: YARDS:
   A.   Use By Adjoining Lots: No required yard or open space around an
existing building or other buildings hereafter erected shall be considered a
yard or open space for any other buildings on an adjoining lot or parcel. (1973
Code § 17.24.030)
   B.   Front Yards:
      1.   Through Lots: On through lots, either end lot line may be considered
the front line, in which case the minimum rear yard shall not be less than is
required as a front yard in the respective land use district.
      2.   Corner Lots: There shall be no plantings, fences, shrubbery or other
obstruction to vision more than three feet (3') higher than the curb level
within twenty feet (20') of the intersection of any two (2) streets on corner
lots. (1973 Code § 17.24.040)
   C.   Side Yards:
      1.   Corner Lot: On a corner lot, the building line from the street
running parallel with the side line of such lot shall be not less than the
front yard, as required in that district, except in the R-1 residence district,
as noted.
      2.   Outside Stairs Or Landing: Outside stairs or landing places, if
unroofed or unenclosed, may extend into a side yard not to exceed three feet
(3'). (1973 Code § 17.24.050)
   D.   Rear Yards:
      1.   Outside Stairs Or Landing: An outside stair or landing place, if
unroofed or unenclosed, may extend into a rear yard not to exceed five feet
(5').
      2.   Detached Accessory Building: A detached accessory building may
occupy a portion of the rear yard subject to the provisions of this chapter,
and chapters 3 and 5 of this title. (1973 Code § 17.24.060)
10-4-4: WALLS, FENCES AND BARRIERS:
   A.   Maximum Height:
      1.   Front Yards: Walls, fences and barriers not over six feet (6') in
height may be erected on lot lines except in required front yard areas.
      2.   Other Yards: Fences not over three feet (3') in height may be built
anywhere on the lot except as otherwise provided.
   B.   Nonvisual Barrier: A four foot (4') nonvisual barrier (i.e., chain
link) fence may be substituted for a three foot (3') fence wherever a three
foot (3') fence is indicated in these requirements. (1973 Code § 17.24.070)
10-4-5: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall exceed a height of two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty
five feet (35'), except as specified in this chapter. Requirements of this
title shall not apply to church spires, belfries, cupolas, domes, chimneys,
flues, flagpoles, and the like except where they may be deemed a hazard. (1973
Code § 17.24.080)
ARTICLE A. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4A-1: Generally
10-4A-2: Permitted Uses
10-4A-3: Special Uses
10-4A-4: Yards
10-4A-1: GENERALLY:
Within R-1 single-family residence districts, the regulations set out in this
chapter shall be complied with. (1973 Code § 17.32.010)
10-4A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted on a lot or parcel having the required area and
width. Minimum area of seven thousand (7,000) square feet excluding road rights
of way and sixty feet (60') average width:
Accessory uses customary and incidental to the dwelling, when located on the
same lot, and provided it is not closer than fifteen feet (15') to a main
building on the adjoining lot nor closer than ten feet (10') to any main
building on the same lot.
Home occupations as permitted within this title.
Playgrounds.
Public parks.
Single-family dwelling of a permanent nature with a minimum living area of one
thousand (1,000) square feet.
Additional single-family dwellings, providing there is not less than seven
thousand (7,000) square feet of lot area respectively for each such additional
dwelling, and they are not closer than twenty five feet (25') apart. (1973 Code
§ 17.32.020)
10-4A-3: SPECIAL USES:
Uses allowed by special use permit shall include:
   Assisted living facility providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per eight hundred (800) square
feet of total floor area.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located.
Family daycare.
   Golf courses.
Residential industry providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per three hundred (300) square
feet of total floor area plus one space for each five (5) seating capacity.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located. (Ord. 05-09, 9-12-2005)
10-4A-4: YARDS:
Yards, except as provided otherwise, shall be:
   A.   Front: Each lot or parcel shall have a front yard having a depth equal
to the building line setback, but in no event less than twenty feet (20').
   B.   Side: There shall be a side yard along each side of the main building,
to be not less than seven feet (7'). The side yard along the street side of a
corner lot must be at least twenty feet (20'), regardless of other provisions
of this title.
   C.   Rear: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20').
(1973 Code § 17.32.040)
ARTICLE B. R-2 LIMITED MULTIPLE-RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4B-1: Generally
10-4B-2: Permitted Uses
10-4B-3: Special Uses
10-4B-4: Yards
10-4B-1: GENERALLY:
Within R-2 limited multiple-residence districts, the regulations set out in
this chapter shall be complied with. (1973 Code § 17.36.010)
10-4B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted on a lot or parcel having the required area and
width. Minimum area of seven thousand (7,000) square feet excluding road rights
of way and sixty feet (60') average width:
Accessory structures customary and incidental to the dwelling, when located on
the same lot, and providing it is not closer than fifteen feet (15') to a main
building on the adjoining lot, nor closer than ten feet (10') to any main
building on the same lot.
Home occupations as permitted within this title.
Playgrounds.
Public parks.
Single-family dwelling of a permanent nature with a minimum living area of one
thousand (1,000) square feet.
Additional single-family dwellings, providing there is not less than seven
thousand (7,000) square feet of lot area respectively for each such additional
dwelling, and they are not closer than twenty five feet (25') apart.
Two-family residential structures of a permanent nature with a minimum living
area of eight hundred (800) square feet per dwelling unit. (1973 Code §
17.36.020)
10-4B-3: SPECIAL USES:
Uses allowed by special use permit shall include:
   Assisted living facility providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per eight hundred (800) square
feet of total floor area.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located.
Bed and breakfast facility.
Boarding house.
Churches and other similar quasi-public buildings.
Family daycare.
Museums and libraries.
Private clubs.
Residential industry providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per three hundred (300) square
feet of total floor area plus one space for each five (5) seating capacity.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located.
   C.   Structure is a single-family dwelling.
Rest homes. (Ord. 05-09, 9-12-2005)
10-4B-4: YARDS:
Yards, except as provided otherwise, shall be:
   A.   Front: Each lot or parcel shall have a front yard or depth equal to the
building setback line, but in no event less than twenty feet (20').
   B.   Side: There shall be a side yard along each side of the main building
to be not less than seven feet (7'). The side yard along the street side of a
corner lot must be at least twenty feet (20') regardless of other provisions of
this title.
   C.   Rear: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20').
(1973 Code § 17.36.040)
ARTICLE C. R-3 MULTIPLE-RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4C-1: Generally
10-4C-2: Permitted Uses
10-4C-3: Special Uses
10-4C-4: Yards
10-4C-1: GENERALLY:
Within R-3 multiple-residence districts, the regulations set out in this
chapter shall be complied with. (1973 Code § 17.40.010)
10-4C-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted on a lot or parcel having the required area and
width. Minimum area of seven thousand (7,000) square feet excluding road rights
of way and sixty feet (60') average width:
Accessory uses customary and incidental to the dwelling, when located on the
same lot, and providing it is not closer than fifteen feet (15') to a main
building on the adjoining lot, nor closer than ten feet (10') to any main
building on the same lot.
Home occupations as permitted in this title.
Multiple-family dwellings, provided not more than one dwelling unit shall be
constructed for each two thousand (2,000) square feet of lot area.
   Playgrounds.
Public parks.
Single-family dwelling of a permanent nature with a minimum living area of one
thousand (1,000) square feet.
Additional single-family dwellings, providing there is not less than seven
thousand (7,000) square feet of lot area respectively for each such additional
dwelling, and they are not closer than twenty five feet (25') apart. (1973 Code
§ 17.40.020)
10-4C-3: SPECIAL USES:
Uses allowed by special use permit shall include the following:
Assisted living facility providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per eight hundred (800) square
feet of total floor area.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located.
Bed and breakfast facility.
Boarding house.
Business colleges.
Childcare centers.
Churches.
Educational and philanthropic institutions.
Fraternity and sorority houses.
Galleries.
Group home.
Hotels and motels.
Lodges.
Mobile home parks, consisting of a minimum of one-half (1/2) acre or twenty one
thousand seven hundred eighty (21,780) square feet.
Museums and libraries.
Private clubs.
Rest homes.
Schools and similar uses offering specialized training. (Ord. 05-09, 9-12-2005)
10-4C-4: YARDS:
Yards, except as provided otherwise, shall be:
   A.   Front: Each lot or parcel shall have a front yard or depth equal to the
building setback line, but in no event less than twenty feet (20').
   B.   Side: There shall be a side yard along each side of the main building
which shall be not less than seven feet (7').
   C.   Rear: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20').
(1973 Code § 17.40.040)
ARTICLE D. R-C TRANSITION USE RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4D-1: Generally
10-4D-2: Permitted Uses
10-4D-3: Special Uses
10-4D-4: Yards
10-4D-1: GENERALLY:
Within R-C transition use residence districts, the regulations set out in this
chapter shall be complied with. (1973 Code § 17.44.010)
10-4D-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted on a lot or parcel having the required area and
width. Minimum area of six thousand (6,000) square feet excluding road rights
of way and sixty feet (60') average width:
All uses permitted in R-1, R-2 and R-3 districts.
Accessory uses and structures customary and incidental thereto, providing they
are not closer than ten feet (10') to any main building on the same or
adjoining lots.
Advertising in connection with the uses designated in this section shall be
limited to one lighted or unlighted sign (but not flashing) per building face,
not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet in area.
Home occupations as permitted within this title.
Offices and office buildings wherein no retail activity or merchandising is
maintained, sold, displayed, and there is a limited contact only with the
general public.
Parking lots. (1973 Code § 17.44.020)
10-4D-3: SPECIAL USES:
Uses allowed by special use permit shall include the following:
Assisted living facility providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per eight hundred (800) square
feet of total floor area.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located.
Bed and breakfast facility.
Boarding house.
Business colleges.
Childcare centers.
Churches.
Educational and philanthropic institutions.
Fraternity and sorority houses.
Galleries.
Group home.
Hotels and motels.
Lodges.
Mobile home parks, consisting of a minimum of one-half (1/2) acre or twenty one
thousand seven hundred eighty (21,780) square feet.
Museums and libraries.
Private clubs.
Rest homes.
Schools and similar uses offering specialized training. (Ord. 05-09, 9-12-2005)
10-4D-4: YARDS:
Yards, except as otherwise provided, shall be:
   A.   Front: Each lot or parcel shall have a front yard having a depth equal
to the building line setback, but in no event less than twenty feet (20').
   B.   Side: There shall be a side yard along each side of the main building
which shall be not less than seven feet (7').
   C.   Rear: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20').
(1973 Code § 17.44.040)
ARTICLE E. R-4 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4E-1: Generally
10-4E-2: Permitted Uses
10-4E-3: Special Uses
10-4E-4: Yards
10-4E-1: GENERALLY:
Within R-4 single-family residence districts, the regulations set out in this
chapter shall be complied with. (Ord. 05-05, 6-13-2005)
10-4E-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted on a lot or parcel having the required area and
width. Minimum area of ten thousand (10,000) square feet excluding road rights
of way and seventy five feet (75') average width:
Accessory uses customary and incidental to the dwelling, when located on the
same lot, and provided it is not closer than fifteen feet (15') to a main
building on the adjoining lot nor closer than ten feet (10') to any main
building on the same lot.
Home occupations as permitted within this title.
Playgrounds.
Public parks.
Single-family dwelling of a permanent nature with a minimum living area of one
thousand (1,000) square feet.
Additional single-family dwellings with a minimum living area of one thousand
(1,000) square feet, providing there is not less than ten thousand (10,000)
square feet of lot area respectively for each such additional dwelling, and
they are not closer than twenty five feet (25') apart. (Ord. 05-05, 6-13-2005)
10-4E-3: SPECIAL USES:
Uses allowed by special use permit shall include:
Assisted living facility providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per eight hundred (800) square
feet of total floor area.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located.
Bed and breakfast facility.
Boarding house.
Business colleges.
Childcare centers.
Churches, schools and other similar quasi-public buildings.
Educational and philanthropic institutions.
Family daycare.
Fraternity and sorority houses.
Galleries.
Group home.
Hotels and motels.
Lodges.
Mobile home parks, consisting of a minimum of one-half (1/2) acre or twenty one
thousand seven hundred eighty (21,780) square feet.
Museums and libraries.
Private clubs.
Residential industry providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per three hundred (300) square
feet of total floor area plus one space for each five (5) seating capacity.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located.
Rest homes.
Schools and similar uses offering specialized training. (Ord. 05-09, 9-12-2005)
10-4E-4: YARDS:
Yards, except as provided otherwise, shall be:
   A.   Front: Each lot or parcel shall have a front yard having a depth equal
to the building line setback, but in no event less than twenty feet (20').
   B.   Side: There shall be a side yard along each side of the main building,
to be not less than ten feet (10'). The side yard along the street side of a
corner lot must be at least twenty feet (20'), regardless of other provisions
of this title.
   C.   Rear: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20').
(Ord. 05-05, 6-13-2005)
ARTICLE F. R-5 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4F-1: Generally
10-4F-2: Permitted Uses
10-4F-3: Special Uses
10-4F-4: Yards
10-4F-1: GENERALLY:
Within R-5 single-family residence districts, the regulations set out in this
article shall be complied with. (Ord. 05-05, 6-13-2005)
10-4F-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted on a lot or parcel having the required area and
width (minimum area of 12,000 square feet excluding road rights of way and an
80 foot average width):
Accessory uses customary and incidental to the dwelling, when located on the
same lot, and provided it is not closer than fifteen feet (15') to a main
building on the adjoining lot, nor closer than ten feet (10') to any main
building on the same lot.
Home occupations as permitted in this title.
Playgrounds.
Public parks.
Single-family dwelling of a permanent nature with a minimum living area of one
thousand (1,000) square feet.
Additional single-family dwellings with a minimum living area of one thousand
(1,000) square feet, providing there is not less than twelve thousand (12,000)
square feet of lot area respectively for each such additional dwelling, and
they are not closer than twenty five feet (25') apart. (Ord. 06-06, 10-9-2006)
10-4F-3: SPECIAL USES:
Uses allowed by special use permit shall include:
Assisted living facility providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per eight hundred (800) square
feet of total floor area.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located.
Bed and breakfast facility.
Boarding house.
Business colleges.
Childcare centers.
Churches, schools and other similar quasi-public buildings.
Educational and philanthropic institutions.
Family daycare.
Fraternity and sorority houses.
Galleries.
Group home.
Hotels and motels.
   Lodges.
Mobile home parks, consisting of a minimum of one-half (1/2) acre or twenty one
thousand seven hundred eighty (21,780) square feet.
   Museums and libraries.
   Private clubs.
   Residential industry providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per three hundred (300) square
feet of total floor area plus one space for each five (5) seating capacity.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located.
   Rest homes.
Schools and similar uses offering specialized training. (Ord. 05-09, 9-12-2005)
10-4F-4: YARDS:
Yards, except as provided otherwise, shall be:
   A.   Front: Each lot or parcel shall have a front yard or depth equal to the
building setback line, but in no event less than twenty feet (20').
   B.   Side: There shall be a side yard along each side of the main building
to be not less than ten feet (10'). The side yard along the street side of a
corner lot must be at least twenty feet (20') regardless of other provisions of
this title.
   C.   Rear: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20').
(Ord. 05-05, 6-13-2005)
ARTICLE G. R-6 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4G-1: Generally
10-4G-2: Permitted Uses
10-4G-3: Special Uses
10-4G-4: Yards
10-4G-1: GENERALLY:
Within R-6 single-family residence districts, the regulations set out in this
article shall be complied with. (Ord. 05-05, 6-13-2005)
10-4G-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted on a lot or parcel having the required area and
width (minimum area of 14,000 square feet excluding road rights of way and an
85 foot average width):
Accessory uses customary and incidental to the dwelling, when located on the
same lot, and provided it is not closer than fifteen feet (15') to a main
building on the adjoining lot, nor closer than ten feet (10') to any main
building on the same lot.
Home occupations as permitted in this title.
Playgrounds.
Public parks.
Single-family dwelling of a permanent nature with a minimum living area of one
thousand (1,000) square feet.
Additional single-family dwellings with a minimum living area of one thousand
(1,000) square feet, providing there is not less than fourteen thousand
(14,000) square feet of lot area respectively for each such additional
dwelling, and they are not closer than twenty five feet (25') apart. (Ord. 06-
06, 10-9-2006)
10-4G-3: SPECIAL USES:
Uses allowed by special use permit shall include:
   Assisted living facility providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per eight hundred (800) square
feet of total floor area.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located.
   Bed and breakfast facility.
Boarding house.
Business colleges.
Childcare centers.
Churches, schools and other similar quasi-public buildings.
Educational and philanthropic institutions.
Family daycare.
Fraternity and sorority houses.
Galleries.
Group home.
Hotels and motels.
Lodges.
Mobile home parks, consisting of a minimum of one-half (1/2) acre or twenty one
thousand seven hundred eighty (21,780) square feet.
Museums and libraries.
Private clubs.
Residential industry providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per three hundred (300) square
feet of total floor area plus one space for each five (5) seating capacity.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located.
Rest homes.
Schools and similar uses offering specialized training. (Ord. 05-09, 9-12-2005)
10-4G-4: YARDS:
Yards, except as provided otherwise, shall be:
   A.   Front: Each lot or parcel shall have a front yard or depth equal to the
building setback line, but in no event less than twenty five feet (25').
   B.   Side: There shall be a side yard along each side of the main building
to be not less than ten feet (10'). The side yard along the street side of a
corner lot must be at least twenty feet (20') regardless of other provisions of
this title.
   C.   Rear: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20').
(Ord. 05-05, 6-13-2005)
ARTICLE H. R-7 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4H-1: Generally
10-4H-2: Permitted Uses
10-4H-3: Special Uses
10-4H-4: Yards
10-4H-1: GENERALLY:
Within R-7 single-family residence districts, the regulations set out in this
article shall be complied with. (Ord. 05-05, 6-13-2005)
10-4H-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted on a lot or parcel having the required area and
width (minimum area of 16,000 square feet excluding road rights of way and a 90
foot average width):
Accessory uses customary and incidental to the dwelling, when located on the
same lot, and provided it is not closer than fifteen feet (15') to a main
building on the adjoining lot, nor closer than ten feet (10') to any main
building on the same lot.
Home occupations as permitted in this title.
Playgrounds.
Public parks.
Single-family dwelling of a permanent nature with a minimum living area of one
thousand (1,000) square feet.
Additional single-family dwellings with a minimum living area of one thousand
(1,000) square feet, providing there is not less than sixteen thousand (16,000)
square feet of lot area respectively for each such additional dwelling, and
they are not closer than twenty five feet (25') apart. (Ord. 06-06, 10-9-2006)
10-4H-3: SPECIAL USES:
Uses allowed by special use permit shall include:
   Assisted living facility providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per eight hundred (800) square
feet of total floor area.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located.
   Bed and breakfast facility.
   Boarding house.
   Business colleges.
Childcare centers.
Churches, schools and other similar quasi-public buildings.
Educational and philanthropic institutions.
Family daycare.
Fraternity and sorority houses.
Galleries.
   Group home.
Hotels and motels.
   Lodges.
Mobile home parks, consisting of a minimum of one-half (1/2) acre or twenty one
thousand seven hundred eighty (21,780) square feet.
   Museums and libraries.
Private clubs.
   Residential industry providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per three hundred (300) square
feet of total floor area plus one space for each five (5) seating capacity.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located.
   Rest homes.
Schools and similar uses offering specialized training. (Ord. 05-09, 9-12-2005)
10-4H-4: YARDS:
Yards, except as provided otherwise, shall be:
   A.   Front: Each lot or parcel shall have a front yard or depth equal to the
building setback line, but in no event less than twenty five feet (25').
   B.   Side: There shall be a side yard along each side of the main building
to be not less than ten feet (10'). The side yard along the street side of a
corner lot must be at least twenty feet (20') regardless of other provisions of
this title.
   C.   Rear: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20').
(Ord. 05-05, 6-13-2005)
ARTICLE I. R-8 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4I-1: Generally
10-4I-2: Permitted Uses
10-4I-3: Special Uses
10-4I-4: Yards
10-4I-1: GENERALLY:
Within R-8 single-family residence districts, the regulations set out in this
article shall be complied with. (Ord. 06-06, 10-9-2006)
10-4I-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted on a lot or parcel having the required area and
width (minimum area of 1/2 acre [21,780 square feet] excluding road rights of
way and a 120 foot average width):
Accessory uses customary and incidental to the dwelling, when located on the
same lot, and providing it is not closer than fifteen feet (15') to a main
building on the adjoining lot, nor closer than ten feet (10') to any main
building on the same lot.
Home occupations as permitted in this title.
Playgrounds.
Public parks.
Single-family dwelling of a permanent nature with a minimum living area of one
thousand (1,000) square feet.
Additional single-family dwellings, providing there is not less than one-half
(1/2) acre (21,780 square feet) of lot area respectively for each such
additional dwelling, and they are not closer than twenty five feet (25') apart.
(Ord. 06-06, 10-9-2006)
10-4I-3: SPECIAL USES:
Uses allowed by special use permit shall include:
Assisted living facility providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per eight hundred (800) square
feet of total floor area.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located.
Bed and breakfast facility.
Boarding house.
Business colleges.
Childcare centers.
Churches, schools and other similar quasi-public buildings.
Educational and philanthropic institutions.
Family daycare.
Fraternity and sorority houses.
Galleries.
Group home.
Hotels and motels.
Lodges.
Mobile home parks, consisting of a minimum of one-half (1/2) acre or twenty one
thousand seven hundred eighty (21,780) square feet.
Museums and libraries.
Private clubs.
Residential industry providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per three hundred (300) square
feet of total floor area plus one space for each five (5) seating capacity.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located.
Rest homes.
Schools and similar uses offering specialized training. (Ord. 06-06, 10-9-2006)
10-4I-4: YARDS:
Yards, except as provided otherwise, shall be:
   A.   Front: Each lot or parcel shall have a front yard or depth equal to the
building setback line, but in no event less than twenty five feet (25').
   B.   Side: There shall be a side yard along each side of the main building
to be not less than ten feet (10'). The side yard along the street side of a
corner lot must be at least twenty feet (20') regardless of other provisions of
this title.
   C.   Rear: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20').
(Ord. 06-06, 10-9-2006)
ARTICLE J. R-9 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4J-1: Generally
10-4J-2: Permitted Uses
10-4J-3: Special Uses
10-4J-4: Yards
10-4J-1: GENERALLY:
Within R-9 single-family residence districts, the regulations set out in this
article shall be complied with. (Ord. 06-06, 10-9-2006)
10-4J-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted on a lot or parcel having the required area and
width (minimum area of 1 acre [43,560 square feet] excluding road rights of way
and a 140 foot average width):
Accessory uses customary and incidental to the dwelling, when located on the
same lot, and providing it is not closer than fifteen feet (15') to a main
building on the adjoining lot, nor closer than ten feet (10') to any main
building on the same lot.
Domestic livestock farming limited to the raising, feeding, maintaining, and
breeding of livestock, subject to a minimum twenty thousand (20,000) square
foot gross area and the following cumulative limitations and conditions:
   A.   One hog or pig per each twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of gross
area; or
   B.   One horse or mule or cow or steer (includes miniature) per each twenty
thousand (20,000) square feet of gross area; or
   C.   Twenty five (25) chickens per each twenty thousand (20,000) square feet
of gross area; or
   D.   Three (3) goats or sheep or similar livestock per each twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet of gross area.
The area used to justify one class of animals may not be used concurrently to
justify another class of animals.
Home occupations as permitted in this title.
Playgrounds.
Public parks.
Single-family dwelling of a permanent nature with a minimum living area of one
thousand (1,000) square feet.
Additional single-family dwellings, providing there is not less than one acre
(43,560 square feet) of lot area respectively for each such additional
dwelling, and they are not closer than twenty five feet (25') apart. (Ord. 06-
06, 10-9-2006)
10-4J-3: SPECIAL USES:
Uses allowed by special use permit shall include:
Assisted living facility providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per eight hundred (800) square
feet of total floor area.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located.
Bed and breakfast facility.
Boarding house.
Business colleges.
Childcare centers.
Churches, schools and other similar quasi-public buildings.
Educational and philanthropic institutions.
Family daycare.
Fraternity and sorority houses.
Galleries.
Group home.
Hotels and motels.
Lodges.
Mobile home parks, consisting of a minimum of one-half (1/2) acre or twenty one
thousand seven hundred eighty (21,780) square feet.
Museums and libraries.
Private clubs.
Residential industry providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per three hundred (300) square
feet of total floor area plus one space for each five (5) seating capacity.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located.
Rest homes.
Schools and similar uses offering specialized training. (Ord. 06-06, 10-9-2006)
10-4J-4: YARDS:
Yards, except as provided otherwise, shall be:
   A.   Front: Each lot or parcel shall have a front yard or depth equal to the
building setback line, but in no event less than twenty five feet (25').
   B.   Side: There shall be a side yard along each side of the main building
to be not less than ten feet (10'). The side yard along the street side of a
corner lot must be at least twenty feet (20') regardless of other provisions of
this title.
   C.   Rear: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20').
(Ord. 06-06, 10-9-2006)
CHAPTER 5
NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS GENERALLY
SECTION:
10-5-1: Residence District Uses
10-5-2: Noise, Smoke, Odors, Gases And Noxious Nuisances
10-5-3: Open Storage
10-5-4: Inflammable Liquids, Liquefied Petroleum And Explosives
10-5-5: Contiguous To Residence District; Side Yard
10-5-6: Lighting
10-5-1: RESIDENCE DISTRICT USES:
   A.   Permitted: All uses or buildings permissive in residence districts are
also permissive in nonresidence districts, except the M-1 districts; provided,
that they are established or located in accordance with the provisions of the
R-C district.
   B.   Waiver Of Yard Requirements: Yard requirements may be waived for
dwelling units erected above the ground floor when such ground floor is
designed and used exclusively for commercial purposes, unless such yards may be
required by other ordinances or other provisions of this title. (1973 Code §
17.28.010)
10-5-2: NOISE, SMOKE, ODORS, GASES AND NOXIOUS NUISANCES:
Noise, smoke, odors, gases, and other noxious nuisances shall be so controlled
as not to become objectionable, adversely affect the properties in the
vicinity, nor be detrimental to the public health, safety and general welfare.
(1973 Code § 17.28.020)
10-5-3: OPEN STORAGE:
All open storage shall be enclosed by a structure or planting strip not less
than six feet (6') high. Storage of lumber, coal or other combustibles shall
not be less than ten feet (10') from any interior lot line, and a suitable
roadway from the street to the rear of the property shall be provided,
maintained and kept open at all times, except during nonbusiness hours. No
merchandise shall be displayed nor any business conducted between the street
line and the building line in any nonresidential district. (1973 Code §
17.28.030)
10-5-4: INFLAMMABLE LIQUIDS, LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM AND EXPLOSIVES:
Storage and handling of inflammable liquids, liquefied petroleum and explosives
shall comply with all state rules and regulations as well as those of the city.
Bulk storage of inflammable liquids, liquefied petroleum, gases and explosives
above ground is unlawful in all districts, except gasoline and lubricating fuel
oil, lubricating oil, and fuel oil as allowed. (1973 Code § 17.28.040)
10-5-5: CONTIGUOUS TO RESIDENCE DISTRICT; SIDE YARD:
Wherever a nonresidence district is contiguous to a residence district, a side
yard of not less than ten feet (10') shall be required by the nonresidence
district use regardless of other provisions of this title. (1973 Code §
17.28.050)
10-5-6: LIGHTING:
Exterior lighting shall be so installed as to eliminate any nuisance to
adjoining residential districts or to traffic on the public streets or
highways. No unshaded light sources shall be permitted. Necessary safety
lighting of road and buildings, and lighting required by governmental
regulations shall be required. (1973 Code § 17.28.060)
CHAPTER 6
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. C-1 LIMITED COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Generally
10-6A-2: Permitted Uses
10-6A-3: Restrictions On Permitted Uses
10-6A-4: Special Uses
10-6A-5: Yards
10-6A-1: GENERALLY:
Within C-1 limited commercial districts, the regulations set out in this
chapter shall be complied with. (1973 Code § 17.48.010)
10-6A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted on a lot or parcel having a minimum of five
thousand (5,000) square feet. The primary permitted uses of C-1 limited
commercial districts are offices, services, restaurants and retail sales of new
merchandise. The following uses and all other similar uses are also permitted
when within a building:
Accounting and bookkeeping.
Advertising agency store.
Alcoholic beverages (accessory to restaurant).
Amusement devices, sales and services.
Antiques (genuine).
Architect office.
Art store.
Art studio or school.
Auto parts and accessories.
Automobile parking lot or garage (public or private).
Bakery.
Bank.
Barber shop.
Beauty parlor.
Bicycle sales, service and repair shop.
Book and stationery store.
Business and office machine sales.
Caterer.
Church.
Clinic.
Coin shop.
Dance school.
Delicatessen.
Department store.
Employment agency.
Engineering office.
Film exchange.
Finance company.
Florist.
Furniture store.
Gaming (incidental to primary use and limited to fifteen 15 slot machines).
Garden shop.
Gasoline, retail.
Gift shop.
Grocery store.
Gunsmith.
Hardware store, no exterior storage.
Hobby store.
Hunting and fishing supply center.
Insurance agency.
Interior decorator.
Jewelry and metal craft store.
Laundromat (self-service).
Library.
Liquor store.
Locksmith shop.
Medical building.
Museum.
Music school.
Newspaper office.
Paint and wallpaper store.
Parking lot.
Pawn shop.
Public buildings and professional offices.
Public parks.
Radio or electronic sales and service
Real estate office.
Sewing machine store.
Shoe repair and shoe shine shop.
Shoe store
Stenographer.
Tailer shop.
Taxicab stand.
Theater.
Toy store.
Travel agency.
Watch repair.
Wedding chapel. (1973 Code § 17.48.020)
10-6A-3: RESTRICTIONS ON PERMITTED USES:
Restrictions on permitted uses are as follows:
   A.   All goods sold, offered for sale, or displayed in conjunction
therewith, shall be kept or wholly displayed within a building.
   B.   No residential uses. (1973 Code § 17.48.030)
10-6A-4: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses require a special use permit:
Amusement arcade.
Childcare facility.
Funeral home.
Hospital.
Mini-storage units.
Mobile home parks containing a minimum of one-half (1/2) acre or twenty one
thousand seven hundred eighty (21,780) square feet.
Recreational vehicle parks containing a minimum of one- fourth (1/4) acre or
ten thousand eight hundred ninety (10,890) square feet.
Rest home, convalescent home, group care facility.
Veterinarian.
Warehousing. (1973 Code § 17.48.040)
10-6A-5: YARDS:
Yard setbacks shall be as follows:
   A.   Front and side: None required. (1973 Code § 17.48.050)
   B.   Rear: If a lot or parcel is not bounded along the rear line by an
alley, a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20') shall be required. (Ord.
07-05, 8-13-2007)
ARTICLE B. C-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Generally
10-6B-2: Permitted Uses
10-6B-3: Restrictions On Permitted Uses
10-6B-4: Special Uses
10-6B-5: Yards
10-6B-1: GENERALLY:
Within C-2 general commercial districts, the regulations set out in this
chapter shall be complied with. (1973 Code § 17.52.010)
10-6B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted on a lot or parcel having a minimum of five
thousand (5,000) square feet. Any permitted use within a C-1 district is
allowed. Other permitted uses including the following and all other similar
uses:
Appliance service and sales.
Assayer.
Automobile, boat, or recreational vehicle (sales, rental, service and repair).
Automobile parking lot or garage (public or private).
Auto supply store.
Bar.
Bicycle (repair and rental).
Billiard or pool hall.
Blueprinting.
Bookbinding.
Bowling alley.
Building supplies.
Bus terminal.
Carpet and rug service.
Casino.
Clothing cleaning.
Convenience store.
Delivery service.
Diaper service.
Draperies, retail and wholesale and incidental manufacturing.
Electric contractors shop.
Employment agencies.
Engraver.
Express office.
Exterminating.
   Feed store.
Fire protection equipment and supplies.
Floor materials, service and wholesale.
Flower shop.
Freight office.
Funeral home or parlor.
Furniture reupholstering and rebuilding and/or redecorating service, including
draperies and incidental manufacturing.
Gaming (unlimited).
Glass (cutting and staining).
Greenhouse.
Guns, service and wholesale.
Gymnasium.
Handyman shop.
Hotel.
Interior decorator workshop.
Janitor and building cleaning service.
Jukebox rental, sales and service.
Kennel.
Laboratory; experimental, scientific, medical or dental.
Laundry (no processing).
Lawn service.
Leather goods (sale of and incidental manufacturing).
Lithographer.
Loan or pawnshop.
Lockers.
Lumber yards.
Machine tools; wholesale, retail, rental.
Mineral water distillation and bottling.
Miniature golf.
Motel.
Multigraphing.
Museum.
Musical instrument service.
Newspaper print office.
Nightclub.
Optical glass grinding.
Paper hanger.
Parcel delivery service, branch (off-street loading only).
Pawnshops.
Pet shops.
Photo finishing.
Photostating.
Picture framing.
Plumbing shop.
Poster illustration workshop.
Printer illustration workshop.
Printer and/or publisher.
Reducing salon.
Scales, commercial.
Secondhand store.
Sharpening or grinding tools.
Shoe repair shop.
Sign painting.
Swimming pool.
Taxi, business.
Taxidermist.
Telephone exchange (answering service).
Termite or pest control business.
Tire repair (no recapping).
Trade school.
Trailer repair.
Transformer station.
Upholstery.
Used merchandise sales.
Veterinarian.
Vocational school.
Warehousing (light). (1973 Code § 17.52.020)
10-6B-3: RESTRICTIONS ON PERMITTED USES:
Restrictions on permitted uses are as follows:
   A.   Residential uses, except an owner or watchman may reside in the same
structure that a business occupies;
   B.   No live animals shall be kept or slaughtered on the premises other than
in conjunction with a pet shop or kennel;
   C.   Storage shall not be allowed between the building or street line. (1973
Code § 17.52.030)
10-6B-4: SPECIAL USES:
Uses requiring a special use permit are as follows:
Amusement or video arcade.
Auction house/yard.
Auto body shop.
Automobile washing establishment (self-service and drive- through).
Billboards.
Cabinet or woodworking shop.
Childcare facilities.
Flea market.
Light manufacturing.
Ministorage.
Mobile home parks consisting of a minimum of one-half (1/2) acre or twenty one
thousand seven hundred eighty eight (21,788) square feet.
Outdoor theater.
Recreational vehicle park, consisting of a minimum of one- fourth (1/4) acre or
ten thousand eight hundred ninety (10,890) square feet. (Ord. 04-05, 6-28-2004)
10-6B-5: YARDS:
Yard setbacks shall be as follows:
   A.   Front and side, none required.
   B.   Rear: If a lot or parcel is not bounded along the rear lot line by an
alley, a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20') shall be required. (1973
Code § 17.52.050)
ARTICLE C. H-Z SPECIAL HOSPITAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6C-1: Purpose
10-6C-2: Generally
10-6C-3: Permitted Uses
10-6C-4: Restrictions On Permitted Uses
10-6C-5: Special Uses
10-6C-6: Yards
10-6C-1: PURPOSE:
The H-Z special hospital district zone is intended to accommodate the unique
nature and requirements of large scale and significant medical facilities
associated with a full service hospital in a manner compatible with the
surrounding land uses. (Ord. 16-04, 7-25-2016)
10-6C-2: GENERALLY:
Within the H-Z special hospital district zone, the regulations set out in this
chapter shall be complied with. (Ord. 16-04, 7-25-2016)
10-6C-3: PERMITTED USES:
The land uses permitted in the H-Z special hospital district zone with respect
to the zone areas shown as depicted on the land use map/site plan on file with
the city clerk of the city of Yerington shall be as follows:
General acute care hospital facility. The principal intended uses and
structures allowed are as follows:
   A.   General acute care hospital facility licensed by the state of Nevada
providing medical, surgical, psychiatric and obstetrical care.
   B.   Emergency medical services and clinical care for outpatient treatment
and diagnosis.
Nursing facility.
Uses which are customarily associated with a general acute care hospital
including, but not limited to, the following:
Auditoriums.
Cafeteria facilities for hospital employees, medical residents, physicians and
patients' visitors.
Chapels and places of worship.
Childcare centers and associated recreational facilities.
Cogeneration, incineration, water, electrical and heating and cooling equipment
facilities.
Employee services, such as credit unions.
Extended care facilities.
Helicopter landing site for the reception and transport of emergency and trauma
patients.
Hospital operations, such as food service and laundry facilities.
Hospital support facilities, such as medical laboratories, diagnostic testing
centers, physical therapy and inpatient pharmaceutical facilities.
Maintenance facilities, such as housekeeping and maintenance storage areas.
Medical libraries, such as research and educational facilities.
Off street parking facilities.
Office uses customary and ancillary to an acute care hospital facility.
Offices for hospital administrators and hospital employees including physicians
who work for or are under contract with the hospital.
Overnight accommodations for on duty hospital employees and medical residents.
Overnight accommodations within the patients' rooms for patients and their
families.
Pharmacies, gift stores, ATM facilities, restaurants and retail or personal
service shops, provided that primary access is only from within the hospital
building.
Storage facilities for medical equipment and supplies.
Telecommunications facilities. (Ord. 16-04, 7-25-2016)
10-6C-4: RESTRICTIONS ON PERMITTED USES:
Restrictions on permitted uses are as follows:
   A.   All goods sold, offered for sale, or displayed in conjunction
therewith, shall be kept or wholly displayed within a building.
   B.   No residential uses. (Ord. 16-04, 7-25-2016)
10-6C-5: SPECIAL USES:
Special uses are not anticipated within this zoning. (Ord. 16-04, 7-25-2016)
10-6C-6: YARDS:
Yard setbacks shall be as follows:
   A.   Front: Front yard shall have a minimum twenty five foot (25') setback
or as approved by the city of Yerington.
   B.   Side: Side yard shall have a minimum ten foot (10') setback or as
approved by the city of Yerington.
   C.   Rear:
      1.   If a lot or parcel is not bounded along the rear lot line by an
alley, a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20') shall be required.
      2.   If a lot or parcel is bounded along the rear lot line by an alley, a
rear yard of not less than ten feet (10') shall be required. (Ord. 16-04, 7-25-
2016)
CHAPTER 7
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. M-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Generally
10-7A-2: Permitted Uses
10-7A-3: Restrictions On Permitted Uses
10-7A-4: Special Uses
10-7A-5: Yards
10-7A-1: GENERALLY:
Within M-1 industrial districts, the regulations set out in this article shall
be complied with. (Ord. 16-01, 5-23-2016)
10-7A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted on a lot or parcel having a minimum of five
thousand (5,000) square feet:
Any use permitted in C-2 district.
Assembly.
Auto body repair.
Distributing.
Dry cleaning and dyeing, except as requiring a special use permit.
Fabrication.
Manufacturing.
Processing.
Rebuilding.
Repairing.
Shipping.
Storage warehousing.
Trade schools.
Truck depot. (Ord. 16-01, 5-23-2016)
10-7A-3: RESTRICTIONS ON PERMITTED USES:
Restrictions on uses permitted are as follows:
   A.   No residential uses, churches, schools, except trade schools, or
institutions;
   B.   No manufacture of any acid or acid byproduct chemical, including
chlorine or any other noxious gas, corrosive products or explosives. (Ord. 16-
01, 5-23-2016)
10-7A-4: SPECIAL USES:
Uses requiring a special use permit are as follows:
Acetylene manufacturing and sales.
Airports.
Asphalt manufacturing.
Battery rebuilding.
Billboards.
Bottling.
Box and crate storage.
Bulk station (fuel, including gas, oil and propane).
Chemical manufacturing.
Chromium plating.
Coal and coke yard.
   Commercial geothermal conversion systems.
   Commercial solar energy conversion systems.
   Commercial wind energy conversion systems.
Concrete batch plant.
Dump refuse or disposal yard.
Dye manufacturing.
Electroplating works.
Fertilizer storage (bulk).
Flea market.
Foundry.
Insecticide manufacturing and bulk storage.
Kennel.
Livestock sales and shipping.
Lubrication compounds, manufacturing.
Matches, manufacturing.
Mobile home storage and rebuilding lot.
Oxygen manufacturing.
Paint manufacturing.
Plastic products manufacturing.
Slaughterhouse, meat packing.
Tire manufacturing or recapping.
Wrecking/junkyards.
Other conditional uses requiring a special use permit are those which may
produce excessive noise, gaseous byproducts, obnoxious odors, byproducts of a
flammable or explosive nature, and which cause dust which may be offensive.
(Ord. 16-02, 5-23-2016)
10-7A-5: YARDS:
The following setbacks shall be as follows:
   A.   Front And Side: None required.
   B.   Rear: If the lot or parcel is not bounded along the rear lot line by an
alley, a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20') shall be provided. (Ord.
16-01, 5-23-2016)
ARTICLE B. M-2 SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7B-1: Generally
10-7B-2: Permitted Uses
10-7B-3: Restrictions On Permitted Uses
10-7B-4: Special Uses
10-7B-5: Yards
10-7B-1: GENERALLY:
Within M-2 industrial districts, the regulations set out in this article shall
be complied with. (Ord. 16-03, 5-23-2016)
10-7B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted on a lot or parcel having a minimum of five
hundred (500) acres:
Any use permitted in M-1 district.
Aggregate excavation, crushing and processing.
Commercial solar energy conversion systems.
Energy storage systems.
Metal ore processing (including crushing, grinding, conveying, concentrating,
in situ leaching and other processing to recover mineral products).
Mine tailings management and storage.
Mine waste rock removal and storage.
Mined ore and processed ore storage piles.
Mining (including open pit and underground extracting, hauling, conveying ore
and mine waste rock).
Mixing, use and storage of explosives.
Topsoil salvage and storage.
Water storage and treatment. (Ord. 16-03, 5-23-2016)
10-7B-3: RESTRICTIONS ON PERMITTED USES:
Restrictions on uses permitted are as follows:
   A.   No residential uses, churches, schools, except trade schools, or
institutions. (Ord. 16-03, 5-23-2016)
10-7B-4: SPECIAL USES:
Uses requiring a special use permit are as follows:
Commercial geothermal conversion systems.
Commercial wind energy conversion systems.
Creosote manufacturing.
Disinfectant manufacturing.
Explosive, ammunition manufacturing or storage.
Incineration of animals, garbage and/or tires for fuel and/or for disposal.
Leather tanning.
Pesticide manufacture or storage in an amount equal to or in excess of one
thousand (1,000) pounds.
Quarry, stone.
Racetrack.
Rifle range.
Other conditional uses requiring a special use permit are those which may
produce excessive noise, gaseous byproducts, obnoxious odors, byproducts of a
flammable or explosive nature, and which cause dust which may be offensive.
(Ord. 16-03, 5-23-2016)
10-7B-5: YARDS:
The following setbacks shall be as follows:
   A.   Front And Side: None required.
   B.   Rear: If the lot or parcel is not bounded along the rear lot line by an
alley, a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20') shall be provided. (Ord.
16-03, 5-23-2016)
CHAPTER 8
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Intent
10-8-2: Application
10-8-3: Investigation
10-8-4: Hearing Date
10-8-5: Notice
10-8-6: Commission Findings And Action
10-8-7: Considerations
10-8-8: Recommendation
10-8-9: Appeal From Commission's Decision
10-8-10: Term Of Permit
10-8-11: Voidance
10-8-12: Revocation
10-8-13: Reapplication
10-8-1: INTENT:
   A.   Every city contains certain buildings, structures and uses of land
which are in a special category by reason of unusual dimensional or spatial
requirements or shape; infrequent occurrence; unusual psychological, nuisance,
or safety hazards to surrounding property; unique locational criteria not
related to zoning district; or similar conditions. While such uses are normal
and essential to city development, they nevertheless require special controls
to assure their proper location with respect to the entire community and their
development in such manner as to minimize their inherent incompatibility with
surrounding uses and activities. It is the purpose of this chapter to establish
locational and site development criteria and procedures essential to
accommodation of such special uses.
   B.   Every special use permit issued shall be personal to the permittee and
applicable only to the specific use and the specific property for which issued.
(1973 Code § 17.57.010)
10-8-2: APPLICATION:
   A.   Who May File: An application for a special use permit may be filed only
by the owner of the land, building or structure or the lessee of the proposed
use with the written permission of the owner, such facts being attested to by a
notary public. (1973 Code § 17.57.020)
   B.   Form; Filing; Fee: Application shall be filed with the city clerk on
forms furnished for the purpose and shall be accompanied by payment of filing
fee. (1973 Code § 17.57.030)
   C.   Contents:
      1.   New Structure, Building Or Use: Any owner of a proposed new
structure, building or use as may be required in this title, inclusive, shall
provide an application, fees and additional information as required by this
subsection. The application form shall be full and complete, and shall be
accompanied by:
         a.   Site Plan: A detailed site plan showing all information necessary
to demonstrate that the proposal will comply with all regulations and
requirements of this title, including, but not limited to: area of the site,
proposed building or structure, parking, and open space; location of existing
buildings on the site and other topographic features, i.e., existing trees,
shrubs, fences; location of buildings or structures adjacent to the site;
proposed parking layout, ingress and egress access, parking ratios required by
this title, architectural elevations or proposed buildings or structures;
proposed drainage utilities, and other information deemed necessary for review
by the planning commission and staff.
         b.   List Of Parties In Interest: A list of all parties in interest
and their addresses prepared from current assessors roles.
         c.   Additional Data: Any additional data required by the planning
commission as an aid to determining the propriety of the requested permit.
(1973 Code §§ 17.57.050 and 17.57.055)
      2.   Existing Structure, Building Or Use: Any applicant/owner of an
existing structure, building or use within a zone district shall provide an
application, fee and additional information as required in this subsection. The
application form shall be full and complete and:
         a.   If the request is to change uses from one location to another and
no new or unusual factors are found to be present, no additional information
will be required, other than specified in the above general application form.
         b.   If the request is to change uses within an existing building or
structure and no new or unusual factors are found to be present, no additional
information will be required, other than specified in the above general
application form.
         c.   If the request to change uses either from one location to another
or within an existing structure which presents new and unusual factors; i.e.,
parking increases, space and setback variations, or is potentially
noncompatible, the following additional information shall accompany the
application:
            (1)   Specify the exact nature of the proposed use change
requested;
            (2)   Provide data regarding impact with respect to employees,
parking, on-street and off-street;
            (3)   If the proposed use requires remodeling, or space
modifications, provide a plat indicating the exact location and separation of
use or uses within the structure or building;
            (4)   Any additional information as may be required by staff to aid
in determining the propriety of the request. (1973 Code §§ 17.57.050 and
17.57.056)
10-8-3: INVESTIGATION:
The planning commission shall investigate the facts bearing on the case. (1973
Code § 17.57.060)
10-8-4: HEARING DATE:
Public hearing of the case by the planning commission shall be set for a date
not less than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days after receipt of the
fully completed application, and the applicant, or the applicant's agent,
representative or assign shall be present at said hearing. (1973 Code §
17.57.080)
10-8-5: NOTICE:
Notice of date, time and place of public hearing, including legal description
and proposed use of the property, shall be published at least once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city not less than ten (10) days prior
to the hearing date. Notice shall be mailed by United States mail to the
applicant and to all parties in interest, which shall be those property owners
within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundary of the property being
considered. (1973 Code § 17.57.090; amd. 2001 Code)
10-8-6: COMMISSION FINDINGS AND ACTION:
At its public hearing, or within fifteen (15) days thereafter, the planning
commission shall recommend approval, approval with additional conditions, or
denial of the special use permit. The planning commission's action shall be
recommended to the city council for final action pursuant to section
10-8-8 of this chapter. (1973 Code § 17.57.100)
10-8-7: CONSIDERATIONS:
In its recommendation approving or denying issuance of a special use permit,
the planning commission may consider the following:
   A.   Issuance of a special use permit for the proposed use in its proposed
location is authorized by this title;
   B.   Upon compliance with special conditions specified in this chapter, and
with such additional conditions as the planning commission may impose, the use
will be compatible with other permitted uses in and adjoining the district in
which it is proposed; (1973 Code § 17.57.110)
   C.   Such use is necessary or desirable for development of the community, is
in accordance with the general plan, and unlikely to be detrimental to existing
uses or to any other uses specifically permitted in the district in which it is
proposed; (1973 Code § 17.57.110; amd. 2001 Code)
   D.   Such use is in furtherance of incremental growth of the urban community
and is in conformance with the staging plan contained in the general plan;
   E.   The proposed site is adequate in area, shape, dimensions and
topographic characteristics to accommodate such use in accordance with all
provisions of this title;
   F.   The proposed site has satisfactory access by public streets and
thoroughfares currently capable of carrying the type and volume of additional
traffic generated or to be generated by the proposed use; and that the
development of the site will not generate undesirable traffic through
residential neighborhoods;
   G.   Certain specific conditions, as set forth in the planning commission's
action of approval and entered on the approved site plan by the applicant, are
deemed necessary to protect the public health, safety and general welfare, to
minimize adverse influence on adjoining properties, and to protect the intended
character of the immediate environment. Such conditions may specify:
      1.   Operation of use;
      2.   The location and general arrangement of site components;
      3.   Special yards, spaces and screening devices;
      4.   Dedication and improvement of streets, service drives or alleys,
including requirements for posting appropriate bonds therefor;
      5.   Specified points of vehicular ingress and egress and general
circulation to and from the site;
      6.   Specific requirements pertaining to signs, including the right of
the planning commission to control the height, size, location, visual
appearance and illumination of such signs;
      7.   Installation and maintenance of landscaping and quality of grounds
maintenance;
      8.   Hours of operation;
      9.   Period of time within which the proposed use shall be developed,
such condition to be in conformance with the staging element of the general
plan;
      10.   Any other conditions deemed necessary to assure conformance to the
intent and purposes of this title and the general plan. (1973 Code § 17.57.110)
10-8-8: RECOMMENDATION:
The commission shall announce and record its recommendation within thirty (30)
days after conclusion of the public hearing, and shall set forth its findings
together with any required conditions. A copy of the commission's findings
shall be filed with the city clerk and a copy mailed to the applicant at the
address shown on the application.
   A.   Written Report To Council: Within thirty (30) days from the hearing,
the planning commission shall also file a written report with the city council,
recommending approval or denial of the proposed special use permit. Failure of
the planning commission to so report within the time limit shall be deemed a
denial of the special use permit.
   B.   Notice To Applicant: The planning commission shall send the applicant a
notice of recommendation, to be mailed not more than three (3) days subsequent
to the filing of the report to the city council.
   C.   Council Action: The city council may uphold the planning commission's
recommendation, refer it back to the planning commission (with cause), or
reverse the recommendation by majority vote.
   D.   Appeal: In the event that an appeal to the planning commission's
recommendation is filed within the prescribed time limit in section
10-8-9 of this chapter, it shall take a priority position over any further
proceedings by the city council, or the city council may hear the appeal at the
time of action on the recommendations of the planning commission. (1973 Code §
17.57.120)
10-8-9: APPEAL FROM COMMISSION'S DECISION:
   A.   Right To Appeal: An appeal from the recommendation of the commission
may be filed with the city clerk any time within ten (10) days following notice
of such decision. Such appeal shall be in writing and shall include a statement
of the reasons therefor.
   B.   Public Hearing; Notice: A public hearing on the appeal by the city
council shall be set by the city clerk for a date not more than thirty (30)
days after the filing of the appeal. Notice of public hearing shall be given in
accordance with previous provisions of this title.
   C.   Council Action: The city council shall, within fifteen (15) days
following conclusion of its public hearing, either approve issuance of the
special use permit in accordance with conditions imposed by the commission, or
approve issuance of the special use permit in accordance with additional or
modified conditions, or deny the special use permit.
   D.   Council Decision: The city council's decision shall be final and shall
become effective immediately. Notice of the city council's decision shall be
mailed to the applicant at the address shown in the application. (1973 Code §
17.57.140)
10-8-10: TERM OF PERMIT:
Unless otherwise specified by the planning commission or city council,
construction and/or conditions under a special use permit shall be commenced or
met within one year from the date of the approval. Upon written request of the
permittee and demonstration of due cause, the planning commission may grant a
one year extension of this time limit from the date first approved. (1973 Code
§ 17.57.150)
10-8-11: VOIDANCE:
If and when any of the following conditions exist, the special use permit shall
automatically be considered void, and no notice need be given nor hearing held:
   A.   Construction has not been commenced or the use does not exist upon
expiration of the time limit or any extension thereof;
   B.   The permit conditions have not been met and the property is sold or a
new lessee assumes operation of the use. (1973 Code § 17.57.170)
10-8-12: REVOCATION:
The city council may, with or without a recommendation from the commission,
revoke any special use permit for reasons of noncompliance with any of the
conditions under which the permit was granted or cessation of the permitted use
for any reasons for a period of six (6) consecutive months. (1973 Code §
17.57.180)
10-8-13: REAPPLICATION:
No application for a special use permit for the same use on the same land shall
be accepted within a period of one year following denial of any previous
application by the planning commission or the city council. (1973 Code §
17.57.200)
CHAPTER 9
OFF-STREET PARKING
SECTION:
10-9-1: Required
10-9-2: Location
10-9-3: Access
10-9-4: Specifications
10-9-5: Number Of Spaces Required
10-9-6: Landscaping
10-9-7: Permit Required
10-9-8: Prohibited And Restricted Uses
10-9-9: Parking Lot Table
10-9-1: REQUIRED:
Permanently maintained off-street parking facilities shall be provided in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   A.   Existing Conforming Use: Existing conforming buildings in C or M prefix
land use districts need not comply with the off-street parking requirements of
this chapter when conforming use changes take place.
   B.   Enlargement Of Use: When existing conforming buildings in C or M prefix
land use districts are enlarged, off-street parking shall be provided for such
enlargement in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Conversion From Residential To Office Or Commercial Use: When existing
residential structures are converted to office or commercial use, off-street
parking shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1973 Code § 17.72.010)
10-9-2: LOCATION:
Unless otherwise specified, all off-street parking shall be located on or
adjacent to the premises. (1973 Code § 17.72.010)
10-9-3: ACCESS:
   A.   Required: Unobstructed access to a public right of way shall be
provided, utilizing a driveway or driveways intersecting the right of way at an
angle of approximately ninety degrees (90°).
   B.   Two-Way Access: Except for variations approved by the city council,
two-way access driveways shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') in width.
   C.   One-Way Access: One-way access driveways shall be a minimum of fifteen
feet (15') in width.
   D.   Backing Over Street Lot Line: Except in conjunction with a single-
family or duplex residential use, no parking area shall require or encourage
vehicle backing over the street lot line except by special use permit. (1973
Code § 17.72.010)
10-9-4: SPECIFICATIONS:
Public and semipublic parking areas, service areas, loading spaces, drive-in
businesses, automobile, mobile home, recreational vehicle and boat sales and
storage areas shall be developed in accordance with the following
specifications, and shall be subject to review and approval by the city council
and the city's chief building inspector:
   A.   Spaces: Automobile off-street parking spaces shall be a minimum of
eight and one-half feet (81/2') wide by twenty feet (20') long, or nine feet
(9') wide by nineteen feet (19') long. Thirty percent (30%) of the required
spaces, in parking structures, may be designed for compact vehicles seven and
one- half feet (71/2') wide and fifteen feet (15') long. Layout shall conform
to the section
10-9-9 of this chapter. Adequate ingress, egress, circulation and maneuvering
areas shall be provided.
   B.   Surface: All required off-street parking spaces shall be surfaced with
a minimum of two inches (2") compacted asphaltic concrete over a ninety five
percent (95%) compacted base.
   C.   Bumper Guards: Bumper guards shall be provided to prevent free roll
onto public right of way or overhang beyond property lines.
   D.   Barrier Walls: Low maintenance walls of an appropriate height shall be
required to provide a visual, noise, or public safety barrier between off-
street parking or storage uses and properties residentially zoned or used.
   E.   Lighting: Lighting facilities shall be so installed as to reflect away
from adjacent property zoned or used residentially.
   F.   Maintenance: Off-street parking or storage areas shall be so maintained
as to prevent accumulation of debris or litter.
   G.   Markings: Off-street parking areas shall be striped or otherwise marked
so that individual spaces and driving lanes are clearly indicated. Directional
markers shall be painted on the driveway surface or placed on standards in
accordance with the manual on uniform traffic control devices.
   H.   Valet Parking: On-site valet parking shall comply with all provisions
of this chapter excepting that tandem parking may be allowed; stall sizes of
eight feet (8') wide by eighteen feet (18') long shall be permitted. (1973 Code
§ 17.72.010)
10-9-5: NUMBER OF SPACES REQUIRED:
The number of off-street parking spaces for each use is as follows:
   A.   Use:
Use Number Of Spaces
Use                                    Number Of Spaces
Residential:                            
Convalescent hospital; rest homes,     1 space for each 2 beds
nursing homes
Dormitories                            1 space for each 2 beds
Lodging; guest, boarding house;        1 space for each 2 beds
sorority, etc.
Mobile homes                           2 spaces for each mobile home. Guest
                                       parking 1 space for each 3 mobile units.
Multiple residence:
R-2 duplex                             2 spaces per dwelling unit
R-3 multiple-family dwellings          1.5 spaces per dwelling unit
Senior citizen housing, publicly owned 1 space per dwelling unit having 1 to 2
or subsidized                          bedrooms. There shall be 1 guest parking
                                       space for each 5 dwelling units.
Single-family residence                2 spaces per dwelling unit
Commercial:
Bowling lanes                          4 spaces per lane
Casino                                 1 space per every 500 square feet of
                                       gaming and commercial area
Childcare facility                     1 space per 5 children
Churches                               1 space per each 5 seats
Financial, banks, savings and loan     1 space per every 300 square feet of
                                       gross floor area
Food and beverage service:
                                       Minimum of 3 employee spaces, plus 140
Drive-through                          linear feet of off-street stacking for
                                       drive-through window
Drive-up                               1 space for every 100 square feet plus 1
                                       space per every 3 seats
Lounge area/SAA                        1 space per every 100 square feet
Sit-down restaurant                    1 space for each 3 seats
General retail and services            1 space for every 200 square feet of
                                       gross floor area
Hospitals                              1.25 spaces per each bed
Hotels                                 0.8 space per room
Motels                                 1 space per room
Offices:
Medical professional                   1 space for every 200 square feet of
                                       gross floor area
Professional                           1 space for every 200 square feet of
                                       gross floor area
Theaters                               1 space per every 3 seats
                                       Requirements shall be determined by the
                                       planning commission based on
Industrial:                            consideration of the particular use and
                                       its particular off-street parking
                                       demands.
 
Uses Not Herein Established: Demands and requirements not clearly indicated in
this section shall be determined by the planning commission based on the
particular use and its particular off-street parking demands.
   B.   Compliance Required: These parking requirements are mandatory. All new
structures or new higher occupancy uses in existing buildings will be required
to meet the parking requirements as listed.
   C.   Multiple Uses: If there are a number of uses on a single parcel, the
parking for each individual use is calculated and the total required is the sum
of the separate individual requirements.
   D.   On-Street Spaces: On-street parking spaces in commercially zoned areas
located on the property in question or immediately in front, on the side or to
the rear thereof, shall be considered as parking spaces for such property and
shall be deducted from the total number of spaces normally required as set
forth in subsection A of this section. (1973 Code §§ 17.72.010 and 17.72.030)
10-9-6: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Required: Parking areas shall include landscaping as part of their
design as shown on a plan submitted to the planning commission and shall
include living tree and shrub plantings within the parking area. Existing trees
and shrubs shall be preserved to the fullest extent possible. At least five
percent (5%) of the total area used for parking and related activities shall be
established in permanent living landscaping. Desert landscaping and artificial
turf are permitted. Landscaping adjacent to the parking lot owner will be
considered as part of the landscaping required. (1973 Code § 17.72.030)
   B.   Maintenance: Shrubs and trees in the landscaping and screening areas
shall be maintained in a healthy growing condition. Dead or dying trees or
shrubs shall be replaced immediately and the planting area shall be maintained
free of weeds and trash on public as well as private property. (1973 Code §
17.72.040)
10-9-7: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A building permit shall be obtained for construction of any off- street parking
areas. Application for such permit, together with plans necessary to establish
conformance with the provisions of this chapter shall be made to the public
works department. (1973 Code § 17.72.050)
10-9-8: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED USES:
   A.   Permanent Living Quarters: No tent, passenger coach, bus, motor home,
travel trailer, or any similar equipment may be erected or occupied in any use
district for permanent living quarters. A mobile home may be used for permanent
living or sleeping quarters only in a trailer court or mobile home subdivision.
   B.   Visitors: A motor home, travel trailer, or similar equipment owned or
operated by a visitor to the city may be parked on or adjacent to the property
occupied by the person who is being visited for a period not to exceed thirty
(30) days.
   C.   Recreational Vehicles: All recreational vehicles including, but not
limited to, travel trailers, motor homes, dune buggies, boats, and similar
equipment owned or operated by a resident of the city must utilize parking off
the street of the city. (1973 Code § 17.72.060)
   D.   Inoperable Vehicles: Any vehicle which has been inoperative for seventy
two (72) hours must utilize parking off the streets of the city. (1973 Code §
17.72.060; amd. Ord. 06-07, 12-11-2006)
10-9-9: PARKING LOT TABLE:
8.5 FOOT x 20 FOOT STALL
 
A   B   C    D    E    F    G
0° 8.5 8.5  12.0 20.0 29.0 29.0
45°8.5 20.1 12.0 12.0 52.2 46.2
60°8.5 21.6 18.0 9.8  61.2 56.9
90°8.5 20.0 24.0 8.5  64.0 64.0
 
9 FOOT x 19 FOOT STALL
 
0° 9.0 9.0  12.0 19.0 30.0 30.0
45°9.0 19.8 12.0 12.7 51.6 45.2
60°9.0 21.0 16.0 10.4 58.0 53.5
90°9.0 19.0 24.0 9.0  62.0 62.0
 
7.5 FOOT x 15 FOOT COMPACT STALL
 
0° 7.5 7.5  13.0 15.0 28.0 28.0
45°7.5 15.8 13.0 10.6 44.6 39.3
60°7.5 16.8 18.0 8.7  51.6 47.8
90°7.5 15.0 24.0 7.5  54.0 54.0
 
   A. Parking angle
   B. Stall width
   C. Stall to curb
   D. Aisle width
   E. Curb length per car
   F. Curb to curb
   G. Stall center to stall center
(1973 Code § 17.72.010)
CHAPTER 10
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
10-10-1: Illegal Structures And Uses
10-10-2: Continuation Of Lawful Nonconforming Use
10-10-1: ILLEGAL STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   Declared Nuisance: Any building or structure erected or maintained or
any use of property contrary to the provisions of this title is unlawful and a
public nuisance.
   B.   Abatement: The city attorney shall, upon order of the city council,
immediately commence an action or proceeding for the abatement, removal and
enjoinment thereof in the manner provided by law and shall take such other
steps, and shall apply to such court as may have jurisdiction, to grant such
relief as will abate or remove such building or use and restrain and enjoin any
person from erecting or maintaining such building or using any property
contrary to the provisions of this title. (1973 Code § 17.60.010)
10-10-2: CONTINUATION OF LAWFUL NONCONFORMING USE:
A lawful use of land or buildings, not in conformance with the regulations for
the district in which it is located, existing on November 8, 1963, may be
continued, except as provided in this section:
   A.   Discontinued Use: If a nonconforming use is discontinued for a period
exceeding six (6) months, the use of such land or building thereafter shall be
subject to the provisions of this title and full compliance therewith required.
   B.   Extended Or Expanded: The nonconforming use of land or buildings shall
not be extended or expanded in any way and shall not be changed except to a
conforming use, or as may be required to bring such use of land or building
into conformity.
   C.   Applicability: The provisions of this section shall apply to uses of
property or to buildings which may become nonconforming by reason of amendment
or supplement to this title, or by reason of annexation, to the city. (1973
Code § 17.60.020)
CHAPTER 11
MASTER PLAN AMENDMENTS; CHANGE OF LAND
SECTION:
10-11-1: Authorized
10-11-2: Initiation
10-11-3: Hearing
10-11-4: Recommendations
10-11-5: Council Action
10-11-1: AUTHORIZED:
   A.   The provisions of this title and land use district boundaries, shown
upon the land use map, may from time to time be amended, modified, changed,
repealed or supplemented by the city council.
   B.   Any such amendment shall be considered an amendment to the master plan
and shall be accomplished in the manner required by Nevada Revised Statutes
chapter 278. (1973 Code § 17.64.010)
10-11-2: INITIATION:
Amendments and changes may be initiated in the following manner and by the
following methods:
   A.   The planning commission, upon its own motion;
   B.   The city council, upon its own motion;
   C.   Any owner of a lot or parcel may request such amendment by filing with
the planning commission a duly signed and verified application on the
appropriate form and accompanied by the necessary fee. (1973 Code § 17.64.020)
10-11-3: HEARING:
   A.   Required: The planning commission shall hold a public hearing on all
proposed amendments, regardless of the manner in which they were initiated, not
more than twenty five (25) days following the initiating of proceedings.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing:
      1.   Contents: The notice shall describe the amendment or change
proposed, the lot or parcel concerned, and other pertinent information so that
the property and change can be identified readily.
      2.   Publication: Notice of time and place of such hearings shall be
published in a newspaper of local circulation not less than ten (10) days prior
to the date of said hearing. (1973 Code § 17.64.040)
      3.   Mail: When a change of land use district is applied for, the
planning commission shall cause to be sent to the applicant and all property
owners within a radius of three hundred feet (300') of the exterior limits of
the properties proposed for reclassification, and to all owners within such
area as is proposed for change, written notice of the time, place and date of a
public hearing. Such notice shall be mailed not less than ten (10) days prior
to the hearing date. (1973 Code § 17.64.030)
      4.   Additional Property: When the planning commission deems it necessary
or expedient, it may consider other property for change, in addition to the
property sought in the application, and may include such additional property in
the notices of hearing and in determination. (1973 Code § 17.64.040)
10-11-4: RECOMMENDATIONS:
   A.   Written Report: No more than thirty (30) days following the hearing,
the planning commission shall file a written report with the city council
recommending approval or denial of the proposed change or amendment.
   B.   Failure To Report: Failure of the planning commission to so report
within the time limit shall be deemed a denial of the change or amendment.
   C.   Notice Of Recommendation: The commission shall send to the applicant,
by registered mail, notice of the recommendation, to be mailed not more than
three (3) days subsequent to the filing of the report with the city council.
(1973 Code § 17.6.050)
10-11-5: COUNCIL ACTION:
The city council may uphold or reverse the planning commissions recommendation
by a majority vote. (Ord. 325, 3-27-2000)
CHAPTER 12
VARIANCES
SECTION:
10-12-1: Conditions Governing Application Procedure
10-12-2: Appeal To City Council
10-12-3: Variance Allowed
10-12-1: CONDITIONS GOVERNING APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
The planning commission may recommend, upon appeal in specific cases, such
variance from the terms of this title as will not be contrary to the public
interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this title would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance from
the terms of this title shall not be recommended by the planning commission
unless and until:
   A.   Application: A written application for a variance is submitted
demonstrating:
      1.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar
to the land, structure, or building involved and which are not applicable to
other lands, structures, or buildings in the same district;
      2.   Proven hardship;
      3.   That literal interpretation of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this title;
      4.   That the special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant;
      5.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district; and
      6.   That the variance is only for one or more of the following:
         a.   Reduction of area requirement not to exceed ten percent (10%) of
the normal requirement,
         b.   Reduction of yard or setback requirement not to exceed twenty
percent (20%) of the normal requirement,
         c.   Reduction of off-street parking requirement not to exceed ten
percent (10%) of the normal requirement, and
         d.   Increase in height of structure not to exceed ten percent (10%)
of the normal allowance;
      7.   That the variance is not a request on the part of the applicant to
establish a land use or use of structure that is not presently permitted in the
zone in which the property lies.
No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures, or buildings in the same
district, and no permitted or nonconforming use of lands, structures, or
buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for the issuance of a
variance.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of public hearing shall be given the same as
for amendments to this title.
   C.   Hearing: The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in
person, or by agent or by attorney.
   D.   Commission Findings:
      1.   The planning commission shall make findings that all of the
requirements set forth in this section have been met. If any, or all of the
requirements are not met, the planning commission may not recommend the
granting of a variance.
      2.   The planning commission shall further make a finding that the
reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance, and
that the variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the
reasonable use of the land, building, or structure.
      3.   The planning commission shall further make a finding that the
granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of this title, will not be injurious to the neighborhood, or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare, and will be in accordance with the letter
and intent, of the master plan.
   E.   Appropriate Conditions And Safeguards: In recommending any variance,
the planning commission, serving in an advisory capacity only, may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this title, subject to
final approval by the city council. Violation of such conditions and
safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted,
shall be deemed a violation of this title and punishable under this title.
(1973 Code § 17.68.010)
10-12-2: APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any variance decision of the planning commission may
be appealed to the city council by any affected party.
   B.   Notice Of Appeal: Such appeal shall be made to the city clerk within
ten (10) days of the planning commission's decision and shall be a written
application incorporating all of the requirements that were submitted to the
planning commission with the additional requirement of showing how the planning
commission erred or why its decision should be overturned.
   C.   Council Action: Following a public hearing, which requires the same
public notice procedures as were followed by the planning commission, the city
council shall either uphold the planning commission's decision or overturn
same. Reversal of the planning commission's decision shall require a majority
vote of the city council. (1973 Code § 17.68.020)
10-12-3: VARIANCE ALLOWED:
A variance request, beyond the limitations set out in subsection 10-12-1A6 may
be heard by the city council upon appeal of the planning commission's
recommendation. Upon proof of exceptional hardship or extraordinary
circumstances, the city council may allow the variance. (1973 Code § 17.68.020)
CHAPTER 13
A INTERIM AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-13-1: Purpose
10-13-2: Principal Permitted Uses
10-13-3: Accessory Uses
10-13-4: Special Uses
10-13-5: District Regulations
10-13-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the A Interim Agricultural District is to preserve land in
interim agricultural use and to protect against premature urban development,
which is presently unneeded, and for which it may be not practical to provide
urban services. (Ord. 04-02, 5-10-2004)
10-13-2: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following are principal permitted uses in the A District:
Domestic livestock farming limited to the raising, feeding, maintaining, and
breeding of livestock, subject to a minimum twenty thousand (20,000) square
foot gross lot area and the following cumulative limitations and conditions:
   A.   One hog or pig per each twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of gross
lot area; or
   B.   One horse or mule or cow or steer (includes miniature) per each twenty
thousand (20,000) square feet of gross lot area; or
   C.   Twenty five (25) chickens per each twenty thousand (20,000) square feet
of gross lot area; or
   D.   Three (3) goats or sheep or similar livestock per each twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet of gross lot area.
The lot area used to justify one class of animals may not be used concurrently
to justify another class of animals.
One single-family dwelling per lot; as provided for in chapter 4 of this title.
The growing and harvesting of shrubs, plants, flowers, trees, vines, fruits,
vegetables, hay, grain, and similar food and fiber crop(s), including
greenhouses and orchards. (Ord. 05-04, 6-13-2005)
10-13-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following are accessory uses in the A District:
Accessory uses and structures incidental and appurtenant to any permitted use,
provided that no accessory use or structure shall be initiated or constructed
prior to the main use or building nor on a separate lot from the main use or
building. (Ord. 04-02, 5-10-2004)
10-13-4: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted by special use permit and then only when
use conforms to every term and condition of the permit:
   Assisted living facility providing:
   A.   Off street parking of at least one space per eight hundred (800) square
feet of total floor area.
   B.   Compliance with setback requirements of this title for the district
where the premises are located.
Churches, temples, clubs, lodges.
Farm labor housing. Landowners may provide buildings for use as farm labor
housing for seasonal or temporary employees of the landowner. Such housing
units may include cooking facilities and must comply with United States
Department of Labor standards per title 20, chapter V of the Code of Federal
Regulations.
Home occupations.
Parking lots.
Private recreational facilities for which a membership charge may be made but
which are not open to the general public.
Public buildings, public utility structures, parks.
Public or private schools.
Sale of agricultural products produced on the premises.
The packing, polishing and the like of unprocessed agricultural yield grown on
the premises; nurseries and aviaries; commercial riding academy located on the
same premises. (Ord. 18-02, 5-14-2018)
10-13-5: DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
The following regulations and requirements shall apply in the A Interim
Agricultural District:
   A.   Site And Building Requirements:
 
Minimum lot area   1 acre
Minimum lot width  None
Front yard         20 feet
Interior side yard 7 feet
Rear yard          20 feet
 
   B.   Maximum Lot Area: Maximum area of a lot that may be covered by
structures: Forty percent (40%).
   C.   Crop, Barn, Stable Or Corral: No crop, barn, stable or corral shall be
maintained closer than twenty feet (20') from any front lot line, or closer
than ten feet (10') from any other lot line.
   D.   Fences, Hedges And Walls: Fences, hedges, and walls may be erected and
maintained to a height not to exceed three feet (3') in any required front yard
and to a height not to exceed six feet (6') in any other location on the lot.
(Ord. 04-02, 5-10-2004)
CHAPTER 14
RIGHT TO FARM
SECTION:
10-14-1: Right Recognized
10-14-2: Definition
10-14-3: Permitted Activities And Practices
10-14-4: Nuisance Offset By Benefits
10-14-5: Condition Of Approval
10-14-1: RIGHT RECOGNIZED:
The right to farm all land is recognized to exist as a natural right and is
hereby ordained to exist as a permitted use in any agricultural zone in the
city, subject only to state health and sanitary codes. (Ord. 05-11, 9-12-2005)
10-14-2: DEFINITION:
The "right to farm" as it is used in this chapter, includes, but is not limited
to, the use of large irrigation pumps and equipment, aerial and ground seeding
and spraying, burning of fields, burning of ditches and smoke related to
agriculture burning, large tractors, numerous farm laborers and the application
of chemical fertilizers, insecticides and herbicides, all for the purpose of
producing from the land agricultural products such as vegetables, grains, hay,
fruits, fibers, wood, trees, plants, shrubs, flowers and seeds. This right to
farm shall also include the right to use land for grazing by animals. (Ord. 05-
11, 9-12-2005)
10-14-3: PERMITTED ACTIVITIES AND PRACTICES:
The foregoing uses and activities included in the right to farm, when
reasonable and necessary for the particular farming, livestock or fowl
production, and when conducted in accordance with generally accepted
agricultural practices, may occur on holidays, Saturdays, Sundays and weekdays,
twenty four (24) hours a day, and the noise, odors, dust and fumes that are
caused by such activities are also specifically permitted as part of the
exercise of this right. (Ord. 05-11, 9-12-2005)
10-14-4: NUISANCE OFFSET BY BENEFITS:
It is expressly found that whatever nuisance may be caused to others by such
uses and activities so conducted is more than offset by the benefits from
farming to the neighborhood and community, and to society in general, by the
preservation of open space, the beauty of the countryside and clean air and by
the preservation and continuance of farming operations in this city and the
state as a source of agricultural products for this and future generations.
(Ord. 05-11, 9-12-2005)
10-14-5: CONDITION OF APPROVAL:
As a condition of approval of any subdivision or parcel map of any land in the
city of Yerington, the owner or developer of such land and their heirs, assigns
and successors, shall agree to provide notice to any and all subsequent
purchasers of the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 40.140 and this
chapter. Such notice shall include a signed acknowledgment on all land
development maps. (Ord. 05-11, 9-12-2005)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Scope
11-1-4: Definitions
11-1-5: Planned Unit Developments
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited in all proceedings as the CITY OF
YERINGTON SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE 1 . (1973 Code § 16.04.010)
 
Notes
  1. For statutory provisions authorizing cities to enact ordinances governing
1 subdivisions, see NRS § 278.326; for provisions regarding planning and zoning,
  see NRS ch. 278; for the provisions regarding subdivisions, see NRS §§ 278.320
  through 278.4987.
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purposes of this title are:
   A.   To safeguard the public health, safety and general welfare by
establishing certain standards of design, improvement, survey and construction
of land developments hereafter platted in all areas of the city;
   B.   To provide and ensure the orderly and proper growth thereof;
   C.   To aid in the prevention of pollution of land or water resources;
   D.   To encourage new concepts and innovations in the arrangement of
building sites;
   E.   To protect, enhance and preserve the city's lands; and
   F.   To provide for the continued protection and beneficial use of all
waters appurtenant to lands within the city. (1973 Code § 16.04.020)
11-1-3: SCOPE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any individual, firm, association, syndicate,
copartnership, trust or any other legal entity, as a principal, agent or
otherwise, to sell, to offer to sell, to contract to sell or lease or transfer
any division of land or any part thereof in the city unless and until all the
requirements hereinafter provided have been performed or guaranteed by bond or
other surety satisfactory to city. This shall not be construed to prohibit the
sale of any building situate which was of record as such in January 1976.
   B.   All condominiums, cooperatives or townhouses, commercial and industrial
type developments shall be subject to the full requirements of this title as
pertinent. (1973 Code § 16.04.040)
11-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this title, the following words and phrases in this section shall
have the following meanings:
BLOCK: Land on one side of a street lying between intercepting streets or
between such streets and any unsubdivided acreage or body of water or other
natural body or barrier.
BUILDING SITE: A parcel or lot of land containing not less than the prescribed
minimum area required by any applicable regulations existing at the time and
occupied or intended to be occupied by buildings or structures.
CITY OFFICIALS: The terms city manager, mayor, city council, fire chief,
planning commission, building department, building inspector, public works
department, police chief and city clerk shall be those of, and/or empowered to
act for, the city.
COMMON AREA: An area set aside within a land development for the use in common
by the residents thereof; such areas shall be subject to conditions, covenants
and restrictions (CC&Rs) which must be submitted to the city and recorded with
the county recorder.
DEVELOPER OR SUBDIVIDER: A person, firm or individual owner who engages in the
act of causing a land development.
DIVISION, DIVISION OF LAND AND DIVIDED: Any separation of land into two (2) or
more parts or parcels accomplished by deed, contract of sale, conveyance, right
of way or court decree, excepting any such conveyance made for the purpose of
locating or adjusting boundary lines between two (2) parcels.
DIVISION INTO LARGE PARCELS: A division of land authorized to divide pursuant
to Nevada Revised Statutes sections 278.471 through 278.4725, inclusive.
DWELLING UNITS: A place of residence and may be located in either a single or
multiple-dwelling unit building.
FINAL MAP: A map prepared in accordance with chapter 5 of this title and Nevada
Revised Statutes section 278.360 which is designed to be placed on record in
the office of the county recorder.
FLOOD HAZARD: Possible occurrence of overflow storm water causing flooding of
lands or improvements or having sufficient velocity to transport or deposit
debris, to scour the surface soil, to dislodge or damage buildings or to cause
erosion of the banks or channels.
IMPROVEMENT PLAN: An engineering plan submitted by a civil engineer registered
in Nevada showing the location and construction details of all improvements
required of the developer.
IMPROVEMENT, PRIVATE: Those utility facilities, improvements, private streets,
highways and easements which are not offered for dedication to the city and are
to be maintained by the developer or owners, associations or utility.
OWNER: An individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership or
corporation having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be
developed to commence and maintain proceedings to develop the same under this
title. While used herein in the masculine gender and singular number, it means
the feminine and neuter gender and plural number whenever required.
PARCEL: See definition of Building Site.
PARCEL MAP: The document utilized to divide any land for transfer or
development into four (4) or fewer lots which does not quality for division of
land into large parcels pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section 278.471 et
seq.
PARK: Public or private open space reserved from dwelling unit development for
use by occupants of the development or the public.
PATH: A way designed for use primarily by pedestrians.
Private Path: A right of way established for the benefit of the owners of
certain building sites which may be specifically designed for that purpose on a
recorded map or provided by an easement deed.
Public Path: A right of way dedicated by a development map or deed to the city.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An area of land controlled by a landowner which is to
be developed as a single entity for a number of dwelling units, the plan for
which does not correspond in lot size, bulk or type of dwelling, density, lot
coverage and required open space, to the regulations established in any one
residential district created, from time to time, under the provisions of any
zoning ordinance enacted pursuant to law. The planned unit development shall
conform with underlying zoning.
PONDING OF LOCAL WATER: As distinguished from sheet overflow, means water
originating on or in the vicinity of the development which, due to the
condition of the ground surface, does not reach a drainage channel or conduit.
PRINT: A blueprint, photostat, direct process print or other copy which
reproduces exactly the original drawing from which it is made.
PRIVATE STREET: Any parcel of land or nonexclusive easement not owned by a
public body and not accepted for dedication to the public which is used or
intended to be used for vehicular access to a building site.
PUBLIC STREET: A parcel of land or nonexclusive easement dedicated to the
public which is used or intended to be used as a thoroughfare. A public street
may or may not be accepted for maintenance by the city of Yerington. Any offer
of dedication to public use is not effective until accepted by the city
council.
REQUIRED AREA: A parcel of land containing not less than the prescribed minimum
area required by any development, zoning or other regulations existing at the
time and occupied or intended to be occupied by buildings.
SPECIFICATIONS: Requirements for construction as approved by the city council
and made a part of this title by reference thereof.
STREET: Lands devoted primarily to vehicular traffic use, extending the
boundaries of the right of way, whether designated as a highway, avenue,
boulevard, freeway, place, land, drive, etc.
SUBDIVISION, LAND DEVELOPMENT OR DEVELOPMENT: Any land, vacant or improved,
which is divided or proposed to be divided into five (5) or more lots, parcels,
sites, units, plots, separate interest or interests in common for the purpose
of any transfer, development or any proposed transfer or development unless
exempted or partially exempted under subsection A or B of this definition:
   A.   The term subdivision does not apply to industrially or commercially
zoned subdivisions, to the extent such are exempted by Nevada Revised Statutes
subsection 278.320(1). The division of land into large parcels is authorized in
Nevada Revised Statutes sections 278.471 through 278.4725, inclusive.
   B.   Unless a method of disposition is adopted for the purpose of evading
this title or would have the effect of evading this title, the term subdivision
does not apply to:
      1.   Any division of land which is ordered by any court in this state or
created by operation of law;
      2.   A lien, mortgage, deed of trust or any security instrument;
      3.   A security or unit of interest in any investment trust regulated
under the laws of this state or any other interest in an investment entity;
      4.   Cemetery lots;
      5.   An interest in oil, gas, minerals or building materials which is now
or thereafter severed from the surface ownership of real property;
      6.   Any division of land for transfer or development into four (4) or
fewer lots, parcels, sites, units or plots.
TENTATIVE MAP: A map made to show the design of a proposed subdivision and the
existing conditions in and around it, the contents of which are outlined in
chapter 3 of this title.
TRAIL: A way designed for use by pedestrians, bicycles, trail bikes, livestock
and snowmobiles, unless otherwise specified. (1973 Code § 16.04.030; amd. 2001
Code)
11-1-5: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS 1 :
All planned unit land developments hereinafter platted or improved within the
city shall be characterized by a complete planning approach in the tentative
map stage. In all developments, intensive considerations shall be given to the
provision of adequate open space, circulation, recreations, light and air,
service needs, orientation to the sun, wind, snow drifting and icing
conditions, building masses, setback and natural features and elements under
fully developed and populated conditions and shall also provide such covenants,
agreements and other legal provisions as will assure conformity and achievement
of the plan as presented and/or approved. Such documents shall satisfy all
applicable requirements of city code regarding PUDs and Nevada Revised Statutes
chapter 278A, which is adopted by reference as the minimum standard for city.
(1973 Code § 16.04.050)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 2 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-2-1: Administration
11-2-2: Exceptions; Waivers
11-2-3: Amendments
11-2-4: Penalty
11-2-5: Development Agreements; Procedures And Requirements
11-2-6: Planned Zoning Development Agreement
11-2-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Designated Agency: The city council is designated as the agency to
approve design and improvements for all proposed land development.
   B.   Test Of Reasonableness: All requirements of this title which are
subject to the discretion of the city engineer or other administrative officer
shall be subject to the test of reasonableness as determined by and from
standard design practice. (1973 Code § 16.28.010)
11-2-2: EXCEPTIONS; WAIVERS:
The city council may grant an exception or waiver to any of the requirements of
this title with respect to a particular development at the time of tentative
map approval. Such exception or waiver shall not be granted unless:
   A.   Application: The developer has submitted a written application therefor
with the city council prior to report and recommendation on the map.
   B.   Criteria For Approval: The city council finds that each of the
following conditions exist:
      1.   There are special conditions or circumstances peculiar to the
property justifying the waiver.
      2.   The exception would further one or more of the objectives set forth
in section
11-1-2 of this title.
      3.   Such waiver would not in effect nullify the objectives of this title
or any other law or ordinance applicable to development.
      4.   Such waiver would not be injurious to adjacent properties or
detrimental to the health, safety, convenience and welfare of the public.
   C.   Order Granting Waiver: The order granting the waiver may contain
conditions, and failure to conform to such conditions will be grounds for
disapproval of the final map of the land development. Such order shall be
included in the approval or conditional approval of the tentative map. (1973
Code § 16.28.020)
11-2-3: AMENDMENTS:
All administrative rules, fees and regulations adopted by this title may be
amended by resolution of the city council without necessity of a formal
ordinance of amendment. (1973 Code § 16.28.030)
11-2-4: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation:
      1.   Misdemeanor: Every person who offers to sell, contracts to sell,
sells or conveys by deed any real property constituting a "land development" as
defined, or any building site or parcel thereof, before a final map or parcel
map of said development has been recorded or filed in the office of the county
recorder is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1973 Code § 16.28.040; amd. 2001 Code)
      2.   Separate Offense: Such person is guilty of a separate offense for
every day during any portion of which any violation of any provisions of this
title is permitted, continued or committed by such person, including any
physical condition created in violation hereof, and shall be punished therefor
as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Voidability Of Deeds, Conveyances, Contracts, Etc.: Any deed, or
conveyance, sale or contract to sell made contrary to the provisions of this
title is voidable at the sole option of the grantee, buyer or person
contracting to purchase, his heirs, personal representatives or trustee in
solvency or bankruptcy within one year after the date of execution of the deed
of conveyance, sale or contract to sell, but the deed or conveyance, sale or
contract to sell is binding upon any assignee or transferee of the grantee,
buyer or person contracting to purchase, other than those enumerated in this
subsection, and upon the grantor, vendor or person contracting to sell or his
assignee, heir or devisee.
   C.   Requirements For Noncomplying Developer: In addition to any other
remedy for sanction provided by law, any person creating a land development
without complying with the provisions of this title or the appropriate state
law shall be required to submit a map to the planning commission and comply
with the requirements hereof. Such developer may be required to furnish all
easements, improvements, utility and services under this title to all building
sites created by the subdivision whether or not such building sites have been
sold or leased.
   D.   Suits: Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to bar any legal,
equitable or summary remedy to which any aggrieved municipality or other
political subdivision or any person may otherwise be entitled, and any such
municipality or other political subdivision or person may file suit in the
district court of the county to restrain or enjoin any attempted or proposed
subdivision or sale in violation of this title. (1973 Code § 16.28.040)
11-2-5: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS; PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS:
Any developer desiring to enter into a development agreement with the city must
complete the following process:
   A.   Submit an original signed development agreement application and the
original signed written development agreement to the city planning department.
      1.   The development agreement application and the development agreement
must be submitted at least sixty (60) days prior to the tentative subdivision
or parcel map expiration date.
      2.   This agreement must describe the land which is the subject of the
agreement and specify the duration of the agreement, the permitted uses of the
land, the density or intensity of its use, the maximum height and size of the
proposed buildings and any provisions for the dedication of any portion of the
land for public use. The agreement may fix the period within which construction
must commence and provide for an extension of that deadline.
      3.   Pay all fees for the development agreement as found in the most
current revision of the city of Yerington fee schedule.
      4.   The application does not bind either party. Its sole purpose is to
provide the city council with information prior to the public hearings.
      5.   Six (6) copies must be submitted to city council.
      6.   One copy must be submitted to the city attorney.
      7.   The sole responsibility of drafting the development agreement
application and the development agreement rests upon the property owner/
developer. The city attorney shall neither create nor provide legal assistance
in the creation of the first draft of any development agreement application and
development agreement.
   B.   After the second public hearing, the city council may vote and finalize
the development agreement or the property owner/developer may request the
development agreement be placed on a future agenda of the city council after
any changes required by the city council are made to the initial agreement.
   C.   Within five (5) business days after approval of the agreement, the city
clerk shall cause the original agreement to be recorded with the county
recorder. Upon recordation, the agreement binds all parties and their
successors in interest for the duration of the agreement. (Ord. 08-02, 9-22-
2008)
11-2-6: PLANNED ZONING DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT:
   A.   Statutory Authority; Conformance Required: Pursuant to the provisions
of Nevada Revised Statutes 278.0201 to 278.0207, inclusive, the city council
may enter into development agreements to regulate the development of land
within the city or to be acquired and annexed into the city. Such agreements
and the procedures applicable thereto shall be governed by and must conform to
Nevada Revised Statutes 278.0201 to 278.0207, inclusive, and the provisions of
this chapter.
   B.   Planning Commission Review: Before the city council enters into a
planned zoning development agreement pursuant to this section, the agreement
shall be reviewed by the planning commission for consistency with the city's
master plan.
   C.   Planned Zoning Development Requirement: Only land zoned for planned
development may be made the subject of the development agreement.
   D.   Administration And Enforcement: Subject to review and input from the
city departments as the council may request, the city council shall be
responsible for applying, administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, including the negotiation and enforcement of development agreements.
   E.   Application Of The Provisions Of This Title: Except as otherwise
provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 278.0201 to 278.0207, inclusive, or in a
development agreement entered into pursuant to this chapter, all the procedures
and requirements of this title shall apply to the development of property that
is the subject of such a planned zoning development agreement. (Ord. 12-01, 4-
9-2012)
CHAPTER 3
TENTATIVE MAPS 1
SECTION:
11-3-1: Preconference Feasibility Report
11-3-2: Filing And Approval Procedure
11-3-3: Form And Contents
11-3-4: Design Considerations
11-3-5: Approval; Disapproval
11-3-6: Fees
 
Notes
1 1. For statutory provisions regarding tentative maps, see NRS §§ 278.330
  through 278.353.
11-3-1: PRECONFERENCE FEASIBILITY REPORT:
   A.   Feasibility Report: The first formal step in land development is the
preparation of a tentative map. However, the developer shall submit to the
planning commission a feasibility report. The tentative map will not be
accepted for filing by the planning commission unless such a feasibility report
has been submitted as required above. The feasibility report need not be
extremely formal; but shall include the following information, along with
prints of the proposed tentative map, marked clearly, "Feasibility Report
Tentative Map":
      1.   Location: Location of the proposed development by reference to
commonly known landmarks or road and the approximate distance of the
development therefrom and general topography of site;
      2.   Size: Approximate size of the proposed development and the number of
building sites for dwelling units planned;
      3.   Water Availability: Will-serve letter from the city or information
as to how domestic water service will be provided;
      4.   Electrical Availability: Name of the utility company which will
serve the area and statement of ability and willingness of such company to
provide electrical power to the proposed development;
      5.   Telephone Availability: Name of the telephone company which will
serve the area and statement of ability and willingness of such company to
provide telephone service to the proposed development;
      6.   Natural Gas Availability: Name of utility company which will serve
the area and statement of ability and willingness of such company to provide
natural gas service to the proposed development;
      7.   Cable Television: Name of cable company which will serve the area
and statement of ability and willingness of such company to provide cable
service to the proposed development. Type of service available;
      8.   Sewage Disposal: Will-serve letter from city;
      9.   Fire Protection: Distance from the nearest firefighting equipment
and adequacy of existing services;
      10.   Legal Access: Existing or proposed legal access from the proposed
development to city, county or state maintained roads;
      11.   Parks And Recreational Areas: Parks and recreational facilities in
the general area of the proposed development; distance and access to such
facilities;
      12.   Covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs) if tract
restrictions are proposed, general description of contents or submit a draft
copy;
      13.   Adjacent Ownership And Use: Present legal owner or property
adjacent to the proposed subdivision; present use and zoning of such adjacent
property;
      14.   Emergency Medical Services: Distance from nearest EMS equipment;
      15.   Storm drainage, proposed design, i.e., flows, structures, etc.
   B.   Purpose: The above-required feasibility report will allow an initial
informal discussion between the subdivider and the planning commission. The
purpose of such a report is to facilitate the early solution of potential
problems.
   C.   Scheduling Of Preconference: The preconference feasibility report/
meeting is to be held no less than twenty one (21) days prior to the filing of
the tentative map. (1973 Code § 16.08.010)
11-3-2: FILING AND APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Filing Tentative Map: The subdivider shall file with the planning
commission fifteen (15) copies of the tentative map of each subdivision.
   B.   Copies Distributed: Immediately after the filing of the tentative map,
the secretary of the planning commission shall forward copies thereof to the
following persons:
      1.   City manager;
      2.   Mayor and city council;
      3.   Chairman of the planning commission;
      4.   Nevada division of consumer health;
      5.   Appropriate local water or sewer district;
      6.   State division of water resources;
      7.   Board of trustees of Lyon County school district;
      8.   Fire department;
      9.   Public works department;
      10.   Appropriate irrigation district;
      11.   Chief of police;
      12.   Nevada department of environmental protection;
      13.   Nevada department of transportation (if applicable). (1973 Code §
16.08.020)
11-3-3: FORM AND CONTENTS:
   A.   Form: Tentative maps shall be submitted on durable paper with a minimum
size of twenty four inches by thirty two inches (24" x 32") and drawn to a
scale of sufficient size to show all details of the plan and required data
clearly. Any number of sheets may be used, providing each sheet specifies the
total number of sheets and the number of that particular sheet. If the tract is
a portion of a larger area which may be divided later, the tentative map shall
indicate the ultimate plan for the whole. (1973 Code § 16.08.030)
   B.   Contents: Every tentative map shall be clearly and legibly drawn on one
sheet, if possible, and shall show the following data and contain information
hereinafter set forth:
      1.   Land development title and section, township and range and other
brief legal descriptive matter, i.e., state, county, city and date;
      2.   Name and address of the developer and record owner;
      3.   Name and address of the Nevada professional engineer and/or Nevada
professional land surveyor, as appropriate, who prepared the map, together with
a registration number issued by the state, stamp and signature of the person
who prepared map;
      4.   A preliminary title report with legal description defining the
boundaries of the development, together with assurance of ownership of property
to be divided, and all listed encumbrances of record;
      5.   The location, names and widths of all adjacent streets, alleys and
ways;
      6.   The width of rights of way, proposed street names, approximate grade
and a typical cross section of each street within the proposed development and
approximate radii of all curves;
      7.   The width and approximate location of all existing or proposed
easements (public or private) for roads, drainage, sewers, water, irrigation or
public utility purposes if any;
      8.   The width and approximate location of all easements, rights of way
and other property interests necessary to implement and maintain any water
conveyance and delivery system required by any rule or regulation of the Walker
River irrigation district.
      9.   If subdivisions adjoin the proposed tentative map, they shall be
shown, including the streets, lots, zoning, use, and ownership;
      10.   The number, size and proposed use of all building sites, zoning of
area and the location, size and proposed use of public area, if any. If the
proposal is over forty (40) acres in size, correspondence indicating compliance
with law regarding offer of dedication of a possible school site;
      11.   Water distribution system proposed and proposed sewage design (plan
only) flow direction, manhole locations, services, etc.;
      12.   All lots to be numbered and lettered consecutively. Lot numbers
shall be consecutive within each block, if blocks are identified;
      13.   The FEMA flood map designation within the site and general plan of
storm drainage into, within and beyond the proposed subdivision;
      14.   When part of a large single ownership area, a sketch showing
proposed future development outside of the proposed tentative map;
      15.   Date, north point, scale and number of sheets and basis of bearing
proposed;
      16.   The location and outline to scale of each existing building or
structure which is not proposed to be moved;
      17.   Show all applicable setbacks or indicate front, side, and rear
setbacks of proposed lots;
      18.   If any portion of the land within the boundaries as shown on a
tentative map is subject to geological hazard, landslides or similar hazards to
public safety, said areas shall be clearly shown;
      19.   Method of solid waste disposal to be indicated;
      20.   Contours and topography showing accurately the existing terrain
within the land development, existing drainage channels, existing road,
existing culverts, existing underground utility lines, existing wells and
springs, existing structures, existing irrigation ditches, existing utility
poles, existing trees and other existing improvements in their correct location
which may affect the design of the development. Contour interval shall not be
greater than two feet (2') if the ground scope is less than three percent (3%)
nor larger than five (5) to ten feet (10'), at the discretion of the city;
      21.   The approximate edges of pavement of existing paved road and
driveways, and the edges of existing traveled ways within or adjacent to public
rights of way and easements or within private common rights of way;
      22.   Approximate existing property lines and approximate boundaries of
existing easements within the development, with the names of the owners of
record of properties abutting;
      23.   A statement indicating minimum and maximum lot size and a statement
as to the average building site size;
      24.   A vicinity map showing roads, adjoining developments, places,
creeks and other data sufficient to locate the proposed development and show
its relation to the community;
      25.   Statements of intent regarding proposed deed restrictions, home
associations and other legal instruments relating to the reservation,
maintenance and liability of common area, park or recreation area, if any.
(Ord. 04-08, 12-20-2004)
11-3-4: DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS:
   A.   Preservation Of Natural Features; Street Trees: The location of native
features may be considered when designing building sites, underground services,
walkways, paved or parking areas, playgrounds and especially finished grade
levels.
   B.   Storm And Surface Water Damage: The developer shall design the
development so that it shall be protected from inundation, flood hazard, sheet
overflow and ponding of local storm water, springs and other surface waters.
The design of improvements shall be such that water occurring within the
development will be carried off without injury to any improvements, building
sites or residences to be installed on sites within the development or
adjoining areas. Water occurring within the development shall be carried to a
storm drainage facility or to a natural watercourse by such improvements as may
be required. Drainage design within the development shall accommodate
reasonable anticipated future improvement within the drainage area. Any off
tract outlet drainage facility required to carry storm water from the proposed
development to a defined channel or conduit shall be made adequate for the
ultimate stage of improvement in the drainage area. All water shall be
discharged into a controlled outlet stabilized storm channel for erosion
control. All such off site drainage water shall be materially free of silt or
other polluting features, with an approved structure for separation of
contaminates.
   C.   Dedications And Reservations Of Land:
      1.   Dedications of land for park, recreational, school or other public
purposes, in an amount and location consistent with the master plan and
proposed character and location and engineering need of each development, may
be required as a condition precedent to tentative and final map approval.
      2.   Where deemed desirable by the planning commission, upon
consideration of the particular type of improvement proposed in the
development, and especially in large developments, the planning commission may
require dedication or reservation of common areas or sites for community
purposes of a character, extent and location suitable for the needs created by
such development.
   D.   Additional Structures Provided By Developer: The developer shall be
required to provide necessary structures such as bridges, concrete boxes,
culverts, head walls, appurtenant fencing and other features as may be
required.
   E.   Streetlights: In every subdivision there shall be installed on the
streets thereof at least one streetlight at ends of cul-de- sacs,
intersections, dead end streets and every seven hundred fifty feet (750').
   F.   Additional Requirements: The planning commission may require other such
measures as will preserve and enhance scenic values and natural features of the
area and for conditions encouraging excellence of quality of development. (1973
Code § 16.08.040)
11-3-5: APPROVAL; DISAPPROVAL:
   A.   Commission Action:
      1.   Time Limitation: The planning commission shall recommend approval,
disapproval or conditionally approve the said tentative map within forty five
(45) days after the filing or refiling of the said map. This time limit may be
extended by written mutual consent of the city and owner/applicant. Failure of
the planning commission to act on this tentative map within said time limit
shall be deemed approval of the map.
      2.   Written Report: In the event of disapproval or conditional approval
of the tentative map, a report, in writing, shall be made to the subdivider and
to the city council. This report shall state the conditions under which the map
will be approved.
   B.   Council Action: The city council shall approve, conditionally approve
or disapprove a tentative map filed within thirty (30) days after receipt of
the planning commission's recommendation.
   C.   Approval: Approval of the tentative map shall not constitute acceptance
of the final map. Approval of the tentative map shall lapse unless a final map
based thereon is submitted within one year from the date of such approval,
unless a provision for an extension of time has been granted. The city council
may grant to the subdivider a single extension of not more than one year within
which to record a final map after receiving approval of the tentative map.
   D.   Tentative Approval: If a plan is granted tentative approval, with or
without conditions, the city shall set forth the time within which an
application for final approval of the plan must be filed or, in the case of a
plan which provides for development over a period of years, the periods within
which application for final approval of each part thereof must be filed. (1973
Code § 16.08.050)
11-3-6: FEES:
Tentative map fees, as set forth by resolution by the city council, shall be
submitted to and payable to the city clerk as a prerequisite to the filing of a
tentative map prior to any official consideration. No part of the fees will be
refunded in the event that the tentative map is not approved for any reason.
(1973 Code § 16.08.060)
CHAPTER 4
SURVEYS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Required
11-4-2: Guarantee Of Placement Of Monuments
11-4-1: REQUIRED:
Before a final map of a land development can be recorded, an accurate and
complete boundary survey, setting of monuments and the final map must be made
by a Nevada professional land surveyor, or a security of an amount approved by
the city guaranteeing placement of all monuments pertaining to the lots,
blocks, roads, easements and boundaries. Proof of such security must be filed
with the city. (1973 Code § 16.12.010; amd. 2001 Code)
   A.   Marking Monuments: Monuments shall be set as defined in subsection B of
this section and shall be permanently and visibly marked or tagged with the
registration and license number of the surveyor under whose supervision the
survey was made. A description of each monument to be set subsequent to
recordation shall be shown on the final map. The minimum allowable error
closure shall be one ten thousandth (0.0001) and the professional land surveyor
shall furnish to the city, at the time of filing the final map, such traverse
sheets showing mathematic closure together with such other data as may be
required for checking.
   B.   Setting Specifications: The professional land surveyor in charge of
survey shall cause permanent monuments to be set as follows:
      1.   A class A monument shall be set at:
         a.   Subdivision boundary corners, angle points and section corners;
         b.   Intersections of street center lines;
         c.   Intersections of street center lines with subdivision boundaries;
         d.   Angle points and points of curvature, including beginning curves
and ending curves, in street center lines.
      2.   A class B monument shall be on each lot site corner.
   C.   Materials: Monuments required in this title shall be as follows:
      1.   A class A monument shall be as shown in the standard details for
public works construction.
      2.   A class B monument shall consist of an iron pipe having an inside
diameter of three-fourths inch (3/4") or more and at least eighteen inches
(18") long, driven at least twelve inches (12") in the ground, extending
between four inches (4") and six inches (6") above the surface and having a
stamped galvanized cap or a reinforcing steel bar with a minimum diameter of
five-eighths inch (5/8") and at least eighteen inches (18") long, driven at
least twelve inches (12") in the ground, extending between four inches (4") and
six inches (6") above the surface and having the top painted red and tagged
with a brass tag or plastic or aluminum cap with identifying PLS number. (1973
Code § 16.12.010)
11-4-2: GUARANTEE OF PLACEMENT OF MONUMENTS:
   A.   Bond Required: Where the certificate of the surveyor states that all
the monuments will be set on or before a specified later date, the developer
shall furnish to the city a bond or an amount equal to one hundred fifty
percent (150%) of the estimated cost of setting such monuments, not already set
prior to recording the map, guaranteeing payment of the cost thereof.
   B.   Written Notice Of Completion: Within five (5) days after the final
setting of all monuments has been completed by the surveyor, written notice
shall be given to the city that final monuments have been set.
   C.   Release Of Bond: After setting the final monuments, the developer shall
present to the city evidence of the same together with a request that his bond
be released or that his cash deposits be returned. The city, after inspection,
shall immediately thereafter release such bond or return such cash deposit to
the depositor. (1973 Code § 16.12.020)
CHAPTER 5
FINAL MAPS 1
SECTION:
11-5-1: Compliance With Zoning
11-5-2: Filing; Review
11-5-3: Form; Contents
11-5-4: Accompanying Material
11-5-5: Certificates
11-5-6: Approval
11-5-7: Improvement Guarantees
11-5-8: Recording
11-5-9: Fees
 
Notes
1 1. NRS §§ 278.360 – 278.460.
11-5-1: COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING:
The final map shall meet all requirements of the zoning district in which it is
located and any necessary zoning amendment that shall have been adopted by the
city council prior to filing the final map. (1973 Code § 16.16.010)
11-5-2: FILING; REVIEW:
   A.   Submission: Not less than thirty (30) days prior to the consideration
of any final map, the developer shall submit the original proposed final map
and ten (10) prints of the same to the city.
   B.   City Review:
      1.   Map: The city shall check said map as to accuracy and dimensions,
placing of monuments, establishment of survey records and conformance of the
map to the tentative map as approved. Data concerning closure calculations,
construction plans, estimates of quantities based on improvement plans shall
also be submitted therewith.
      2.   Improvement Plans: Improvement plans submitted in conjunction with
the final map shall be reviewed and approved by the city in compliance with
chapter 7 of this title.
   C.   Checking Fee: In addition to other fees and charges as required by law,
the developer shall pay a checking fee which shall be in accordance with the
resolution establishing fees for filing and checking subdivisions. Such fee
shall be due and payable to the city clerk at the time the final map is filed
and placed on the agenda for final approval and is not refundable if the plat
is subsequently delayed, withdrawn, or abandoned.
   D.   City Staff Review; Placement On Council Agenda: Upon completion of
review by the city, the final map and all other required plans and documents
must be approved by city staff and authorized by the city manager to be on the
agenda for consideration by the city council. (1973 Code § 16.16.020)
11-5-3: FORM; CONTENTS:
   A.   Form: The final map shall be clearly and legibly drawn in black
waterproof India ink upon good tracing cloth or mylar, including affidavits,
certificates and acknowledgments. Each sheet shall be twenty four inches by
thirty two inches (24" x 32") in size. A margin line shall be drawn completely
around each sheet showing an entirely blank margin of one inch (1") at the
bottom, top and right edges and two inches (2") on the left edge on the twenty
four inch (24") dimension. The scale of the map shall be not less than one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'). The particular number of the sheet and the
total number of sheets comprising the map shall be so stated on each of the
sheets and the number in relation to each adjoining sheet shall be clearly
shown. The title sheet shall contain the location of the property being divided
with references to maps which have been previously recorded or by reference to
the plat of the United States survey. (1973 Code § 16.16.030)
   B.   Contents: Contents are as follows:
      1.   Affidavits, certificates, acknowledgments, endorsements, acceptances
of dedication, and the notarial seals required by law and this title. These may
be placed thereon with black ink or by photographic reproduction. If more than
three (3) sheets are used, a key diagram shall be included;
      2.   The scale, on each sheet containing a map. The basis of bearing
shall be required on one sheet only;
      3.   All rights of way and easements that are required to be offered for
dedication for acceptance and their particular use;
      4.   Every final map shall contain the following data: sufficient linear,
angular and radial data to determine the bearings and lengths of boundary lines
of the final map and boundary lines of each and every lot which is a part
thereof;
      5.   Easements not disclosed by the records in the office of the recorder
and found by the surveyor or engineer to be existing in the development prior
to the date of filing for record of the final map, naming the party or parties
using said easement and describing the specific purpose for which the easement
is being used;
      6.   Easements evidenced by records in the office of the county recorder
prior to the date of filing for record of the final map, by the volume and page
of the conveyance which established said easement and the name, also, of the
grantee in said conveyance who or which reserved said easement;
      7.   Easements, rights of way and other property interests necessary to
implement and maintain any water conveyance and delivery system required by any
rule or regulation of the Walker River irrigation district.
      8.   The exterior boundary of the land included within the final map
shall be highlighted by a border light enough to make all delineations covered
by it readily discernible on reproductions or prints of the original. The map
shall show surrounding property and surveys and, in addition, shall make
reference to the recorder's book and page number of each such property and
survey;
      9.   Each city boundary and government land survey line crossing or
adjoining the subdivision with adequate ties to monuments set or found within
the same;
      10.   If any portion of the land within the boundaries of the final map
is subject to inundation, storm flow conditions, geologic hazard or other
hazard, the land so affected shall be clearly marked by a prominent note on
each sheet. The map shall show the line of high water in case the development
is adjacent to a stream, lake or reservoir and/or areas subject to inundation
by water;
      11.   The monument line and boundary of each street, including the width
of the portion of any fractional street being dedicated, the width of existing
road rights of way, when available from public records, and the widths on each
side of the adjacent streets as determined from public records. Whenever the
engineer has established either the centerline or monument line of the street
and such information is made a public record, this location and data shall be
shown on the final map;
      12.   Lots or parcels:
         a.   Numbers shall begin with the number "1" and continue
consecutively with no omissions or duplications; except, that for multiple unit
development, numbering of lots shall begin where the numbering of previous lots
stopped.
         b.   Each lot must be shown in its entirety on one sheet of the final
map and may not be divided between sheets.
         c.   No ditto marks shall be used in the dimensions and data.
         d.   Lot areas, if shown, shall be a net area;
      13.   Block numbers shall begin with the number "1" or the letter "A",
continuing consecutively without omission or duplication throughout the tract;
      14.   The final map shall particularly define and delineate all lots
intended for private purposes, all lots or parcels offered for dedication for
any purpose, public or private, common area and private street, with all
dimensions, boundaries and courses clearly defined. Parcels offered for
dedication shall be so designated and private streets shall be designated "not
a public street";
      15.   Wherever the subdivision is contained within the boundaries of more
than one district for which separate taxes are levied, the boundaries of such
districts shall be located and shown accurately on the final map;
      16.   Each sheet shall show the subdivision tract number assigned by the
county recorder, if any; each sheet shall show the subdivision tract name and
unit number. (Ord. 04-08, 12-20-2004)
11-5-4: ACCOMPANYING MATERIAL:
The final map filing shall be accompanied by the following documents, as they
apply, all of which must have been approved by the city staff before the final
map is considered by the city council:
   A.   Agreement Guaranteeing Completion Of Improvements: As provided in
Nevada Revised Statutes sections 278.0201 to 278.0207, an agreement, approved
by the city attorney, guaranteeing that the developer will complete the
construction of all improvements within a time period specified;
   B.   Cash Deposit Or Surety Bond: A cash deposit or acceptable surety bond
equivalent to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of
construction of the improvements and monuments guaranteeing performance of
work, payment for labor and materials and any other claims that may arise as a
result of the improvement work as set forth in the agreement;
   C.   Affidavit Of Payable Taxes: An affidavit from the county treasurer
showing all payable taxes paid;
   D.   Proof Of Payment Of Fees: Proof of payment for all checking and filing
fees, inspection of construction, or other cash deposit as required;
   E.   Deeds For Off Site Easements And Rights Of Way: Deeds for off site
easements or rights of way required for roads, streets, alleys, utilities and
drainage or for other purposes which have not been dedicated on the final map;
   F.   Deeds For Water Conveyance And Delivery System: Deeds for easements,
rights of way and other property interests necessary to implement and maintain
any water conveyance and delivery system required by any rule or regulation of
the Walker River irrigation district.
   G.   Easements: Written evidence acceptable to the city in the form of right
of way entry and permanent easements across private property outside of the
development permitting or granting access to perform necessary construction
work, permitting the maintenance of the facility and providing access to the
subdivision;
   H.   Utility Easements: Written agreements acceptable to the city executed
by the owners of existing utility easements within proposed rights of way,
consenting to the dedication of the roads, streets or consenting to the joint
use of the rights of way as may be required by the city for the public use and
convenience of the roads, streets, alleys and utilities;
   I.   Maintenance And Services: Evidence of formation of or annexation to
legal entities when required to operate and perform maintenance and services;
   J.   Deed And Reciprocal Restrictions; Homeowners' Association: Two (2)
copies of any deed restrictions, reciprocal restrictions and articles of
incorporation of a homeowners' association if the same is a part thereof;
   K.   Traffic: An instrument allowing traffic over the right of way of a
major highway, parkway, street or freeway when the same is required;
   L.   Land Clearing Dust Suppression Permit: A land clearing dust suppression
permit shall be required from the division of EPA for areas greater than five
(5) acres;
   M.   Staff Approval: City staff approval of all required improvement plans
and engineer's estimates for all improvements which coincide with guarantee's.
(Ord. 04-08, 12-20-2004)
11-5-5: CERTIFICATES:
The following certificates and acknowledgments shall appear on the final map:
   A.   Record Owners: A certificate signed and acknowledged by all record
owners consenting to the preparation and recordation of the map and offering
for dedication for public use, all streets, rights of way, and easements for
utility purposes on, over, under and across those certain lands identified as
public utility easement;
   B.   Surveyor: A certificate of the surveyor responsible for the survey and
the certificate shall be in the following form:
   SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
I,  (Name of Surveyor) , a Professional Land Surveyor in the State of Nevada,
certify that:
1. This plat represents the results of a survey conducted under my direct
supervision at the instance of  (Owner, Trustee, Etc.) .
2. The lands surveyed lie within                                            
(Sections, Township, Range, Meridian and, if required by the governing body, a
description by metes and bounds for any subdivision which is divided into lots
containing 5 acres in area or less), and the survey was completed on  (Date) .
3. This plat complies with the applicable state and any local ordinances in
effect on the date that the governing body gave its final approval.
4. The monuments depicted on the plat are of the character shown, occupy the
position indicated and are of sufficient number and durability.
   (OR)
4. The monuments depicted on the plat will be of the character shown and will
occupy the positions indicated by  (A day certain)  and an appropriate
financial guarantee will be posted with the governing body before recordation
to assure the installation of the monuments.
                                                                                          
   Signature of Surveyor,
   Registration Number and
   Seal: 
   C.   City Engineer: A certificate by the city engineer stating that he has
examined the final map, that all provisions of the law have been met and that
he is satisfied with the map as being technically correct;
   D.   County Recorder: The certificate of the county recorder that the map is
recorded in the office of the recorder and includes necessary information to
document the date, time, document number as required by state law;
   E.   County Treasurer: The certificate of the county treasurer that there
are no liens against any of the land in the subdivision for unpaid state,
county, city or local taxes or special assessments except those not yet
payable;
   F.   City Council: A certificate of the city council stating that they have
approved the map and accepted, on behalf of the public, all lands offered for
dedication for public use in conformity with the terms of the offer of
dedication, and attested to by the mayor and the city clerk;
   G.   City Manager And Planning Commission: A certificate of the city manager
and planning commission chairman that the map conforms to the approved
tentative map and all conditions imposed upon such approval have been
satisfied;
   H.   Notary Public: Proper certificates of a notary public, authorized to do
business in the state, as required;
   I.   Department Of Health: A certificate by state department of health
showing that the health division approved the final map concerning sewage
disposal, water pollution, water quality and solid waste;
   J.   Department Of Water Resources: A certificate by the state department of
water resources indicating sufficient quantity of water available;
   K.   Certificate Of Title: A certificate of title, by a title company
authorized to do business in the state, that the map has been examined, and
that the subdivider offering the map is the owner of all lands within its
boundaries. Any security interests held on lands within the boundaries shall
certify consent to the preparation and recordation of the final map.
   L.   Walker River Irrigation District: If the map includes property within
the Walker River irrigation district, a certificate of the Walker River
irrigation district verifying that it has reviewed and approved the contents of
the final map. (Ord. 04-08, 12-20-2004)
11-5-6: APPROVAL:
   A.   Generally: The city council shall approve the final map once all the
conditions on the tentative map and any other additional items as provided
herein have been met.
   B.   Approval By Units: A developer may elect to file a final map covering
only a portion of the approved tentative map if such intention is declared at
the time the tentative map is filed. Each such partial final map shall be given
a separate number, and all of the requirements required for approval of a full
final map shall apply to an approval for a partial final map and the agreement
required of the developer shall provide for the construction of such
improvements as may be necessary to constitute a logical and orderly
development of the whole land development by units. (1973 Code § 16.16.060)
11-5-7: IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEES:
   A.   Recording Prohibited: No final map shall be submitted for recording to
the county recorder until the required improvements listed in these regulations
are constructed and approved by the appropriate city officials; or
   B.   Surety Required: Prior to construction of improvements, the city
council will accept a surety approved by the city attorney to cover one hundred
fifty percent (150%) of the engineer's estimated cost of the required
improvements. The surety shall be subject to the condition that the
improvements will be completed within one year after approval of the final map.
(1973 Code § 16.16.070)
11-5-8: RECORDING:
   A.   Time Limitation: The final map of a land development must be recorded
within one year after the approval or conditional approval of the tentative map
of said development or within any extension of time granted pursuant to
subsection 11-3-5C of this title. Failure to so record terminates all
proceedings, requiring an entirely new tentative map approval.
   B.   Title To Dedicated Properties: Title to dedicated properties may pass
to the city when the final map is recorded. If, at that time, any improvements
therein are not completed, the offer of dedication shall remain open, and the
city council may, at any later date and without further action, accept and open
streets and/or improvements for public use. (1973 Code § 16.16.080)
11-5-9: FEES:
   A.   Filing Fees: At the time of filing land development map, the developer
shall pay to the city clerk the filing fee as set forth by resolution by the
city council. No part of the filing fee may be refunded in the event that the
final map is not approved for any reason.
   B.   Plan Check Fee: In addition, a plan check fee established by resolution
by the city council for actual time spent in checking the map shall be paid
prior to recordation.
   C.   Recording Fee: The county recorder shall collect a fee for recordation
of any final map. The fee shall be deposited in the city general fund.
   D.   Staff Fees And Other Fees: Established by resolution by the city
council. (1973 Code § 16.16.090)
CHAPTER 6
PARCEL MAPS 1
SECTION:
11-6-1: Required
11-6-2: Review Considerations
11-6-3: Filing; Fees
11-6-4: Form; Contents
11-6-5: Approval; Disapproval
11-6-6: Required Improvements
 
Notes
1 1. For statutory provisions regarding parcel maps, see NRS §§ 278.461 through
  278.471.
11-6-1: REQUIRED:
   A.   Parcel Map Required: A person who proposes to divide any land for
transfer or development into four (4) or fewer lots shall file a parcel map in
the office of the county recorder. If any parcel map is submitted for any land
which previously has been part of a land division by the parcel map process,
the city may impose any or all of the said subdivision requirements. If any
parcel map is submitted by any person or alter ego or corporate equivalent of
any person who previously has divided any portion of the same land by the
parcel map process, the city may impose any and all of the said subdivision
requirements. The parcel map process of land division is not intended to permit
land divisions which are the equivalent of a subdivision by repeated parceling
without providing subdivision improvements. Once land has been parceled or
parcels have been parceled out of a larger piece of contiguous land, the
limitations set forth herein shall apply.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   A parcel map is not required when the division is for the express
purpose of:
         a.   Creation or realignment of a public right of way by a public
agency;
         b.   Creation or realignment of an easement;
         c.   Adjustment of the boundary line or the transfer of land between
two (2) adjacent property owners which does not result in the creation of any
additional parcels;
         d.   Purchase, transfer or development of space within an apartment
building or an industrial or commercial building;
         e.   Carrying out an order of any court or dividing land as a result
of an operation of law.
      2.   A parcel map is not required for any of the following transactions
involving land:
         a.   Creation of a lien, mortgage, deed of trust or any other security
instrument;
         b.   Creation of a security or unit of interest in any investment
trust regulated under the laws of this state or any other interest in any
investment entity;
         c.   Conveying an interest in oil, gas, minerals or building materials
which are severed from the surface ownership of real property;
         d.   Conveying an interest in land acquired by the department of
transportation under Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 408;
         e.   Filing a certificate of amendment under Nevada Revised Statutes
section 278.473.
      3.   When two (2) or more separate lots, parcels, sites, units or plots
are resold or reconveyed they are exempt from the provisions of Nevada Revised
Statutes sections 279.010 to 278.630, inclusive, until further divided.
      4.   Unless a method of land division is adopted for the purpose or would
have the effect of evading this title, the provisions for division of land by a
parcel map do not apply to a transaction exempted by paragraph (c) of
subsection 1 of Nevada Revised Statutes section 278.320. (1973 Code §
16.20.010)
11-6-2: REVIEW CONSIDERATIONS:
Review considerations which may be imposed by the planning commission are as
follows:
   A.   Street grading, drainage provisions and lot designs as are reasonably
necessary;
   B.   Off site access, street alignment, surfacing and width, water quality,
water supply and sewerage provisions as reasonably necessary and consistent
with the existing use of any land zoned for similar use which is within the
immediate vicinity of the proposed parcel. The planning commission may require
additional improvements which are reasonably necessary and consistent with the
use of the land if it is developed as proposed;
   C.   For a second or subsequent parcel map with respect to a single parcel,
or contiguous tract of land under the same ownership, any reasonable
improvement, but not more than would be required if the parcel were a
subdivision;
   D.   The city shall check said map as to accuracy and dimensions, placing of
monuments, establishment of survey records and data concerning closure
calculations. (1973 Code § 16.20.020)
11-6-3: FILING; FEES:
   A.   Filing; Required Documentation: At the time of filing a parcel map, the
developer shall file with the planning commission eight (8) copies of the
parcel map, a preliminary title report on the land to be parceled indicating
the owner(s) thereof and any encumbrances of record thereon, a copy of the deed
of area to be parceled, a copy of the traverse calculations of the parcel being
parceled and a filing fee as set forth by resolution by the city council.
   B.   Filing Fee: No part of the filing fee may be refunded in the event that
the parcel map is not approved for any other reason. A fee established by
resolution by the city council for actual time spent in checking the parcel map
must be paid prior to recordation. (1973 Code § 16.20.030)
11-6-4: FORM; CONTENTS:
   A.   Form: The parcel map must be legibly drawn in black waterproof India
ink on tracing cloth or produced by the use of other materials of a permanent
nature generally used for such purposes in the engineering profession. The size
of the sheet must be twenty four inches by thirty two inches (24" x 32"). A
marginal line must be drawn completely around each sheet, leaving an entirely
blank margin of one inch (1") at the top, bottom and right edges and of two
inches (2") at the left edge along the twenty four inch (24") dimension.
   B.   Contents: A parcel map must indicate or show the following:
      1.   The owner of any adjoining land or any right of way if owned by the
person dividing the land;
      2.   Easements, rights of way and other property interests necessary to
implement and maintain any water conveyance and delivery system required by any
rule or regulation of the Walker River irrigation district;
      3.   The area of each parcel or lot and the total area of the land to be
divided in the following manner:
         a.   In acres, calculated to the nearest one-hundredth (0.01) of an
acre, if there are two (2) acres or more, or
         b.   In square feet if the area is less than two (2) acres;
      4.   If a survey is required:
         a.   All monuments found, set, reset, replaced or removed, describing
their kind, size and location and giving other data relating thereto,
         b.   Bearing or witness monuments, the basis of bearings, bearing and
length of lines and the scale of the map,
         c.   The name and legal designation of the tract or grant in which the
survey is located and any ties to adjoining tracts,
         d.   A memorandum of oaths,
         e.   The signature of the surveyor,
         f.   Date of the survey,
         g.   The signature of the owner or owners of the land to be divided,
with notary jurat,
         h.   Any easements granted or dedications made,
         i.   Any other data necessary for the intelligent interpretation of
the various items and locations of the points, lines and area shown;
      5.   If a survey is not required:
         a.   By appropriate reference to the existing information on which it
is based, the tract to be divided and the resulting lots,
         b.   The means of access to the several lots,
         c.   The signature of the owner or owners of the land to be divided,
         d.   Any easements granted or dedications made, and
         e.   Any other data necessary for an intelligent interpretation of the
division and the access;
      6.   If a survey is not required for the preparation of a parcel map, the
map must be prepared by a registered land surveyor, and his certificate upon
the map shall include substantially the following:
This map was prepared from existing information (identifying it and stating
where filed or recorded), and the undersigned assumes no responsibility for the
existence of monuments or correctness of other information shown on or copies
from any such prior document.
   C.   Requirement Waiver: If the requirement for a parcel map is waived, the
city council may specify by local ordinance the type and extent of information
or mapping necessary for the land division.
   D.   Reference To Parcel Map: Reference to the parcel map and recording date
is a complete legal description of the land contained in such parcel. (Ord. 04-
08, 12-20-2004)
11-6-5: APPROVAL; DISAPPROVAL:
   A.   Planning Commission Review: The planning commission shall review and
recommend approval, conditional approval or disapproval of a parcel map to the
city council.
   B.   Time Limitation: Unless the time is extended by mutual agreement, a
request to waive the submission of a parcel map or the parcel map which has
been submitted shall be acted upon within thirty (30) days or in the absence of
action shall be deemed approved.
   C.   Council Approval: The approval of the parcel map and the associated
land division shall be executed by the city council within thirty (30) days of
planning commission action. (1973 Code § 16.20.050)
11-6-6: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Recording Prohibited: No parcel map shall be submitted for recording to
the county recorder until the required improvements listed in these regulations
are constructed and approved by the appropriate city officials.
   B.   Guarantee Of Improvements: In lieu of prior construction of
improvements, the city council will accept a surety approved by the city
manager to cover one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the engineer's estimated
cost of the required improvements. The surety shall be subject to the condition
that the improvements will be completed within one year after approval of the
parcel map. (1973 Code § 16.20.060)
CHAPTER 7
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Improvements Required; Responsibility For Costs
11-7-2: Maintenance And Public Services
11-7-3: Filing Fee; Improvement Plans
11-7-4: Guarantee
11-7-5: Development Criteria
11-7-6: Improvement Standards Generally
11-7-7: Streets
11-7-8: Storm And Surface Water Drainage
11-7-9: Water Distribution Systems
11-7-10: Sewage Collection Systems
11-7-11: Underground Utilities
11-7-12: Geotechnical Report
11-7-13: Acceptance Of Work
11-7-14: Inspections
11-7-15: Completion Of Work
11-7-1: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED; RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS:
   A.   On-Site Improvements: As a condition precedent to the acceptance of any
features offered for dedication to the public and prior to the approval of the
final map, the developer shall agree to improve, at his own expense and within
a stated time, all land so dedicated with such improvements required, and the
final map of any such land development shall not be approved until either such
features have been improved as required or the developer has executed an
agreement to so improve such features as secured by a bond or cash deposit as
set forth in this title.
   B.   Off-Site Improvements: Off-site improvements not solely for the benefit
of the subject subdivision shall be required to be included within the
developer's agreement; however, the developer shall be held to his proportion
of all of these improvements. The amount of said fair participation shall be
decided by the city council.
   C.   Reimbursement By City: Whenever the city council requires the
installation of utility easements, streets and roads, sewers, water systems or
drainage facilities by the developer and such improvements are of benefit and
value to land other than that located within the development, the city council
may agree with the developer to reimburse him in part for the use of such
improvements and may provide for the collection of a charge for the use of such
facilities. (1973 Code § 16.24.010)
11-7-2: MAINTENANCE AND PUBLIC SERVICES:
The developer may be required to form appropriate legal entities to operate and
perform some or all required maintenance and services if they are not currently
a regular public service. (1973 Code § 16.24.020)
11-7-3: FILING FEE; IMPROVEMENT PLANS:
At the time of filing the improvement plans, the developer shall pay to the
city clerk the filing fees as set forth by resolution by the city council. The
fee shall be submitted with ten (10) complete sets of the improvement plans.
(1973 Code § 16.24.030)
11-7-4: GUARANTEE:
   A.   Performance Bond, Deposit; Letter Of Credit:
      1.   Performance Bond: The performance of any agreement to make
improvements or a form of assessment district in a land development shall be
secured by a surety issued by a surety company authorized to do a general
surety business in the state of Nevada, in a form approved by the city attorney
and in a penal sum of one hundred fifty percent (150%) to the established cost
of complete required improvements computed by an engineer.
      2.   Cash Deposit; Letter Of Credit: In lieu of such surety, the
developer shall submit a cash deposit, letter of credit, time certificate,
bond, etc., in like amount, as security for performance of such agreement.
   B.   Assessment District Proceedings: In lieu of the agreement to make the
improvements required by the city council, the developer shall submit an
agreement to initiate and consummate proceedings under an appropriate special
assessment act or acts for the formation of a special assessment district
including the development or a part thereof for the financing and construction
of the improvements required. Any such agreement shall incorporate, also, the
requirements and procedures contained in the resolution establishing procedures
for the acquisition of public improvements by assessment district proceedings
and any revision thereof adopted by the city council. The agreement to
consummate assessment district proceedings shall provide for the acceptance of
the work as it progresses and partial withdrawal of any deposit made in money
or bond to secure the faithful performance of the agreement upon approval of
the city manager. (1973 Code § 16.24.040)
11-7-5: DEVELOPMENT CRITERIA:
   A.   Streets And Highways:
      1.   Conformance With Master Plan And Future Street Plan:
         a.   Traffic Circulation: If the traffic circulation element of the
master plan, and future street plan shows any right of way so located that any
portion lies within the proposed land development, such portion shall be shown
as a right of way or part thereof.
         b.   Streets: The location, width and alignment of streets shall
conform to the master plan and/or future street plan and be arranged to produce
the most advantageous improvement of the area, preserve the natural features
and enhance overall design. The layout, character, extent, width, grade,
location of all proposed streets shall be established with due regard for:
            (1)   Public convenience and safety;
            (2)   Topography and other land features;
            (3)   Proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets and
expected future traffic needs;
            (4)   Expected traffic type and volume to be carried by such
streets;
            (5)   Proper relation to, connection with, continuation and
projection of streets in the adjacent area, whether these streets are existing
or proposed in another development in an area of land, in the master plan, or
in the official map, as approved by or adopted by the city council. (1973 Code
§ 16.24.050)
      2.   General Requirements: Each street and highway shall conform to the
requirements of standard details for public works construction (orange book).
         a.   Major Arterials: Major arterials shall conform to a right of way
of one hundred feet (100') or more and an improved section of eighty feet
(80'), subject to specific decision of the city.
         b.   Minor Arterials: Minor arterials shall conform to a right of way
of eighty five feet (85') or more and an improved section of sixty eight feet
(68'), subject to specific decision of the city.
         c.   Entrance Or Collector Streets/Rural Roads: Entrance or collector
streets/rural roads and local streets serving lots used for other than single-
family dwelling purposes or local streets serving more than forty (40) lots for
single-family dwelling purposes shall have a dedicated right of way of not less
than sixty feet (60') and shall be improved to a width of not less than forty
two feet (42').
         d.   Local Streets: Local streets that have the future possibility of
serving forty (40) lots or less shall have a dedicated right of way of not less
than fifty feet (50') with an improved section of not less than thirty six feet
(36').
         e.   Rural Road With On Street Parking: Rural roads with on street
parking that have the future possibility of serving forty (40) lots or less
shall have a dedicated right of way of not less than fifty feet (50') with an
improved section of not less than thirty six feet (36').
         f.   Rural Road Without On Street Parking: Rural roads with no on
street parking that have the future possibility of serving forty (40) lots or
less shall have a dedicated right of way of not less than fifty feet (50') with
an improved section of not less than thirty feet (30').
         g.   Cul-De-Sacs: A cul-de-sac street provided with a turnaround for
forty three foot (43') radius shall have a dedicated right of way of fifty feet
(50') radius, providing not more than twelve (12) single units are served
thereby and total centerline length is not in excess of four hundred feet
(400'). (Ord. 06-03, 4-24-2006)
      3.   Street Extensions:
         a.   Existing Streets: The proposed street layout shall provide for
the continuation or projection of existing streets unless the planning
commission or city council deems such extension undesirable for specific
reasons, i.e., topography, design, etc. Some proposed streets may be required
to extend to the boundary line of the development to provide access to adjacent
properties.
         b.   Street Stub: When more than four (4) building lots derive access
from such street stub, a temporary turnaround easement shall be provided at
that end. The street stub so created shall be required to be improved. A
barrier shall be required by the public works department, and installed at the
end of dead-end paved streets with proper reflectors.
      4.   Streets Or Alleys Adjoining Development Boundary: Streets/ alleys
lying along a development boundary shall dedicate one-half (1/2) the required
width of same, if it is practical, to require the dedication of the other one-
half (1/2) when the adjacent property is developed. Such portion of a street
shall be distinctly designated as being a "portion only" and not full street
width. Whenever a recorded one-half (1/2) street exists as an adjacent plat,
the other one-half (1/2) must be provided on the proposed map unless a deeded
or adjudicated access already exists.
      5.   Certificate Of Occupancy: In no case shall a certificate of
occupancy be issued until all required improvements by this chapter have been
installed, inspected and approved. This section shall not apply to any lots of
record prior to the adoption of the ordinance codified in this title.
      6.   Building Permit: No building permit shall be issued for building or
street on a lot/parcel which abuts a one-half (1/2) street when located on that
side from which no dedication has been made. If such a lot or parcel is
accompanied by an appropriate document dedicating their portion of right of way
and assuring improvements, a building permit may be issued. All one- half (1/2)
streets shall have a minimum of twenty seven feet (27') improved section.
      7.   Center Line Curve Radii: Minimum center line curve radii shall be
determined based on traffic flow requirements including design, speed and sight
distance. In any case, for streets, a minimum center line radius of one hundred
feet (100') shall be required.
      8.   One-Way Streets: One-way streets may be allowed subject to grade and
plotting requirements including specific considerations of engineering
criteria, limited sidewalk requirements and off- street parking, providing the
design is approved by the city.
      9.   Lesser Developed Streets, Rights Of Way And Sections: Lesser
developed streets, rights of way and sections may be permitted when no on-
street parking is permitted or under one-way design. Increased widths may be
required when streets are to serve commercial property and where traffic
conditions warrant. In these cases, final sections will be established by the
city council. Design criteria shall follow the "Standard Details for Public
Works Construction".
      10.   Street Names: Street names and suffixes shall be designated by the
developer, subject to the approval of the planning commission and city
emergency services, in accordance with the following general policy and shall:
         a.   Be short (under 12 letters, if possible) and preferably in one
word;
         b.   Have a simple spelling and easy pronunciation;
         c.   Avoid prefixes such as north and south, east and west and upper
and lower, etc.;
         d.   Be related to the type and importance of the street (the suffix
boulevard should not be attached to the name of a minor residential street);
         e.   Do not use numbers or letters as street names;
         f.   Not be incongruous, offensive or geographically misleading;
         g.   Not be repetitive or similar in sound and character;
         h.   Have a single name for a street having a continuous alignment;
         i.   When to be connected in the future into a continuous alignment or
extended, bear the same name as the existing street;
         j.   Have a metal street sign to be erected as specified in the
"Standard Details for Public Works Construction" on at least one corner of
every intersection and shall identify each street name thereof. All street
signs shall be a part of the subdivision improvement plans, and placed at the
expense of the developer.
   B.   Street And Highway Construction Specifications:
      1.   Application Of Provisions:
         a.   The following specifications shall govern all construction within
the public rights of way and easements within the city and all paved roads in
any proposed subdivision within the city.
         b.   Within appropriate districts which have adopted their own
specifications and standard details which are more restrictive or which demand
a higher quality of material or workmanship, the specifications and standards
of the district shall govern.
      2.   Plans And Profiles:
         a.   Drainage plans showing all upstream and downstream areas
affecting and affected by a proposed subdivision shall be submitted to the city
for approval. Provision must be made for all on-site drainage that affects the
volume and/or time of concentration of runoff crossing or entering any roadway.
Drainage structures, i.e., drop inlets, manholes, detention chambers, etc., may
be required to be designed for sand, silt and oil separation. Direct drainage
flow into major drains will be required to be designed for such separation.
         b.   A center line profile of all roads to be constructed, together
with typical cross sections showing the relationship of the final road section
to the adjacent land, must be submitted to the city for approval.
      3.   Aggregate Base: Aggregate base shall mean the requirements as
specified in the "Standard Details for Public Works Construction" and "Standard
Specifications for Public Works Construction".
      4.   Asphaltic Concrete Pavement: Asphaltic concrete pavement shall meet
the requirements as specified in the "Standard Details for Public Works
Construction" and "Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction".
      5.   Concrete Curbs, Gutters And Sidewalks: Concrete curbs, gutters and
sidewalks shall meet the requirements as specified in the "Standard Details for
Public Works Construction" and "Standard Specifications for Public Works
Construction". Specifically, curb and gutter type 1 PCC and type 2 PCC are
allowed in residential subdivisions, provided, however:
         a.   The continuity of curb and gutter type in any given residential
area shall be continued; or
         b.   If there is no established curb and gutter type adjacent to or on
the same street, it is optional as to the type of curb and gutter used, either
type 1 PCC or type 2 PCC curb and gutter placed on frontages of multiple-
family, commercial or industrial parcels shall be vertical type 1 PCC.
   C.   Blocks: The dimensions, shape and orientation of blocks shall be
determined with due regard to:
      1.   Design of lots suitable to the use and types of buildings
contemplated;
      2.   Minimum site requirements, particularly as to site, slope and
dimensions;
      3.   Control, safety and convenience of pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
      4.   Topography and other land features;
      5.   Orientation and scenic enhancement;
      6.   Length of blocks which shall be not more than one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500').
   D.   Lots And Parcel Design:
      1.   Size, Shape And Placement Determination: The dimensions, shape and
orientation of all lots and parcels should be determined with regard to all
natural terrain features, topography, landscaping, road access, design
objectives, plottage advantages and other relevant features, including color,
orientation, prevailing winds, snow and icing conditions, relation of masses of
structures to be erected, spaces between future buildings, setback variations,
shadow patterns, hours of sunlight and design elements intended to create
identity and interest in the development.
      2.   Usable And Open Areas: All lots and parcels shall relate usable and
open areas suitable to the character and type of building contemplated and to
the various requirements of zoning with due regard to minimum disturbance of
the natural grade.
      3.   Lands Subject To Known Hazards: Land subject to known hazards such
as slides, avalanches, periodic or occasional inundation or otherwise
unsuitable for the intended use shall be:
         a.   Set aside as a permanent nonuse reservation; or
         b.   Improved with such corrective measures, as will be reasonably
expected to limit the hazard or make the land suitable for the intended use; or
         c.   Protected by adequate legal instrumentation to ensure the
responsibilities of the city and/or the owner.
      4.   Larger Lot And Parcel Sizes: Larger lot and parcel sizes may be
required if necessary to meet the requirements of the state laws. Where a
property is divided with one or more sites substantially larger than the
minimum size required in the zoning district in which a development is located,
streets and lots may be required to be laid out so as to permit possible future
redivision in accordance with the standards set forth herein.
      5.   Improvements Required Based On Underlying Zone District: The
following improvements are required on all parcel maps, and subdivisions within
the city, unless otherwise waived by the city council, based on circumstances
presented by the applicant.
      6.   All zoning districts will be required to have curb, gutter, and
pavement, underground utilities and streetlights. In the R-1 zone district and
the M-1 zone district, sidewalks may be required and all other zone districts
sidewalks shall be required.
In a division of large parcel maps each lot must be accessible by road or
easement, traversable by vehicles suited to the area.
      7.   Reverse Frontage Sites: Reverse frontage sites shall be provided
when necessary for protection of residential properties from through traffic
and adverse nonresidential uses, for separation of through and local traffic
and to overcome difficulties of topography and other special conditions.
Adequate spacing, screen planting or a fence or wall of a type approved by the
city shall be provided along the rear property line within an area not less
than ten feet (10') wide and across which there is no right of vehicular
passage.
      8.   Rear Or Side Lines Bordering Street, Highway Or Public Way: When the
rear or side lines of any building site border any street, highway or parkway,
the developer may be required to execute and deliver to the city an approved
instrument prohibiting the right of ingress and egress to such sites across the
side or rear lines of any lot bordering any such street and the developer may
be required to dedicate and improve a planting strip or barrier, prohibiting
such access or designate "no vehicular access" on final map.
      9.   Reserve Or Spite Strips: Reserve or spite strips controlling access
to streets or other land shall not be approved except as otherwise provided and
if ownership control of such strips is placed with the city.
      10.   Dividing Lots And Parcels By Boundary Lines: No lot or parcel shall
be divided by city or county boundary lines.
      11.   Development Within Boundaries Of More Than One District: Wherever
the development is contained within the boundaries of more than one district
for which separate taxes are levied, the boundaries of such districts shall be
located and shown separately on the final map.
      12.   Land Connecting A Lot Or Parcel With The Street: A lot or parcel
may have a strip of land not less than twenty feet (20') in width connecting
the building site with a street or may be situated within a common area with
frontage to a public street. The area of the strip shall be excluded in
computing the site area, and the length of the strip shall not exceed three
hundred feet (300').
   E.   Easements:
      1.   Width: The developer shall grant easements not less than a total of
ten feet (10') in width for public utility, sanitary sewer and drainage and
other public purposes on yard or open areas wherever necessary, unless required
elsewhere. Easements of lesser widths may be allowed at the determination of
the city when the purposes of the same may be accomplished by lesser widths;
and provided further, that in such determination the city shall prescribe the
width of such easements.
      2.   Preservation Of Natural Drainageways And Irrigation Waterways: All
natural drainageways and irrigation waterways shall be preserved with
appropriate easements and where necessary and required by the planning
commission and appropriate ditch companies and irrigation districts.
      3.   Conservation Easement Along Waterways: A conservation easement of a
width to be determined by stream flow requirements shall be provided along all
live waterways, streams and rivers to contain the channel during flood stages
and to maintain the ecological integrity of the watercourse and to prevent
encroachment. This easement shall be open to public access, but no tree or bush
removal, gravel excavating, filling or side casting of materials shall be
allowed within the area, and no construction of any kind shall be allowed below
the mean high water line.
      4.   Snow Storage: Easements to accommodate snow storage may be required
in an amount and in a location as necessary.
      5.   Fire Hazard Areas: In areas of possible fire hazards, unobstructed
fire protection equipment and access easements not less than twenty feet (20')
shall be dedicated from the public street to the land development boundary.
Such easement shall be located, designed and graded as determined by the
planning commission in cooperation with the fire protection agencies. (1973
Code § 16.24.050)
11-7-6: IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS GENERALLY:
The developer shall make all required improvements, installed to permanent line
and grade, to the satisfaction of the public works department and in accordance
with the "Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction" and with the
"Standard Details for Public Works Construction" and the requirements of this
section through
11-7-15, inclusive, of this chapter. If there is any conflict of design
standards in the sources, the final design approval shall be determined by the
public works department. Such improvements shall include, but not be limited
to, those specified in the following sections. (1973 Code § 16.24.060)
11-7-7: STREETS:
All streets and/or roads offered to the city for dedication as shown on a final
map or parcel map or otherwise shall:
   A.   Be designed, inspected and constructed to the "Standard Details for
Public Works Construction".
   B.   Any roads or streets offered for maintenance shall be constructed per
city specifications. (1973 Code § 16.24.070)
11-7-8: STORM AND SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE:
   A.   Dedication Of Rights Of Way; Easements; Design Criteria: In the event
that a proposed subdivision or any part there of is traversed by a major
watercourse channel, stream or creek, gulch or other natural drainage channel,
the subdivider shall dedicate adequate rights of way for storm drainage
purposes. Easements for drainage to natural drainage channels shall be
required. If a comprehensive drainage plan is not available for a particular
area, the design criteria for storm water runoff will follow that established
as standard practice and approved by the city. Storm drainage design shall
consider sand, silt and oil separation devices prior to entry into any drain.
   B.   Flood Control Report: No subdivision plat shall be considered for a
final approval until the subdivider submits a report by a registered engineer
as to the ability of existing watercourse channels, drainage tiles, storm
sewers, culverts and other works pertaining to drainage or flood control within
the subdivision to handle the additional runoff which would be generated by the
development of the land within the subdivision. (1973 Code § 16.24.080)
11-7-9: WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS:
Water supply and distribution system, when installed in subdivisions shall be
in accordance with the following standards:
   A.   Plans And Specifications: Prior to the approval of the final maps, the
subdivider shall submit to the city engineer plans of a water supply and
distribution system prepared by a qualified engineer of sufficient detail, to
enable the city to ascertain whether such system conforms to the standards set
forth herein and to the standard of acceptable engineering practices.
   B.   Water Supply: The water supplied for a subdivision shall be obtained
from the city or appropriate water district. All water supply systems provided
by the city, must also comply with the provisions of title 8 of this code.
   C.   Design And Construction:
      1.   Generally: The distribution system shall be so designed and
constructed that it will maintain a normal operating pressure at all service
connections of not less than eighty (80) pounds per square inch above
atmospheric pressures. Adequate storage or emergency standby power shall be
supplied, if required.
      2.   Materials Of Construction: Metallic and nonmetallic materials may be
used separately and in combination to construct component parts of a water
system, including, but not limited to, conduits, pipes, couplings, caulking
materials, protective linings and coatings, services, valves, hydrant pumps,
tanks and reservoirs, provided:
         a.   The materials shall be capable of withstanding, with ample safety
factors, the internal/external forces to which subjected.
         b.   The material shall not cause the water to become impure,
unwholesome, unpotable or unhealthful.
         c.   Material and equipment is so selected as to mitigate corrosion,
electrolysis and deterioration.
      3.   Water Mains: All water mains must be placed in suitable rights of
way prior to the surfacing. All water mains shall be installed below the frost
line minimum of four feet (4') from finished grade or be otherwise protected to
prevent freezing insofar as it is practicable. The distribution system shall be
laid out so that repairs may be effected with interruption of service kept to a
minimum number of customers with not more than three (3) valve closures
required to discontinue service. Dead ends in mains shall be avoided insofar as
practicable, and a means shall be provided to flush any dead ends which may be
installed in the mains. All water mains shall be AWWA C-900 class 150 or
equivalent or AWWA C-100 ductile iron pipe.
      4.   Service Connections: A service connection pipe at least three-
fourths inch (3/4") nominal size shall be placed to each lot from the water
main prior to the surfacing of the streets and alleys affected; service pipe
shall be laid to a depth thirty inches (30") to thirty six inches (36")
sufficient to prevent freezing, except at its termination in connecting with a
meter or customer's piping. Where duplex service is appropriate, the service
connection shall be one inch (1") and be laid in a like manner as a single
service. Meters and typical water services will be to city specifications.
      5.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be placed so that no point in any
of the streets fronting on lots served by the water distribution system is
farther than that which is recommended by the uniform fire code (latest
edition) and the district fire chief. Each fire hydrant shall be installed in a
utility easement or within a public right of way and shall have a gate valve
between the water main and the riser. Fire hydrants shall be of a type and size
as per city specifications. The water supply and distribution system shall be
so designed and constructed that it will supply fire flows as specified by the
uniform fire code, latest adopted edition. No water main serving any fire
hydrant shall have an inside diameter of less than six inches (6"). Fire flow
for commercial development will be provided per uniform fire code, current
adopted edition. Calculations shall be submitted to the city engineer and the
district fire chief to verify that the minimum requirements are met.
   D.   Water Meters: Water meters placed on the city system shall be minimum
three-fourths inch (3/4") with touch read capability. Meter boxes and lids
shall be as specified by the city.
   E.   Additional Requirements: The city may make additional requirements for
water systems having unusual problems to solve such problems by sound
engineering practices as a prerequisite to the approval of such plans. (1973
Code § 16.24.090)
11-7-10: SEWAGE COLLECTION SYSTEMS:
Sewage collection systems, when installed in subdivisions, shall be in
accordance with the following standards and provisions and pursuant to title 8
of this code:
   A.   Materials Of Construction: Metallic and nonmetallic materials may be
used separately and in combination to construct the component parts of a sewer
collection system, provided:
      1.   The material shall be either a plastic PVC, SDR-35; ductile iron
class 51, or other materials approved by the city engineer.
      2.   The material shall be capable of withstanding, with ample safety
factors, the internal and external forces with which it may be subjected in
service.
      3.   Material and equipment shall be so selected as to mitigate
corrosion, electrolysis and deterioration.
      4.   Orangeburg or other fiber pipe shall not be used for sewer main or
laterals.
   B.   Sewer Mains And Laterals:
      1.   Gravity Sewer Mains: Sewage shall be collected in a network of sewer
mains laid within the rights of way of public streets leading to the sewage
disposal system. All sewer mains shall not be less than eight inches (8") in
diameter and of sufficient size to carry all sewage which can reasonably be
anticipated from the full expected use of all lots and areas served by the
mains. All sewers shall be designed and constructed to give mean velocities,
when flowing full, of not less than two feet (2') per second, based on the "n"
value of 0.013. The basic slope requirements and design shall comply with
standard specifications for public works construction.
Slopes less than those required for the two feet (2') per second velocity, when
flowing full, may be permitted with written approval from the city engineer.
Whenever decreased slopes are selected, the design engineer shall submit
calculations supporting this criteria to the city engineer.
      2.   Service Connection Laterals: A service connection lateral of not
less than four inch (4") nominal size shall be placed to each lot from the lot
line to the sewer main with a two percent (2%) minimum slope.
      3.   Trenching: All sewer mains and laterals shall be placed and the back
fill compacted prior to the surfacing of the streets affected. City street
excavation permits shall not be required for trenching required to place water
and sewer systems in subdivision streets prior to street surfacing when the
construction of such systems is secured by a subdivision bond or deposit. No
water or sewer mains or laterals shall be covered until forty eight (48) hours
after written notice of such placement and request for inspection has been
delivered to the city and the system has passed the hydrostatic and other tests
required by the city.
   C.   Manholes: Standard manholes shall be installed at the end of each line,
with a continuous stub out, at all intersections of other sewer lines, at all
changes in grade and changes in line size or adjustment. Maximum spacing for
manholes shall be three hundred (300) linear feet maximum, unless approved by
the city engineer, for all lines smaller than twenty four inches (24") in
diameter and three hundred feet (300') for lines twenty four inches (24") and
larger. Manholes shall be constructed such that the energy gradient through the
manholes is maintained.
   D.   Storm Water Drains: No storm water drains shall be connected to any
sewer main or lateral. (1973 Code § 16.24.100)
11-7-11: UNDERGROUND UTILITIES:
   A.   Responsibility For Compliance: All utilities for direct service to land
developments, building sites and structures shall be installed underground. The
owner or developer is responsible for complying with the requirements of this
section and shall make all necessary arrangements for the installation of such
facilities.
   B.   Aboveground: For the purposes of this section, appurtenances and
associated equipment such as, but not limited to, surface- mounted
transformers, pedestal-mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets and concealed
ducts in underground systems can be placed aboveground. Anything aboveground
shall be unobtrusive.
   C.   Underground: All underground utilities, sanitary sewers and storm
drains installed in streets, service roads, alleys or highways shall be
constructed before the surfacing of such streets, service roads, alleys or
highways. Service connections for all underground utilities and sanitary sewers
shall be laid to such length as will preclude the necessity for disturbing the
street or alley improvements when service connections thereto are made. (1973
Code § 16.24.110)
11-7-12: GEOTECHNICAL REPORT:
A certification by the consulting engineer that the soil conditions of the
surface and subsurface are adequate to support the improvements of the proposed
project. (1973 Code § 16.24.120)
11-7-13: ACCEPTANCE OF WORK:
   A.   Certificate Of Completion: When all improvement work required by the
improvement plans, or a complete unit thereof, is completed to the satisfaction
of the city engineer, then he shall issue a certificate to the city council
stating that such a portion of the work has been satisfactorily completed and
recommends the acceptance of the city council of the completed portion of work.
   B.   Bonds, Deposits, Guarantees Of Work:
      1.   Refund Of Unused Cash Deposits: Any unexpended cash deposits not
required for completion of the work shall be refunded.
      2.   Private Improvements: In land developments in which the city council
require that private improvements be completed to public standards, upon
certification by the city staff that such private improvements have been
completed to public standards, the city council may release that portion of the
performance bond covering the private improvements.
      3.   Public And Private Bonds: A developer may post separate bonds for
public and private improvements.
      4.   Defective Material And Workmanship Bond: As a condition precedent to
the acceptance of improvements within a subdivision, the developer shall
furnish a bond of surety company, cash deposit, letter of credit, time
certificate or other security acceptable to the city, in an amount equal to ten
percent (10%) of the total contract price to hold good for a period of one year
after the completion of the work to protect the city against the results of
defective materials, workmanship and the equipment during that time. This
security shall be delivered to the city clerk before the final acceptance of
the public improvements will be made by the city council. (1973 Code §
16.24.130)
11-7-14: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspection Required: All work done in constructing improvements and all
materials furnished shall be subject to the approval of the city.
   B.   Access To Work Areas: City personnel shall have access to work at all
times during the construction and shall be furnished with each and every
reasonable facility for ascertaining that the materials as used and the
workmanship are in accordance with the requirements of this title. (1973 Code §
16.24.140)
   C.   Inspection Fees: Prior to the commencement of construction, the
developer shall pay to the city clerk the cost for the inspection of the work
and testing of the materials as listed on the city of Yerington fee schedule.
The costs of improvements as such shall be based on the estimated construction
cost or on a construction contract if awarded prior to the filing of the final
map with the city council. (Ord. 03-13, 1-12-2004)
   D.   Construction Prior To Approval: If work is done prior to approval of
improvement plans or prior to inspection of improvements, it is done at the
risk and peril of the developer.
   E.   Reinspection: When a contractor calls for an inspection and the test
fails, it shall be the contractor's/developer's responsibility to pay for any
retests and added inspection costs resulting therefrom. (1973 Code § 16.24.140)
11-7-15: COMPLETION OF WORK:
The developer shall prosecute the work to completion without undue delay except
for inclement weather or other reasonable cause. Delay in the completion of the
work beyond the period stated in the agreement, unless an extension hereof is
approved by the city council and the surety company, may result in forfeiture
of the cash deposit and/or security or a portion thereof for the completion of
the work. (1973 Code § 16.24.150)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FINDINGS; PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Statutory Authorization
12-1-2: Findings Of Fact
12-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
12-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
12-1-5: Definitions
12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Nevada has in Nevada Revised Statutes sections
278.020 and 543.020 conferred upon local government units authority to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the city does hereby adopt the following flood
plain management regulations. (1973 Code § 18.01.010; amd. 2001 Code)
12-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by uses that are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed, or protected from flood damage. The cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities also contribute to the flood loss. (1973 Code § 18.01.020)
12-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this title to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, and streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazards;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future blighted
areas caused by flood damage;
   G.   Ensure potential buyers are notified of property located in areas of
special flood hazards;
   H.   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazards assume
responsibility for their actions; and
   I.   Maintain qualifying standards for participation in the national flood
insurance program. (1973 Code § 18.01.030)
12-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this title includes methods and provisions
to:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural flood plains, alluvial fans, stream
channels, and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel
flood waters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (1973 Code § 18.01.040)
12-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this title its most reasonable application:
ACCESSORY USE: A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal use
of the parcel of land on which it is located.
ALLUVIAL FAN: A geomorphologic feature characterized by a cone or fan-shaped
deposit of clay, silt, sand, gravel, and boulders that have been eroded from
mountain slopes, transported by flood flows, and deposited on the valley floor.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows, active processes of erosion, sediment transport, deposition,
and unpredictable flow paths.
ANCHOR: A series of methods used to secure a structure to its footings or
foundation wall so that it will not be displaced by flood or wind forces.
APEX: The highest point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the
flow path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and
alluvial fan flooding can occur.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the flood plain administrator's
interpretation of any provisions of this title.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: Designated zones AO and AH on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one foot (1') to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD-RELATED EROSION HAZARD: The land within a community which
is most likely to be subject to serve flood- related erosion losses. The area
may be designated as zone E on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
BACKWATER EFFECT: The rise in water surface elevation caused by some
obstruction such as a narrow bridge opening, buildings or fill material that
limits the area through which the water must flow.
BASE FLOOD: A flood which has a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The height in relation to mean sea level expected to be
reached by the waters of the base flood at pertinent points in the flood plain
of riverine areas.
BASE FLOOD PLAIN: The flood plain that would be inundated by a one percent (1%)
chance flood.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its flood subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BREAKAWAY WALLS: A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
CHANNEL: A natural or artificial watercourse with definite bed and banks to
confine and conduct flowing water.
CHANNEL CAPACITY: The maximum flow that can pass through a channel without
overflowing the banks.
CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS (CFR): The codification of the general and
permanent rules published in the federal register by the executive departments
and agencies of the federal government.
COMMUNITY: Any state or area or political subdivision thereof, or any Indian
tribe or authorized tribal organization, or authorized native organization,
which has authority to adopt and enforce flood plain management regulations for
the areas within its jurisdiction.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): Procedures by which contractors,
developers and communities can request review and determination by the federal
insurance administrator of scientific and technical data for a proposed
project, when complete and functioning effectively, would modify the elevation
of individual structures and parcels of land, stream channels, and flood plains
on the FIRM.
CRITICAL STRUCTURES: A structure for which even a slight chance of flooding
would reduce or eliminate its designed function of supporting a community in an
emergency. Fire stations, hospitals, municipal airports, police stations,
communication antennas or towers, elderly care facilities (old folks homes),
fuel storage facilities, schools designated as emergency shelters, fresh water
and sewage treatment facilities are some examples of critical structures.
DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: The channel of a stream and the portion of the adjoining
flood plain designated by a regulatory agency to be kept free of further
development to provide for unobstructed passage of flood flows.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
DRY PROOFING: A floodproofing method used to design and construct buildings so
as to prevent the entrance of floodwaters.
ENCROACHMENT: Any physical object placed in the flood plain that hinders the
passage of water or otherwise affects flood flows, such as fill, excavation,
storage of equipment and materials or buildings.
EROSION: The process of the gradual wearing away of any land mass.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the flood plain management regulations adopted by a
community.
EXPANSION TO A MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) PARK: The preparation of
additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEDERAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION (FIA): The government unit, a part of federal
emergency management agency (FEMA), that administers the national flood
insurance program (NFIP).
FEDERAL REGISTER: A document published daily by the federal government that
provides a uniform system for making available to the public regulations and
legal notices issued by federal agencies.
FLASH FLOOD: A flood that crests in a short length of time and is often
characterized by high velocity flows. It is often the result of heavy rainfall
in a localized area.
FLOOD BOUNDARY FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM): The official map of a community where the
boundaries of the flood, mudslide and related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as zones A, M and E.
FLOOD CONTROL: Keeping floodwaters away from specific developments or populated
areas by the construction of flood storage reservoirs, channel alterations,
dikes and levees, bypass channels, or other engineering works.
FLOOD FREQUENCY: A statistical expression of the average time period between
floods equalling or exceeding a given magnitude.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): A document containing the results of and
examination, evaluation and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate,
corresponding water surface elevations, mudslides and erosion hazards.
FLOOD OR FLOODWATERS: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source and
mudslides.
FLOOD PLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the flood plain management regulations.
FLOOD PLAIN AND FLOOD-PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by waters from any source.
FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the flood plain, including, but not
limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and flood plain
management regulations and ordinances.
FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: This title, and any federal, state or local
regulations plus other zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building
codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a grading and
erosion control) and other application of police power which control
development in flood-prone areas for preventing and reducing flood loss and
damage.
FLOOD-RELATED EROSION: The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a
lake or other body of water as a result of undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as a flash flood or
an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding.
FLOOD-RELATED EROSION AREA MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of
corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood-related erosion damage,
including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood-related
erosion control works, and flood plain management regulations.
FLOOD-RELATED EROSION PRONE AREA: A land area adjoining the shore of a lake or
other body of water, which due to the composition of the shoreline or bank and
high water levels or wind-driven currents, is likely to suffer flood-related
erosion damage.
FLOOD ZONE A: An area of special flood hazard without water surface elevations
determined.
FLOOD ZONE AH: An area of special flood hazard having shallow water depths and/
or unpredictable flow paths between one foot (1') and three feet (3') and with
water surface elevations determined.
FLOOD ZONE AO: An area of special flood hazard having shallow water depths and/
or unpredictable flow paths between one foot (1') and three feet (3').
FLOOD ZONE A-99: An area of special flood hazard where enough progress has been
made on a protective system, such as dikes, dams and levees, to consider it
complete for insurance rating purposes.
FLOOD ZONE D: An area of undetermined but possible flood hazard.
FLOOD ZONE E: An area of special flood-related erosion hazards.
FLOOD ZONE M: An area of special mudslide or mudflow hazards.
FLOOD ZONES: Zones on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) in which the risk
premium insurance rates have been established by a flood insurance study.
FLOOD ZONES A1-30 AND AE: Areas of special flood hazard with water surface
elevations determined.
FLOOD ZONES B AND SHADED X: Areas of moderate flood hazard.
FLOOD ZONES C AND UNSHADED X: Areas of minimal hazard.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and
their contents.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
area that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LINES: The lines marking the limits of floodways on
federal, state and local flood plain maps.
FLOODWAY FRINGE: The area of the flood plain on either side of the regulatory
floodway where encroachment may be permitted.
FOOTING: The enlarged base of a fountain wall, pier or column, designed to
spread the load of the structure so that it does not exceed the soil bearing
capacity.
FOUNDATION: The underlying structure of a building, usually constructed of
concrete, that supports the foundation walls, piers or columns.
FOUNDATION WALLS: A support structure that connects the foundation to the main
portion of the building or superstructure.
FRAUD/VICTIMIZATION: Related to variances of this title. The variance granted
must not cause fraud on or victimization to the public. In examining this
requirement, the city will consider the fact that every newly constructed
building adds to government responsibilities and remains a part of the
community for fifty (50) to one hundred (100) years. Buildings permitted to be
constructed below the base flood elevation are subject during all those years
to increased risk of damage from floods, while future owners of the property
and the community as a whole are subject to all the costs, inconvenience,
danger, and suffering that those increased flood damages bring. Additionally,
future owners may be unaware of the risk potential to the property due to flood
damage and the extremely high rates for flood insurance.
FREEBOARD: A margin of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
purposes of flood plain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the many
unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed.
GOVERNING BODY: The local governing unit, county or municipality, that is
empowered to adopt and implement regulations to provide for public health,
safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
HARDSHIP: Related to variances of this title. The exceptional hardship would
result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The city requires the
variance be exceptional, unusual and peculiar to the property involved. Mere
economic or financial hardship alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience,
aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the
disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an
exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be resolved through other means
without granting a variance even if the alternative is more expensive, or
requires the property owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different
use than originally intended.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of ground surface prior
to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district; individually listed on a state inventory of
historic places in states with historic preservation programs which have been
approved by the secretary of the interior; or
   C.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior or
directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved programs.
HYDRAULICS: The science that deals with practical applications of water in
motion.
HYDRODYNAMIC LOADS: Forces imposed on structures by flood waters due to the
impact of moving water on the upstream side of the structure, drag along its
sides, and eddies or negative pressures on its downstream side.
HYDROGRAPHY: A graph that charts the passage of water as a function of time. It
shows flood stages, depicted in feet above mean sea level or gauge height
plotted against stated time intervals.
HYDROLOGY: The science of the behavior of water in the atmosphere, on the
earth's surface, and underground.
HYDROSTATIC LOADS: Forces imposed on a flooded structure due to the weight of
the water.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): The procedure by which any owner or lessee of
property who believes his property has been inadvertently included in a special
flood hazard area can submit scientific and technical information to the
federal insurance administrator for review to remove the property from said
area. The administrator will not consider a LOMA if the information submitted
is based on alteration of topography or new hydrologic or hydraulic conditions
since the effective date of the FIRM.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): The procedures by which contractors, developers
and communities can request changes to flood zones, flood plain and floodway
delineations, flood elevations, and planimetric features based on the results
of structural works, improvements or annexations resulting in additional flood
hazard areas.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accord with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement.
An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is
not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is not
built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable nonelevation
design requirements of this title. Attached garages are allowed to be built at
grade. Below-grade garages are not allowed as they are considered to be
basements.
MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME): A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The
term "manufactured home" does not include "recreational vehicles."
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel or contiguous parcels of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For the purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
MOBILE HOME: The same as manufactured home.
MUDSLIDE: A condition where there is a river, flow or inundation of liquid mud
down a hillside usually as a result of a dual condition of loss of brush cover,
and the subsequent accumulation of water on the ground preceded by a period of
unusually heavy or sustained rain. A mudslide may occur as a distinct
phenomenon while a landslide is in progress, and will be recognized as such by
the federal insurance administrator only if the mudflow, and not the landslide,
is the proximate cause of damage that occurs.
MUDSLIDE PRONE AREA: An area with land surfaces and slopes of unconsolidated
material where the history, geology and climate indicate a potential for
mudflows.
NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD): As corrected in 1929, is a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
flood plain.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For flood plain management purposes, structures for which the
start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of these flood
plain management regulations adopted by the city, and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads is completed on or after the effective
date of these flood plain management regulations adopted by the city.
OBSTRUCTION: Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel refuse, fill, structure,
vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into any
watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
100-YEAR FLOOD: The same as base flood.
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE: A structure used for the principal use of the property as
distinguished from an accessory use.
PUBLIC SAFETY/NUISANCE: Related to variances of the title. The granting of a
variance must not result in anything which is injurious to safety or health of
the entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, or
unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any
navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle built on a single chassis, four hundred (400)
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection,
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-duty truck, and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river, including tributaries,
stream, brook, etc.
SHEET FLOW AREA: The same as "area of shallow flooding".
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: An area having special flood, mudslide, or flood-
related erosion hazards, and shown on an FHBM or FIRM in zones A, AO, Al, A30,
AE, A99, AH, E or M.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and other proposed new
development and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days from
the date of the permit. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground and
includes gas or liquid storage tank and manufactured homes.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before-damage condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
proposed new development of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds
fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of an historic structure; provided, that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an historic
structure.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this title which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this title.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929, or other datum, where specified of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the flood plains of coastal or riverine
areas.
WATERCOURSE: A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur. (1973 Code § 18.02.010)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
12-2-1: Flood Plain Administrator
12-2-2: Development Permit
12-2-1: FLOOD PLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Designated: The city manager is appointed local flood plain
administrator to administer and implement this title by granting or denying
flood plain development permits in accordance with its provisions. (1973 Code §
18.04.010)
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties and responsibilities of the local
flood plain administrator shall include, but not limited to the following:
      1.   Permit Application Review: The flood plain development permit will
not be issued by the local flood plain administrator until the following has
been accomplished:
         a.   Review all applications for completeness, particularly with the
requirements of subsection 12-2-2B of this chapter, and for compliance with the
provisions and standards of this title.
         b.   Review all subdivision and other proposed new development,
including manufactured home and recreational parks to determine whether the
proposed development site will be reasonably safe from flooding. When the
proposed building site is located in the special flood hazard area, all new
construction and substantial improvements will meet the applicable standards of
section
12-4-1 of this title.
         c.   Determine whether any proposed development in the special flood
hazard area may result in physical damage to any other property, to include
stream bank erosion and any increase in velocities, or that it does not
adversely affect the carrying capacity of the areas where base flood elevations
have been determined but a floodway has not been designated. For purposes of
this title, "adversely affects" means the cumulative effect of the proposed
development when combined with all other existing and anticipated development
will increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot
(1') at any point. To assist the local flood plain administrator in making this
determination, the permit applicant may be required to submit additional
technical analyses.
         d.   Ensure all other required state and federal permits have been
received.
      2.   Use Of Other Flood Data:
         a.   When the federal emergency management agency has designated
special flood hazard areas on the community's flood insurance rate maps (FIRM)
but has neither produced water surface elevation data nor identified a
floodway, the local flood plain administrator shall attempt to obtain, review
and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, including data developed pursuant to
subsection 12-2-2B8 of this chapter, as criteria for requiring new
construction, substantial improvements or other proposed development to meet
the requirements of this title.
         b.   When base flood elevations are not available, the local flood
plain administrator may use flood information from any other authoritative
source, such as historical data, to establish flood elevations within the
special flood hazard areas. This information shall be submitted to the city for
adoption.
      3.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
         a.   Prior to issuing a permit for any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse the local flood plain administrator must notify all adjacent
communities, Nevada's national flood insurance program coordinator, Nevada
division of water resources, and submit evidence of such notification to the
federal insurance administration, and the federal emergency management agency.
         b.   Determine that the permit holder has provided for maintenance
within the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-
carrying capacity is not diminished.
      4.   Inspections: The local flood plain administrator or designee shall
make periodic inspections throughout the period of construction in order to
monitor compliance with the requirements of the flood plain development permit
or any variance provisions.
      5.   Stop Work Orders: The local flood plain administrator shall issue,
or cause to be issued, a stop work order for any flood plain development found
noncompliant with the provisions of this title or conditions of the development
permit, and all development found ongoing without a flood plain development
permit. Disregard of a stop work order shall subject the violator to the
penalties described in section
12-3-3 of this title.
      6.   Retaining Flood Plain Development Documentation: The local flood
plain administrator shall obtain and retain for public inspection and have
available for the national flood insurance program or the federal emergency
management representative conducting a community assistance visit, the
following:
         a.   Flood plain development permits and certificates of compliance;
         b.   Certification required by subsection 12-4-1C of this title,
(lowest floor elevation);
         c.   Certification required by subsection 12-4-1E of this title
(elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures);
         d.   Certification of elevation required by section
12-4-3 of this title (subdivision standards);
         e.   Certification required by section
12-4-7 of this chapter (floodway encroachments);
         f.   Reports required by section
12-4-8 of this chapter (mudflow standards);
         g.   Variances issued pursuant to chapter 5 of this title (variance
procedures);
         h.   Notices required under subsection B3 of this section (alteration
of watercourses).
      7.   Map Determinations: The local flood plain administrator will make
map interpretations where needed, as to the exact location of the boundaries of
the areas of special flood hazard and where there appears to be a conflict
between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions.
      8.   Appeals: The city shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by the
flood plain administrator in the enforcement or administration of this title.
      9.   Submission Of New Technical Data To FEMA: When the city or Lyon
County base flood elevations either increase or decrease resulting from
physical changes affecting flooding conditions, as soon as practicable, but not
later than six (6) months after the date such information becomes available,
the city or Lyon County will submit the technical or scientific data to FEMA.
Such submissions are necessary so that upon confirmation of the physical
changes affecting flooding conditions, risk premium rates and flood plain
management requirements will be based upon current data. (1973 Code §
18.04.040)
12-2-2: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Established: A flood plain development permit is established for all
construction and other, development to be undertaken in areas of special flood
hazard in the city for the purpose of protecting its citizens from increased
flood hazards and ensuring new development is constructed in a manner that
minimizes its exposure to flooding. It is unlawful to undertake any development
in an area of special flood hazard, as shown on the flood insurance rate map
enumerated in section
12-3-2 of this title, without a valid flood plain development permit.
Applications for a permit shall be made on forms furnished by the local flood
plain administrator and may include, but are not limited to: plans in duplicate
drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevation of the
area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials,
drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing. (1973 Code § 18.04.020)
   B.   Permit Application: The applicant shall provide at least the following
information, where applicable. Additional information may be required on the
permit application forms:
      1.   The proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all residential and nonresidential structures
whether new or substantially improved to be located in zones A, A1-A30, AE, and
AH, if base flood elevations data is available;
      2.   The proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
floor (including basement) and the elevation of the highest adjacent grade of
all residential and nonresidential structures whether new or substantially
improved to be located in zone AO;
      3.   The proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
new or substantially improved nonresidential structure will be floodproofed;
      4.   A certificate from a licensed professional engineer or architect in
the city that any utility floodproofing will meet the criteria in section
12-4-2 of this title, standards for utilities;
      5.   A certificate from a licensed professional engineer or architect in
the city that any nonresidential floodproofed structures will meet the criteria
in subsection 12-4-1E of this title, nonresidential floodproofing requirements;
      6.   A description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of the proposed development. Computations by a
licensed professional engineer in the city must be submitted that demonstrates
the altered or relocated segment will provide equal or greater conveyance than
the original stream segment. The applicant must submit any maps, computations
or other material required by the federal emergency management agency (FEMA) to
revise the documents enumerated in section
12-3-2 of this title, when notified by the local flood plain administrator, and
must pay any fees or other costs assessed by FEMA for this purpose. The
applicant must also provide assurances that the conveyance capacity of the
altered or relocated stream segment will be maintained;
      7.   In certain circumstances the local flood plain administrator will
require a technical analysis, by a licensed professional engineer in the city,
showing that the proposed development located in the special flood hazard area
will not cause physical damage to any other property;
      8.   When there is no base flood elevation data available for zone A from
any source, the base flood elevation data will be provided by the permit
applicant for all proposed development of subdivisions, manufactured home and
recreational vehicle parks in the special flood hazard areas for all
developments of fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is less. (1973
Code § 18.04.030)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-3-1: Lands To Which This Title Applies
12-3-2: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
12-3-3: Compliance
12-3-4: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
12-3-5: Interpretation
12-3-6: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
12-3-7: Map Correction Procedures
12-3-1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS TITLE APPLIES:
This title shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the city. (1973 Code § 18.03.010)
12-3-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance
administration (FIA) of the federal emergency management agency (FEMA) in the
flood insurance study (FIS) dated September 30, 1982, and accompanying flood
insurance rate maps (FIRM) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFM), dated
September 30, 1982, and all subsequent amendments and or revisions, are thus
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this title. The FIS and
attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this title and may be
supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of this
title and which are recommended to the city by the flood plain administrator.
The FIS, FIRMs and FBFMs are on file at City Hall, 102 South Main Street,
Yerington, Nevada 89447. (1973 Code § 18.03.020)
12-3-3: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this title and
other applicable regulations. Violations (including violations of conditions
and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Nothing in this title shall prevent the city from taking such
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (1973 Code §
18.03.030)
12-3-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This title is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this title and other
ordinances, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposed the more stringent restrictions or that imposing the higher
standards, shall prevail. (1973 Code § 18.03.040)
12-3-5: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this title, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (1973 Code § 18.03.050)
12-3-6: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This title does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This title shall
not create liability on the part of the city, any officer or employee thereof,
or the federal insurance administration, federal emergency management agency,
for any flood damages that result from reliance on this title or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (1973 Code § 18.03.060)
12-3-7: MAP CORRECTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application: The following administrative procedures are provided
whereby the federal insurance administrator will review information from an
owner or lessee of property who believes his property has been inadvertently
included in a special flood hazard area. These procedures shall not apply when
there has been any alteration of topography since the effective date of the
first FIRM or FHBM showing the property within an area of special flood hazard.
   B.   Required Information: The scientific or technical information
submission may include, but is not limited to the following:
      1.   An actual copy of the recorded plat map bearing the seal of the
appropriate recordation official, county clerk, or recorder of deeds,
indicating the official recordation and proper citation, deed or plat book
volume and page number, and/or equivalent identification where annotation of
the deed or plat book is not the practice;
      2.   A topographical map showing:
         a.   Ground elevation contours in relation to the NGVD,
         b.   The total area of the property in question,
         c.   The location of the structure or structures located on the
property in question,
         d.   The elevation of the lowest adjacent grade to a structure or
structures,
         e.   An indication of the curvilinear line which represents the area
subject to inundation by a base flood. The curvilinear line should be based
upon information provided by an appropriate authoritative source, such as a
federal agency, department of water resources, county water control district,
county or city engineer, a federal emergency management agency flood insurance
study, or a determination by a registered professional engineer;
      3.   A copy of the FHBM or FIRM indicating the location of the property
in question;
      4.   A certification by a registered professional engineer or licensed
land surveyor that the lowest grade adjacent to the structure is above the base
flood elevation;
      5.   The completion of the appropriate forms in the federal emergency
management agency's packet, amendments and revisions to national flood
insurance program maps (TOD-1). (1973 Code § 18.07.010)
CHAPTER 4
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
12-4-1: Construction Standards
12-4-2: Utility Standards
12-4-3: Subdivision Standards
12-4-4: Critical Structure Standards
12-4-5: Manufactured Home Standards
12-4-6: Recreational Vehicle Standards
12-4-7: Floodways
12-4-8: Mudslide-Prone Areas
12-4-9: Flood-Related Erosion-Prone Areas
12-4-1: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following standards are required:
   A.   Anchoring:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the
structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy.
      2.   All manufactured homes shall meet the anchoring standards of section
12-4-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Construction Materials And Methods: All new construction and
substantial improvements shall be constructed:
      1.   With materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
      2.   Using methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   Ensuring electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities are designed or located so
as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding;
      4.   Within zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
   C.   Elevation Requirements For Lowest Floor: Residential construction, new
or substantial improvements, shall have the lowest floor, including basement:
      1.   In Zone AO, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a height
equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth
number is specified. The city recommends that the lowest floor be elevated
above the highest adjacent grade to a height exceeding the depth number
specified in feet on the FIRM by at least one foot (1'), or elevated at least
three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is
specified. (1973 Code § 18.05.010)
      2.   In zone A, elevated to or above the base flood elevation, as
determined by this city. The city recommends the lowest floor be elevated at
least one foot (1') above the base flood elevation, as determined by the city.
      3.   In all other zones, elevated to or above the base flood elevation.
The city recommends the lowest floor be elevated at least one foot (1') above
the base flood elevation.
   D.   Lowest Floor Certification Requirements: Upon completion of the
structure, the elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and verified by the
city building inspector to be properly elevated. The certification shall be
provided to the flood plain administrator using the current FEMA elevation
certificate. The city recommends the certification of the lowest floor,
including basement, be performed after the slab has been poured for slab on
grade or when the lowest floor is complete and prior to the start of framing.
(1973 Code § 18.05.010; amd. 2001 Code)
   E.   Nonresidential Floodproofing Requirements: Nonresidential construction
shall either be elevated to conform with subsection C of this section or
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
      1.   Will be floodproofed below the elevation recommended under
subsection C of this section so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      2.   Will have the structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      3.   Will be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of subsection C of this section are satisfied. The
certification shall be provided to the flood plain administrator.
   F.   Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor: All new construction and
substantial improvements with fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
(excluding basements) that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access or storage, and which are subject to flooding, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement
must either be certified by a licensed professional engineer or architect or
meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
      1.   Must have a minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of
not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
      2.   The bottom of all such openings will be no higher than one foot (1')
above the lowest adjacent finished grade. Openings may be equipped with
louvers, valves, screens or other coverings or devices provided they permit the
automatic entry and exit of flood waters. (1973 Code § 18.05.010)
12-4-2: UTILITY STANDARDS:
   A.   Water Supply Systems: All new and replacement water supply systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
the system.
   B.   Sanitary Sewage Systems: All new and replacement sanitary sewage
systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood
waters. Sanitary sewer and storm drainage systems for buildings that have
openings below the baseflood elevation shall be provided with automatic
backflow valves or other automatic backflow devices that are installed in each
discharge line passing through a building's exterior wall.
   C.   On-Site Waste Disposal Systems: On-site waste disposal systems shall be
located to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
(1973 Code § 18.05.020)
12-4-3: SUBDIVISION STANDARDS:
   A.   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
areas and the elevation of the base flood.
   B.   All subdivision plans will provide the elevation of proposed structures
and pads.
   C.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage.
   D.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   E.   All subdivisions shall provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to
flood hazards. (1973 Code § 18.05.030)
   F.   Additionally, all subdivision proposals will demonstrate by providing a
detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analysis that the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any
point within the city. (1973 Code § 18.05.030; amd. 2001 Code)
12-4-4: CRITICAL STRUCTURE STANDARDS:
   A.   Criteria For Authorization: Critical structures are not authorized in a
special flood hazard area, unless:
      1.   All alternative locations in flood zone X have been considered and
rejected;
      2.   All alternative locations in flood zone shaded X have been
considered and rejected.
   B.   Notice Of Decision: If the flood plain administrator determines the
only practical alternative location for the development of a new or
substantially improved critical structure is in a special flood hazard area, he
must give public notice of the decision and reasons for the elimination of all
alternative locations. (1973 Code § 18.05.040; amd. 2001 Code)
12-4-5: MANUFACTURED HOME STANDARDS:
   A.   Location: All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved, within zones A, AH, AE, and on the city's flood insurance rate map,
on sites located:
      1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site upon
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a
flood;
will be elevated on a permanent foundation so that the lowest floor will be
elevated to or above the base flood elevation (the city recommends at least one
foot above the base flood elevation) and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use of over the
top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
   B.   Exceptions: All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
zones A, AH, and AE on the city's flood insurance rate map that are not subject
to the provisions of subsection A of this section, will be elevated so that
either the: (1973 Code § 18.05.050; amd. 2001 Code)
      1.   Lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood
elevation (the city recommends at least one foot above the base flood
elevation); or
      2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
   C.   Zone A: Within zone A, when no base flood elevation data is available,
new and substantially improved manufactured homes shall have the floor elevated
at least three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade.
   D.   Zone AO: Within zone AO, the floor for all new and substantially
improved manufactured homes will be elevated above the highest adjacent grade
at least as high as the depth number specified on the flood insurance rate map,
or at least two feet (2') if no depth number is specified. The city recommends
the lowest floor be elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a height
exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM by at least one foot
(1'), or elevated at least three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade if
no depth number is specified. (1973 Code § 18.05.050)
12-4-6: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE STANDARDS:
All recreational vehicles placed on sites within the flood plain on the city's
flood insurance rate map will either:
   A.   Time Restriction: Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty
(180) consecutive days;
   B.   Licensed; Ready For Highway Use: Be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions, or
   C.   Permit Requirements: Will meet the permit requirements of subsection
12-2-2B of this title and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes in section
12-4-5 of this chapter. (1973 Code § 118.05.060)
12-4-7: FLOODWAYS:
Designated floodways are located within the special flood hazard areas
established in section
12-3-2 of this title. Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to
the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and
erosion potential, the following provisions apply. (1973 Code § 18.05.070)
   A.   Encroachment will be prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, storage of equipment or supplies, and any other
development within the adopted regulatory floodway; unless it has been
demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice, that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in flood levels within the city during the occurrence of
the base flood discharge, and the federal emergency management agency has
issued a conditional letter of map revision.
   B.   If subsection A of this section has been satisfied, all proposed new
development and substantial improvements will comply with all other applicable
flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter. (1973 Code § 18.05.070; amd.
2001 Code)
12-4-8: MUDSLIDE-PRONE AREAS:
   A.   Review Of Permit Applications: All permit applications will be reviewed
to determine if the proposed development will be located within a mudslide
area.
   B.   Factors Considered: The reviewing process will determine if the
proposed site and improvements will be reasonably safe from mudslide hazards.
Factors to be considered in making this determination include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      1.   Type and quality of soils;
      2.   Evidence of ground water or surface water problems;
      3.   Depth and quality of any fill;
      4.   The overall slope of the site;
      5.   The weight that any proposed structure will impose on the slope.
   C.   Minimum Requirements: When a proposed development is located in an area
that may have mudslide hazards, the following will be the minimum requirements:
      1.   A site investigation and further review be made by persons qualified
in geology and soils engineering;
      2.   The proposed grading, excavations, new construction, and substantial
improvements are adequately designed and protected against mudslide damages;
      3.   The proposed grading, excavations, new construction and substantial
improvements do not aggravate the existing hazard by creating either on-site or
off-site disturbances;
      4.   Drainage, planting, watering, and maintenance be such as not to
endanger slope stability.
   D.   Requirements: When a proposed development is determined to be within a
mudslide hazard area, the following requirements will include, but not be
limited to:
      1.   Adopting and enforcing a grading ordinance in accordance with data
supplied by the federal emergency management agency;
      2.   Regulate the location of foundation systems and utility systems of
new construction and substantial improvements;
      3.   Regulate the location, drainage and maintenance of all excavations,
cuts and fills and planted slopes;
      4.   Provide special requirements for protective measures including, but
not necessarily limited to, retaining walls, buttress fills, subdrains,
diverted terraces, and benchings;
      5.   Require engineering drawings and specifications to be submitted for
all corrective measures, accompanied by supporting soils engineering and
geology reports. (1973 Code § 18.05.080)
12-4-9: FLOOD-RELATED EROSION-PRONE AREAS:
   A.   Review Of Permit Application: All permit applications will be reviewed
to determine if the proposed development will be located within a special
flood-related erosion hazard area.
   B.   Review Process: The reviewing process will determine if the proposed
site alterations and improvements will be reasonably safe from flood-related
erosion and will not cause flood-related erosion hazards or otherwise aggravate
the existing flood-related erosion hazard.
   C.   Require Relocation Or Protective Measures: When the proposed
development is found to be in the path of flood-related erosion or to increase
the erosion hazard, require the improvement to be relocated or adequate
protective measures to be taken which will not aggravate the existing erosion
hazard. (1973 Code § 18.05.090)
   D.   Safety Buffer: When it has been determined the proposed development is
in a special flood-related erosion hazard, as delineated zone E on the city's
FIRM, require a setback for all new development from the lake, bay, riverfront
or other body of water, to create a safety buffer consisting of a natural
vegetative or contour strip. This buffer will be designated according to the
flood-related erosion hazard and erosion rate, in conjunction with the
anticipated "useful life" of structures, and depending upon the geologic,
hydrologic, topographic and climatic characteristics of the city's land. The
buffer may be used for suitable open space purposes, such as for agricultural,
forestry, outdoor recreation and wildlife habitat areas, and for other
activities using temporary and portable structures only. (1973 Code §
18.05.090; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 5
VARIANCES
SECTION:
12-5-1: Nature Of Variances
12-5-2: Appeal Board
12-5-3: Conditions For Variances
12-5-1: NATURE OF VARIANCES:
The variance criteria set forth in this chapter are based on the general
principal of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property and are
not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of property with
physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the requirements of
this title would create an exceptional hardship to the applicant or the
surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be unique to the property
and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique characteristic must pertain
to the land itself, not to the structure, its inhabitants, or the property
owners.
It is the duty of the city council to help protect its citizens from flooding.
This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of insuring a
structure built below flood level are so serious that variances from the flood
elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite rare. The
long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can only be met
if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance guidelines provided
in this title are more detailed and contain multiple provisions that must be
met before a variance can be properly granted. The criteria are designed to
screen out those situations in which alternatives other than a variance are
more appropriate. (1973 Code § 18.06.010)
12-5-2: APPEAL BOARD:
   A.   Considerations: In passing upon requests for variances, the city
council shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
standards specified in other sections of this title, and:
      1.   The danger of materials being swept onto other lands and injuring
others;
      2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      6.   The availability of alterative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the master plan and flood
plain management program for that area;
      9.   The safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site;
      11.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water system, and streets and bridges.
   B.   Written Notice: Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars
($100.00) of insurance coverage.
      2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property. It is recommended that a copy of the notice shall be recorded by
the flood plain administrator in the office of the Lyon County recorder and
shall be recorded in a manner so that it appears as an exception on the title
of the affected parcel of land.
   C.   Record: The flood plain administrator will maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in its biennial report submitted to the federal insurance
administration, federal emergency management agency. (1973 Code § 18.06.020)
12-5-3: CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES:
   A.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvements, and other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one-
half (1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood level; providing, that the
procedures of chapters 2 and 4 of this title have been fully considered. As the
lot size increases beyond one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification
required for issuing the variance increases.
   B.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of "historic
structures" as defined in chapter 1 of this title upon a determination that the
proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued
designation as an historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   C.   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   D.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
"Minimum necessary" means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this title. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the city council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposed, but only to that elevation which the city council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
   E.   Variances shall only be issued upon a:
      1.   Showing of good and sufficient cause;
      2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional "hardship" as defined in chapter 1 of this title to the applicant;
      3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary
public expense, create a "nuisance" (as defined in chapter 1 of this title
under the definition of Public Safety/Nuisance), cause "fraud or victimization"
as defined in chapter 1 of this title, of the public, or conflict with existing
local laws or ordinances.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement,
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use; provided, that the provisions of subsections A through E of this
section are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not
result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
   G.   Upon consideration of all the factors of subsection E of this section
and the purposes of this title, the city council may attach such conditions to
the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
title. (1973 Code § 18.06.030)
